73:US	50774468	R3THZWOBS1086J	0345445872	823414849	Queen of Camelot	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Riveting Arthurian retelling!	I have searched and searched for a great Arthurian retelling and have been disappointed with the ones I have ventured into reading. I was somewhat skeptical when I picked up Nancy McKenzie's Queen of Camelot. This two-novels-in-one compilation is based on Guenevere, from her point of view, in first person narrative, and is 623 pages long in very small print. I didn't want to waste my time reading something this big only to be disappointed at the end. I nevertheless gave the book a whirl. Glad I did! This is one of the most compelling and beautifully told retells I have ever read! McKenzie gives us a detailed story about Guenevere from her point of view. She tells us about the prophecy on the day she was born, how she spends her childhood as an adventurous tomboy, how people fear her and treat her differently as she grows up, how the knights around her battle with the Saxons, and how all of the prophecies come true. She meets Arthur, marries him and later has a love affair with Lancelot, something based on the original tale. But the novel has so much more than that. You will see how this story of magic, prophecies, love and betrayal transpires in an altered, detailed and beautiful light. There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Guenevere is developed in such an abundant, three-dimensional way in this novel. She is no longer just the pagan beauty who marries a Christian, betrays him and destroys all of Camelot as a result. She is a complex character with flaws as well as virtues in this offering. Arthur is also written in a more interesting, compelling way here, but it is Lancelot that once again blows me away. I have always romanticized Sir Lancelot and McKenzie does not disappoint me in her version of the loyal, chivalrous knight. Merlin and Morgan Le Fay are written with much complexity and nuance as well. This novel, however, does not focus so much on the love triangle between Guenevere, Arthur and Lancelot as much as her inability to supply an heir for Arthur and her affection for Arthur's bastard son, the traitorous Mordred. The overall story is magnificent. Once again, I say that McKenzie did a wonderful job bringing Guenevere to life. She turns this character into a strong, intelligent, complex, three-dimensional, flesh and blood woman, someone you will feel a great deal of affinity with. She is not portrayed as a simple-minded, traitorous hussy in this one! I loved the fanciful storytelling style that made me turn the pages until the wee hours of the night. Some of my friends who read the book along with me complained about it being too long-winded. I didn't think it was long-winded at all. In fact, I wish it had been longer. I loved this book and I look forward to giving Grail Prince a whirl.for Arthur and her affection for Arthur's bastard son, the traitorous Mordred. The overall story is magnificent. Once again, I say that McKenzie did a wonderful job bringing Guenevere to life. She turns this character into a strong, intelligent, complex, three-dimensional, flesh and blood woman, someone you will feel a great deal of affinity with. She is not portrayed as a simple-minded, traitorous hussy in this one! I loved the fanciful storytelling style that made me turn the pages until the wee hours of the night. Some of my friends who read the book along with me complained about it being too long-winded. I didn't think it was long-winded at all. In fact, I wish it had been longer. I loved this book and I look forward to giving Grail Prince a whirl.	2005-10-14
124:US	50774468	REYUKJGWI1EGL	0380007789	856556145	The Wolf and the Dove	Books	3	12	17	N	N	The most palpable Woodiwiss novel I have read (3 1/2 stars)...	Anything written by Kathleen E. Woodiwiss is a guilty pleasure for me. She writes bodice rippers with some rather cheesy storylines and language full of purple prose. In other words, her books are every romance novel clich&eacute; come to life. However, I still find them enjoyable to read. Guilty pleasures, as stated above. And I have enjoyed all of the novels I have read by her so far with the exception of The Flame and the Flower. The Wolf and the Dove is the most riveting Woodiwiss yet for me, right up there with A Rose in Winter. I am a sucker for Medieval romances and Woodiwiss does a fine job describing this time frame. This novel takes place during the rein of William the Conqueror King, in the year 1066. Wulfgar is a Norman warrior in charge of battling against the Saxons and claiming their lands and properties. Before he is able to arrive to Darkenwald, Ragnor, one of his underlings, gets there first, wreaking unnecessary havoc and killing a noble veteran Saxon warrior, leaving his wife Maida and his daughter Aislinn under the sadist's mercy. Ragnor takes advantage of Aislinn and destroys the lives of everyone in Darkenwald. Things take a disarming turn when Wulfgar arrives in Darkenwald, claiming the land as his own, and turning the Saxons into his slaves. He also decides to turn the beautiful, copper-haired Aislinn into his lover and personal slave. But he soon discovers that Aislinn is feistier and more spirited than most women and bending her to his will won't be easy. But as she is forced to bed the gorgeous, mysterious, women-hating warrior, she cannot help the passion he awakens in her and becomes determined to win his heart at all cost. There are many twists throughout this novel.<br /><br />I have to say that, unlike the other Woodiwiss novels I've read, the main characters in this novel have more depth and are more richly characterized. Wulfgar is an enigma -- a troubled and barbaric warrior with a dark personality that hides kindness, fairness and loneliness within. His hatred for women is understandable once you learn about his past. Aislinn is a fighter, a woman with a passionate, unyielding spirit, not your typical damsel in distress (though she is, in fact, a damsel in distress). This historical romance novel is rather dark. The times of William the Conqueror were barbaric times, and I'm sure that the horrible stuff Wulfgar, Ragnor and the other knights do in this novel pale in comparison to the real stuff that went on in those times. So using this time period as the backdrop for the story was rather risque. I have noticed that Woodiwiss likes to create flawed characters and situations. For the most part, I enjoyed the story and how realistic the protagonists' growth from lust to love is, but this novel is an infuriating roller coaster ride of emotions. I almost closed the book and put it in the trash when I read Wulfgar's appalling answer to Aislinn's news regarding her pregnancy. The man is infuriating and I found myself hating him for a large portion of the book. To me, he was the Shanna of this novel (read my review of Shanna and you'll see what I mean). His treatment of Aislinn is disgusting at times. The fact that I knew he was denying his growing feelings for Aislinn and her determination to obtain him kept me hopeful. But the main problem with this novel is how repetitious it is. For about two-hundred pages, we get this: 1) Wulfgar joins Aislinn in bed and pretty much forces her to have sex with him. 2) Gwyneth, Wulfgar's sister, pouts, yells and calls Aislinn every derogatory name in the world. 3) Wulfgar and Aislinn have arguments in which he mocks her or behaves like a total jerk and she gets angry and insults him. 4) Ragnor swears revenge against Wulfgar. 5) Ragnor hits on Aislinn and tries to rape her, and someone rescues her in the nick of time. Lather, rinse and repeat.<br /><br />I hate to skip pages when I read a book, but I had to, for it was the only way I could avoid so much redundancy. After I skipped almost one-hundred pages, I discovered that I hadn't missed a thing. The novel is too long-winded, unnecessarily so. Also, I agree with the reviewers who say that Aislinn adjusted to the untenable living situation with unrealistic easiness. The way she adjusts to her ordeal is not unlike someone with Stockholm Syndrome. Ech! And there are, of course, the signature Woodiwiss word repetitions. The woman seems to be obsessed with mentioning the characters' eyebrows. The word \\"eyebrow\\" is in almost every paragraph. And was it just me, or did Aislinn spend the entire novel blushing with embarrassment? Other than that, this is the best Woodiwiss offering I have read so far. It supplied the entertainment that I craved. I recommend The Wolf and the Dove for the brain candy entertainment that it is.cy. After I skipped almost one-hundred pages, I discovered that I hadn't missed a thing. The novel is too long-winded, unnecessarily so. Also, I agree with the reviewers who say that Aislinn adjusted to the untenable living situation with unrealistic easiness. The way she adjusts to her ordeal is not unlike someone with Stockholm Syndrome. Ech! And there are, of course, the signature Woodiwiss word repetitions. The woman seems to be obsessed with mentioning the characters' eyebrows. The word \\"eyebrow\\" is in almost every paragraph. And was it just me, or did Aislinn spend the entire novel blushing with embarrassment? Other than that, this is the best Woodiwiss offering I have read so far. It supplied the entertainment that I craved. I recommend The Wolf and the Dove for the brain candy entertainment that it is.	2005-10-14
4916:US	50774468	R3FVO7G5MEAIJ6	0385501137	881038215	Willful Creatures: Stories	Books	5	8	10	N	N	This quirky, surreal short-story collection is perfect!	This is one of the strangest short-story collections I have ever read.  Then again, I had come to expect that from the author of the brilliant short-fiction book The Girl in the Flammable Skirt.  Now Aimee Bender writes some rather dark, strange and disarming stories in Willful Creatures that will truly shock you and keep you thinking long after you finish reading each story.  The characters are nameless, unflinching in their actions and quite unlikeable, doing things that will repel and compel you at the same time.  From bad parents, shameless seducers and abusers who target upon the weak, this collection has it all.  My favorite stories are \\"The Leading Man,\\" \\"Debbieland,\\" \\"Dearth,\\" \\"The Meeting,\\" and \\"End of the Line.\\"  All of the stories are amazing, but the aforementioned ones stood out the most for me.  I marvel at Bender's writing style.  She reminds me a great deal of Amanda Filipacchi in that she mixes the outlandish with the mundane in an astonishing, hilarious twist.  Are you in the bargain for some literary and surreal short stories?  I recommend you read Willful Creatures.  And give The Girl in the Flammable Skirt a whirl while you're at it.	2005-10-11
5211:US	50774468	R24DY0YANOVNZI	0743272943	9695968	Big Cats: Stories	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Fun, unpretentious short stories...	The stories in Big Cats are few of the most fun, entertaining ones I have read in quite a while.  They have an irresistible mixture of dry humor and earnest storytelling.  The best part of all is that neither the author nor her work of short fiction comes across as pretentious or contrived.  Holiday Reinhorn writes with an unique voice that keeps you turning the pages. The characters in this collection are quirky and struck me as lonely and with very mundane, human qualities that make them all the more compelling.  They are not perfect, but they are wonderfully readable nevertheless. My favorite stories are \\"Get Away from Me, David,\\" \\"F--- You,\\" \\"White Dog,\\" and \\"My Name.\\"  If you're a big fan of short fiction, Big Cats is one short-story collection that you'd want to read.  I cannot recommend this gem enough.	2005-10-11
10269:US	50774468	RAFX1ETD0YEVJ	0671737635	931033724	Something Wonderful (The Sequels series)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	This is truly something wonderful!	This is the first Judith McNaught novel I have read and it won't be the last!  Something Wonderful is one of the most emotive, romantic, funny and poignant romance novels I have ever read!  This is definitely not a run-of-the-mill Regency romance.  Alexandra Lawrence isn't the typical seventeen-year-old.  She is tomboyish, preferring to wear men's breeches over skirts, a literature and philosophy enthusiast, always quoting Plato and Horace, and is the breadwinner at her humble country cottage.  She is also quite an expert at fencing, and that is how she meets Jordan Townsende, the Duke of Hawthorne.  On his way to meet his grandmother at her country estate, he is accosted by bandits, but a mysterious young lad jousts his way into the incident, saving Jordan's life.  Jordan discovers that the lad is actually a lass, a petite young woman with beautiful aquamarine eyes.  Due to a misunderstanding, he is forced to marry her.  Jordan is seemingly a heartless, rough and incorrigible womanizer and figures out a way to keep Alexandra at bay so he could continue his fun and debauchery among the people of the ton.  But things don't turn out that way, to say the least.  Alexandra thinks \\"something wonderful\\" has happened when she meets Jordan.  However, the route to love is a long, difficult one, and Jordan is a far cry from the noble man she had romanticized in her mind.  And she discovers that after she is introduced to the ruthless gossipers of London society.  What transpires is a love story with so many twists and turns that will keep you turning the pages until the late hours of the night.<br /><br />This is one of the most riveting stories out there.  I don't want to go into too many details in this review, but, as said earlier, I will summarize by saying that this isn't your typical, predictable Regency romance.  Jordan and Alexandra are one of the most compelling couples I have read.  The characterization is flawless, the story development is compelling.  You will laugh, cry and be infuriated with these main characters, especially with Jordan.  He is a hero that seems arrogant, ruthless, even borderline violent in some occasions, but his true colors show with each passing chapter.  His scenes with Alexandra are truly mesmerizing.  He and Alex are three-dimensional protagonists with a great deal of depth.  One might say that this is the typical story of a reformed rake, but it is actually more than that. I cried with Alexandra during her disillusionment when the ton made fun of her devotion to Jordan and her blatant lack of knowledge of his wicked ways.  But Jordan goes through a great deal of things as well.  Someone is trying to kill him and had succeeded in banishing him for a while, turning him into a prisoner of war (during the French Revolution), but he is determined to find the person who wants him out of the picture.  The mystery aspect of this novel is quite well done and I was surprised with its conclusion.  Again, as for the Jordan and Alexandra story -- it is one of the most beautiful ones I have read.  There are some symbolisms and staggering love scenes.  As already mentioned, they are great protagonists with so much nuance.  I like some of the secondary characters as well, like the Duchess, Anthony, Roddy and Melanie.  The ton were portrayed as bored party-goers that live and breathe to gossip and make secret bets against their peers, as I have no doubt that they were in that time period.  Something Wonderful is one of the most... well, wonderful novels I have read in quite a while.  There are some inconsistencies though.  McNaught should have done her math with the protagonists' ages.  At first, Jordan is eighteen and Alexandra is thirteen.  Nine years later, Jordan is twenty-seven and Alexandra is seventeen going on eighteen in a few days.  If my math serves me correctly, she should have been twenty-two years old after the time lapse -- unless the first chapter in which we are introduced to a bit of the protagonists' respective histories did not occur during the same year, in which case the author or the editors should have pointed that out.  Also, the author refers to Jordan as \\"Jason\\" in a couple of chapters.  Other than that, I loved this novel.  I kept rereading certain passages because they moved me to the core.  McNaught is on my must-read list.  I have purchased A Kingdom of Dreams and cannot wait to give it a whirl.sts' respective histories did not occur during the same year, in which case the author or the editors should have pointed that out.  Also, the author refers to Jordan as \\"Jason\\" in a couple of chapters.  Other than that, I loved this novel.  I kept rereading certain passages because they moved me to the core.  McNaught is on my must-read list.  I have purchased A Kingdom of Dreams and cannot wait to give it a whirl.	2005-10-08
10784:US	50774468	R2QN2SRYVD0O3O	075820891X	136031735	Really Unusual Bad Boys	Books	2	18	19	N	N	Really Disappointing Bad Boys...	I loved Bridefight when I read the novella in e-book format at Ellora's Cave.  The aforementioned novella was the first part of a series that was never carried out called Canis Royal.  In fact, I loved it so much that I wrote a review about the novella and expressed my pleasure in having read such a fun little story.  So, imagine my delight when I heard that MaryJanice Davidson re-released Bridefight and added two more novellas of the SandLands for an anthology... and imagine my disappointment when I read Really Unusual Bad Boys.  Mating Season leaves off where Bridefight left off, only this time this is Damon's brother Maltese's story.  He wished for an earthly woman and got Lt Anne Sanger, a straightlaced WWII soldier.  She has no idea how she'd landed in SandLands.  Her circumstances are quite different from Lois's.  She wants nothing more than to return to her home, however, will she want to after she spends time with the gorgeous werecat?  And in Groomfight, third brother Shakar lands on earth and meets a beautiful dark-skinned woman.  After spending time with her and indulging in some erotic moments, which includes skinny-dipping, he decides to stay on earth, but things could change after Rica discovers she's with child.<br /><br />The problem I had with the last two novellas is that they seem rushed, thin and sloppily executed. When I read Bridefight, I felt that Davidson discovered a unique and erotic world with sharp humor and great one-liners to boot.  However, the novellas are so short and end so abruptly that I am not any the wiser about the SandLands and its inhabitants.  For example, in Mating Season, Anne was quite adamant about returning to earth, and then out of nowhere changes her mind.  I was confused with her sudden change of heart.  It was just too abrupt.  I like that Davidson used the whole time-travel angle with the female characters, but she could have and should have done so much more with these stories.  The characters lack depth and all I got from this anthology is a few good romantic scenes between the characters.  And the titles \\"Mating Season\\" and \\"Groomfight\\" had nothing to do with the actual stories.  That is another indication that Davidson wrote these stories without giving them much thought.  Reading this book was like reading a pamphlet -- thin, light, brief.  Bridefight is great and that is why I give Really Unusual Bad Boys two stars instead of one star.  Davidson should have taken more time developing this erotic fantasy anthology in a more palpable way.  I am a big fan of her work and love the Undead, Wyndham Werewolf and Alaskan books respectively, but I've grown wary of trying her novellas because they have left me unfulfilled.  These shall be the last novellas I read from Ms. Davidson.  They served their purpose in providing some (very) light entertainment during my train commute to work, but I expected more and I cannot help but feel disappointed and cheated.  And ripped off!  I paid fourteen dollars for this.  Ugh.got from this anthology is a few good romantic scenes between the characters.  And the titles \\"Mating Season\\" and \\"Groomfight\\" had nothing to do with the actual stories.  That is another indication that Davidson wrote these stories without giving them much thought.  Reading this book was like reading a pamphlet -- thin, light, brief.  Bridefight is great and that is why I give Really Unusual Bad Boys two stars instead of one star.  Davidson should have taken more time developing this erotic fantasy anthology in a more palpable way.  I am a big fan of her work and love the Undead, Wyndham Werewolf and Alaskan books respectively, but I've grown wary of trying her novellas because they have left me unfulfilled.  These shall be the last novellas I read from Ms. Davidson.  They served their purpose in providing some (very) light entertainment during my train commute to work, but I expected more and I cannot help but feel disappointed and cheated.  And ripped off!  I paid fourteen dollars for this.  Ugh.	2005-10-08
16020:US	50774468	R2XPJ0CP043WEM	0425203972	542443651	Passion	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Definitely lives up to its title!	This is one of the steamiest historical/erotic romance novels I have read in a long time.  I couldn't put it down because it was so hot and risque.  It reminded me of an Ellora's Cave offering, only this one has more romantic elements.  In an ironic twist, young widow Passion Elizabeth Dare had never had a passionate experience in her life, not until she meets the sensual, virile Mark at a London art exhibit.  He makes her feel alive during an erotic encounter behind a large screen at the exhibit.  Several more smoldering encounters ensue between the two strangers at the same place.  Mark is uninhibited, speaks with a very rough language and is hung like the proverbial mule.  Passion cannot resist him.  He likes that he is able to bring out the fire that her name suggests.  He doesn't believe in love or in lasting relationships, but he begins to feel something different for Passion.  But blackmail and two cold-hearted, scheming women, one of whom is his mother, keep Mark Randolph Hawkmore, Earl of Langley, from heading toward the direction his heart is taking him.  A commoner wants her daughter to have his title, and she'll do just about anything to obtain it.<br /><br />As said earlier, this is one of the steamiest romanticas I have read!  This Victorian romance truly sizzles and lives up to its title with explicit, graphic sex scenes and words and phrases that would make Andrew Dice Clay blush.  I loved it!  I wish more romance novels had this earnest approach to erotica and not sugarcoat the scenes up with ridiculous purple prose.  This one is definitely not for the faint of heart.  Lisa Valdez's writing style reminds me a great deal of Emma Holly.  They both write erotic romance I can sink my teeth into, so to speak.  I'd put this book in the same erotic quality as Holly's Beyond Seduction, except that this one is even hotter.  Ms. Valdez is a promising new author, that much is certain.  As for the characters in the book, Mark is wonderful.  I fell in love with him, especially during *the scene* that brought me to tears.  The character Passion is also great.  She shattered all inhibitions with Mark. I liked Matt, Mark's brother, and hated Abigail and Lucinda.  The story is also a marvel.  What impressed me most was the beautiful love storyline that is truly touching.  Passion has a wonderful balance of romance and erotica that is irresistible.  The couples are earnest and have great chemistry.  And the best part is that you don't read about any of the silly \\"I love you and I hate you\\" storyline that is so common in romances.  The development of their feelings is done subtly and quite realistically.  The one thing I don't like is that Passion cries for most of the novel.  But that is a shortcoming that is not difficult to overlook.  I cannot wait to read the upcoming two parts of this trilogy, which will feature Passion's sisters.  The next one will be about Patience and Matthew.  (I like that the men in this series have biblical names.) I loved Passion.  Lisa Valdez is officially on my must-read list!him, especially during *the scene* that brought me to tears.  The character Passion is also great.  She shattered all inhibitions with Mark. I liked Matt, Mark's brother, and hated Abigail and Lucinda.  The story is also a marvel.  What impressed me most was the beautiful love storyline that is truly touching.  Passion has a wonderful balance of romance and erotica that is irresistible.  The couples are earnest and have great chemistry.  And the best part is that you don't read about any of the silly \\"I love you and I hate you\\" storyline that is so common in romances.  The development of their feelings is done subtly and quite realistically.  The one thing I don't like is that Passion cries for most of the novel.  But that is a shortcoming that is not difficult to overlook.  I cannot wait to read the upcoming two parts of this trilogy, which will feature Passion's sisters.  The next one will be about Patience and Matthew.  (I like that the men in this series have biblical names.) I loved Passion.  Lisa Valdez is officially on my must-read list!	2005-10-04
16927:US	50774468	R23Y1RH5KA3M6N	0375726179	864241397	A Venetian Affair: A True Tale of Forbidden Love in the 18th Century	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Beautiful, brilliant story of star-crossed lovers!	A Venetian Affair is one of the most beautiful romantic books I have read!  It features one of my favorite romantic type of couples: star-crossed lovers.  Andrea Di Robilant reveals the memoirs of one of her ancestors and the love letters he exchanged with his star-crossed lover Giustiniana.  Set in Eighteenth Century Italy, Andrea Memmo is part of the Venetian aristocracy who is promised to be a powerful politician.  He falls in love with an English commoner who is an illegitimate child to boot.  They are forbidden to be together by both families, but especially forbidden by Giustiniana's mother, and resort to writing each other love letters that explain in details the feelings for one another as well as family background and tales of jealousy and other conundrums centered on their class differences.  There are various twists throughout the book.<br /><br />Andrea Di Robilant creates a novel around these beautiful and eloquent love letters.  The story enthralled me from beginning to end.  The backdrop of eighteenth century Venice is quite palpable -- and reading about the Venetian aristocrats and their social gatherings and balls was very insightful.  The results are lyrical pages that you cannot stop reading because the prose is perfect and readable in more ways than one.  Andrea and Giustiniana are a wonderful couple.  The female protagonist's mother and her prejudices angered me at times, but I also understood her fears, for commoners had always resented the aristocrats.  This is, all in all, a wonderfully written romantic story with rich historical references and prose that, as said earlier, just begs to be read.  I cannot recommend this gem enough!	2005-10-04
21858:US	50774468	RUIKZ14HPT1HS	0142001821	939558795	The Passion of Artemisia: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Beautiful fictional account of the artist...	Having read The Forest Lover some time ago, I enjoyed reading the Susan Vreeland novel and didn't think twice before picking up The Passion of Artemisia.  This novel is about the painter Artemisia Gentileschi and her masterpiece work of art called Judith.  With a beautifully described backdrop of post-Renaissance Italy, we read about her humiliating trial against her rapist, her father's assistant Agostino Tassi, and the cruel judgments and prejudices she suffers from men and women alike.  No one believes that she had been raped, instead choose to think that she had gone to bed with him willingly.  After the very unfair outcome of the trial, Artemisia embarks on a journey that begins with the thought-provoking advice from an enigmatic nun to her arranged marriage to a fellow artist.  We see her struggle as she tries to be taken seriously as a gifted female painter, which pays off when she becomes the first woman elected to Florence's Accademia dell' Arte.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I love the prose used in this novel.  It has the feel of Italy during the seventeenth century.  The things Artemisia goes through as a woman spoke to me.  In this day and age, women endure things not unlike the humiliations the artist experiences.  The scene in which she is examined by two midwives while everyone in court looks on through a very thin curtain that barely covers the procedure is gruesome.  The double standards she experiences are horrible to the max.  I love the way the author describes, in first-person narrative from Artemisia's POV, how the artist vented her impotence, anger and frustration while creating the Judith painting.  I wish the author had explored Artemisia's feelings during the process of the painting a bit more though.  The Passion of Artemisia is wonderful, almost as great as The Forest Lover.  The one thing I find fault here is that Artemisia's narrative falls flat during the particularly gruesome scenes.  Further description of her feelings of anger and disbelief during the verdict would have been nice.  Other than that, I enjoyed this beautiful novel and I cannot recommend it enough.of her feelings of anger and disbelief during the verdict would have been nice.  Other than that, I enjoyed this beautiful novel and I cannot recommend it enough.	2005-10-01
31844:US	50774468	R2VQXFGJAHYW7	0380385880	75448761	Shanna	Books	3	86	94	N	N	Good escapism, great romance, infuriating heroine...	I have officially decided to put Kathleen E. Woodiwiss on the list of authors to look for whenever I fancy a historical romance/bodice ripper for some mindless fun and escapism.  I enjoyed A Rose in Winter very much but hated The Flame and the Flower. I had hoped Shanna will be like the former instead of the latter.  Lucky for me, it is more like the former. This romance/adventure novel is as riveting as it is infuriating.  The year is 1749. Shanna Trahern is the daughter of a prosperous and kind landowner and oligarch of the Caribbean island called Los Camellos (fictional setting).  All he wants is for his only child to get married and produce heirs that will continue the prosperity of his hard work.  However, Shanna does not want to settle for any of the opportunistic suitors that are after her wealthy purse.  So, while in London, with the help of her manservant, she offers a condemned Yankee criminal by the name of Ruark Beauchamp a night with her in exchange for marriage. She wants to borrow his last name, which is a well-known aristocratic name. Shanna has no qualms about doing this.  After all, Ruark will be hanged a few days after the wedding and she'll be a widow in the eyes of her father after she invents a story about her husband's ill-timed demise. Her father will then finally let her choose whoever she wants for a husband.  But when she fails to keep her end of the bargain, Ruark swears that he will escape prison and find her.  In a struck of luck, Ruark escapes the hanging when he is purchased illegally to work as a bondsman for Shanna's father under the alias of John Ruark. Most bondsmen are purchased at debtors' prisons, but Ruark is chosen for his strength and potential as a hard worker. (Mr. Trahern isn't aware that the purchase of the bondsman had been done illegally.)  There he finds Shanna and persuades her until she yields to him -- awakening the initial attraction and desire when she first met the sensual, gorgeous man.  However, their romance faces many obstacles.  What will happen when Orlan Trahern discovers that his favorite bondsman is his daughter's husband?  What will happen when everyone discovers Ruark is an escaped convict?  Who is the real murderer of the woman he was accused and convicted of killing at a London inn?  They face many obstacles indeed, but the biggest obstacle is Shanna's unwillingness to yield to the beautiful and somewhat wild Colonial.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The best thing about this novel is without a doubt Ruark.  He sounds scrumptious and sensual and is willing to play along with Shanna's petulance like a good sport.  (Plus, he is topless through most of the novel, great mind candy.)  He is quite persuasive in his mission to obtain Shanna not just as a lover but as his rightful wife.  He is a very patient hero, for Shanna puts him through all kinds of pain and struggles due to her lack of faith in him in spite of his many attempts to prove that he loves her.  Shanna is one of the most infuriating (anti?)heroines I have read in romance.  Her lack of humility and selfish attitude disgusted me at times.  Her treatment of poor Ruark is revolting.  She desires him and apparently loves him, but refuses to have a normal marriage with him because he is a slave.  It doesn't matter to her that Ruark doesn't have much choice in his status, for it is either being hanged or working the lands until he's earned his time and money and be free.  The man could not do a darn thing right in her eyes.  At times I couldn't tell whether Ruark was that smitten and lustful for Shanna or if he was simply a masochist.  Her behavior is even worse when she is taken hostage at a ship headed for the Colonies (America).  This is what went on for more than one-hundred pages: 1) Shanna chastises Ruark for having been unfaithful to her (he hadn't been unfaithful).  2) Ruark saves her life and from being raped repeatedly during the voyage, only to get nothing but rejectionin return.  3) Shanna utters insults and abuse to Ruark.  4) She forbids him to touch her, yet throws a hissy fit whenever another woman so much as looks at Ruark.  And so on.  I know Shanna is supposed to be this flawed protagonist, which probably explains why the book is named after her, but she is difficult to stomach at times.  The things that kept me reading till the end were Ruark and wanting to know how he would clear his name and vindicate himself.  The results are very impressive and in some cases surprising.  As for the other aspects of the novel, I enjoyed the historical references very much.  The story made me feel emotions (mostly anger and frustration) and that is what I look for in romances of this sort.  However, the novel is very long-winded and the prose is too flowery and wordy for my taste.  There are many repetitions.  I was reminded in almost every page that Ruark has \\"golden amber eyes\\" and whenever the characters stood \\"with arms akimbo,\\" or when Shanna \\"presented her back\\" to Ruark.  It became annoying after a while.  Other than that, I can see why so many people swear by this book and Ms. Woodiwiss's works.  She is a great author within the genre and her books are my newest guilty pleasures. The Wolf and the Dove will be my next Woodiwiss read.in return.  3) Shanna utters insults and abuse to Ruark.  4) She forbids him to touch her, yet throws a hissy fit whenever another woman so much as looks at Ruark.  And so on.  I know Shanna is supposed to be this flawed protagonist, which probably explains why the book is named after her, but she is difficult to stomach at times.  The things that kept me reading till the end were Ruark and wanting to know how he would clear his name and vindicate himself.  The results are very impressive and in some cases surprising.  As for the other aspects of the novel, I enjoyed the historical references very much.  The story made me feel emotions (mostly anger and frustration) and that is what I look for in romances of this sort.  However, the novel is very long-winded and the prose is too flowery and wordy for my taste.  There are many repetitions.  I was reminded in almost every page that Ruark has \\"golden amber eyes\\" and whenever the characters stood \\"with arms akimbo,\\" or when Shanna \\"presented her back\\" to Ruark.  It became annoying after a while.  Other than that, I can see why so many people swear by this book and Ms. Woodiwiss's works.  She is a great author within the genre and her books are my newest guilty pleasures. The Wolf and the Dove will be my next Woodiwiss read.	2005-09-26
32612:US	50774468	R2JKJV6A6C40FL	0385336764	983256815	The Fiery Cross (Outlander)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	What happened?!	I never thought it would come the time in which I'd give an installment of the Outlander series two stars.  I have no choice but to give it such a low star rating because, to be frank, I found myself wanting to do other things as I read this book.  The Fiery Cross is the fifth Outlander offering, and while it is as historically rich and insightful as the previous four, this one had an almost non-existent plot.  Drums of Autumn wasn't as riveting to me as the first three had been, but this one takes several steps down the aforementioned fourth book.  So what is The Fiery Cross about?  Let's see, there is the gathering of the clans thing (where Drums of Autumn left off).  There are storylines centered on the time frame, the Scottish war, pre-Revolutionary America, and the reappearance of certain characters, but nothing that holds much water.  For the most part, this novel centers on the inner musings, conflicts and internal monologues of the characters as they try to adjust to life in 18th Century America.<br /><br />I have always appreciated Gabaldon's insightful historical references and how well-researched her books have been, but I'd like to have those things mingled with a compelling story.  The Outlander books of old were full of adventure, witchcraft, romance and struggles as Jamie and Claire's love conquered all.  We get some insightful chapters centered on Brianna's motherhood and having to adjust to a time frame in which diapers, toilet paper, feminine products and other modern conveniences don't exist. Then there are the respective internal monologues of Claire and Jamie's perspectives centered on middle-aged angst such as menopause and mid-life crisis.  There is also Claire's conscience regarding her first husband Frank.  I was appalled with these turns of events.  I mean, I more or less have an idea of what this novel represents.  It represents character growth and dealing with things that hadn't been dealt with so much in the earlier novels.  I know we needed an offering in which the aforementioned issues would be developed further and be somewhat in the center, but I'd nevertheless have appreciated a stronger plot to go with them.  Alas, I still love Jamie and Claire.  The aforementioned characters have given me hours of enjoyment so great I was glad the books were long.  But Brianna is still not my favorite character and Roger is just all right.  The novel is beautifully written and thoroughly researched as usual, and that is why I give it two stars instead of one star, which is what I felt compelled to give it at first.  For the first time with an Outlander novel, I was happy to see this 992-page trade paperback book come to an end.  I doubt I will reread this in the future.  I look forward to reading A Breath of Snow and Ashes and will keep my fingers crossed, hoping A Breath of Snow and Ashes will be a breath of fresh air.eeded an offering in which the aforementioned issues would be developed further and be somewhat in the center, but I'd nevertheless have appreciated a stronger plot to go with them.  Alas, I still love Jamie and Claire.  The aforementioned characters have given me hours of enjoyment so great I was glad the books were long.  But Brianna is still not my favorite character and Roger is just all right.  The novel is beautifully written and thoroughly researched as usual, and that is why I give it two stars instead of one star, which is what I felt compelled to give it at first.  For the first time with an Outlander novel, I was happy to see this 992-page trade paperback book come to an end.  I doubt I will reread this in the future.  I look forward to reading A Breath of Snow and Ashes and will keep my fingers crossed, hoping A Breath of Snow and Ashes will be a breath of fresh air.	2005-09-26
40351:US	50774468	R3RETS7D5ZW1IX	0060096705	711830171	Being Committed: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fun, witty and insightful...	Anna Maxted is one of my favorite Brit-chick-lit authors.  I loved Getting Over It and Behaving Like Adults and looked forward to reading Being Committed.  Hannah is a thirty-something private investigator with commitment issues.  Jason, her boyfriend of five years, proposes marriage and she says no.  When she discovers that he is engaged to another woman just a few weeks after breaking up with her, she tries to get back with him.  He accepts, but under one condition: that she attends therapy sessions with him and seeks closure with her ex-husband Jack. As Hannah tries to figure out her feelings for Jack and Jason, she discovers many things about herself and about secrets behind the marriage and infidelities between her mother and her father.  There are various fun twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Again, Maxted creates a fun story that has quite some poignant storylines that make her novel have more depth than the average chick-lit.  The author has always mixed dark issues with lighthearted language, making the novel entertaining as well as thought-provoking.  In here, Maxted does a deep study of romantic relationships and commitment issues.  The lines are full of wit and insight.  My favorite passage is: \\"There are certain men who need to get married, for whom the woman is almost incidental to proceedings.  The woman is the tedious yet necessary ingredient, similar to yeast in bread.  This sort of man fixes on his target rather like a pit bull, and any girl who can't run fast enough is at risk.\\"  Witty remarks such as this one occur throughout the novel.  I love Hannah's dry humor.  The part where she talks about waxing, er, certain embarrassing parts is hilarious!  I laughed aloud many times, sometimes in public, much to other people's puzzlement.  This is a novel that will make you laugh, nod in agreement with Hanna's musings and move you with the poignant developments.  Anna Maxted has quite a unique voice and I recommend this gem.	2005-09-22
40599:US	50774468	RF6290L4WUYP2	1401308139	195371044	Counting Raindrops Through a Stained Glass Window	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Absolutely wonderful, great character study!	Vanella Morris is a successful engineer in a long-term, committed relationship with the sweet and scrumptious Alton.  Aside from a few work woes centered on a competitive male colleague, she is content with her life as it is.  However, things change when Alton begins to hint at the possibility of marriage.  Vanella is terrified of marriage, feels that relationships change for the worse after exchanging vows, and would rather keep things the way they are.  Part of the reason for her fears is having witnessed her parents' dysfunctional marriage and hearing about her married friends', particularly Synda, somewhat imperfect unions.  But when Alton expresses his need to solidify their relationship, Vanella is unable to make that step, and risks losing the man she loves so much.  However, Vanella is forced to confront her fears, especially after secrets and painful family memories begin to unravel.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The best part about Counting Raindrops Through a Stained Glass Window  is the deep character study.  It begins with a prologue about an incident Vanella witnessed as a child centered on her father's manipulations.  The relationship troubles her parents and her sister go through do not sit well with her.  And even though she is in a normal, blissful relationship, she cannot see past the pain and suffering most married couples put up with in the name of love.  Vanella is a great character.  Her qualms about marriage are earnest, real and very relatable.  I have been down this road and found myself nodding in agreement with Vanella.  I could also relate to her need for independence.  She is a career woman who wants to start up her own business, and her fears increase when Alton tells her that she \\"doesn't have to work\\" once they marry.  I enjoyed this well-developed, witty tale of taking the plunge into marriage.  Cherlyn Michaels is a great author and I look forward to reading her future novels.  I highly recommend this one.ne.	2005-09-22
46151:US	50774468	R2O60N0HZR9KIX	0380005255	833024518	The Flame and the Flower (The Birmingham Family)	Books	1	13	24	N	N	Rape is NOT romantic!	After reading and enjoying A Rose in Winter, Kathleen E. Woodiwiss has become a guilty pleasure for me. I'd heard so many wonderful things about The Flame and the Flower that I couldn't wait to give it a whirl.  After I give a brief a synopsis, I will let you know exactly how I feel about this story.  The year is 1799. Heather Simmons couldn't believe her luck when one of her aunt's brothers offered to take her away from servitude to become a teacher at a London finishing school.  Imagine her surprise when the finishing school turned out to be a brothel.  She manages to escape a rape attempt and lands on the ship of Captain Brandon Birmingham.  The men who accost her think she is a prostitute and she is brought to the ship to pleasure Brandon.  Despite her struggles and pleas, he forces himself onto her.  When he realizes his mistake, he proposes to turn her into his mistress, but then is forced to marry her when she discovers she is with child.  This ruins his careful plans of marrying a woman he has no feelings for and on rebuilding the Birmingham plantation in the south of the states.  But he had never anticipated the tender feelings that Heather awake in him.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I cannot stomach a story in which the \\"hero\\" rapes the heroine.  I know this is the modus operandi of bodice rippers and I'd be lying if I said that I'd never fantasized about being abducted and ravished by a gorgeous stranger, but put into the context in which the hero feels no remorse and in fact continues to rape and mistreat the heroine for a large portion of the story, I found the fantasy element of this particular novel offensive and disgusting.  Brandon goes far beyond being an alpha male -- he is rough, rude and abusive to the core.  And Heather gives a whole new meaning to the word \\"ninny.\\"  She is too submissive and weak.  I realize this was first published in 1972, five years before I was born, and that this sort of storyline was popular during that decade, but I hate how outdated this book is anyway.  I am used to reading the works of modern romance authors who write books, even historical ones, in which the woman has a mind of her own and rescues herself from bad situations, and if the hero helps her out in any way, it is because she chooses to let him.  The damsel in distress thing here is far worse because her own husband is the one putting her in distress.  As the story progresses, however, he is gentler and more tender, falls for her, and redeems himself in more ways than one, which is what kept me from tossing the book up against the wall.  But the damage has been done.  I couldn't care about these characters at that stage.  If it weren't for great secondary characters like Jeff, I'd say there is nothing redeemable about this book.  The storyline wasn't my only problem.  What appears to be typical Woodiwiss fashion, she uses too much purple prose.  The language of the novel puts cheesiness to new heights.  Another problem I had with this is that, like A Rose in Winter, the characters are very superficial and one-dimensional.  The one extraordinary quality the protagonists possess is their good looks.  It is almost as though nothing else matters in the Woodiwiss world.  The Flame and the Flower is a major miss.  I wasn't expecting War and Peace, obviously, but I had hoped to read a nice romance with a bit of substance.  I shall be wary of reading The Wolf and the Dove and Shanna, which I've already purchased and might as well give them a whirl.during that decade, but I hate how outdated this book is anyway.  I am used to reading the works of modern romance authors who write books, even historical ones, in which the woman has a mind of her own and rescues herself from bad situations, and if the hero helps her out in any way, it is because she chooses to let him.  The damsel in distress thing here is far worse because her own husband is the one putting her in distress.  As the story progresses, however, he is gentler and more tender, falls for her, and redeems himself in more ways than one, which is what kept me from tossing the book up against the wall.  But the damage has been done.  I couldn't care about these characters at that stage.  If it weren't for great secondary characters like Jeff, I'd say there is nothing redeemable about this book.  The storyline wasn't my only problem.  What appears to be typical Woodiwiss fashion, she uses too much purple prose.  The language of the novel puts cheesiness to new heights.  Another problem I had with this is that, like A Rose in Winter, the characters are very superficial and one-dimensional.  The one extraordinary quality the protagonists possess is their good looks.  It is almost as though nothing else matters in the Woodiwiss world.  The Flame and the Flower is a major miss.  I wasn't expecting War and Peace, obviously, but I had hoped to read a nice romance with a bit of substance.  I shall be wary of reading The Wolf and the Dove and Shanna, which I've already purchased and might as well give them a whirl.	2005-09-19
47013:US	50774468	RNX412D1BA2PN	0743249305	265651688	The Favored Child: A Novel (The Wideacre Trilogy)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Disappointing second effort...	Having read and enjoyed the very dark Wideacre, I looked forward to the second part of this interesting trilogy.  Though The Favored Child is full of the dark, gothic feel of its predecessor, it nevertheless is a weak effort in comparison to Wideacre.  Set in late 18th Century, Julia Lacey becomes the new owner of the tarnished Wideacre estate.  She is an excellent agriculturalist and is confident that she will bring Wideacre back to its once prosperous glory.  However, villagers have called Julia the \\"Favored Child,\\" named after Beatrice's prediction before her demise.  The villagers feel that the estate is cursed and that Julia will suffer a fate similar to the one Beatrice went through due to her many sins, which included incest.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I love the 18th Century setting and the backdrop of Sussex, England.  I also like that the characters in this offering aren't cardboard cutouts of the ones in Wideacre.  The dark language and gothic feel are as enjoyable here as it was in the previous novel.  However, The Favored Child did not hook me in the same way the first novel had.  And while the characters in Wideacre were unlikable and despicable, the ones here are somewhat caricatured.  They are not unlikeable in the good sense -- they are just unlikeable.  And all of the shocking scenes were meant to be, well, shocking, instead of just moving the story forward as I had expected, the aforementioned scenes were written for no other purpose than to supply shock value.  Julia is an anti-heroine in her own right, but she is nowhere near as complex or as compelling as Beatrice.  All in all, Philippa Gregory did not succeed in delivering the same darkness and eery feeling of Wideacre.  The novel is beautifully written and historically rich, but it lacked the unique voice I thought I would get from such a promising series.  I will give Meridon a whirl.  I hope it'll be better than this one.	2005-09-19
51241:US	50774468	R2EYCSQA8K23MD	0385335989	173145556	Drums of Autumn (Outlander)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Not as riveting as the first three, but still great...	The Outlander series has been one of the most interesting and riveting reading investments I have made this year.  I have loved all of the novels I've read thus far, especially Voyager.  Now that I have read Drums of Autumn, the fourth book of what will apparently be a six-book series, it appears that the wonderful reading investments will continue, although I wasn't as riveted with this one as I was with its three predecessors.  Drums of Autumn takes a bit of a break from Claire and Jamie Fraser and focuses more on their offspring Brianna and her significant other Roger.  Brianna and Roger discover an old newspaper clipping in which states that Jamie and Claire die in a fire, so Brianna decides to visit the old stone circle that transports her to pre-Revolutionary America without telling Roger.  Her intention is to attempt to change the course of history and save her parents' lives.  Jamie and Claire are living normal lives in North Carolina after deciding to abandon the chaotic Scotland and all of the casualties that occurred during the Jacobite Rising.  Brianna is happy to be with her parents and spending time with them, but will she be able to return to 20th Century?  And will she ever see Roger again?  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Once again, Gabaldon regales the reader with a historically rich tale that makes you feel as though you had been around during that time frame.  The backdrop of North Carolina in the 18th Century sounds beautiful.  The Colonial times have always fascinated me and reading about that period, especially before the Revolution, was very insightful and enjoyable.  And I loved reading about how Jamie and Claire got there and built their lives away from Scotland.  In fact, all of the chapters centered on Jamie and Claire were wonderful and riveting as usual.  But I agree with the reviewer who stated that their relationship is a little too perfect now.  I like them when they are facing adversities and conquering dilemmas with a love that transcends time, war and all sorts of obstacles.  I enjoyed their love story of old, especially in Voyager.  And I have to add that Brianna and Roger aren't quite as memorable or as interesting as Jamie and Claire.  Brianna is somewhat one-dimensional and doesn't bring anything new to the story.  As for Roger, I like that he's a descendant from one of the members of the MacKenzie clan who happens to be one of Jamie's cousins, and he does have a spark to him that I like.  However, he is not Jamie, and reading about him and Brianna has left me cold.  Perhaps I am being biased because I love Jamie and Claire so much, but Brianna and Roger don't transmit the same sort of passion and fire that their older counterparts do.  As for the other characters, there are some new ones that are colorful and wonderful to read, which keeps the story from lagging too much.  But, as I already said, the new couple doesn't quite do it for me.  And that is why Drums of Autumn isn't quite as unputdownable (not a real word, I know) as the previous three and that is why I take away a star.  I felt the impatience of reading the 800-plus pages of the trade paperback book this time, unlike with the other books. I nevertheless loved it and cannot wait to pick up The Fiery Cross.lemmas with a love that transcends time, war and all sorts of obstacles.  I enjoyed their love story of old, especially in Voyager.  And I have to add that Brianna and Roger aren't quite as memorable or as interesting as Jamie and Claire.  Brianna is somewhat one-dimensional and doesn't bring anything new to the story.  As for Roger, I like that he's a descendant from one of the members of the MacKenzie clan who happens to be one of Jamie's cousins, and he does have a spark to him that I like.  However, he is not Jamie, and reading about him and Brianna has left me cold.  Perhaps I am being biased because I love Jamie and Claire so much, but Brianna and Roger don't transmit the same sort of passion and fire that their older counterparts do.  As for the other characters, there are some new ones that are colorful and wonderful to read, which keeps the story from lagging too much.  But, as I already said, the new couple doesn't quite do it for me.  And that is why Drums of Autumn isn't quite as unputdownable (not a real word, I know) as the previous three and that is why I take away a star.  I felt the impatience of reading the 800-plus pages of the trade paperback book this time, unlike with the other books. I nevertheless loved it and cannot wait to pick up The Fiery Cross.	2005-09-16
51788:US	50774468	R36DKDYE6HMIVZ	1419950088	466724856	Forbidden (Wardell Duology, Book 1):  Ellora's Cave Presents	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A very sensual historical romantica...	The year is 1835.  Elisa has put up with being shunned by London society and has endured the rumors of a so-called indecent past because she wants her son back.  Her son was taken away by her late husband's relatives, who have accused her of committing adultery.  She is now the fiancee of one Rufus Wardell, the Marquis of Farleigh, one of the richest, most powerful men in England, because he promised he would find her son.  But her careful plans go awry when Rufus's son, Vaughn Wardell, shows up at Farleigh Hall to demand his mother's Scottish lands.  His father has always been cruel to him, has never shown the slightest bit of interest or love for him, and he hopes to one day seek revenge against his apathetic father.  He resents the fact that Rufus is engaged to a woman of such ill-repute as Elisa -- that is until he meets her.  Not only is the woman beautiful, she also possesses noble qualities that are incongruous to the rumors he has heard about her.  He then initiates a seduction that knows no bounds and soon they engage in bouts of lusty encounters that could not only endanger Elisa's hopes of finding her child, but also their lives.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The building of sexual tension between the characters is wonderful and palpable.  Elisa and Vaughn's development from lust to love is quite realistic.  The way Vaughn got to know Elisa, her innocence and many layers that have nothing to do with her reputation, is also realistic, for he too felt prejudice toward her before he got to know her well.  The story is very well written despite its short length (265 pages).  I also love the backdrop of London society -- the superficiality of it, the hypocrisy and prejudice centered on scandals that are concocted without much evidence.  I felt a great deal of sympathy for the protagonist's plight, but became frustrated with the fact that she was willing to marry a disarming man like Rufus when Vaughn was offering to help her.  There are revelations toward the end that add depth to the story, giving the romantica a bit of mystery as well.  All in all, Forbidden is one sensual, erotic and compelling novel.  The erotic scenes are wonderfully written and I savored them like fine wine. I give kudos to Anastasia Black (pseudonym, real authors' names are Julia Templeton and Tracy Cooper-Posey) for creating a wonderful gem.  I look forward to reading Dangerous Beauty, the sequel to Forbidden, based on Natasha's story.  I am surprised that Natasha (a young woman Vaughn is forced to have a courtship with in an effort to throw off his father's suspicions) is the protagonist in the next offering.  She struck me as a very one-dimensional character and quite underdeveloped at that.  Perhaps she will have more depth in the next installment.  In the meantime, I recommend this one.e are revelations toward the end that add depth to the story, giving the romantica a bit of mystery as well.  All in all, Forbidden is one sensual, erotic and compelling novel.  The erotic scenes are wonderfully written and I savored them like fine wine. I give kudos to Anastasia Black (pseudonym, real authors' names are Julia Templeton and Tracy Cooper-Posey) for creating a wonderful gem.  I look forward to reading Dangerous Beauty, the sequel to Forbidden, based on Natasha's story.  I am surprised that Natasha (a young woman Vaughn is forced to have a courtship with in an effort to throw off his father's suspicions) is the protagonist in the next offering.  She struck me as a very one-dimensional character and quite underdeveloped at that.  Perhaps she will have more depth in the next installment.  In the meantime, I recommend this one.	2005-09-16
59045:US	50774468	R3O9H4ZLUE5XIS	0743456661	299270934	The Wife: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Brilliant and dark!	This dark, sardonic novel is about a sixty-four-year-old woman's musings regarding her forty-something-year-old marriage to an accomplished novelist.  Joan was a student at Smith College when she met and fell for Joe Castleman, back then her creative writing professor.  She regales us with her times in college, her passion for literature and her many years supporting her husband's career.  She has made up her mind that she must end the marriage during a flight to Finland, where Joe will collect a literary prize.  Why has she decided to do this, you ask?  During the course of the novel, you will discover the many things Joan left behind, and the many things she put up from Joe, including infidelity.  What transpires is a dark, disarming novel with quite a detached, albeit palpable narrative from the sardonic anti-heroine.<br /><br />This novel has a very universal theme and it is not the most original of plots, but the novel contains quite an interesting and beautiful prose.  The narrative is often detached and sardonic, as if Joan were talking about some other couple she has been observing from a distance, which makes things a bit confusing.  At first, I asked myself, what is the purpose of this novel other than the internal monologues and musings from this Joan character?  There is indeed a purpose and the story does lead you to a rather flooring conclusion.  I hadn't expected the twist and felt as though my usual alertness for this sort of thing in books had flown the coop.  The Wife is a very enthralling psychological thriller that will make you want to reread it just to see what clues the author had given you before she surprises you with such an original ending.  I applaud Meg Wolitzer for creating such an insightful and creative twist to the universal topic of marriage.  This book sort of reminds me of The Dangerous Husband by Jane Shapiro.  The plots are different, but the darkness of the respective books and the marriage theme make them similar in my eyes.  Anyway, I recommend The Wife book most highly.Anyway, I recommend The Wife book most highly.	2005-09-12
59750:US	50774468	R10B17KGSMP3CT	0743418735	194962038	Perfect Match	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Interesting and insightful look into the legal system...	I once read a very good novel that deals with the same sort of subject matter as this one called Puppet Child by Talia Carner and that is the reason why I looked forward to reading this one.  I also decided to read this due to the fact that I think Jodi Picoult is one of the best contemporary authors out there.  This one is just as heartbreaking and frustrating as Puppet Child.  Nina Frost is a happy wife and mother as well as an accomplished assistant district attorney in Maine.  She has dealt with the toughest cases out there, especially the ones centered on child abuse.  The cases have been difficult and she has always done her best endeavors for justice.  However, she had no idea just how difficult things are until her own five-year-old son is sexually abused by their priest.  The law is not on her side and she decides to sort things out her own way.  But then when the priest's DNA proves that he was innocent, Nina is at a crossroads and her freedom is at stake.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I like the strong subject matter and the backdrop of the shadowy corners of a flawed legal system.  Jodi writes with an insightful eye about child abuse and what the law is doing to handle such matters.  There are many wonderful backdrops centered on the legal system in general.  However, I was frustrated throughout the novel.  Nina did not make things easy for me.  At times I felt that she was being Nina Frost, District Attorney, when handling her own child's case.  Her main concern was punishing the molester.  She felt too detached to her own child's welfare and her maternal love and instincts were questioned.  At least that's the impression I got when I read the novel.  Her own trial case is quite interesting and it raised various issues of their own. The topic of child abuse is told in an unflinching manner and the details disturbed me.  And that is why I kept on reading, because despite my initial frustrations with the protagonist, this is one of the most engrossing, suspenseful and insightful novels out there.  Jodi Picoult has impressed me once again with this offering.  I look forward to reading her other novels.ne of the most engrossing, suspenseful and insightful novels out there.  Jodi Picoult has impressed me once again with this offering.  I look forward to reading her other novels.	2005-09-12
68328:US	50774468	R1YU4Z66JP4PEE	0446694347	943334476	Chloe (The Women of Ivy Manor Series: Book I)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Beautiful  inspirational/historical...	I picked up Chloe on a whim because of its historical turn-of-the-twentieth-century setting and the backdrops of the first World War, the Stock Market Crash and the Great Depression.  The 1920s Jazz Age intrigued me as well.  This is one of the most beautiful and moving inspirational fiction books I have read.  Chloe Kimball is a beautiful blue-eyed seventeen-year-old blonde who has had enough of her dysfunctional parents.  She is nothing but an essential tool for her father's political career and the proper heiress to her mother's Carlyle upbringing and Ivy Manor estate.  So, in the year 1917, Chloe and her pretty black maid Minnie, victim of Chloe's father's come-ons and sexual harassments, decide to escape to New York City, where Chloe marries a gorgeous soldier she only had brief encounters with, in spite of her friend Roarke's love confession.  Chloe hadn't imagined the struggles she'd face after that.  Her husband Theran dies during the war in France and Chloe has to work as a model to make ends meet.  But then she discovers that she is pregnant with her late husband's child and moves back to Ivy Manor, where she begins to work with her selfish father again, loses her newborn daughter to her overbearing mother, and experiences the loss of her friendship with Roarke and his sister Kitty.  There is something missing in Chloe's life, something that could change her life for the better.  Will she be able to figure it out before it is too late?  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />There are several time lapses during the course of the story and we experience the different settings and backdrops as the years and decades change.  The reader gets glimpses of Chloe's life from the year 1917 to the year 1930.  There are many insights on WWI and its aftermath during the \\"Lost Generation\\" of the Roaring Twenties -- where jazz clubs, chic clothes and the Charleston dance were the height of fashion.  I enjoyed this particular aspect of the novel because the descriptions were so historically rich that it felt as though I had been alive during that interesting era.  The author took us on a tour of the startup of New York City's bohemian lifestyle, the fashion changes and the beginning of the fights for equal employment for African Americans and the demand for women's right to vote.  The insights on the stock market crash in 1929 (also known as the \\"Crash of '29\\") and the beginning of the Great Depression were also quite interesting.  As said earlier, this is a very historically rich and insightful novel.  I loved it.  As for the characters, I was able to feel their pain and emotions.  Chloe and Roarke touched me deeply.  Chloe's lack of backbone frustrated me at times, but she redeemed herself in the last pages of the novel.  I loved the chemistry between Chloe and Theran Black.  He sounded wonderful and I wish he had been in the novel more.  But the love story between Chloe and Roarke is also quite moving.  All in all, this is a beautiful first offering of a family saga that springs through generations of the Women of Ivy Manor.  The next installment will center on Bette, Chloe's daughter.  I will certainly give it a whirl, especially because I want to know what is happening to Kitty, a loose end in the story that I hope will be resolved in Bette.  I recommend this inspiring story most highly.e the descriptions were so historically rich that it felt as though I had been alive during that interesting era.  The author took us on a tour of the startup of New York City's bohemian lifestyle, the fashion changes and the beginning of the fights for equal employment for African Americans and the demand for women's right to vote.  The insights on the stock market crash in 1929 (also known as the \\"Crash of '29\\") and the beginning of the Great Depression were also quite interesting.  As said earlier, this is a very historically rich and insightful novel.  I loved it.  As for the characters, I was able to feel their pain and emotions.  Chloe and Roarke touched me deeply.  Chloe's lack of backbone frustrated me at times, but she redeemed herself in the last pages of the novel.  I loved the chemistry between Chloe and Theran Black.  He sounded wonderful and I wish he had been in the novel more.  But the love story between Chloe and Roarke is also quite moving.  All in all, this is a beautiful first offering of a family saga that springs through generations of the Women of Ivy Manor.  The next installment will center on Bette, Chloe's daughter.  I will certainly give it a whirl, especially because I want to know what is happening to Kitty, a loose end in the story that I hope will be resolved in Bette.  I recommend this inspiring story most highly.	2005-09-07
68707:US	50774468	R15WVTXJJGHUVK	0060755342	937469788	Mortal Love: A Novel	Books	2	3	8	N	N	Uneven narrative, couldn't get into it...	I thought I was getting a treat with Mortal Love.  After all, this interwoven story that starts during Victorian England and ends in modern times seemed interesting and just my cup of tea at first.  However, I was deeply disappointed with such an over the top, uneven, and pretentious offering.  The story begins with the backdrop of pre-Raphaelite art and how the visit of a man to one of the models, Evienne Upstone, drives his grandson insane years later.  And then Daniel Rowlands, an American writer, travels to London to research the legend of Tristan and Iseult.  In that journey he meets Larkin Meade, a strange and mystifying fey whose dark, strange powers bring Daniel to the brink of insanity.  It is only when he does further research that he realizes his life is connected to Larkin in more ways than one.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />There is no easy way to write a plausible synopsis for this novel because the story is so disjointed at times that I was confused all the while I read this thing.  I'll start with the good points. I liked the historical references and the gothic feel of the novel.  The fantasy aspect is rather interesting as well.  The characters aren't very likeable though, flawed to the max.  But that is not what frustrated me about this novel.  After all, I have read my fair share of books in which the characters aren't meant to be sympathetic or relatable in any way.  What frustrated me was the writing.  As said earlier, I was confused the whole time and had to go back to previous pages to remember who was whom and what was what.  The style of writing is too prosaic as well -- descriptive to the point of being redundant.  As for the erotic aspect of the book, as an avid erotica reader, I must say that the sex scenes are well done, but said elements don't make this an enjoyable read.  I had to force myself to finish this, and any book that is a chore for me does not deserve more than two stars.  All in all, Mortal Love had an interesting premise, but the author failed to deliver it.had an interesting premise, but the author failed to deliver it.	2005-09-07
77421:US	50774468	R7TDS3QN3W2QQ	0385730292	352609479	Rebel Angels	Books	5	106	109	N	N	Excellent, engrossing sequel!	A Great and Terrible Beauty was one of the best literary revelations I've had this year.  I couldn't wait to pick up the sequel, Rebel Angels.  Again, Libba Bray has failed to disappoint me.  No sophomore slump here!  In this wonderful follow-up to Beauty, Gemma Doyle is getting ready for Christmas and a break from the Spence Academy.  This is her first Christmas in London after spending all of her life in India.  She looks forward to attending tea parties and balls and traveling around in the city with her friends, Ann and Felicity.  Despite her friends' protests, she has left the realms behind and is living a normal life.  That is until Kartik, sent by the Rakshana, resurfaces and tells her that the magic of the realms is loose for anyone to grab and this could cause chaos.  She had shattered the runes that kept the magic safe and things in order (this happened in Beauty).  And now Gemma, with the help of Felicity and Ann, must return to the realms and find the Temple that will put everything in order again.  But she will face many obstacles.  The Rakshana want the magic for themselves, a mysterious and suspicious new teacher appears at the Spence Academy, and Circe is still on the loose.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This is a wonderful continuation to A Great and Terrible Beauty.  It is just as dark, gothic and fanciful as the aforementioned novel.  In this offering, the author tightens up the loose ends left in the previous book but leaves new story possibilities for the next installment.  The reader gets many answers regarding the realms, that beautiful and wonderful place where all dreams are possible.  I was right about the person I had suspected was Circe since the first book.  I am pleased with that development.  We also get to see Gemma experience Victorian London society in all its glory.  She even has a proper suitor, a young, attractive Englishman named Simon Middleton.  The characterization is excellent.  There are more layers to the characters, especially Felicity and Ann, that add more depth to the story.  We see just how much Ann desires to be a proper, upper-crust young lady instead of the scholarship student, governess-to-be nobody that she is in the face of the nobles.  We also get to know Felicity in a deeper level.  She is sort of a loose canon with shades of gray -- neither good nor bad.  I picked up on various foreshadows regarding her desire to obtain her own magical powers.  And that is another thing.  You are not certain whether she and Ann would be Gemma's friends were it not for the realms.  The scenes with Pippa (from AGATB) are quite disturbing.  It was nice to see Pippa again, but she is quite changed.  There is some development regarding Gemma and Kartik as well.  They really are cute when they're together.  Despite her special abilities, Gemma is an ordinary sixteen-year-old girl going through the usual teenage angst.  She is a three-dimensional heroine through and through.  There are great historical references regarding Victorian London.  I also like the gothic feel of the novel.  And we get timeless, troubling issues like date rape, sexual abuse, and drug and alcohol addiction.  The aforementioned issues make the characters all the more real and relatable.  All in all, as said earlier, Rebel Angels is an awesome follow-up.  There is a lot of symbolism in the language, signs of more wonderful installments to come.  I cannot wait for the next book!  Hats down to Ms. Bray for creating such a unique world for people of all ages, not just for young adults.yers to the characters, especially Felicity and Ann, that add more depth to the story.  We see just how much Ann desires to be a proper, upper-crust young lady instead of the scholarship student, governess-to-be nobody that she is in the face of the nobles.  We also get to know Felicity in a deeper level.  She is sort of a loose canon with shades of gray -- neither good nor bad.  I picked up on various foreshadows regarding her desire to obtain her own magical powers.  And that is another thing.  You are not certain whether she and Ann would be Gemma's friends were it not for the realms.  The scenes with Pippa (from AGATB) are quite disturbing.  It was nice to see Pippa again, but she is quite changed.  There is some development regarding Gemma and Kartik as well.  They really are cute when they're together.  Despite her special abilities, Gemma is an ordinary sixteen-year-old girl going through the usual teenage angst.  She is a three-dimensional heroine through and through.  There are great historical references regarding Victorian London.  I also like the gothic feel of the novel.  And we get timeless, troubling issues like date rape, sexual abuse, and drug and alcohol addiction.  The aforementioned issues make the characters all the more real and relatable.  All in all, as said earlier, Rebel Angels is an awesome follow-up.  There is a lot of symbolism in the language, signs of more wonderful installments to come.  I cannot wait for the next book!  Hats down to Ms. Bray for creating such a unique world for people of all ages, not just for young adults.	2005-09-02
78343:US	50774468	R1PGCQFOZM52K8	0425205983	648549062	Jennifer Scales and the Ancient Furnace (Jennifer Scales, Book 1)	Books	4	23	25	N	N	A great series startup for preteens and young adults...	I love MaryJanice Davidson and devour all of her books. I looked forward to giving Jennifer Scales and the Ancient Furnace a whirl. I loved The Adventures of the Teen Furies and looked forward to reading another one of her Young Adult efforts. This time Davidson teams up with her husband, Anthony Alongi, and creates a spanking new YA fantasy series. Even though Jennifer Scales is a sweet, fun introduction to a series, I was not as riveted with this effort as I was with Teen Furies. Jennifer Scales's growing pains are tougher than the rest of the fourteen-year-olds out there. After all, she doesn't just have to deal with puberty, boys, friends and other teen conundrums, she also has to deal with the fact that she is a weredragon who shifts to her dragon form during the crescent moon. Her parents had kept the secret until she began to feel changes within her. She developed her dragon form and other abilities at a younger age than most weredragons. Also, she looks different from other dragons. Could the fact that her mother is human be the reason for this? As her father and grandfather teach her how to hunt for prey and fly using her dragon wings, she tries to adjust with her unconventional life, but things get tougher when she learns that there are enemies who want to destroy the dragons...<br /><br />I like how realistic Jennifer's reaction to being a weredragon is. She has a difficult time adjusting to her new lifestyle and is refreshing to see that she does not accept things from one chapter to the next. Her relationships with her high school friends suffer as a result and her school days could well be over. I liked the scenes centered on her interactions with her grandfather and other teen weredragons. This is an overall nicely done work that has a less abrupt ending than other Davidson efforts. I don't know if this has to do with her collaboration with her husband, but the pace of the story is far better this time around. However, I found myself struggling to finish this book. Perhaps the reason to this is due to the fact that this book is specifically written for very young readers. As an avid Davidson fan, I wanted to give the book a whirl despite knowing that it is written for very young adults. I'll be fair and review it within its genre and say that the novel is wonderful and a great reading investment for young readers. I'll give Jennifer Scales and the Ancient Furnace to my sixteen-year-old niece and hope she will continue to read the future offerings of this series.ish this book. Perhaps the reason to this is due to the fact that this book is specifically written for very young readers. As an avid Davidson fan, I wanted to give the book a whirl despite knowing that it is written for very young adults. I'll be fair and review it within its genre and say that the novel is wonderful and a great reading investment for young readers. I'll give Jennifer Scales and the Ancient Furnace to my sixteen-year-old niece and hope she will continue to read the future offerings of this series.	2005-09-02
88481:US	50774468	R9IBWG8TKKKA4	0380844001	773759669	A Rose in Winter	Books	3	53	57	N	N	Great escapism, Beauty and the Beast/The Phantom of the Opera-like romance...	Someone recommended this book and I admit that I was reluctant to read it.  After all, I am not a big follower of bodice rippers and I've read many mixed reviews of Kathleen E. Woodiwiss's work.  However, I decided to give A Rose in Winter a whirl because I figured the book would supply good escapism during my train rides to work.  Despite some loose ends and numerous bodice ripper cliches, A Rose in Winter was not only an entertaining train read, but also quite a touching and palpable love story.  The year is 1792 in Northern England.  Erienne Fleming is a raven-haired, blue-violet-eyed beauty facing a conundrum: her father wants to find her a wealthy husband who'd pay for his gambling debts.  Each and every one of her suitors is hideous and ill-intentioned, wanting to get her into bed the moment they see her, all except the dashing Yankee Christopher Seton.  Well, he does want to get into her panties, but he is by no means unattractive.  Unfortunately, he is also her father's biggest creditor and the reason why she is forced to wed someone to begin with.  He is also the reason why her brother lost feeling in one arm after challenging Christopher to a duel.  And that is the reason why Erienne \\"hates\\" him.  Avery, Erienne's father, bans Christopher from taking part of the auction block where Erienne is sold off to the highest bidder, an enigmatic and grossly disfigured man by the name of Lord Saxton becomes her husband.  But while the masked monster lavishes and woos Erienne with expensive gifts and incredible kindness, it is the handsome, sardonic and roguish Christopher that steals her heart, and soon she will have to choose between the two rather mysterious men.<br /><br />I like the whole fairy tale feel of this novel.  Beauty and the Beast (the original version, not the Disney one) and The Phantom of the Opera are two of my all-time favorite stories and I like that this book follows a somewhat similar theme.  Christopher Seton is my idea of the perfect man and I admire his bold, yet misguided determination to win Erienne over.  I enjoyed his sardonic ways and the fact that he seemed amused with Erienne's constant rejections.  Christopher and the beauty and beast storyline were the attractive parts of this novel.  However, there are many things I wasn't happy about.  Erienne is a very one-dimensional heroine.  She is shallow to the max and I couldn't believe that she was still wary of Lord Saxton after spending so much time with him and witnessing his kindness and love for her.  She turned down most of her suitors on looks alone.  Also, I found it unbelievable that every man wanted to cop a feel or rape her the moment they saw her.  Woodiwiss made the heroine sound luminous and based on the descriptions I imagined a young Elizabeth Taylor, but the men reacted as though they had never seen a beautiful woman before in their lives and those scenes were too exaggerated and unrealistic.  And the damsel in distress stuff was overdone here as well.  The woman had to constantly be rescued by either Saxton, Christopher or any other man that was conveniently there to help her.  Most of her distress centered on men harassing her. The whole damsel in distress thing is so outdated to me.  In fact, the whole language of the novel was extremely outdated, but that was kind of expected since the novel was first published during the 1980s.  The novel in general was too long, too descriptive (with too much purple prose) and too predictable.  I knew what would happen the second Erienne was bought off at the auction.  But that part of the story is quite compelling.  All in all, the novel served its purpose by providing an entertaining, romantic, albeit cheesy love story with a very appealing hero.  I look forward to reading a Kathleen E. Woodiwiss novel whenever I'm in the mood for some brain candy escapism.I admire his bold, yet misguided determination to win Erienne over.  I enjoyed his sardonic ways and the fact that he seemed amused with Erienne's constant rejections.  Christopher and the beauty and beast storyline were the attractive parts of this novel.  However, there are many things I wasn't happy about.  Erienne is a very one-dimensional heroine.  She is shallow to the max and I couldn't believe that she was still wary of Lord Saxton after spending so much time with him and witnessing his kindness and love for her.  She turned down most of her suitors on looks alone.  Also, I found it unbelievable that every man wanted to cop a feel or rape her the moment they saw her.  Woodiwiss made the heroine sound luminous and based on the descriptions I imagined a young Elizabeth Taylor, but the men reacted as though they had never seen a beautiful woman before in their lives and those scenes were too exaggerated and unrealistic.  And the damsel in distress stuff was overdone here as well.  The woman had to constantly be rescued by either Saxton, Christopher or any other man that was conveniently there to help her.  Most of her distress centered on men harassing her. The whole damsel in distress thing is so outdated to me.  In fact, the whole language of the novel was extremely outdated, but that was kind of expected since the novel was first published during the 1980s.  The novel in general was too long, too descriptive (with too much purple prose) and too predictable.  I knew what would happen the second Erienne was bought off at the auction.  But that part of the story is quite compelling.  All in all, the novel served its purpose by providing an entertaining, romantic, albeit cheesy love story with a very appealing hero.  I look forward to reading a Kathleen E. Woodiwiss novel whenever I'm in the mood for some brain candy escapism.	2005-08-27
88529:US	50774468	R3GC4C8IW85MQ	074344373X	195093092	The Exiled: Anne Trilogy Book Two	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Awesome second effort...	I couldn't wait to read the sequel to The Innocent.  The Exile is even better than the first effort because it illustrates the struggles of a woman trying to make it in a man's world.  This Medieval story picks up where The Innocent left off.  Anne de Bohun flees to Belgium and tries to make ends meet and is able to find some success as a merchant.  However, the local merchants don't want to compete with the likes of her.  Meaning that she is a woman and the businessmen don't want her establishment to flourish.  So they will use whatever machinations they have at their disposal, and they find the perfect way to blackmail her: her child.  Her son is the loving result of an intense affair with King Edward IV.  King Edward isn't aware of his offspring's existence and Anne would like to keep it that way.  To make matters worse, someone wants her dead.  There are more twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />For those who had complained about The Innocent reading like a romance novel, this one has very little romance in it.  The story concentrates more on Anne's conflicts and struggles to get ahead.  The most fascinating part of this novel is the backdrop of the merchant world in 15th Century Belgium.  This part of the novel seems very well researched and I enjoyed the backdrop of a country that has been quite obscure to me.  Anne's inner conflicts are quite remarkable as well.  She is a great character -- a fighter to the end.  Her love for King Edward is as strong as ever and she doesn't know if she'll ever see him again.  I'd like more development in that area and I hope to see more of them in future novels.  The language of the novel is rich and lyrical.  Posie Graeme-Evans is an awesome author.  I enjoyed The Exile very much and I look forward to another offering of what I hope will be an outstanding series.	2005-08-27
94339:US	50774468	R1GD095VMBH7F3	0743249291	730674424	Wideacre: A Novel (The Wideacre Trilogy)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Brilliant, dark and disarming, with the proverbial anti-heroine!	This is one of the most disarming historical novels I have read in a long time!  Wideacre is a novel set during Georgian times (late 18th Century to the turn of 19th Century) with some gothic undertones.  Beatrice Lacey loves the Wideacre estate so much that she'd do just about anything to obtain it.  And that includes plotting the death of her father, a man who adores his daughter so much that he had taught her how to ride horses when she was a little girl in spite of her mother's objections.  In order to carry out her plans, Beatrice seeks the help of her brother.  She knows about his dark desires for her and takes advantage of the situation.  What transpires is an incestuous relationship that carries on long after they are married respectively.  They have children together, a secret that is kept from their spouses.  Beatrice and Harry's sins destroy everything around them, which could well include their beloved lands.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The topic of incest is definitely a disturbing one and I had a difficult time sticking to the story because I was truly spooked by such a taboo subject matter.  Beatrice is the proverbial anti-heroine in more ways than one!  But it was Harry that truly made my skin crawl.  His desire for his sister sickened me.  Their actions were truly disarming throughout the novel.  Going back to Beatrice, she is quite a piece of work.  She reminds me of Scarlett O'Hara -- a far more twisted version of Ms. O'Hara.  You feel no sympathy for this character and she soon becomes someone you love to hate.  The main characters are truly unlikable and the story is one of the most bewildering ones I have read.  So why am I giving it five stars?  Because it's brilliant!  Philippa Gregory has created a protagonist that is meant to disturb the reader to the max.  The gothic feel of the language makes things all the more morbid.  If you like historical novels with a dark, gothic storyline, then Wideacre is for you.  This is the first part of a trilogy and I cannot wait to give the other two novels a whirl.This is the first part of a trilogy and I cannot wait to give the other two novels a whirl.	2005-08-24
94760:US	50774468	R2XDSDBT49DML7	0758207948	526429835	The River Devil	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not as enjoyable as The Irish Devil...	Hal Lindsay is more relaxed now that he has reestablished his relationship with his sister Viola and knows that she is happily married to William Donovan (protagonists of The Irish Devil).  But then the Union Army hero and river boat captain meets Rosalind Schuyler and his life is turned upside down.  Rosalind is running away from Nick Lennox, Paul Lennox's younger brother, who wants to force her to marry him so he could take her money.  She assumes the identity of a male professional gambler and travels from state to state with the attempt of avoiding Nick until her twenty-fifth birthday, when she is old enough to keep her inheritance.  Hal Lindsay recognizes the gray-eyed beauty through her male disguise and embarks on a hot love affair with her and promises to protect her.  However, he doesn't know just how perverse Nick's plans are and hadn't anticipated falling for Rosalind.  He swore to never fall in love or become attached to anyone, but fate has other plans...<br /><br />I'd like to point out the good points first. The sex scenes in this novel are as not hot as the ones in The Irish Devil, but still good.  The first encounter, despite some problems I had with its execution (more on that later), is the best sexual encounter in the book. It was also nice to have Viola and William back in this offering.  This story had a good premise because it is a continuation of the previous novel and not just a spin-off character love story.  Nick Lennox is even more ruthless than Paul Lennox -- a villain through and through.  Hal and Viola's mother, Desdemona Lindsay, is a self-absorbed, traitorous woman and I hated her very much.  Despite the aforementioned good points, this novel isn't as good or as riveting as the first effort.  Hal and Rosalind aren't as compelling as Viola and William and their sex scenes, though hot, aren't as erotic as the former protagonists' encounters either.  But the problem I had with this novel the most is how contemporary the tone, voice and characters' actions sound.  During the 1870s, Americans had customs that were not unlike those of England, which followed the strict regimen of Queen Victoria at the time.  I couldn't believe how easily Rosalind surrendered to Hal.  The scene was not unlike something from a contemporary erotic novel.  It would have been more believable to me if Rosalind had been either a libertine or a financially challenged woman who isn't concerned with etiquette and not the rich, well brought up, inexperienced woman the author painted.  Yes, Rosalind had been involved with her fianc&eacute; prior to meeting Hal, she is no virgin, but their exploits were nevertheless unrealistic.  The overall language of the novel sounds too modern for me.  Other than that, The River Devil is still an enjoyable read.  I hope the next Devil installment, if there will be one, will be truer to the time frame than this one.characters' actions sound.  During the 1870s, Americans had customs that were not unlike those of England, which followed the strict regimen of Queen Victoria at the time.  I couldn't believe how easily Rosalind surrendered to Hal.  The scene was not unlike something from a contemporary erotic novel.  It would have been more believable to me if Rosalind had been either a libertine or a financially challenged woman who isn't concerned with etiquette and not the rich, well brought up, inexperienced woman the author painted.  Yes, Rosalind had been involved with her fianc&eacute; prior to meeting Hal, she is no virgin, but their exploits were nevertheless unrealistic.  The overall language of the novel sounds too modern for me.  Other than that, The River Devil is still an enjoyable read.  I hope the next Devil installment, if there will be one, will be truer to the time frame than this one.	2005-08-24
106176:US	50774468	R3HY3DLIGQ94PS	0385335997	685230282	Voyager: A Novel (Outlander)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The best one thus far -- Jamie and Claire are captivating!	Diana Gabaldon has regaled her readers with the passionate story of Claire Randall and Jamie Fraser in this (thus far) memorable series.  In Outlander, former WWII combat nurse and married woman Claire Randall is transported to Eighteenth Century Scotland where she meets highlander warrior Jamie Fraser and embarks upon a beautiful love affair that transcends time and boundaries.  In Dragonfly in Amber, twenty years had passed from her unique time-travel experience and she is now with Jamie's daughter, Brianna.  After her twentieth century husband dies, she goes back in time and tries to save Jamie from being killed in the battle of Culloden, which she fails to do -- or so she thinks.  In this third offering, Claire returns to the eighteenth century to recapture her romance with Jamie after discovering that he had survived the battle of Culloden.  While this happens, the reader gets a glimpse into what their lives had been like during the twenty years they were apart.  There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Voyager, like the previous two novels, is richly historical and beautifully narrated with precise details and romantic prose.  There are a number of new colorful characters in this one that I enjoyed very much.  I also got to read more insightful tales of Scottish and other European history.  The historical references fascinated me, especially the ones centered on the Scottish Highlands.  I also found the storylines centered on voodoo to be quite compelling and intriguing.  And of course I enjoyed reading about what are now one of my all-time favorite fictional couples in literature.  This love story that transcends time is truly captivating.  These two characters speak to me in a whole unique way.  I like the scenes that some readers deem disturbing and dark, like the ones centered on corporal punishment.  This is one of the areas in which the author is keeping true to the times, for corporal punishment was quite common in those times.  Also, there are complaints that the book is sometimes boring because of its large length.  This novel did not feel long to me at all.  After reading almost nine-hundred pages (trade paperback) I felt as though the book hadn't been long enough.  I hated to see it end.  Voyager is my favorite novel of this series thus far.  I cannot wait to give Drums of Autumn a whirl.  Outlander fans must simply read this third offering.  And for others who are new to the series, I recommend that you read these books in order.  Outlander and Dragonfly in Amber precede this one.  Enjoy!e are complaints that the book is sometimes boring because of its large length.  This novel did not feel long to me at all.  After reading almost nine-hundred pages (trade paperback) I felt as though the book hadn't been long enough.  I hated to see it end.  Voyager is my favorite novel of this series thus far.  I cannot wait to give Drums of Autumn a whirl.  Outlander fans must simply read this third offering.  And for others who are new to the series, I recommend that you read these books in order.  Outlander and Dragonfly in Amber precede this one.  Enjoy!	2005-08-17
106917:US	50774468	R3GZZYJV7OVZAD	0758204450	865822647	The Bookseller's Daughter	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Wonderful and erotic...	I've had this book on my to-read pile for almost a year and finally decided to give it a whirl.  The Bookseller's Daughter sucked me in and didn't let go until its final page.  This is the story of Marie-Laure Vernet, a young, passionate, bookish daughter of a bookshop owner who has a strong, profound connection with a book smuggler who turns out to be an aristocrat.  She tends to his wounded leg when he enters her shop and meets him again after her father dies, loses the bookshop and is forced to work as a maid for an aristocratic family.  The attraction is undeniable and Viscomte Joseph d'Auvers-Raimond decides to take her into his room every night and pass her off as his mistress so as to protect her from his father and brother, who cannot resist a pretty maid.  At first, their nights together are nothing more than intellectual discussions about literature, politics and Joseph regaling Marie-Laure with tales of his adventures as a roguish libertine.  But then their nights become passionate ones of sensual, erotic sex and development of loving feelings for one another.  However, things soon get in the way -- marriage, aristocratic titles, murder and revenge being just a few of their many obstacles.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I agree with the reviewers that say that Marie-Laure and Joseph spend most of the novel apart.  I did not mind that bit because it gave the story and its main characters seem like star-crossed lovers, which is refreshing in a romance novel.  After all, we all more or less know that the protagonists will end up together, why not add a different flavor?  I loved their love letters -- Joseph's erotic ones as well as Marie-Laure's intimate and loving ones.  The letters were indeed romantic.  As for the sex scenes, I thought they were very well written and scrumptiously erotic.  The reviewer who said that the sex scenes were vulgar, trashy and full of F words must have read a different book.  Then again, perhaps I am so used to reading books in which the authors don't bother to sugarcoat their sex scenes with G-rated euphemisms and instead choose a more uninhibited, bolder approach to erotic romance that the scenes in this book seem incredibly mild in comparison.  The scenes are sensual, erotic and smoldering at times.  The protagonists are great and Rosenthal did a wonderful job differentiating the commoners from the aristocrats and their friction during those times.  The backdrop of France before the French Revolution was also great.  However, there are some blatant anachronisms in this novel that were difficult to overlook.  And the dialogue in the story sounded too modern at times, a common problem with historical romances. All in all, The Bookseller's Daughter is a curl-up-under-the-covers book that you'll want to give a whirl.  I recommend it most highly...so used to reading books in which the authors don't bother to sugarcoat their sex scenes with G-rated euphemisms and instead choose a more uninhibited, bolder approach to erotic romance that the scenes in this book seem incredibly mild in comparison.  The scenes are sensual, erotic and smoldering at times.  The protagonists are great and Rosenthal did a wonderful job differentiating the commoners from the aristocrats and their friction during those times.  The backdrop of France before the French Revolution was also great.  However, there are some blatant anachronisms in this novel that were difficult to overlook.  And the dialogue in the story sounded too modern at times, a common problem with historical romances. All in all, The Bookseller's Daughter is a curl-up-under-the-covers book that you'll want to give a whirl.  I recommend it most highly...	2005-08-17
114306:US	50774468	R3N32738KU2C2G	0316011770	454028739	The Historian	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Good vampire historical, but lags in the middle of the story...	I gave The Historian a whirl because the synopsis intrigued me.  However, despite its promising beginning, this book disappointed me in many ways.  The Historian begins in Amsterdam in the year 1972, where an American teen discovers some letters and a mysterious book in her father's study.  When she questions him about her discoveries, he tells her a rather dark, disturbing story.  His mentor disappeared in a strange, unsettling way after he had confessed to him about his suspicions that Dracula was still alive.  It is then when Paul (the young narrator's father) begins to tell a story in which, through the passing of time, which begins in the 1930s, the teen is connected to it in more ways than one.  There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The first two-hundred or so pages fascinated me.  I enjoyed the building of tension and the descriptive manner in which things begin to unfold.  I like the retelling version of Dracula, a continuation of Bram Stoker's work, in some ways.  The historical references, especially those of Medieval 15th Century, are very well written and precise.  There are many unsettling scenes that make this thriller compelling and readable.  However, the story begins to lag about halfway through the book.  There were times in which I had to force myself not to skip through the pages and read all the way to the end because I don't like to cheat on my reading.  I have no problem with books with a length such as this one, but I felt as though the book should have been at least one-hundred pages shorter.  The Historian reminded me of Anne Rice's books not only because they are centered on vampires with a historical setting, but also because Kostova, like Rice, tends to be unnecessarily descriptive at times.  All in all, this is an intriguing, at times literary read with a great ending.  And so, I recommend The Historian, but only if you're very patient with story development.	2005-08-13
114386:US	50774468	RN6D1C4SS82BS	0152053107	324887263	A Northern Light	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Beautiful, poignant, thought-provoking Young Adult historical...	Having read and loved The Tea Rose, I wanted to give A Northern Light a whirl.  Jennifer Donnelly has proven that she is a must-read author with both of the aforementioned books.  A Northern Light is a rich historical novel about a sixteen-year-old girl's dreams and struggles set against the backdrop of the murder of Grace Brown in the year 1906.  Mattie Gockey lives in a farm with her father and younger siblings.  She faces many struggles and sometimes has no idea whether her family will have enough to eat the next day.  She loves to read and is an aspiring writer who practices sentences using a \\"word of the day\\" dictionary.  Mattie has high hopes of graduating from high school and going to college in New York City.  However, there are many obstacles, including her father and her boyfriend Royal, that may well keep her from realizing her dreams.  She needs the money to move to New York and begins to work at the Glenmore Hotel to help save up the money.  And there is where she encounters the deceased Grace Brown and the letters the woman had made Mattie promise she'd burn before she drowned in the lake.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />A Northern Light, like The Tea Rose, shows a less savory aspect of the \\"beautiful era\\" of the Edwardian period by showing the struggles of the poor and their desire to move forward in life.  There are no society parties and main female characters with pretty colorful dresses and parasols looking for a rich husband here! Mattie is like Fiona in many ways, but she has her own wonderful voice as well.  I enjoyed reading her views about books and literature and her desire to write stories that tell the truth about life.  The characters are the most impressive part of this novel.  There is so much character study here.  I loved Weaver.  His pain, frustration and anger are palpable and understandable.  And he is a wonderful friend to Mattie.  I loved their \\"word duels\\" in which they try to outdo each other with their use of big words.  Miss Wilcox, Mattie's teacher, is also a fascinating character.  The other characters are great, all real and flawed in many ways.  This novel is darker than The Tea Rose in that this time the author does not resort to convenient plot devices to move the heroine ahead.  It is a more honest approach to a rags to riches story.  This novel is more of a rags to the promise of having riches one day story.  There are many dark, melancholy scenes in this novel, but there are also a lot of funny ones as well.  I loved the scene where Mattie and her female co-workers decide to play a prank on a perverted guest.  It was hilarious and priceless! The fictional account of the murder of Grace Brown fascinated me as well.  I'd heard about the famous turn of the 20th Century murder scandal and the author's note tells me a bit about what the tragic case was about.  All in all, A Northern Light is a wonderful and poignant story that you will want to read.  Jennifer Donnelly has impressed me once again with this fantastic offering.  I highly recommend this gem.ir use of big words.  Miss Wilcox, Mattie's teacher, is also a fascinating character.  The other characters are great, all real and flawed in many ways.  This novel is darker than The Tea Rose in that this time the author does not resort to convenient plot devices to move the heroine ahead.  It is a more honest approach to a rags to riches story.  This novel is more of a rags to the promise of having riches one day story.  There are many dark, melancholy scenes in this novel, but there are also a lot of funny ones as well.  I loved the scene where Mattie and her female co-workers decide to play a prank on a perverted guest.  It was hilarious and priceless! The fictional account of the murder of Grace Brown fascinated me as well.  I'd heard about the famous turn of the 20th Century murder scandal and the author's note tells me a bit about what the tragic case was about.  All in all, A Northern Light is a wonderful and poignant story that you will want to read.  Jennifer Donnelly has impressed me once again with this fantastic offering.  I highly recommend this gem.	2005-08-13
122645:US	50774468	RFXDOU5K9RSEO	1419950479	96311008	Guardians of Time - Alana's Magic Lamp	Books	4	10	10	N	N	This is one fantasy I'd like fulfilled!	I picked up this book because I loved Sahara Kelly's historical romanticas and looked forward to reading another one of her books.  I hadn't read any of her fantasy novels and was curious about Alana's Magic Lamp after reading the synopsis.  Alana West is an antique shop owner who has given up on the possibility of having great sex with someone.  But then her life changes when she buys a rather interesting-looking ancient vessel that her mind-in-the-gutter friend points out.  When she brings the vessel home, something strange and arresting happens.  Two gorgeous Djinns, one blonde and one dark-haired, come out of the artifact to teach her how to take and give pleasure and shatter all of her sexual inhibitions...<br /><br />This novel isn't just a sexy, naughty romantica; it is also a sex guidebook that would rival the Kama Sutra.  The scenes are incredibly sensual and erotic as Kelly takes us on a sexual journey that is unforgettable.  Sami and Hari are wonderful and the scenes of heightening sensitivity and the ones centered on tantric sex are my favorites.  The threesome is incredible.  I was actually rooting for Alana to keep those two scrumptious men, but the ending has turned out to be quite touching and wonderful.  This is a short novel, as most Ellora's Cave books are, but it is a delightful read through and through.  Alana's Magic Lamp is the first part of a series called Guardians of Time and I look forward to reading the other books.  In the meantime, I recommend this book.  I also recommend that you read Kelly's wonderful historical romanticas.	2005-08-09
123258:US	50774468	R330L2CM01LV9	0743271041	377089022	Submission: A Novel	Books	5	11	14	N	N	This dark novel of sadomasochism blew me away!	I disagree with the Publisher's Weekly review of this novel.  To me, it is not fair to compare every BDSM novel to The Story of O.  I have read The Story of O and while it is one of my favorite novels, not every author who writes a book with the same theme is trying to follow the aforementioned classic's footsteps.  Submission is based on the author's real-life experience.  This dark, sensual and shocking Parisian novel is about Elodie, a successful lawyer, wife and mother who meets a fellow attorney during a trial.  He intrigues her from the moment she meets him, and becomes obsessed with him after their initial BDSM encounter in which he tells her what to do, inflicts pain that becomes pleasure, and does not penetrate her under the guise that he wants to teach her how to be submissive first.  Elodie is no longer able to function normally after that encounter -- she thinks about him all the while he ignores her for weeks and then inflicts humiliating scenarios upon her when he does deign to meet with her.  Elodie knows that what she is doing is wrong.  She neglects her baby son and lies to her husband without hesitation.  Her life revolves around Him (the author addresses the dominating male as \\"Him\\" or \\"He,\\" with a capital H) and she cannot help herself.  Is she too far gone to turn back?  And when she does decide to end things, will it be too late?<br /><br />This is one of the most disturbing erotic novels I have read in a long time.  Not even Julie Hilden's novel Three freaked me out so much.  This novel has exquisite, precise character study that analyzes the condition of the human mind in disarming ways.  Elodie is addicted to her lover.  As he often tells her throughout the book, \\"Nobody will treat you as I've treated you.\\"  And during the course of the novel, the anti-heroine believes that a favor has been bestowed upon her whenever he shows brief gestures that she mistakes for affection.  The man is a sadist and he knows exactly what to do to belittle or degrade her every chance he gets.  As I've said, this is one shocking novel!  The Story of O tells a graphic, dark story of a couple who practices an extreme BDSM lifestyle.  But while Rene was imposing and extreme dominant male, the male character of this book is a sadist through and through.  At the end of the day, the only things O and Submissive have in common is that they're both written by French authors, both books are set in Paris, and that they deal with the sexual and psychological aspects of BDSM.  I have read many dark BDSM novels such as this one -- Topping from Below, Breaking the Girl and Blue: The Color of Desire spring to mind -- and this book is one of the best ones I've read. It illustrates the dark side of BDSM -- the side in which love, respect and trust for one's partner does not come into play because your Master's sadistic machinations are intended to please no one other than himself.  Another thing I find interesting in this offering is the narrative.  Submissive isn't a story per se -- it is mostly centered on the narrative, illustrating Elodie's inner conflicts and feelings in every scene in some rather compelling internal monologues.  If you're in the bargain for a dark erotic novel with zero romance, unique narrative style and flawless character study, I strongly suggest that you give this novel a whirl.  This is a fabulous, stimulating read in more ways than one.egrade her every chance he gets.  As I've said, this is one shocking novel!  The Story of O tells a graphic, dark story of a couple who practices an extreme BDSM lifestyle.  But while Rene was imposing and extreme dominant male, the male character of this book is a sadist through and through.  At the end of the day, the only things O and Submissive have in common is that they're both written by French authors, both books are set in Paris, and that they deal with the sexual and psychological aspects of BDSM.  I have read many dark BDSM novels such as this one -- Topping from Below, Breaking the Girl and Blue: The Color of Desire spring to mind -- and this book is one of the best ones I've read. It illustrates the dark side of BDSM -- the side in which love, respect and trust for one's partner does not come into play because your Master's sadistic machinations are intended to please no one other than himself.  Another thing I find interesting in this offering is the narrative.  Submissive isn't a story per se -- it is mostly centered on the narrative, illustrating Elodie's inner conflicts and feelings in every scene in some rather compelling internal monologues.  If you're in the bargain for a dark erotic novel with zero romance, unique narrative style and flawless character study, I strongly suggest that you give this novel a whirl.  This is a fabulous, stimulating read in more ways than one.	2005-08-09
127647:US	50774468	R2EJ3THTUDWWA4	0609806505	148189446	Guenevere, Queen of the Summer Country (Guenevere Novels)	Books	1	7	8	N	N	Very disappointing, not a good Arthurian retelling at all!	I haven't read King Arthur and His Knights of the Round Table since I was in high school, but I have become fascinated with the retelling of the Arthurian tale written by various authors.  I picked up Guenevere, Queen of the Summer Country because someone had recommended the book as one of the best retelling tales centered on the legend of King Arthur.  Bah!  This uninspired, uninteresting novel has left a bitter taste in my mouth.  In this retelling, Queen Guenevere lives in the Summer Country, where women rule and take on various lovers other than her husband.  Marrying King Arthur, a Christian instead of a Pagan, means trouble and destruction in Camelot, especially after she meets Sir Lancelot.  Guenevere and Arthur try to create a more peaceful environment for all faiths in Camelot, but there are people who will not allow it, like Merlin and Arthur's sisters, namely Morgan Le Fay.<br /><br />The aforementioned synopsis is similar to the original tale, which means that not much has been added in this version.  The only difference between this book and the original Arthurian tale is the manner the story is told is quite insipid to me.  Rosalind Miles tries to write the tale from a feminist's point of view, making Guenevere a woman with power in her own right and someone who tries to avoid the overtake of Christianity in Camelot.  But neither her story nor Arthur's is interesting to me.  Not even Merlin and Morgan are fascinating enough to keep me riveted.  I forced myself to read this book in an effort to justify spending fifteen dollars on it.  I won't be giving the other two parts of this trilogy a whirl.  Thank God I hadn't bought them!  I guess I'll have to look for a good King Arthur retelling elsewhere.  I've heard Queen of Camelot by Nancy Mckenzie is good.  I hope I'll have better luck with that one.	2005-08-06
127695:US	50774468	RF3AL0D06GFSS	0452284449	667500496	The Virgin Blue: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wonderful debut, not her best work though...	I have read and loved The Lady and the Unicorn and Girl with a Pearl Earring and couldn't wait to read another Tracy Chevalier novel.  I picked up The Virgin Blue because this was Chevalier's first novel and wanted to give her earlier work a whirl.  This is another exquisite, albeit at times disjointed historical novel that I indulged in to the full.  When Ella Turner begins to have dreams involving a blue dress, she begins to research and investigate the life of Isabelle de Moulin, a sixteenth century French midwife and her struggles with her husband, Etienne Tournier, when he suspects her of practicing witchcraft, and all because she resembles La Rouse  redhead women in a blue dress in the painting.  Bored and practically abandoned by her busy architect husband, Ella wants to know everything about Isabelle, for she feels that there is a strong connection between the two of them.  There are plenty of twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I loved the beauty of the medieval setting when Chevalier told Isabelle's story.  That is the part that impressed me the most about this novel.  I also enjoyed the subtlety of the fantasy elements in the story.  However, this book is not as good or as riveting as Girl with the Pearl Earring or The Lady and the Unicorn.  The narratives and storylines change throughout the novel.  Sometimes the story seems too cluttered, like the author had tried to incorporate too many things in a single word count limit.  The results are a bloated and disjointed book.  But this does not mean that you shouldn't give The Virgin Blue a whirl.  This is nevertheless a beautiful novel that illustrates a luminous time setting.  Keep in mind that this is Tracy Chevalier's first novel when you decide to give this one a read.	2005-08-06
131891:US	50774468	RPEEJMHPAGFUB	006105657X	894362714	Twice Bitten (Love in Vein II: Eighteen More Tales of Vampire Erotica)	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Twice the fool...	Once a fool, shame on you.  Twice a fool, shame on me.  Twice Bitten, like the first part of Love in Vein, is a major disappointment with a collection of insipid, uninteresting stories.  The stories weren't dark, sensual, erotic, thought-provoking in the slightest -- well, not all of them.  There are some good stories here that have the aforementioned ingredients that critics made such a big hype about.  The ones I liked were \\"Dusting the Flowers,\\" by David J. Schow; \\"Ceilings and Sky,\\" by Lucy Taylor; and \\"When Memory Falls,\\" by Roberta Lannes.  I gave Twice Bitten a try because almost everyone told me that this one's so much better than the first Love in Vein offering.  Nope.  The subtitle \\"Tales of Vampiric Erotica\\" is a complete misnomer.  Yes, there are vampires in the stories, but the erotica aspect of this book is debatable.  I don't need in-your-face sex scenes to make a story erotic.  I like subtle, sensual erotica, or sublime stories with erotic undertones, but said aspects in this story are few and far in between.  The only thing I did like about this collection is that the stories are definitely creepy and scary.  Other than that, this collection series is completely forgettable.	2005-08-03
133477:US	50774468	R5QKYDFYFHOS9	1893896242	80947662	Forever Crossed	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Very entertaining fantasy, similar to the Anita Blake series...	Olivia Peters isn't a witch or a necromancer.  She is something far more unique than that.  She is a bereavement specialist -- someone who is able to communicate with spirits and help them find closure and rest in peace just after they die and before they pass on to another dimension.  Olivia has kept those spirits from turning into zombies or vampires.  Her job at Forever Cross, the most popular funeral home in the Carolinas, has kept her busy.  But then she has to investigate a crime committed by a rogue vampire and help Antonio Vesci, the city's Undead Ruler, find and execute said vampire and his minions.  To make matters worse, she has developed feelings for Lurka, the wereleopards' Ra'Jahn, who is under the impression that she is the wereleopards' Shaman due to the fact that she had been bitten by a wereleopard when she was a child.  She has never gone furry, but that doesn't mean that she isn't a part of the wereleopard community.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This is a cool and fast-paced novel with plenty of fantasy and supernatural elements to make you want to read it until its final page.  Forever Crossed and its heroine are very similar to the Anita Blake series.  I'm almost certain that A. Leigh Jones got her inspiration from the aforementioned series.  Olivia Peters is a tough cookie who carries a gun, is indispensable at her job, is addicted to coffee and is attracted to the alpha wereleopard.  But Olivia, unlike Anita, is more likeable and far less discriminating and self-absorbed.  This novel (is this the begin of a series?) is a great alternative for those who are disappointed with the unfortunate direction the Anita Blake series has taken.  You will enjoy this book very much.  Is Forever Crossed an original story?  No.  Is it fun and entertaining?  You betcha.  Give it a whirl if you're as big a fan of paranormal stories as I am.	2005-08-03
137961:US	50774468	R27TMGZE164P3G	1589611012	748131952	Zoot	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Great, well written science fiction erotica!	Zoot has collected women from all planets of the universe and now has quite a sizable harem. However, he wants and needs someone different this time. And he goes to Earth to find a very special, extremely insubordinate woman by the name of Connie. Connie is a beautiful redhead who turns down men and their pickup lines by shouting at them in public. But her life changes when she encounters a naked man running in front of her. She is abducted and taken to Zoot's planet for a unique purpose. Zoot is a dominant male, an alpha in every sense, something that does not sit well with Connie. What follows is a delectably erotic novel with a lot of BDSM elements.<br /><br />I agree with the reviewer who says that this novel is similar to the classic Gor series. This novel also reminds me of Jaid Black's Trek Mi Q'an series. All of these books have the whole science fiction erotica theme of an earth woman being taken to an obscure planet by a man. I also agree with the reviewer that this novel, unlike the Gor and Trek Mi Q'an books respectively, doesn't come across as offensive or as over the top. I like the fact that Connie isn't a ninny who is willing to submit to Zoot without question. The story is told from her point of view for a vast portion of the novel. I have often said that I don't read erotic novels written by men much because said books remind me of Penthouse letters and the stories treat women as objects. During the last few years, it has surprised me to read that many so-called erotic books written by women for women illustrate women as sexual objects and not much else. I read erotica as escapism and therefore am able to suspend disbelief, which is why I am able to read said books with an open mind. However, Chaz Thompson has surprised me with a book that is far less objectionable than Jaid Black's (a female author) futuristic books. His writing is different and intelligent to boot. Don't get me wrong, this book has a lot of storylines centered on male fantasies, the harem being the most obvious one, but I enjoyed reading it immensely. The sex scenes are great! This is pure erotica and one that I look forward to rereading in the future.the harem being the most obvious one, but I enjoyed reading it immensely. The sex scenes are great! This is pure erotica and one that I look forward to rereading in the future.	2005-08-01
138464:US	50774468	R3R4O9P0FJ3AIA	1586086677	244317466	Beguiled	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Unique historical erotica...	This historical romantic erotica set in Medieval Scotland is different in tone and content than most erotic romances out there. The tone and narrative in this New Concepts Publishing novel is darker, more explicit and graphic than the stuff you'd read in romanticas published by Berkley, Brava, even Ellora's Cave. And that is quite a refreshing change of pace. Beguiled is one scorching novel not for the faint of heart. Lady Alexandra disguises herself as a young man and escapes her castle in Scotland, fleeing from an arranged marriage. She rescues a damsel in distress while en route to her cousins' home. And that is what changes her life. The damsel in question is Lady Constance Blackmore and her four enormous brothers decide to keep Lord Alex imprisoned in their castle, afraid that the boy may be a spy for the McPhersons, which happen to be her cousins. All of the Blackmores are wary of Alex, especially Lord Bronson, who thinks that Alex may be after his sister. When he discovers that Alex is a woman, he is overwhelmed with desire and begins a unique and delectable game of seduction that will scorch the reader. There are some twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />New Concepts Publishing is an erotic e-publisher, which is why I am not surprised that the book is only 212 pages long. However, I enjoyed this novella (too short to be a novel). The sexual tension between Bronson and Alex is amazing. I couldn't wait for those two to hit the sack. Their initial sexual encounter is quite shocking. As said earlier, the content of this novel is not for the faint of heart. Alex maintained her guise as a male almost throughout the entire book and Bronson seduced her as he would a male despite knowing that Alex is a she. I found the seduction quite different from typical romanticas out there. Bronson is scrumptious -- an alpha male through and through. The author keeps you guessing on whether his feelings for her are loving or sexual ones all the way to the end. And the ending has a pleasant surprise. My only complaints are that the secondary characters are underdeveloped and that the pace of the story changes in an abrupt way. At first, the novel has a leisure pace and the seduction and sexual tension are prolonged in a smolderingly enticing way. Then the story in the last forty or so pages of the book seems rushed. I wish the novel had been longer. All in all, I enjoyed Beguiled very much and this won't be the only NCP book I will read. I recommend it if you're in the bargain for a quick, erotic read.has a pleasant surprise. My only complaints are that the secondary characters are underdeveloped and that the pace of the story changes in an abrupt way. At first, the novel has a leisure pace and the seduction and sexual tension are prolonged in a smolderingly enticing way. Then the story in the last forty or so pages of the book seems rushed. I wish the novel had been longer. All in all, I enjoyed Beguiled very much and this won't be the only NCP book I will read. I recommend it if you're in the bargain for a quick, erotic read.	2005-08-01
142196:US	50774468	R3IKFM8V9OA21X	0385338686	188590881	The Undomestic Goddess	Books	4	3	5	N	N	From a shopaholic to a workaholic...	I had fun reading this wonderful romantic comedy.  Having read the Shopaholic books and Can You Keep a Secret?, I looked forward to reading the newest Sophie Kinsella romp called The Undomestic Goddess.  The Undomestic Goddess, like all of her previous books, is full of laughs and goofy situations that make you not want to put the book down.  Samantha Sweeting is one of best bank lawyers in London.  She is fast, efficient and has no time to rest because her working schedule is counted in six minute segments.  She lives and breathes work, especially now that she may become the youngest partner at the law firm of Carter Spink.  But then disaster strikes.  She finds a memo on her messy desk and discovers that she has missed an important deadline -- a deadline that costs her law firm fifty million pounds.  Panicked, Samantha walks out of her office, gets on a train and arrives at the countryside.  One thing leads to another and she somehow ends up working as a housekeeper for an eccentric couple.  They have no idea that Samantha is a lawyer with an IQ of 158 and she has no idea how to cook, clean, iron clothes or even sew a button.  As she tries to learn how to use the washing machine, she tries to clear her name at the firm.  She sees her domestic new job as a temporary solution while she figures things out, but then she meets Nathaniel, the cute gardener, and things get all the more complicated.  There are some fun twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The scenes in which Samantha tries to learn what to do around the house are hilarious!  Housekeeping is obviously not her thing.  Despite the amusing situations, the story is quite unrealistic and you have to suspend disbelief in several scenes in this novel.  Samantha is intelligent and efficient when she works as a lawyer, but is quite dense in her housekeeping job.  The characters are great.  Nathaniel is quite sweet and I can see why she is taken by his charms.  Eddie and Trish, her domestic employers, are patronizing and annoying most of the time, but their intentions are noble in some occasions.  Her lawyer colleagues, namely Guy, are one-dimensional workaholics that angered me throughout the book.  The aforementioned traits are deliberate in the story, of course.  All in all, The Undomestic Goddess is a cute, fun Cinderella story in reverse, a riches to rags of sorts.  This isn't Kinsella's best offering, the Shopaholic novels are still my favorites, but this is a great summer read that you can sink your teeth into.  I highly recommend it.zing and annoying most of the time, but their intentions are noble in some occasions.  Her lawyer colleagues, namely Guy, are one-dimensional workaholics that angered me throughout the book.  The aforementioned traits are deliberate in the story, of course.  All in all, The Undomestic Goddess is a cute, fun Cinderella story in reverse, a riches to rags of sorts.  This isn't Kinsella's best offering, the Shopaholic novels are still my favorites, but this is a great summer read that you can sink your teeth into.  I highly recommend it.	2005-07-29
143003:US	50774468	R14ESEZHVVT78Y	0312335040	262239470	Friday Night Chicas: Sexy Stories from La Noche	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Fun beach read (3 1/2 stars)...	I wanted a good beach-read companion for a sunbathing session and Friday Night Chicas was the perfect choice. This saucy and super chic anthology features four fun, feisty novellas written by four up and coming Latino authors. The stories have the same premise of a modern and single career woman who meets Mr. Right during a night of cocktails and bar-hopping. All four novellas are enjoyable reads, but my two favorites are Mary Castillo's My Favorite Mistake and Berta Platas's Revenge of the Fashion Goddess. The other two novellas, Hearts Are Wild and The More Things Change, are also great and deserve their due. Are you in the bargain for some fun chick-lit beach read? Then you have got to give Friday Night Chicas a whirl!	2005-07-29
147458:US	50774468	R19JR4HPGHUXFI	0312288352	287100403	The Tea Rose: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A page-turner... Definitely my cup of tea!	The Tea Rose shows a different side of Victorian London, a side where aristocrats and their society balls don't exist.  East London in 1888 was a rough area to live in, especially when there was a serial killer on the loose who called himself Jack the Ripper (a fictional account of the actual murderer).  The area is full of criminals of all walks, prostitutes prowling the streets, wanting a bit of money to survive, and new industrialists and merchants opening factories and taking advantage of their peasants.  But despite all of that, Fiona Finnegan keeps her dreams alive.  She and her boyfriend Joe Bristow save whatever bit of money that is leftover from their limited wages with the hopes of one day opening their very own shop, the one that will get them out of poverty and help their families live better.  But then disaster strikes and Fiona's life is never the same.  After her parents die in horrible, tragic ways, and Joe betrays her, Fiona flees to New York City with her little brother, hoping her uncle will help get her on her feet.  Fiona's struggles have only just begun and her life becomes a roller coaster ride of grief, heartbreak, survival and hard work that helps her triumph and seek revenge against the man who had killed her father.  There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This is one of the most compelling historical novels I have read.  Fiona's story enthralled me from beginning to end.  She goes through hell and back and comes out victorious.  This rags to riches story is truly inspiring, poignant and memorable.  It also paints a less savory side of Victorian London -- the dark, seedy, unromanticized side of a very interesting time period.  The side where the Cockneys work their bloody fingers to the bone for a few shillings an hour.  I like that Jennifer Donnelly illustrates this lifestyle with unflinching honesty.  And I also like the backdrop of Irish immigrants in New York City.  I enjoyed the backdrop of Old New York very much.  The characters are also wonderful.  Joe, Michael, Will, Mary, Nick and all of the others are very well developed.  Fiona and Joe's love story is quite poignant, but it is Nick's story that touched me the most.  He is such an awesome character.  Those are all great aspects of the novel, but there are things that I did not like as well, scenes where you have to suspend disbelief if you want to get through the story.  I don't like the circumstances in which she meets Nick and Will respectively.  They are contrived and blatant plot devices that help Fiona get ahead.  The aforementioned sort of plot devices go on throughout the novel, and that is why I give The Tea Rose four stars instead of five.  All in all, this is one of the best historical novels I have read.  Jennifer Donnelly is a great new author and I look forward to reading A Northern Light most highly.  In the meantime, I recommend this gem.characters are also wonderful.  Joe, Michael, Will, Mary, Nick and all of the others are very well developed.  Fiona and Joe's love story is quite poignant, but it is Nick's story that touched me the most.  He is such an awesome character.  Those are all great aspects of the novel, but there are things that I did not like as well, scenes where you have to suspend disbelief if you want to get through the story.  I don't like the circumstances in which she meets Nick and Will respectively.  They are contrived and blatant plot devices that help Fiona get ahead.  The aforementioned sort of plot devices go on throughout the novel, and that is why I give The Tea Rose four stars instead of five.  All in all, this is one of the best historical novels I have read.  Jennifer Donnelly is a great new author and I look forward to reading A Northern Light most highly.  In the meantime, I recommend this gem.	2005-07-26
147952:US	50774468	RRJGC6QMAEVPB	1932511113	171438921	How to Fall: Stories (Mary Mccarthy Prize in Short Fiction)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Brilliant, literary short-story collection!	I love literary fiction with dark humor, eccentric characters and an oddball, read-between-the-lines narrative.  And that is why I absolutely adored Edith Pearlman's How to Fall.  This short-story collection features several of the most incredible and thought-provoking stories I have read in a while.  The characters seem mundane and unremarkable when the author first introduces them.  Then the stories and their characters develop into disarming, off the wall nuances that compel you and make you laugh at the same time.  My favorites stories are \\"Rules,\\" \\"The Large Lady,\\" and \\"Signs of Life.\\"  Those are my favorites, but all of the stories are wonderful and remarkable.  How to Fall has floored me and I look forward to reading other works from Ms. Pearlman -- a master storyteller.	2005-07-26
151646:US	50774468	R3R8RFKAPLLXHA	0385302312	983256815	Dragonfly in Amber (Outlander)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	I am so officially hooked on this series!	Having read and loved Outlander, I couldn't wait to give the second part of this extraordinary series a whirl.  Dragonfly in Amber is kind of different from Outlander.  This offering has two first-person narrations that goes back and forth a lot in the 750 pages of the (trade paperback) book.  However, the story is just as historically rich and wonderfully romantic as the first offering.  Twenty-two years have passed since Claire Randall, former combat nurse during the second world war, stumbled upon an ancient stone circle and was transported to 18th Century Scotland and met Jamie Fraser, a man she had embarked upon a passionate love affair that resulted in her daughter Brianna.  Now that her 20th Century husband, Frank Randall, is dead, she goes back in time and is reacquainted with her former-life husband and rekindle their past romance.  But she also has another reason for returning to 18th Century Scotland.  She wants to change the course of the disasters brought on by the battle of Culloden Moor.  She and Fraser move to France and befriend the Jacobites that reside therein.  Will they succeed in changing the course of history, which may include Jamie's death?  Also, there is the storyline centered on Claire telling Brianna who her real father is.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Dragonfly in Amber, like Outlander, is a large book full of precise historical references, keen storytelling and detailed narrative.  In fact, this novel, like its predecessor, is a little too detailed at times, with scenes and dialogue that serve no purpose other than fill the pages.  This, in my opinion, is a shortcoming in the series because a lot of people give up on reading the books by waving them off as boring, missing out on a beautiful romantic story in the process.  And what a beautiful love story it is!  Claire and Jamie have once again enriched my reading hours with wonderful, passionate romance that is impossible to forget long after you finish reading the book.  The author has created what is now officially one of my favorite fictional couples of all time.  The historical aspect is as fascinating as the romance.  The references and subplot centered on the Culloden and 18th Century France enthralled me from beginning to end.  Dragonfly entranced me more than Outlander, not only because I have already been acquainted with the protagonists, but also because this is more action-packed and historically richer than its predecessor.  This is more than just a romantic novel, it is a history lesson within a novel.  Diana Gabaldon hasn't failed to impress me with her knowledge and thorough research on the topics raised in her books.  The Outlander series is one that cannot be missed.  Do not give up on reading this.  The beginning is slow, but it picks up pace and you won't regret the wait.  However, I recommend that you read Outlander first, for this book does not make a good standalone.  Furthermore, you will fall in love with Claire and Jamie and will want to give this one a whirl anyway.  I look forward to reading Voyager with utmost anticipation.ading the book.  The author has created what is now officially one of my favorite fictional couples of all time.  The historical aspect is as fascinating as the romance.  The references and subplot centered on the Culloden and 18th Century France enthralled me from beginning to end.  Dragonfly entranced me more than Outlander, not only because I have already been acquainted with the protagonists, but also because this is more action-packed and historically richer than its predecessor.  This is more than just a romantic novel, it is a history lesson within a novel.  Diana Gabaldon hasn't failed to impress me with her knowledge and thorough research on the topics raised in her books.  The Outlander series is one that cannot be missed.  Do not give up on reading this.  The beginning is slow, but it picks up pace and you won't regret the wait.  However, I recommend that you read Outlander first, for this book does not make a good standalone.  Furthermore, you will fall in love with Claire and Jamie and will want to give this one a whirl anyway.  I look forward to reading Voyager with utmost anticipation.	2005-07-23
152371:US	50774468	R3VUUDQU8JP3WO	0060578572	405736572	The Floating Book: A Novel of Venice	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Wonderful historical novel set in 15th Century Venice...	The Floating Book is a novel of intrigue, romance, eroticism and falling from grace set in fifteenth century Venice. In a series of stories, letters and various points of views, The Floating Book tells the story of Johann and Wendelin von Speyer and their journey throughout the Venice and their desire to introduce the art of printing books. There, in the heart of Venice, we are introduced to Sosia Simeon, a woman with insatiable sexual appetites who gets involved with the writer Felice Feliciano and an editor who is enamored with the work of Catullus, erotica poet. Catullus is quite the unconventional poet and his work causes a great deal of controversy when Wendelin puts out the first printing edition of his explicit poems. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Describing this book is difficult because the writing style is quite different and complex to explain in a review. But I will summarize by saying that The Floating Book has rich, sensual and beautiful historical details and references. The novel is based on real-life personalities, the von Speyer brothers, and has a number of other historical background as well. The backdrop of invention of movable type is intriguing and insightful. The romance and eroticism are one of a kind as well. The characters, however, leave a great deal to be desired. The characterization is poor -- some of the characters are there to serve the time period purpose and nothing else. Wendelin and Sosia are the best developed characters by far in this novel. The others are either underdeveloped or have caricature personalities. Other than that, The Floating Book is a fascinating read with one of the most beautiful and romantic time settings out there and for that alone I recommend it. Michelle Lovric shows a great deal of promise with this fine offering.	2005-07-23
157942:US	50774468	R2N6JYEXHJ9JZ3	0743272226	770707356	The Innocent: (War of the Roses, Book 1) (The Anne Trilogy)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Wonderful historical novel!	This is one beautiful novel!  Set in Medieval times, fifteenth century England, The Innocent tells the story of young Anne.  Having survived an attempted murder when she was newborn, Anne is a peasant girl who works for English aristocrats.  Anne is a beautiful young woman who would have had a much more difficult time in her workplace had it not been for her special abilities as a healer.  Her gifts take her as far as looking after the queen.  And then Anne meets King Edward IV.  She moves into the palace to work for the royals -- where an intense, bittersweet affair with the king begins.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I loved the language of this novel.  The backdrop of the struggles the royals had in Britain is fascinating and the storytelling is lyrical and beautiful.  The story of Anne touched me in many levels.  I couldn't keep the book down as she endured all sorts of obstacles and succumbed to her passionate love affair with King Edward IV.  The historical references are marvelous and the secondary characters, though in some cases underdeveloped, are compelling.  Some readers have complained that this novel reads like a historical romance.  There is a romantic subplot centered on Anne and Edward, but there are so many other elements to this novel.  You only have to read the synopsis to know that there is some romance in the novel.  It is too bad that the aforementioned aspect of literature isn't everyone's cup of tea.  I like some romance in literature.  Anyway, The Innocent is one of the best reading investments I've made this summer.  I recommend this novel most highly and I can't wait to pick up The Exile.	2005-07-19
159298:US	50774468	R1W3JQOSAMHQW7	0763618470	339960894	Sorceress	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent sequel to Witch Child!	Sorceress is the continuation of the novel Witch Child.  This one takes place in modern day and it's about a Native American teenager who is intrigued with Mary Newbury -- the 17th Century witch child who travels from England to the American Colonies to escape a possible execution not unlike the one her grandmother suffered.  She feels she has a connection with Mary, who had lived with the Indians when she moved to America.  Her search for answers leads to some magical and bizarre twists in which she becomes Mary and looks back at the young girl's life.  She finally discovers the connection that links her to Mary.  This all begins when she reads Mary Newbury's diary, the one Witch Child is based on.<br /><br />This is one of the most intriguing, literary Young Adult novels I have read in quite a while.  Though it is not as page-turning as A Great and Terrible Beauty and Witch Child, the novel contains some rather surreal scenes and moving moments all the way to the end.  Agnes (the Native American teen) is quite a compelling character.  She takes us to some rather unique travels through history, making this novel a fascinating treat for history buffs.  I also enjoyed the mystical, paranormal aspects of witchcraft and healing.  The aforementioned aspects have always fascinated me in books.  I enjoyed Sorceress and I cannot recommend this lovely sequel to Witch Child enough.  I recommend that readers check out Witch Child first so that they could get a better understand of the overall plot in this one.	2005-07-19
166609:US	50774468	R3R7J7OEK8R441	0451411137	218656260	Men in Kilts	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Cute, entertaining story, annoying heroine though (3 1/2 stars)...	Katie MacAlister's novels have been a hit or miss for me.  She has written some fun novels and others have left much to be desired.  I picked up Men in Kilts because of the title.  I, like the heroine of this novel, have always had a thing for Scottish men and the kilts have a lot to do with that.  Mystery author Kathie Williams travels to Manchester, England, to attend a writers' conference.  She wants to make a name for herself overseas.  But things don't go too well for her after she falls asleep in the lobby and drools all over her blouse in public.  The conference doesn't go particularly well after that, until she meets Iain MacLaren.  The tall, gorgeous Scot with a brogue that's to die for captivates Kathie so much that she ends up in bed with him on their first date, meets his two sons and travels to his sheep farm in the Scottish Highlands.  In the middle of the passionate lovemaking and sighing over his beautiful accent, she encounters several obstacles -- one of Iain's sons does not approve of Kathie and an ex-girlfriend of Iain's is determined to win him over and get him to do a deal with his farm at all cost.  To make matters worse, Kathie is unsure about Iain's feelings and intentions for her.  There are various fun twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />As said earlier, the novel is fun and entertaining and I enjoyed reading about a gorgeous Scot.  However, I give the novel three and a half stars because Kathie is over the top annoying, needy and clingy for a large portion of the book.  That kept me from enjoying the novel more.  She cries a lot, picks fights with Iain, is constantly insecure about his feelings and intentions for her in spite of his reassurances and displays of affection.  By the middle of the novel, I wanted to strangle her and marveled at Iain's patience and kindness when dealing with the extremely neurotic heroine.  In real life, the man would have gone nuts for sure!  MacAlister's heroines are always very high maintenance and neurotic.  You'd either love them, identify with them, or hate them.  I like feisty heroines, but Kathie was too much for me.  She is thirty-seven years old, but her petulance makes her seem younger and more immature.  Bridget was also irritating and I felt sorry for Iain whenever he had to deal with those two at the same time.  Another thing that bugged me about the novel was the way that Kathie traveled to Manchester.  I have traveled to Manchester, England, many times and there are direct flights to the aforementioned place from the US -- or you can switch flights if there aren't direct flights from your city.  Manchester has a large, excellent and reliable airport that is just as good as the ones in London.  Other than that, I enjoyed Men in Kilts.  Is this a MacAlister hit or miss?  The humor and Iain made this novel a hit for me.otic.  You'd either love them, identify with them, or hate them.  I like feisty heroines, but Kathie was too much for me.  She is thirty-seven years old, but her petulance makes her seem younger and more immature.  Bridget was also irritating and I felt sorry for Iain whenever he had to deal with those two at the same time.  Another thing that bugged me about the novel was the way that Kathie traveled to Manchester.  I have traveled to Manchester, England, many times and there are direct flights to the aforementioned place from the US -- or you can switch flights if there aren't direct flights from your city.  Manchester has a large, excellent and reliable airport that is just as good as the ones in London.  Other than that, I enjoyed Men in Kilts.  Is this a MacAlister hit or miss?  The humor and Iain made this novel a hit for me.	2005-07-14
166873:US	50774468	REBQFF1HC9NEQ	188586518X	675662486	Cherished Blood: Vampire Erotica	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Excellent, delectable collection!	Someone recommended Cecilia Tan's vampire erotica because her work is scrumptious, literary and unique.  I agree with the person who made the aforementioned assessments.  Cherished Blood is a rich collection of the most erotic vampire stories I have read in quite a while.  I am not familiar with the authors in this collection, but the stories all have a particular flavor and feel to them.  I loved the ones centered on BDSM and alpha immortals of course.  What is remarkable about this collection is that these are not clich&eacute; vampire stories.  They don't follow a specific Bram Stoker-like folklore or rules of mythology.  They are creative, sensuous and erotic to the core.  I see that this is the third offering of four collections.  I look forward to reading the other three.	2005-07-14
170079:US	50774468	R1LVEKKUARKS8Y	1401302009	152649726	The Washingtonienne	Books	1	16	21	N	N	I love dark, satirical novels, but this one didn't cut it...	Jacqueline Turner is all about the New York scene -- the parties, the chic clothes, the Anorexic look, the men, and the sex.  But then she feels she has to get her life together.  She wants a cool, glamorous job to show off and social climb her way to the top, but getting a job at a trendy magazine isn't that simple.  So she becomes engaged with a boy scout-like Wall Street type.  Jackie thinks she wants to be married, that is until she cheats on her fianc&eacute; and is forced to move out of Manhattan.  She moves to Washington, D.C., with her friend and new roommate and quickly sets out to work as an intern and tries to find a well-paying gopher job for a Senate.  But she immediately discovers that the money and power lie in bedding married or otherwise engaged politicians who think nothing of paying her huge amounts of cash and hooking her up with jobs in exchange for sexual favors.  Soon she is juggling with several affairs and her friends ask her to start an online journal to help her keep up with the men and regale everyone with her sexual exploits while she's at it.  However, things get complicated for Jackie, and she'll soon have to ask herself if this risque lifestyle is worth the trouble.<br /><br />I like dark comedies and anti-heroines as much as the next person, but The Washingtonienne is too over the top at times for me.  Jacqueline and the people around her aren't likeable and are not meant to be endearing either, but there is a difference between laughing and appreciating a novel full of lowbrow situations and flawed characters and quite another to succeed in making the story and its characters unappealing... but not quite in the way the author had originally intended.  I couldn't get into this novel and had to force myself to finish it.  It is far too trashy for my taste, and I agree with the reviewers who say the writing isn't very good.  There are some funny lines and scenes, the book is quite humorous, but the comedy isn't enough to make the book enjoyable.  I've just found out that this novel is somewhat autobiographical, loosely based on the author's blog. That explains a lot. That sort of thing would probably make interesting, fun online reading, but not so much in fiction format. I'd pass on this one if I were you.  If you're in the bargain for a dark, clever comedy about the beautiful, big city people and their pitfalls, I'd recommend you check out Love Creeps by Amanda Filipacchi. And if you want to read the aforementioned type of book with a chick-lit flavor, I suggest Maneater by Gigi Levangie Grazer.enjoyable.  I've just found out that this novel is somewhat autobiographical, loosely based on the author's blog. That explains a lot. That sort of thing would probably make interesting, fun online reading, but not so much in fiction format. I'd pass on this one if I were you.  If you're in the bargain for a dark, clever comedy about the beautiful, big city people and their pitfalls, I'd recommend you check out Love Creeps by Amanda Filipacchi. And if you want to read the aforementioned type of book with a chick-lit flavor, I suggest Maneater by Gigi Levangie Grazer.	2005-07-11
170702:US	50774468	R2FMMXNNXSVHXZ	035233052X	988489610	White Rose Ensnared (Black Lace)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A beautiful, smoldering Mediaeval erotica...	Lady Rosamund de Verney has never known true pleasure.  She is married to an elderly man and has been repressed all of her life.  But all of that is about to change when her husband is killed during the war.  Sir Ralph Aycliffe resurfaces after an incident in which he almost forced Rosamund to succumb to his seduction five years ago.  He wants the de Verney's lands and will do just about everything to obtain them.  He also wants Rosamund to pay for having rejected him all those years ago -- so he humiliates her again and again by subjecting her to the most unconventional sexual games ever imagined.  He wants her to become his slave in every sense of the word.  But there might be hope for Rosamund.  Geoffrey Lymington will risk his life to save the woman he loves.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This is one of the most beautiful erotic novels I have read.  The Mediaeval setting -- 1461, during the War of the Roses -- is absolutely captivating.  Juliet Hastings makes this erotic delight shine with rich descriptions of this obscure time period coupled with a compelling story and smoldering erotic scenes to boot.  The characters are also great.  Sir Ralph Aycliffe is someone you'd love to hate, yet you can't help but be turned on by this rough alpha male.  He is a cross between Captain Alexei Rostovich from The Captivation (one of my all-time favorite Black Lace historical novels) and Lucas from Pleasure's Daughter (another unforgettable Black Lace historical erotica).  He is one of those cruel, disarming, yet infuriatingly sexy anti-heroes that you cannot help but have mixed feelings about.  He is not as scrumptious and compelling as Alexei or as hateful and insatiable as Lucas, but he is a fascinating character in his own right.  There are other great characters here as well.  I enjoyed Margery, Rosamund's very uninhibited personal maid, and Isabella, Rosamund's best friend.  Geoffrey is good as well, but he sort of reminds me of Nicholas from The Captivation -- the good guy who is not quite as memorable as the anti-hero.  All in all, White Rose Ensnared is one of the best Black Lace novels I've read in quite a long time.  I loved the setting, loved the sexual descriptions, loved the story, but I especially loved the characters.  I cannot recommend this gem enough!om The Captivation -- the good guy who is not quite as memorable as the anti-hero.  All in all, White Rose Ensnared is one of the best Black Lace novels I've read in quite a long time.  I loved the setting, loved the sexual descriptions, loved the story, but I especially loved the characters.  I cannot recommend this gem enough!	2005-07-11
179621:US	50774468	R4MG3OCJASRB2	0758207921	743588418	The Irish Devil	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Super hot Western romantica...	I am currently watching a historical televised novel set in the Old West and I'd wanted to get my hands on a romantica with a similar setting.  There aren't that many novels with an old Western theme out there.  Everyone knows that Regency and Victorian are the most popular historical romance settings, which is why finding Irish Devil was like discovering a ruby in a chest full of white diamonds.  Irish Devil tells the story of Viola Ross, a young and beautiful widow and daughter of an aristocratic Kentucky family who finds herself in a difficult situation.  After her husband dies, she is penniless and struggles to make ends meet in the small town of Rio Piedras (a fictitious town set in Arizona).  But her life becomes hell when Paul Lennox proposes marriage to her.  Paul Lennox is a powerful man and he has closed all doors for her and has forbidden every man in the region to approach her in order to pressure her to marrying him -- all men except Irish teamster William Donovan.  In a desperate attempt to put Lennox off, Viola becomes William's mistress.  She hadn't anticipated William's insatiable sexual appetite and his preference for some rather unconventional sexual delights.  It doesn't take long for Viola to enjoy William's delectable eroticism.  However, Paul Lennox has not given up on marrying Viola and he will stop at nothing to force her into marriage.  As you might have gathered, Lennox's intentions have nothing to do with love.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The sex scenes are absolutely scrumptious.  Our hero is a rather sexual creature who stands to attention (so to speak) at the mere mention of sex.  He sounds gorgeous and I loved his history as a once trainee of the D/s lifestyle in Ireland.  (To the reviewer who thought it was not possible for that sort of lifestyle to exist in Victorian Ireland, that sort of thing existed back then and was indeed practiced, but in a clandestine way.)  He turned Viola from a shy apprentice to a wanton sexpot in no time.  I thought the equestrian references during sex were strange at first, but then thought they were appropriate to the protagonists' animalistic and passionate encounters.  As for the storyline, I enjoyed the subplots centered on Viola's family.  I also loved the Western references.  The characters were good, though some were underdeveloped.  And I especially loved William Donovan.  However, there are some shortcomings in the novel as well.  The overuse of the words \\"sweetheart,\\" \\"filly,\\" and \\"dew\\" annoyed me at times.  Also, was it just me, or did Viola only wore blue dresses?  There are some blatant anachronisms that made me cringe while reading them.  Other than that, Irish Devil was a delightful, smolderingly erotic read.  This novel sated my craving for a romantica set in the Old West.  Traditional romance readers ought to be careful when picking up this one.  If you like the boy-meets-girl-encounters-obstacles-and-a-sweet-lovemaking-scene kind then you won't enjoy this one.  The sex scenes are very explicit.  I don't mind romances centered on sex.  I like romance to be rough and erotica to be sweet.  For those who have the same preference as I, I hope you enjoy this erotic gem.  I look forward to reading River Devil, Viola's brother Hal Lindsay's story, with utmost anticipation.to a wanton sexpot in no time.  I thought the equestrian references during sex were strange at first, but then thought they were appropriate to the protagonists' animalistic and passionate encounters.  As for the storyline, I enjoyed the subplots centered on Viola's family.  I also loved the Western references.  The characters were good, though some were underdeveloped.  And I especially loved William Donovan.  However, there are some shortcomings in the novel as well.  The overuse of the words \\"sweetheart,\\" \\"filly,\\" and \\"dew\\" annoyed me at times.  Also, was it just me, or did Viola only wore blue dresses?  There are some blatant anachronisms that made me cringe while reading them.  Other than that, Irish Devil was a delightful, smolderingly erotic read.  This novel sated my craving for a romantica set in the Old West.  Traditional romance readers ought to be careful when picking up this one.  If you like the boy-meets-girl-encounters-obstacles-and-a-sweet-lovemaking-scene kind then you won't enjoy this one.  The sex scenes are very explicit.  I don't mind romances centered on sex.  I like romance to be rough and erotica to be sweet.  For those who have the same preference as I, I hope you enjoy this erotic gem.  I look forward to reading River Devil, Viola's brother Hal Lindsay's story, with utmost anticipation.	2005-07-05
180230:US	50774468	R2SQZ99ZVS1UZQ	0425204332	260361677	Undead and Unappreciated	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The vampire queen is back!	I had looked forward to reading the third offering of the Undead series for a long time.  I was not disappointed.  Undead and Unappreciated is another hilarious look into the nights of the reluctant vampire queen Betsy Taylor, the darkly sexy Sinclair and their friends.  Now she has a far more interesting problem in her hands than killing evil vampire rulers or jealous undead club owners.  Her wicked stepmother (also known as \\"the Ant\\") is pregnant and her baby shower will be during the day, so Betsy won't be able to attend.  But that is the least of her worries when she discovers that her stepmother abandoned a child, Betsy's half sister, twenty years ago.  The bad news is that the Ant had been possessed by the devil during her pregnancy (and no one noticed the difference!), which means the child is satan's spawn.  Betsy has to track down her sister and try to stop her from destroying the world.  But the aforementioned task may be difficult after Betsy decides to read the entire Book of the Dead after Sinclair tells her in no uncertain terms that she could only read it in small segments.  Our Betsy is not the same after she disobeys her gorgeous vampire consort. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Undead and Unappreciated, like the first two novels, is a delightful read that ends too quickly for me.  Also, the overall storyline seems rushed and sloppy in some areas. For instance, the inconsistency with the year in which the Ant gave birth to Laura was blatantly overlooked by the editors (I assume the right year is 1986 instead of 1966, since Laura is barely out of her teens). And that is why I give the book four stars instead of five. I read this novel in one sitting and wished I had savored the final few pages more.  The third installment has the sort of substance I had expected after reading Undead and Unwed (the plot in Undead and Unemployed, though fun and entertaining, was a bit too simplistic for my taste) and even has some rather creepy scenes centered on Laura, Betsy's sister, and on Betsy's \\"insanity\\" after she reads the Book of the Dead.  (The scene with her best friend Jessica is jarring.) I like that her relationships with her friends and family are developed further in this book.  Davidson touches on Betsy's issues with her father and his spineless behavior, unwillingness and lack of interest in standing up for his daughter in front of the Ant.  I liked those scenes because I felt Betsy's pain and feelings of rejection despite wanting to seem unfazed in front of others.  I also liked how Sinclair is there for her in those scenes.  And that is another thing I enjoyed about this novel.  The nature of their relationship, which has hitherto centered on Betsy's lack of trust on him and his pride keeping him from taking the romantic initiative, comes to a head in this one.  Betsy is forced to see Sinclair from a whole different perspective, not just for his sneakiness and ulterior motives.  Davidson succeeds in adding more substance to the series without sacrificing the lighthearted storyline and humor and the many wonderful quips.  Even though this novel isn't as funny as Undead and Unwed, it still has some memorably hilarious lines.  There is a slight cliffhanger in this novel, which makes me anxious to want to pick up the next installment.  Lucky for me, the fourth book, Undead and Unreturnable, will be out in October.  In the meantime, I recommend this novel.  If you enjoyed the first two books, you will love this one!  MaryJanice Davidson has reminded me why I love her writing style so much with this gem.scenes centered on Laura, Betsy's sister, and on Betsy's \\"insanity\\" after she reads the Book of the Dead.  (The scene with her best friend Jessica is jarring.) I like that her relationships with her friends and family are developed further in this book.  Davidson touches on Betsy's issues with her father and his spineless behavior, unwillingness and lack of interest in standing up for his daughter in front of the Ant.  I liked those scenes because I felt Betsy's pain and feelings of rejection despite wanting to seem unfazed in front of others.  I also liked how Sinclair is there for her in those scenes.  And that is another thing I enjoyed about this novel.  The nature of their relationship, which has hitherto centered on Betsy's lack of trust on him and his pride keeping him from taking the romantic initiative, comes to a head in this one.  Betsy is forced to see Sinclair from a whole different perspective, not just for his sneakiness and ulterior motives.  Davidson succeeds in adding more substance to the series without sacrificing the lighthearted storyline and humor and the many wonderful quips.  Even though this novel isn't as funny as Undead and Unwed, it still has some memorably hilarious lines.  There is a slight cliffhanger in this novel, which makes me anxious to want to pick up the next installment.  Lucky for me, the fourth book, Undead and Unreturnable, will be out in October.  In the meantime, I recommend this novel.  If you enjoyed the first two books, you will love this one!  MaryJanice Davidson has reminded me why I love her writing style so much with this gem.	2005-07-05
186777:US	50774468	RCAO0IPQ8EWIL	0446671924	830709438	Self-Help	Books	1	4	20	N	N	Not good...	I was told that this short-story collection was one of the best out there.  And so, I didn't hesitate to read Lorrie Moore's Self-Help.  While there are some cleverly written stories with a lot of irony and dark humor, the stories lack depth and consistency.  The stories did not touch me or affect me in any way, which is what I look for in literary short fiction.  Instead, I was either bored or disgusted with the banality of some of the stories.  But, as I said earlier, there are some good ones.  I enjoyed \\"How to be a Writer,\\" \\"How to Be an Other Woman,\\" \\"Amahl and the Night Visitors.\\"  However, that is not to say that they are up to par with the stories written by champions like Joyce Carol Oates and Amy Hempel.  Perhaps I am being too hard on the author.  I will give another one of her collections a whirl in case Self-Help is a fluke.	2005-06-29
188157:US	50774468	R1U788Q8B9O72S	0451215648	744261690	Beyond the Pale (The Darkwing Chronicles, Book 1) (Bk. 1)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	A good vampire/spy novel...	Daphne is a vampire who has managed to live five-hundred years without getting caught.  That is until members of the US government track her down and force her to become a spy.  Now she, along with two other vampires, is the member of Project Darkwing, a secret service agency that specializes in finding dangerous terrorists.  Her first assignment is to capture a Russian arms dealer called Bonaventure.  But someone else is after Bonaventure, a gorgeous man who also happens to be a vampire slayer.  Daphne is reluctant to work as a spy at first, but what other options are there?  Working for the government seems far more attractive than continuing to have a meaningless existence.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The whole paranormal/spy angle is interesting, but terribly overdone.  I had no idea what to make of the novel at first.  Then I began to enjoy the story when the characters J and Darius came along.  Darius sounded scrumptious, but I was more intrigued with J.  The other characters are quite underdeveloped and I hope that Russe does a better job with characterization in the second offering of this series.  The vampires in this book are interesting.  They turn into bat-like monsters when they feel the hunger for blood, but for the most part they are like humans, except for the whole immortal thing.  I'd say Beyond the Pale is middling at best.  It sort of has a cross between Buffy (only more gothic) and La Femme Nikita (only with far less Pygmalion elements).  Even though I am not very enthusiastic with this effort, I will give the second book a try because some subplots and storylines seem promising.	2005-06-28
191852:US	50774468	R2CLSA71V2CW53	0352332107	769394116	Artistic License (Black Lace Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Beautifully told historical erotica...	Artistic License is one of the most erotic historical novels I have read in quite a while.  Vivienne Lafay creates a wonderful story with beautiful prose and almost palpable descriptions set during Renaissance Italy.  The novel tells the story of Carla, a young woman who escapes her home after she is seduced by her cousin.  In an attempt to protect herself from ruffians on the street and to keep her identity a secret, she changes her name to Carlo and disguises herself as a man.  She is taken by an artist named Piero -- who discovers she is a woman and offers her shelter in exchange for sexual favors.  She becomes his lover and artistic apprentice trying to become a guild member to sell paintings.  But everything changes when she meets fellow apprentice Marco.  Marco doesn't know that Carlo is actually Carla, and hiding her desire for Marco and concealing her real identity becomes all the more difficult for Carla.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The erotic scenes are wonderful and smoldering, yet lyrical and sensual as well.  I couldn't keep the book down.  The sexual tension between Carla and Marco alone makes the book a worthwhile read.  The characters are well developed and the story is beautiful, nuance and full of layers and memorable prose.  Erotica is seldom written so rich and lyrical.  Most erotic novels, especially the Black Lace ones, end up reading like Penthouse letters and Artistic License (along with The Captivation, The Ninety Days of Genevieve, and a few others) is the rare exception.  If you're in the bargain for a historical erotica that tells a compelling story and is intelligent to boot, do not hesitate to pick up this gem.	2005-06-25
192067:US	50774468	R3PSEJIXEF185Q	0972336338	166818100	On the Way to My Father's Funeral: New and Selected Stories	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A master storyteller I will look to in the future...	This has got to be one of the best short-story collections I have ever read!  Jonathan Baumbach is an incredibly talented and grossly unrecognized author who has created the most thought-provoking and literary stories I have read in a long time.  The title story, \\"On the Way to My Father's Funeral,\\" is a true work of art full of symbolism, sharp narrative and compelling, poignant story that floored me.  The other stories, \\"French History,\\" \\"Oh, Hum,\\" \\"Reverie,\\" \\"Past Perfect,\\" \\"The Relationship,\\" and \\"Courtship\\" were absolutely stunning.  These are new and selected stories from previous collections, but this is the first thing I read all of them.  What a wonderful revelation this collection turned out to be.  I definitely look forward to reading stuff by Mr. Baumbach.	2005-06-25
196137:US	50774468	R2Q0HL1SLH71CH	0812968972	595261029	The Birth of Venus: A Novel (Reader's Circle)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Beautiful, lyrical historical novel...	This is one of the most beautiful and mesmerizing historical novels I have read in quite a while.  The Birth of Venus is a gem from beginning to end.  I couldn't keep this book down as the lyrical writing and historical references sucked me in and didn't let go.  Set in 15th Century Florence, The Birth of Venus tells the story of young Alessandra Cecchi and her reluctance to succumb to an arranged marriage.  She wants to leave a life of freedom where she can express her love for art.  However, when she meets her middle-aged suitor, she realizes that a marriage with him would be the best thing that could happen to her.  After all, he promises her a life of freedom to express herself through art and literature.  But his promises were just that -- promises.  But as Florence faces chaos with plagues, violence and threats of invasion and corruption, her unhappy marriage takes second precedence.  Everything changes though when she meets an attractive, eccentric young artist.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This novel was a delight to read and I savored the last few pages like fine wine.  The Birth of Venus enthralled me the same way A Great and Terrible Beauty, another historical novel, had mesmerized me.  Sara Dunant does an excellent mixing fiction with true historical references.  At times I felt as though I was reading a novel that was actually set during those times.  Despite the rather vivid descriptions of all the horrible things that were happening to Florence during those times, Dunant still managed to romanticize Renaissance Italy to me.  This time setting fascinated me and I hope to read more novels set during this time.  The characters are also great.  I loved Alessandra's strength and determination to live life in her own terms.  The other characters are equally as compelling, especially Alessandra's more traditional sister Plautilla.  The difference in their personalities shines through.  The romantic subplot between Alessandra and her artist lover captivated me as well, though I wish that storyline had been more central to the story.  All in all, The Birth of Venus is one of the most beautiful, lyrical and fascinating historical novels I have read in a while and I look forward to reading more books by this author.  I recommend this novel most highly.her artist lover captivated me as well, though I wish that storyline had been more central to the story.  All in all, The Birth of Venus is one of the most beautiful, lyrical and fascinating historical novels I have read in a while and I look forward to reading more books by this author.  I recommend this novel most highly.	2005-06-21
197186:US	50774468	R14KKHJ8MORE3U	0505526336	872713430	A Connecticut Fashionista in King Arthur's Court	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A fun, entertaining time-travel romance!	The title of this book made me think that this would probably be a light, fun and entertaining romance like the ones written by MaryJanice Davidson and Katie MacAlister.  And it is just as fun and great as the books by the aforementioned authors.  A Connecticut Fashionista in King Arthur's Court is like Legally Blonde and a more fantastical version of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table rolled into one.  Katherine \\"Kat\\" Jones is a fast-mouthed fashion magazine editor and lover of designer shoes.  She enjoys all of the perks the twenty-first century has to offer.  Imagine her surprise when a strange gypsy gives her a curse during a Mediaeval times fair and is sent to the Middle Ages -- to King Arthur's court, to be exact.  Kat is confused at first.  How did she end up there?  Were the men dressed in tights hanging out at a castle talking with strange accents and taking their Medieval roleplaying too seriously part of some soft of weird reality show?  Kat has no choice but to accept that she has been sent back to the Middle Ages.  But will she care after she meets the gorgeous, chivalrous knight Sir Lancelot?  She is somewhat familiar with the legend of King Arthur, but soon realizes that things are not the way they had been written.  There are some fun twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This novel kept me awake until the late hours of the night.  It is very light and not to be taken seriously, but it is also fun, riveting and entertaining.  Kat sounds like the typical fashion-conscious, flighty, albeit fiercely independent twenty-first century woman and she gives the very old-fashioned men in King Arthur's court a piece of her mind.  She is instantly attracted to Lancelot despite knowing the legend that he will have an affair with Queen Guenevere and therefore be responsible for the destruction of Camelot, but she soon gets to know the brave, loyal and passionate knight in more ways than one.  I loved the version of Lancelot in this novel because he is a mixture of alpha male and a sweet, chivalrous, romantic man.  I thought the love story between the leading characters was very sweet.  Kat could be quite irritating at times though.  She is too outspoken and a spoiled, immature brat most of the time, but I loved her narrative voice and her constant pop culture references.  The aforementioned things give the novel a romance/fantasy/chick-lit feel not unlike MaryJanice Davidson's Undead series.  In fact, Kat sounds an awful lot like Betsy Taylor at times, including their mutual love for shoes.  I liked the whole time-travel thing.  I haven't read much time-travel romances, but after having read this one and Outlander I am definitely giving the genre a whirl again.  I love the unique fantasy aspect of the aforementioned genre.  And I am glad the author decided to set the novel during the Mediaeval times because said time frame is very romantic.  And I loved the whole different spin on King Arthur's story.  Of course, there are loose ends -- like the fact that, although she was unable to get used to the new lifestyle at first, Kat adjusts to the very different time frame too easily.  Though I must say that the transition is far more realistic than the one I read in the novel Outlander.  I suppose it depends on how much you are willing to suspend disbelief, which is the whole point to these sorts of books anyway.  As for the reviewers who complained that this novel had no substance, you cannot buy a book with a cover and a title like this one and expect something thought provoking and literary. All in all, A Connecticut Fashionista in King Arthur's Court is the book to read on a warm day at the beach.  This is entertainment at its best.  Enjoy!s a mixture of alpha male and a sweet, chivalrous, romantic man.  I thought the love story between the leading characters was very sweet.  Kat could be quite irritating at times though.  She is too outspoken and a spoiled, immature brat most of the time, but I loved her narrative voice and her constant pop culture references.  The aforementioned things give the novel a romance/fantasy/chick-lit feel not unlike MaryJanice Davidson's Undead series.  In fact, Kat sounds an awful lot like Betsy Taylor at times, including their mutual love for shoes.  I liked the whole time-travel thing.  I haven't read much time-travel romances, but after having read this one and Outlander I am definitely giving the genre a whirl again.  I love the unique fantasy aspect of the aforementioned genre.  And I am glad the author decided to set the novel during the Mediaeval times because said time frame is very romantic.  And I loved the whole different spin on King Arthur's story.  Of course, there are loose ends -- like the fact that, although she was unable to get used to the new lifestyle at first, Kat adjusts to the very different time frame too easily.  Though I must say that the transition is far more realistic than the one I read in the novel Outlander.  I suppose it depends on how much you are willing to suspend disbelief, which is the whole point to these sorts of books anyway.  As for the reviewers who complained that this novel had no substance, you cannot buy a book with a cover and a title like this one and expect something thought provoking and literary. All in all, A Connecticut Fashionista in King Arthur's Court is the book to read on a warm day at the beach.  This is entertainment at its best.  Enjoy!	2005-06-21
200939:US	50774468	RP59AD4G948JZ	0385319959	983256815	Outlander	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Absolutely breathtaking!	I had this book on my to-read pile for a long time.  Why did it take me so long to give it a whirl?  Outlander is one of the most mesmerizing novels I have read in a long time.  Beautifully told with splendid detail, precise historical references and compelling characters that made you care about them from beginning to end, this is one of the best reading investments I've made all year!  First set in 1945, Outlander tells the story of Claire Randall, a married woman who is out on a second honeymoon with her husband after spending years apart during the second world war, where she worked as a combat nurse.  While vacationing in the Scottish Highlands, her husband decides to research one of his ancestors and other Eighteenth Century tales.  He also becomes intrigued with people making ritual sacrifices and practicing witchcraft.  During an excursion near a standing stone in an ancient stone circle, Claire is transported to the year 1743, where she becomes an outlander and the captive of Colum MacKenzie at the Castle Leoch.  What follows is a riveting, moving story with battles, spies, struggle, pain, and a passionate love affair between Claire and Scottish outlaw James (Jamie) Fraser that will leave you breathless.  There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I was reluctant to give Outlander a whirl because many people told me that it was long and boring.  Well, there are over six-hundred pages in this novel, but it is by no means boring.  I admit that I had a difficult time getting into it at first.  The story starts out slow and you either have to be a lover of historical novels or someone with a lot of patience to want to continue reading it.  The wait is worth it.  Claire is an intelligent woman who faces all sorts of adversities without losing her spark and brazenness.  And I loved the scenes with her and Jamie.  Things start out slow at first, but then the sexual tension between them is remarkable.  There is a great deal of realism as far as Claire's torn feelings with her loving husband Frank and her passionate liaison with a man in her unexpected journey to two centuries' past.  Those scenes and the ones centered on the backdrop of the Jacobite Rising are the best things this novel has to offer.  However, as much as I love this novel, I must point out some shortcomings.  The fact that Claire is able to adjust to the life and customs of the Eighteenth Century, especially with the clothing and the lack of electricity and modern medicine, are unrealistic to me.  There isn't the merest mention of discomfort with the clothes and other obscure things from that time frame.  This shortcoming sort of discredits the masterful work of this novel a bit.  Also, aside from a few halfhearted escape attempts, Claire does not seem terribly upset about being MacKenzie's prisoner.  Again, this is something Diana Gabaldon should have worked on making more believable.  And going back to the first sentence of this paragraph, there are indeed some slow scenes centered on meaningless dialogue and internal monologue throughout the book.  This is probably the reason why so many readers have complained about the book being boring.  But in spite of those shortcomings, Outlander is one of the best novels I have read in a long time.  The novel does have some gruesome scenes with violence and strong sex scenes that could easily be interpreted as rape, which is why I think that people who enjoy light romances or are faint of heart should not read this.  As for everyone else, you will love this book.  This is the first part of a series and I cannot wait to read the other offerings.  I recommend this unique time-travel tale most highly.torn feelings with her loving husband Frank and her passionate liaison with a man in her unexpected journey to two centuries' past.  Those scenes and the ones centered on the backdrop of the Jacobite Rising are the best things this novel has to offer.  However, as much as I love this novel, I must point out some shortcomings.  The fact that Claire is able to adjust to the life and customs of the Eighteenth Century, especially with the clothing and the lack of electricity and modern medicine, are unrealistic to me.  There isn't the merest mention of discomfort with the clothes and other obscure things from that time frame.  This shortcoming sort of discredits the masterful work of this novel a bit.  Also, aside from a few halfhearted escape attempts, Claire does not seem terribly upset about being MacKenzie's prisoner.  Again, this is something Diana Gabaldon should have worked on making more believable.  And going back to the first sentence of this paragraph, there are indeed some slow scenes centered on meaningless dialogue and internal monologue throughout the book.  This is probably the reason why so many readers have complained about the book being boring.  But in spite of those shortcomings, Outlander is one of the best novels I have read in a long time.  The novel does have some gruesome scenes with violence and strong sex scenes that could easily be interpreted as rape, which is why I think that people who enjoy light romances or are faint of heart should not read this.  As for everyone else, you will love this book.  This is the first part of a series and I cannot wait to read the other offerings.  I recommend this unique time-travel tale most highly.	2005-06-17
201421:US	50774468	R1CO6DA4M0RW2Q	0553587080	236523182	Haunted	Books	4	2	2	N	N	What haunts me is that this book has ended...	Kelley Armstrong's Women of the Otherworld is one of my favorite fantasy series out there.  Armstrong does a wonderfully balanced mixture of paranormal, fantasy, suspense, horror, and romance that keeps me anticipating the next installment.  I couldn't wait for the fifth book to come out.  Haunted is not my favorite one of the series, but it is still a gem of a read.  We have read about Elena Michaels, the only female werewolf in the world, in Bitten and Stolen and have also read about naive and spunky witch Paige Winterbourne in Dime Store Magic and Industrial Magic and now it is the turn of ghost Eve Levine.  Eve was a powerhouse to be reckoned with in the supernatural world.  She was a half witch, half demon with knowledge of sorcerer spells and black magic. After she dies in a misguided attempt to rescue her daughter from being locked up in a paranormal research compound (Stolen), Eve spends her afterlife years watching her daughter Savannah, wishing she'd have the opportunity to talk to her at least once.  In the afterlife, Eve reunites with Kristof Nast, former sorcerer and top dog of one of the most powerful Cabals in the world, and father of Savannah.  Eve's only job has been to keep an eye on haunters and spooks, but is now given the difficult task of catching a demi-demon known as the Nix -- a task that three high-rank angels had failed to complete.  The Nix gets into the minds of people that have murderous thoughts and intent, but don't dare to commit the actual act.  The Nix inhabits the bodies of these would-be killers and does the dark deeds for them.  She enjoys the chaos those deeds make, and her ultimate satisfaction lies on betraying the same people she's helped commit the fatal acts.  Capturing the Nix isn't easy and Eve has to keep track of all her moves.  But then things become all the more dangerous when the Nix targets Savannah.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This is the most complex installment out of the five books.  There are many plot layers and scene changes that the reader must keep track of.  The afterlife in this book is not unlike those of the living when it comes to having jobs, homes and partners.  However, there are the supernatural aspects of portals, dimensions and other things that set this alternate world apart from the living one.  The Nix is one creepy villain!  The stories centered on the murders she helped commit were few of the scariest I have read in a long time.  The details are gruesome, with a lot of horror and gore into the mix.  The ones that freaked me out the most include the one with the mother who murdered her kids to make her philandering husband suffer and the one set in Colonial Massachusetts where a young woman murders her parents.  They are incredibly told -- just like standard ghost stories.  The plot thickens throughout the novel and a lot of twists and turns take place.  However, things get a bit slow toward the end for me, but the final pages bring the action and wonderful storytelling back.  The great thing about this book, like the other four, is that there is a lot of humor, bantering and quips between the characters.  I have always liked Kelley's humor in these books.  As said earlier, she does a superb job in mixing different sub-genres together and creating awesome dialogue.  As for the characters, Eve is a very compelling heroine.  She has some great qualities that did not come about when characters in the previous novels talked about her.  She was obviously deeply misunderstood while alive.  Another person who doesn't come across as imposing and intimidating as I had originally thought is Kristof.  I loved him because he seemed like a loving, caring father.  He also wants Eve to let go of the past and move on.  I enjoyed reading about how these two star-crossed lovers reunited in the afterlife.  This love story is the most compelling one in the series thus far.  This novel is similar to Bitten in that the heroine must come to terms with what she is and get closure.  And as for the other characters, the angel Trsiel and the Fates are quite interesting and Luther Ross, Poltergeist and Nymphomaniac (because he teaches and sleeps with nymphs, lol) is hilarious.  Jamie the necromancer is back in this installment.  She is a fun character and I like that she has a crush on alpha werewolf Jeremy.  Paige and Lucas also appear in this book, but most of the scenes with them are of Eve watching them from afar.  The werewolves and vampires aren't featured in this book, which is disappointing.  The good news is that the next WOTO novel will be about Elena, Clay and the other werewolves again.  And I am keeping my fingers crossed about there being an installment centered on vampire Cassandra.  All in all, Haunted is yet another awesome installment in this riveting series.  Bitten and Industrial Magic are still my favorites, but this one is also a definite keeper.  I look forward to reading Broken with utmost anticipation.ms with what she is and get closure.  And as for the other characters, the angel Trsiel and the Fates are quite interesting and Luther Ross, Poltergeist and Nymphomaniac (because he teaches and sleeps with nymphs, lol) is hilarious.  Jamie the necromancer is back in this installment.  She is a fun character and I like that she has a crush on alpha werewolf Jeremy.  Paige and Lucas also appear in this book, but most of the scenes with them are of Eve watching them from afar.  The werewolves and vampires aren't featured in this book, which is disappointing.  The good news is that the next WOTO novel will be about Elena, Clay and the other werewolves again.  And I am keeping my fingers crossed about there being an installment centered on vampire Cassandra.  All in all, Haunted is yet another awesome installment in this riveting series.  Bitten and Industrial Magic are still my favorites, but this one is also a definite keeper.  I look forward to reading Broken with utmost anticipation.	2005-06-17
206846:US	50774468	R10HOP7MDEOBO5	0743496957	636177397	American Girls About Town	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Cool short stories, perfect for beach reading...	Beach reading season is officially here and I have started out my sunbathing reading with a bang.  I loved Irish Girls About Town and looked forward to reading another collection of chick-lit short stories written by the most chic authors out there.  American Girls About Town is one entertaining book!  I loved that some of the best writers got together and wrote entertaining stories.  Even though there are some stories that center on British aspects and are in fact written by British authors, which surprised me, for the book is supposedly about American women, the stories are quite good.  The ones written by Melissa Senate (\\"Voodoo Dolls, C-cups and Eminem\\"), Jennifer Weiner (\\"The Truth About Nigel,\\" loved the story, but I didn't like the author's failed attempt at making the characters sound British), Chris Manby (\\"Bad Manners\\"), Lynda Curnyn (\\"The Uncertainty Principle\\"), Gretchen Laskas (\\"Small Worlds\\"), and Laura Wolf (\\"Amore\\") were my absolute favorites.  The aforementioned authors and their stories made up for the fact that I was disappointed with the efforts by Sarah Mlynowski, Adriana Trigiani (a real shame with this one, for I loved her novel Big Stone Gap), Nancy Sparling, Quinn Dalton, and Jill Smolinski.  Their stories were either annoying, boring or poorly developed.  All in all, American Girls About Town is one fun short-story collection you won't want to miss.  Perfect for the beach.  (Glad I can use the aforementioned statement again!)	2005-06-12
206946:US	50774468	R1LEZ50TEES4Z7	1589611004	915451315	Candy Concussion	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Great erotic short stories!	I don't usually read erotic books written by men because they often end up sounding like Penthouse letters.  Men's erotica (or in most cases, men's porn in book form) often center on threesomes, teenage girls losing their innocence, voyeurism, or stories about harmless, shy women who morph into wanton sexpots.  Chaz Thompson is guilty of writing stories with the aforementioned subjects in Candy Concussion -- only that his stories are actually very good.  Candy Concussion is a lovely collection of erotic short stories and poems that satisfies the reader from cover to cover (so to speak).  Interestingly enough, my favorites are the ones centered on the clich&eacute; subjects above.  I enjoyed \\"Wendy,\\" \\"The Lollipop,\\" \\"The Librarian,\\" \\" 'Twas the Night Before Christmas,\\" \\"Mr. Frankenstein,\\" and \\"The First Time.\\" Most of the stories have interesting narratives that come from a voyeur of sorts, so they all have some form of fantasy about women (and girls) told by a man's point of view.  That is not a bad thing though.  As said earlier, I prefer to read erotica written by women for women, but Candy Concussion is a great treat.  I look forward to reading more books by this author.	2005-06-12
207085:US	50774468	R5ENYFQC3HTYV	0451208072	896317720	St. Raven	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Middling Regency romance...	Cressida Mandeville wants to steal back the money and possessions her father had lost in a card game and the only way to do it is to agree to become the disgusting Lord Crofton's mistress for a week.  She plans to trick him, steal back her things and escape his estate.  But things don't turn out that way.  On their way to his house, Cressida and Crofton are robbed by a disguised outlaw.  The thief tells Cressida that he will return their money and jewels in exchange for a kiss.  And that is when he ends up taking Cressida with him.  She couldn't believe it when she discovered that the common thief is none other than Tristan Tregallows, Duke of St. Raven, one of the biggest rakes in all of London.  She also cannot believe that he has agreed to help her get her properties back.  They begin a dangerous and exciting adventure in which sexual tension between the protagonists makes things all the more daring.  But is Tristan ready to give his heart to one woman?<br /><br />I liked the noble thief angle and that Tristan sounds scrumptious.  The sexual tension and subsequent sex scenes are great.  Tristan and Cressida make quite an interesting couple.  However, although the story is a little more original than most historical romances, or at least the aristocratic thief storyline is, I had a difficult time getting into the novel.  The novel's pace was very slow at times.  Also, Tristan isn't such a big rake.  I have read about some awesome alpha males and the hero of this novel came across as a little too benign for me -- even if he did indulge in kinky parties and debauchery or not.  All in all, this is an enjoyable romance and Jo Beverley is quite a good author, but St. Raven is nothing out of this world.	2005-06-12
211129:US	50774468	R318VV1PDSC3XP	0385509480	906666482	Haunted : A Novel of Stories	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Not what I expected (2 1/2 stars)...	Having read Fight Club many years ago, I had wanted to read another Chuck Palahniuk book for quite a long time.  The premise for Haunted intrigued me.  However, I was deeply disappointed with this effort.  Haunted is about a group of aspiring writers who go on a writing retreat at an abandoned and remote theater.  They lock themselves hoping that they will find fame once they are found.  In the meantime, they each write short horror stories.  What transpires is a dark, surreal plot that is at times disjointed and dispassionate.<br /><br />I am up for the aforementioned dark and surrealistic stories.  I love them.  And I loved Fight Club for its weirdness and complexity.  But I just couldn't get into this novel.  The characters meant nothing to me and the storyline took a quick downward spiral in which I hoped that the characters would just die or something.  The overall plot seemed promising, but the execution was entirely different than what I had anticipated.  The short stories, however, were fascinating.  I enjoyed most of them and they are the reason why I am giving this book two and a half stars instead of one star.  I liked the following short stories the most: \\"Guts\\" and \\"Obsolete.\\"  These stories made the overall book worth reading.  All in all, Palahniuk fails to create a cult classic with this one.  I shall give his previous efforts a whirl because I have heard wonderful things about this author and because I had indeed enjoyed Fight Club.  I recommend Haunted for its clever, horrific short stories but not for its overall plot.	2005-06-08
211362:US	50774468	R16KZZ23H47R8C	074349749X	705209691	Awaken Me Darkly (Alien Huntress, Book 1)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Fun and entertaining futuristic novel!	It appears that publishers and imprints have finally realized that badass heroines sell books.  Having read the Anita Blake series and other similar books with strong, independent heroines, I wondered why we weren't getting more novels centered on girl power.  Then imprints like Silhouette Bombshell and Downtown Press Naughty Girls come out with fresh new voices and new crops of tough women who shoot first and ask questions later.  Awaken Me Darkly is a fun, entertaining, action-packed, futuristic novel about Mia Snow, an alien huntress for a special Chicago Police Department known as Alien Investigation and Removal (A.I.R.).  Mia does not hesitate to execute rogue aliens on the prowl.  But she has now faced her most challenging assignment yet.  Dead human men with similar physical descriptions have been found all over the city.  It appears that an Acardian alien is responsible for the crimes.  She suspects that mind-controlling beauty named Lilla and her gorgeous, seductive brother Kyrin are somehow involved.  But when her partner is in danger of losing his life, Kyrin is the only one who can save him.  The catch is that she has to do the investigation on his terms, but following orders, especially from aliens, has never been Mia's style.  What follows is a fast-paced, action-packed scene after another with various interesting twists and turns.<br /><br />As said earlier, books with strong, independent heroines are becoming all the more popular. Awaken Me Darkly proves that the aforementioned heroines are here to stay.  I enjoyed this book.  I am not a big fan of futuristic novels, but the premise of this one sounded interesting.  And it was!  I liked Mia and how she handled everyone around her.  I noticed that most of the people around her were men, yet her confidence never faltered.  I know these books are fantasies for women, but they sure are fun to read!  I also enjoyed the futuristic references and how aliens and humans cohabit on earth.  Aliens aren't trusted or accepted on earth in this book, but there are several things that are pointing to a more tolerant coexistence between them.  The secondary characters are great.  I liked Dallas, Jaxon and Ghost and their loyalty with Mia.  Kyrin sounded scrumptious and seemed to be the perfect complement for someone like Mia in the action scenes.  I read that this is the first installment of a series.  I sure hope so, for there are a few loose ends here that I'd like to read more on.  All in all, I look forward to reading more of Mia's adventures.d or accepted on earth in this book, but there are several things that are pointing to a more tolerant coexistence between them.  The secondary characters are great.  I liked Dallas, Jaxon and Ghost and their loyalty with Mia.  Kyrin sounded scrumptious and seemed to be the perfect complement for someone like Mia in the action scenes.  I read that this is the first installment of a series.  I sure hope so, for there are a few loose ends here that I'd like to read more on.  All in all, I look forward to reading more of Mia's adventures.	2005-06-08
215441:US	50774468	RYXQQ5QUY3AWO	031234032X	911452727	Love Creeps: A Novel	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Ms. Filipacchi does it again!	I loved Nude Men and Vapor and had looked forward to reading another Amanda Filipacchi novel after reading and rereading the latter book six years ago.  Love Creeps is another rich, hilarious and enlightening novel with a disturbing story, disarming characters, twisted philosophies and dark humor.  Gallery owner Lynn Gallagher has lost her ability to desire -- to desire life, people and the things around her.  She envies her stalker, an unhappy and unappealing loser named Alan, because he desires her so much that he follows her around all the time.  So, in an attempt to regain her desire for things, she decides to stalk a French lawyer named Roland Dupont. And that is the beginning of a chain of strange events and twists in stalking tendencies, all of which are viewed by a homeless former psychologist who refuses but is unable to resist analyzing the threesome's behavior.  There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Filipacchi has once again created a strange, smart, funny and silly story centered on obsession and the condition of the human mind and spirit.  The novel is a surrealistic farce that touches on serious subjects such as child abuse, obsessive love, masochism, the meaning of one's life among other things told with a dark, ironic and humorous twist.  The author finds logic in the illogical and in doing so she shocks and amuses the reader.  But one cannot help but nod in agreement because some of her strange philosophies make sense.  It is difficult to explain everything, but this sort of novel is excellent for reading discussions because you have so many subjects to choose from.  My favorite quote was this one from Alan: \\"Abusers are like garbage cans.  You can toss all your crap into them.\\"  This was regarding a woman he thought had sexually abused him when he was a child.  He thought he could place the blame of all his failures in life on her.  That is one of the many reasons you should read this book.  The novel raises various questions about romantic love, such as why does someone become desirable the minute they stop desiring you?  I have always wondered about that very thing and Filipacchi delves into said subject beautifully and insightfully.  You will laugh with the oddball stuff that goes on with the characters.  The characters are great, albeit unlikeable, but they are not meant to be likeable.  The list of characters includes a sex addict and an exhibitionist.  The characters have a caricature quality to them that is part of Filipacchi's signature style.  All in all, I loved this novel.  This is better written than Nude Men and Vapor and less over the top with the twists and turns as well.  Filipacchi has been on my must-read list since her first novel and I wish she released novels more often.  I couldn't recommend Love Creeps enough to those who enjoy dark, farcical comedies.  But be careful, for this novel is not for the faint of heart.romantic love, such as why does someone become desirable the minute they stop desiring you?  I have always wondered about that very thing and Filipacchi delves into said subject beautifully and insightfully.  You will laugh with the oddball stuff that goes on with the characters.  The characters are great, albeit unlikeable, but they are not meant to be likeable.  The list of characters includes a sex addict and an exhibitionist.  The characters have a caricature quality to them that is part of Filipacchi's signature style.  All in all, I loved this novel.  This is better written than Nude Men and Vapor and less over the top with the twists and turns as well.  Filipacchi has been on my must-read list since her first novel and I wish she released novels more often.  I couldn't recommend Love Creeps enough to those who enjoy dark, farcical comedies.  But be careful, for this novel is not for the faint of heart.	2005-06-05
215458:US	50774468	R2PU5821VGBNDX	0743264517	274624132	The Dog of the Marriage: Stories	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Another great collection by Hempel...	Having read Reasons to Live and Tumble Home, I had looked forward to reading another short fiction collection by Amy Hempel.  The Dog of the Marriage deals with subjects that are quite popular in short fiction -- romantic relationships gone awry.  However, Hempel adds her own remarkable voice and compelling storytelling to her stories.  The stories that touch on the subjects of obsessive love or ruined marriages are the most wonderful ones.  My favorite stories are \\"Jesus Is Waiting,\\" \\"The Afterlife,\\" \\"Memoir,\\" \\"The Uninvited,\\" and \\"Offertory.\\"  The aforementioned stories are often dark and heartbreaking.  This isn't the best Hempel collection I have read (Reasons to Live, in my opinion, is her most accomplished collection), but it is definitely that I'd recommend to all short fiction lovers out there.	2005-06-05
217553:US	50774468	R10A4F39DVMOS0	0425202461	682833961	Naughty Bedtime Stories	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Naughty Bedtime Stories indeed!	Naughty Bedtime Stories is one great erotic short-story collection.  I had once read one erotic novel by Joan Elizabeth Lloyd called Midnight Butterfly and it was about time I read another one of her offerings.  This collection contains some rather naughty stories for couples.  Each story contains something that will please a specific reader.  Lloyd has written stories with elements of bondage, different fetishes, fantasy and paranormal.  My favorite stories are \\"In My Dreams,\\" \\"Woodworking Wizard,\\" \\"The Woman Who Tried to Seduce Death,\\" \\"Succubus,\\" \\"Incubus,\\" and \\"Read Aloud.\\"  There is something for everyone here.  Even though some of the stories were disappointingly short, Naughty Bedtime Stories is an overall satisfactory read (so to speak).	2005-06-03
217578:US	50774468	R17I65GKFNLJG	0451460278	357514576	Dead Beat: A Novel of The Dresden Files	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Another great Dresden offering...	Another mass market author bites the dust.  Now we have to spend twenty-five dollars to enjoy a Harry Dresden novel.  Is the series worth the hardcover price?  Well, I enjoyed Dead Beat, the seventh novel of the Harry Dresden files, very much because a lot of things regarding Harry's power arise.  Harry agrees to help Mavra find a trail called the Word of Kemmler after she blackmails him.  She will tarnish Murphy's reputation if he refuses to help.  But what is the Word of Kemmler?  Several necromancers want to get their hands on a book that will give them the ability to summon the dead and obtain immeasurable power.  It is up to Dresden to find and destroy the necromancers before Halloween night.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />There are some interesting developments in Harry's life in this one.  He discovers that his powers are bigger and more powerful than he had originally thought.  There are a few developments regarding Harry and the Wardens of the White Court.  Various new characters are introduced in this book, but there are also some of the originals ones I love, like Bob and Murphy.  Speaking of Murphy, in the bits of scenes in which Murphy appears, there is a great deal of tension between her and Harry in terms of them becoming involved in the future.  Harry is the same wise-cracking, self-deprecating wizard who seems to get into trouble whether he wants to or not.  I like his brother Thomas.  He sounds attractive and is a great complement to Harry.  Bob is hilarious as usual and the vampires and other creepy crawlies are scarier than ever.  Dead Beat isn't my favorite installment (Blood Rites holds that title), but it is another wonderful, riveting Harry Dresden novel.  Going back to my earlier question, is this book and indeed the rest of the series worth the hardcover price?  That is up to the reader.  As for me, I do think that the series is worth the hardcover price; however, I will continue to enjoy the Dresden Files by either borrowing the hardcover from a friend or waiting for the paperback.  My passion for books is big, but my budget is quite limited.her borrowing the hardcover from a friend or waiting for the paperback.  My passion for books is big, but my budget is quite limited.	2005-06-03
219688:US	50774468	R1JTVOA7MO39C1	0393057895	607241691	Johnny Too Bad: Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Captivating stories...	Johnny Too Bad is a collection of several of the most interesting and darkest short stories I have read in a while. The characters are three-dimensional and have a great deal of humor, earnestness and an overall compelling voice that enthralled me from beginning to end. All of the eighteen stories in this collection were magnificent, but my favorites were, \\"Arlis and Ivy,\\" \\"Congratulations, You May Already Be,\\" \\"Based on a True Story,\\" \\"Close By Me Forever,\\" and \\"Who Are They Who Are Like Clouds?\\" The titles are definitely quirky, and they hook you in before you even begin to read the actual story. John Dufresne is a very interesting author and I look forward to reading more of his stuff in the future. In the meantime, I recommend this gem.	2005-06-01
219825:US	50774468	R1VD341EGCHD7	0352334975	813815827	The Naked Truth (Black Lace)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Naked Truth indeed!	Having read and loved The Captivation and The Transformation, I had looked forward to reading another novel by Natasha Rostova (pseudonym).  The Naked Truth is one of the steamiest and most scorching Black Lace novels out there.  The best part is that it has elements of being romantic as well.  Carrie decides to leave her husband after several attempts at making things work.  Every aspect of their marriage worked fine.  He was a good lover and they had decent marriage.  But Logan is unable to communicate with Carrie regarding his past and certain inconsistencies in his life that Carrie finds disturbing. So she leaves him and decides to have several of the most delectable exploits I have read in all of erotica...<br /><br />This novel, like The Captivation, contains a lot of sex scenes.  There is a little bit of everything here -- threesomes, group sex, same sex encounters, etc.  Each scene is described in ways so palpable that you will need a cold shower or a rump with your mate after you finish reading them.  The characters are rich and three-dimensional.  Tess is my favorite character by far.  Carrie is a good leading protagonist whose feelings regarding her experimentations are a bit more realistic than most erotic novels out there.  The story is also engaging.  As said earlier, there are romantic aspects in the novel that will make you want to root for the proverbial happy ending made popular by traditional romance novels.  And there are several surprises in the book as well -- all of which make quite an engaging story.  Once again, the author, whatever his or her name is, has captivated me with her keen storytelling and scorching scenes.  This is the best Black Lace novel I have read in quite a long time and I cannot recommend The Naked Truth enough.	2005-06-01
225941:US	50774468	R3TH2QQ0JGK5Q5	1843605589	331586559	Lover's Talisman	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great paranormal romantica...	This book broke the reading rut I've had for a couple of days. Lover's Talisman is an erotic and paranormal delight.  The story and the leading characters will hook you in and won't let go until its final page.  Welcome to Talisman Bay -- where things go bump in the night and where love comes along in the most unexpected ways.  The Shadow Walkers consist of a secret group of five mortal men who protect people from demons, vampires, werewolves and other monsters.  Stephan Rashleigh is one of those men.  He has dedicated his life to protecting innocent bystanders against creepy crawlies and has given up on the idea of ever finding love.  That is until he meets Mariah, an exotic dancer with a tumultuous romantic past.  His life is never the same after he saves her life from a mating demon.  Then he decides to continue to protect her after her best friend is kidnaped by werewolves.  He knows that he is the reason why she is danger, and dreads the thought of giving up on the only woman he has ever loved.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This novel has a dark edge that comes from the paranormal aspect of the story.  I liked the world of Talisman Bay and the sort of noble heroes the Walkers represented.  However, I would have liked for the novel to concentrate more on the monsters -- namely the vampires, werewolves and different kinds of demons -- and less on the sexual tension between Stephan and Mariah.  I found it unrealistic that Mariah delved on her sexual attraction for Stephan after she had encountered a supernatural creature for the first time.  Not that I didn't enjoy the sexual tension and subsequent sex scenes between the protagonists.  The scenes were amazingly hot.  And I liked that the leading characters were well developed, even if the other Shadow Walkers were not as well developed.  But this is an outstanding series and I look forward to getting to know all of the characters.  Aside from a few inconsistencies, Talisman Bay is a steamy, action-packed, entertaining novel.  I highly recommend it.  I look forward to reading the second part of the series.eamy, action-packed, entertaining novel.  I highly recommend it.  I look forward to reading the second part of the series.	2005-05-27
229577:US	50774468	R2EG8QUXUIJBIN	0440236576	474831124	No Man's Mistress (The Mistress Trilogy)	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Disappointing, nothing like More than a Mistress...	Having read and loved More than a Mistress, I had looked forward to reading No Man's Mistress.  However, the story of Ferdinand Dudley (the younger brother of Jocelyn, the Duke of Tresham, from More than a Mistress) and Viola Thornhill failed to captivate me the way the previous offering had done.  Ferdinand wins the Pinewood Manor in a card game and looks forward to checking out the place he believes is unhabitable.  Imagine his surprise when he discovers that not only is the place habitable, but a young woman lives there.  She claims that she had inherited the house and refuses to leave.  He says he has obtained the house legally and he too refuses to leave.  So they decide to share the house and have constant fights, power struggles and undeniable attraction.  They reach a point in which they can no longer deny their feelings for one another, but Viola has a dark secret that keeps her at bay.<br /><br />I have some knowledge of what big gossip mongers the people of the ton were during Regency England, which is why I find a lot of the things that go on in this novel unbelievable.  And, as said earlier, Ferdinand and Viola failed to spark my interest.  Ferdinand is not as imposing a figure as Jocelyn was in More than a Mistress, which disappointed me.  I like the alpha males in romances.  And even though Viola is a strong, independent heroine (or as independent as women were allowed to be in those times), she is nowhere near as memorable a character as Jane Ingleby.  Their romance in general was hardly believable in a time when young women were not allowed on their own without a chaperone, let alone live with a single man with the reputation of being a rake.  I just couldn't get into it.  Not even Ferdinand's lack of sexual experience made me like the story or its characters.  And I hated how Viola treated Ferdinand.  She was downright nasty.  She did not deserve Ferdinand's love and devotion for her.  The only saving grace in this novel is the reappearance of Jocelyn and Jane.  If only the novel had been about them!  Alas, this second effort is a huge disappointment.  I suppose this is the end of my very brief love affair with Ms. Mary Balogh.lyn and Jane.  If only the novel had been about them!  Alas, this second effort is a huge disappointment.  I suppose this is the end of my very brief love affair with Ms. Mary Balogh.	2005-05-24
229956:US	50774468	R1ZCW75YIKU6EZ	0684857022	240205670	MY DATE WITH SATAN: Stories	Books	1	4	9	N	N	Not for me...	I thought I'd enjoy this humorous short story collection, but My Date with Satan read like an amateur comic routine at a comedy club.  The author tried too hard to be witty and clever at times and said attempts often backfired.  I rolled my eyes while I read this book more times than I care to remember.  The only story that I liked was \\"Rats Eat Cats.\\"  That was the only story that had some earnest humor.  As an avid short-fiction reader, My Date with Satan lack the ingredients needed in this stuff genre to hook readers.  This book was not for me...	2005-05-24
232974:US	50774468	R1M7Z5HJGW533M	0373895194	932093559	Sex, Murder and a Double Latte	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Very fun, engaging whodunit chick-lit...	Sex, Murder and a Double Latte was so fun to read that I stayed awake until the wee hours of the night to finish it.  This book is suspenseful, chic, fun and very funny.  The story is also quite engaging.  Sophie Katz is a bestseller mystery writer going through the unthinkable -- someone is stalking her, playing out scenes from one of her books.  The stalker is so sneaky and clever with his devices that Sophie comes across as paranoid to the police.  What's worse is that she has picked up a strange pattern from the news -- two people from the art industry, a film producer and a famous rapper, have been killed in ways that are similar to one of the producer's movies and one of the rapper's music videos.  It seems someone is killing artists by playing out scenes from their creative efforts.  Who is doing this?  Could it be the gorgeous Russian who is flirting with Sophie, or is it the weird guy her best friend is dating?  All Sophie wants to do is sit back and enjoy free time after finishing her new book and quench her thirst for caffeine at Starbucks.  With the help of her friends, she will do whatever is possible to put the creep behind bars so she could live a normal life again...<br /><br />As said earlier, this is one entertaining novel!  The storyline is clever and the characters are witty, quirky and fun to read.  The whole life-imitates-art thing is quite well written.  The novel is lighthearted despite some dark scenes in the book.  It was fun to read Sophie playing the amateur sleuth not unlike the heroines in her novels.  The outcome and identity of the killer are predictable though -- I was able to figure out who the killer was long before his identity was revealed, but the story was so engaging and fun that it did not matter to me that I figured out whodunit ahead of time.  But there was something that bothered me about the book.  The last scene centered on Sophie and Anatoly was not very believable.  I won't go into details, but the scene was not realistic after everything they went through.  Other than that, I enjoyed Sex, Murder and a Double Latte.  The author's great voice made up for some of the shortcomings.  I look forward to reading more of her stuff in the future. I highly recommend this novel.tic after everything they went through.  Other than that, I enjoyed Sex, Murder and a Double Latte.  The author's great voice made up for some of the shortcomings.  I look forward to reading more of her stuff in the future. I highly recommend this novel.	2005-05-21
233148:US	50774468	R1IBVVT5YMK374	0352333375	562022334	The Top of Her Game (Black Lace)	Books	2	8	13	N	N	Not good, very disappointing effort by Ms. Holly...	Emma Holly is one of the best erotica authors out there.  I loved Menage, Personal Assets, The Velvet Glove, Beyond Seduction and Hunting Midnight so much that I couldn't wait to read more of her stuff.  I also enjoyed Strange Attractions and The Demon's Daughter, her most recent novels, but they were not up to par with her earlier work.  I thought The Top of Her Game would be great because this is one of her early works -- when she used to write for Black Lace.  However, I was disappointed with this effort, which comes across more like a very long Penthouse letter than a smolderingly erotic novel.  This is the story of a secretary's stay at a dude ranch in Montana.  Her boss thinks someone is leaking information to their major competitor and sends Julia to spy on various execs during a getaway business meeting in said ranch.  What transpires is a story with endless explicit sex scenes controlled by Zach -- the sexy owner of the ranch.  This turns out to be a big opportunity for Julia to act out her fantasy of being a dominatrix.  There are various scenes throughout the novel.<br /><br />Someone here pointed out that the sex scenes are rushed and contrived.  I agree with this reviewer.  There is no sexual tension between the characters, no development whatsoever.  The sex is just thrown out to the reader with no preamble.  This is so unlike Emma Holly.  The sexual tension between the characters in Personal Assets and Beyond Seduction was second to none.  I cannot believe the same author wrote this book.  I could not relate to Julia.  The whole dominatrix thing is not my cup of tea (I actually enjoy reading about sexually submissive women, to be honest).  The only saving grace in this novel is Zach.  He sounded absolutely scrumptious!  I would have loved to see some tension centered on him.  Alas, it was not meant to be.  The Top of Her Game is a prime example of a pornographic novel with no substance.  This is by far my least favorite Emma Holly effort.  I'd suggest you skip this and read any of her other books instead.you skip this and read any of her other books instead.	2005-05-21
234987:US	50774468	R1USX2TD9KA3JG	0763618292	897518580	Witch Child	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Very interesting, enthralling novel...	The premise of this novel seemed very interesting.  And it turned out to be quite a compelling read.  Witch Child is the story of a fourteen-year-old trying to escape from potential execution.  Set in 1659, the secret diary of Mary Newbury reveals entries in which she witnesses the execution of her grandmother for being a witch.  With the help of a strange woman, she leaves England and arrives at an American colony.  Settling in isn't easy for young Mary -- and the fear of revealing her identity to the Puritans becomes overwhelming.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This novel is told in the form of an old diary that was found and published.  I enjoyed this enthralling, enriching and beautiful gothic novel.  Whether or not Mary was indeed a witch is a mystery and is up to the reader to decide.  I for one found the backdrop of Puritan society and entries centered on witch hunts fascinating.  The novel follows an untraditional pattern of plot development because everything is told in the diary entries.  The historical references are also very interesting and readable.  All in all, this is one of the best gothic novels I have read in a while.  This isn't as good as Libba Bray's A Great and Terrible Beauty, but this one is a keeper in its own right.  I cannot recommend Witch Child enough.	2005-05-19
235064:US	50774468	R1HV8LIGDGV0PR	0060778970	142631692	Zorro: A Novel	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Enthralling, enriching adaptation...	I never read The Mark of Zorro, but if the original was anywhere near as good as this recreation, then I look forward to reading it some time in the future.  Allende takes the reader into an enriching journey full of precise history and keen storytelling with Diego de la Vega -- a man torn between the customs of his heritage and doing the right thing.  We see how Diego grows up in a somewhat corrupt society in which Europeans torture and abuse Native Americans.  He starts off by joining a group called La Justicia, a group of Robin Hood types who help the poor.  And through various adventures and turns of history, Diego becomes el Zorro -- a legendary hero that we will not soon forget...<br /><br />As said earlier, I have not read The Mark of Zorro and therefore cannot compare that book with this one.  However, this novel is one of the best books I have read in a long time.  Isabel Allende has been one of my favorite novelists for as long as I can remember and she has done a wonderful job with this novel.  Zorro is a bit of a change from her usual work, but the different angle in her standard writing style is a welcome one.  The most impressive part of this novel is the historical reference.  Her descriptions of European landscapes and architecture and customs are vivid and breathtaking.  We also get a lot of subplots centered on the times in which French military commander Napoleon Bonaparte ruled and corrupted a major part of Europe.  All of the aforementioned things make for a literary, enlightening read.  I only wish I had taken the incentive of reading the original Spanish version, for I am sure that many things were lost in the translation.  Alas, it is difficult to write a summary without giving away important details or spoilers, which is why I have made mine brief.  I simply suggest that you get this book and savor its pages like fine wine because historical novels based on legendary heroes don't get better than this!	2005-05-19
239804:US	50774468	RNF8OVVZIMJT8	0440226015	466643093	More than a Mistress (The Mistress Trilogy)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wonderful, memorable Regency romance...	I often avoid traditional romance novels because they are usually repetitive, corny and predictable.  I prefer romanticas (romantic erotica) or novels with romance as one of its subgenre.  However, I have found that my instincts scarcely fail me when I do decide to read a full-blown romance novel.  Mary Balogh's More than a Mistress is a beautifully told Regency story starring two rather high-strung, stubborn protagonists.  Jocelyn Dudley, Duke of Tresham, is one of London's most scandalous and wildest rakes -- constantly getting himself into trouble that lead to duels.  But then his life is turned upside down when he meets Jane Ingleby.  When she intervenes during a duel that leaves Jocelyn with a wounded leg, she is reluctantly hired to be his nurse for three weeks.  She refuses to be subservient and docile to the handsome and moody rake.  On the contrary, she is downright insubordinate.  But their attraction is undeniable.  Jocelyn offers the young woman great accommodations if she agrees to be his mistress.  Jane accepts because, unbeknownst to her, she has developed feelings for Jocelyn, but also because being his mistress would be the perfect hiding place for her...<br /><br />I loved all of the historical references in this novel.  The language and details are true to the time period.  I loved how the author emphasized the importance of aristocratic titles and the popularity of the ton and its many gossipers.  And I especially loved the love story of Jocelyn and Jane.  The attraction and chemistry between the characters are palpable even though their constant disagreements and bickering got on my nerves.  I admit that Jocelyn annoyed me often in the novel.  He was at times incredibly cruel to Jane during their clandestine affair.  But I loved him nevertheless.  He became a more sympathetic character when he revealed his somewhat dysfunctional relationship with his father to Jane.  He touched me during the scenes in which he opens up his heart to her.  I am such a sucker for heroes with wounded souls! He sounded scrumptious and his bad boy facade came about as quite realistic.  And I liked the scenes in which he used his quizzing glass to intimidate people.  I enjoyed the fact that Jane was far from being a doormat to Jocelyn even as she worked as his servant.  But she too annoyed me at times, but her feelings and insecurities for Jocelyn were understandable, especially when he gave out mixed signals.  The secondary characters, mainly Jocelyn's eccentric sister and his rakish friend Kimble, were great.  The overall storytelling of the novel was wonderful.  The novel sometimes had a Jane Eyre and Sense and Sensibility quality to it that made it all the more irresistible.  Again, I don't often read traditional romances, but this one is definitely a keeper.  I look forward to reading No Man's Mistress.ch a sucker for heroes with wounded souls! He sounded scrumptious and his bad boy facade came about as quite realistic.  And I liked the scenes in which he used his quizzing glass to intimidate people.  I enjoyed the fact that Jane was far from being a doormat to Jocelyn even as she worked as his servant.  But she too annoyed me at times, but her feelings and insecurities for Jocelyn were understandable, especially when he gave out mixed signals.  The secondary characters, mainly Jocelyn's eccentric sister and his rakish friend Kimble, were great.  The overall storytelling of the novel was wonderful.  The novel sometimes had a Jane Eyre and Sense and Sensibility quality to it that made it all the more irresistible.  Again, I don't often read traditional romances, but this one is definitely a keeper.  I look forward to reading No Man's Mistress.	2005-05-15
239930:US	50774468	R2D1KZP4JEOPWB	0688179096	97078524	Circling the Drain: Stories	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Engrossing, surreal short stories!	Amanda Davis has created some very surreal, disarming and fanciful stories in Circling the Drain.  The stories have elements of magic realism that make them literary and beautiful, but they are also quite vivid and heart wrenching with their messages of love and longing, of loss and despair in a wonderfully lyrical and undeniably nuance.  My favorite stories are \\"Red Lights Like Laughter,\\" \\"Faith or Tips for the Successful Young Lady,\\" \\"The Visit,\\" and \\"Prints.\\"  Each of these stories had touched me in unbelievable ways.  Davis is one of the most talented writers out there and I look forward to reading more of her stuff.  In the meantime, I cannot recommend Circling the Drain enough.	2005-05-15
243250:US	50774468	R1SPASOHWBGBJS	0451214943	17215424	Fire Me Up (Aisling Grey, Guardian, Book 2)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great second part of the Guardian novels!	I enjoyed You Slay Me, the first part of the Aisling Grey, Guardian Novels, and looked forward to reading Fire Me Up.  This book was a real treat and I had a difficult time putting it down.  It is not as good as You Slay Me, but that is not saying much because this one is a keeper as well.  Aisling has accepted her status as a Guardian, which is why she travels to Budapest to search for the perfect mentor.  She is also there to deliver a sacred amulet to a homeless hermit.  All she has to do is search for him at every park in Budapest.  Talk about finding a needle in a haystack!  Aisling also comes face to face with Drake Vireo -- wyvern of the green dragons and the bane of her existence -- who is more determined to make her his mate for life than ever.  Things get more complicated for Aisling when the amulet she carries around has some strange effects on mortal men and summons gorgeous incubi. Her search for a mentor isn't going so well either, for each potential mentor has turned up dead.  She has to put up with all of that and carry around the smart-mouth dog-slash-demon Jim.  There are various fun twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I like the fact that Aisling is a feisty, independent, I-am-in-charge-of-my-own-life type of heroine.  She does get a bit over the top and downright irritating at times, especially when she banters and bickers with Jim and Drake respectively, but I admire the fact that she is a no-nonsense, independent woman.  Her brazen personality gets in the way of surrendering to gorgeous, sexy Drake -- who is the proverbial alpha male.  Their scenes together are amazing.  MacAlister created two characters that have a chemistry that is almost palpable.  Drake is incredibly hot; the perfect anti-hero for this sort of series.  I hope we will see more of him in future installments.  Jim is hilarious as usual.  I do love his sharp lines and wonderful quips.  MacAlister has succeeded in creating an irritating, albeit lovable sidekick.  The humor in this offering exceeds the one in You Slay Me and indeed all of the other Katie MacAlister novels I have read thus far.  Her writing style reminds me of MaryJanice Davidson's work in that she blends romance, comedy, action and paranormal elements together quite well.  All in all, Fire Me Up is an excellent follow-up to You Slay Me.  The intro to this series was awesome and the second book has guaranteed a faithful and avid reader of the Aisling Grey world in me.  It is not necessary for me to say that I recommend this book, but I nevertheless do so most highly.n this offering exceeds the one in You Slay Me and indeed all of the other Katie MacAlister novels I have read thus far.  Her writing style reminds me of MaryJanice Davidson's work in that she blends romance, comedy, action and paranormal elements together quite well.  All in all, Fire Me Up is an excellent follow-up to You Slay Me.  The intro to this series was awesome and the second book has guaranteed a faithful and avid reader of the Aisling Grey world in me.  It is not necessary for me to say that I recommend this book, but I nevertheless do so most highly.	2005-05-12
243621:US	50774468	R26SN1BEDHAVPI	0375724397	350966058	The Abomination: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Clever, disturbing, dark...	The Abomination is one of the darkest, most disturbing novels I have read in a while.  The plot, language and dialogue are disarming from beginning to end.  This novel is about a half English, half Spaniard homosexual male who finds himself in an existential crisis when it comes to his relationships with men.  He looks back into the days in an English boarding school after his arrival from Spain.  That is where his relationships with men begin and how his confusion in a world where heterosexuality is the only thing acceptable in today's society and what has to be done in order to be accepted as a gay man in the modern world.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Santiago Moore Zamora is not a sympathetic character in the slightest.  He is the proverbial anti-hero in more ways than one.  Coming from an aristocratic Spanish mother, his homosexuality is more of a taboo in the eyes of the people closest to him.  But his childhood memories are not an attempt at gaining sympathy from the readers.  Santiago's language is dark and apathetic from beginning to end.  It is difficult to describe just how impassive the character is -- suffice it to say that his recollection of his first sexual encounter with a teacher at the tender age of nine are disturbing to the max.  And things get all the darker as the novel progresses.  The Abomination is the sort of novel that does not sugarcoat the events and instead illustrates the underbelly of the human condition.  Paul Golding is quite a gifted author.  He reminds me of the authors Corene Lemaitre and Kate Christensen in that the characters are quite flawed.  I recommend this great novel and look forward to reading more books by this talented British author.	2005-05-12
247231:US	50774468	R327L8OSBW14Q8	0060725540	215169937	The Girlfriend Curse	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Funny and entertaining romantic comedy...	Peg Silver has reached a relationship crossroads in which she has to change her lifestyle in order to see positive results in her love life.  Unbeknownst to her, she had become the last girlfriend in all of her relationships, for all of her exes have met The One and gotten married after breaking up with her.  And they thank her for changing their attitudes toward marriage and for helping improving their lives.  That is good and all, but Peg wanted at least one of them to change and improve their lives while dating her!  So the cosmopolitan gardener -- or rather, interior landscape designer -- decides to move out of her chic Manhattan apartment and into a ten-acre farmhouse in Vermont.  Well, things are not what Peg thought they would be.  Vermont is a big departure from the concrete jungle that is New York City.  But things get interesting in her love life when she begins to frequent Inward Bound -- a retreat for the loveless -- and is in turn torn between the attention of two men.  There are some fun twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The Girlfriend Curse is a fun, delightful and lighthearted romantic comedy about finding love when you least expect it.  I like the witty and sharp look into romance here.  The novel has its memorable moments of humor.  Peg is the typical lovelorn heroine who thinks she has reached the end of the road.  And Ray and Linus are great opposites for Peg.  This book reminded me of so many romantic movies that are out there.  It was fun to read.  I have always enjoyed Valerie Frankel's novels and this one is yet another fun, light offering that is perfect for the beach.  I recommend The Girlfriend Curse if you're in the bargain for an entertaining, romantic read.	2005-05-09
247998:US	50774468	R1C0Q68JAXFOZY	0312315945	993897127	Magical Thinking: True Stories	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Burroughs is brilliant!	Augusten Burroughs has a knack for satire and other aspects of dark humor.  I loved his novel Sellevision and looked forward to reading more books by this talented author.  Magical Thinking is one of the funniest short-story collections I have ever read.  This darkly funny collection will have you in stitches of laughter while at the same time making you shake your head with disgust at some of the bold scenes, raunchy situations and disarming language in the stories.  This book is even darker in content than Sellevision!  My favorite stories are \\"Transfixed by Transsexuals,\\" \\"Model Behavior,\\" \\"Holly Blow Job,\\" \\"I'm Gonna Live Forever,\\" \\"My Last First Date,\\" and \\"Cunnilungusville.\\"  Augusten Burroughs is one of the most talented authors out there and I cannot wait till he releases another novel.  In the meantime, I think I will give his memoirs a whirl.	2005-05-09
249385:US	50774468	RNFKROQMPHUD5	0393323846	416933572	Babe in Paradise: Fiction	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Didn't do it for me...	I thought I was getting thought provoking, creative stories centered on Los Angeles's underbelly with this book.  The stories are rather disjointed at times and appear not to have any purpose at all.  The characters are well developed and they were strikingly real and compelling at times, but the uneven writing sort of made them loose their sparkle.  Out of the nine stories, only \\"Gunsmoke\\" and \\"Two Criminals\\" somewhat captured me.  The others didn't do it for me.  If you are a lover of short stories like I am, you'd want to see whether or not this one is a hit or a miss.  To me, Babe in Paradise was a miss...	2005-05-07
249411:US	50774468	R3VQ6C9JB8UEFO	0441012795	142764139	Dead as a Doornail (Southern Vampire Mysteries, Book 5)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Keeps getting better and better...	I had looked forward to reading Dead as a Doornail, the fifth book in the Southern Vampire Mysteries series, so much that I finished it in two sittings.  Now I wish I had savored the pages like fine wine, for there won't be another installment coming out until next year.  Sookie has a lot of unfinished business with vampires Bill and Eric and shifters Alcide and Sam.  She still has loving feelings for Bill, is unsure about telling Eric what had happened between them during his amnesic state, has issues about Alcide and the incident with his ex-girlfriend, and is unable to shake off her lustful feelings for Sam.  But the lovable telepathic waitress has other problems.  Her brother is now a werepanther, and his fellow Weres suspect that he is the one responsible for several shootings against shape-shifters.  She has also reluctantly agreed to join Alcide in witnessing a battle involving Were politics.  She is watching out for her friend who is dating a strange vampire.  And to her horror, a couple of private eyes are questioning her about Debbie Pelt's mysterious disappearance.  But the worst of her problems is that someone is trying to kill her.  There are various twists throughout the novel...<br /><br />The best part of this installment is that Sookie delves into her inner torments and guilt regarding the events that took place in the first three installments.  The storylines are well connected and the readers get a few answers regarding previous events that the reader should not disregard as filler (perhaps some may have to reread the series in order to refresh their memory).  I also like Sookie's inner turmoil regarding the men in her life.  Charlaine Harris did a great job developing Sookie's inner conflicts.  Her feelings for Bill -- jealousy, nostalgia, heartbreak -- are quite palpable in their scenes together.  Bill is my favorite of the sup men in the series (Eric being my second favorite) and I'm still rooting for them to get it together.  I also liked the sexual tension between Sookie and Eric and her awkwardness for being the only one who knows what happened between them.  We all know that Alcide and Sam have a thing for her and there are some interesting scenes with each of them.  Werepanther Calvin also has has his eyes set out on Sookie, and she doesn't know what to make of his feelings for her.  And now there is a new guy who may well get into the equation.  Some of the readers here have complained about the fact that all of those male characters have a thing for Sookie, but I rather enjoy the heroine's tension and history with each of them.  Each man has a different reason for having feelings for Sookie -- and all of those storylines are interesting and will no doubt make for great future installments.  I am all for a bit of romantic intrigue as long as Ms. Harris does not let Sookie take the Anita Blake ardeur route.  I love that all of the main characters had a chance to shine in this book (although not as much as I would have liked).  The fairies Claudine and Claude are great (Claude sounds yummy) and I enjoyed Bubba's funny, albeit brief appearance as well.  The mysteries are well done, but there is a loose end with the Debbie Pelt investigation thing. I also would have liked for Harris to concentrate more on Jason adjusting to life as a werepanther.  Aside from those two shortcomings, I enjoyed this installment. And I rather enjoyed the last page of the book in which promises a great plot for the next book.  Dead as a Doornail is another addictive Sookie Stackhouse book.  But now I'll have to wait a whole year for the next fix.  Oh, well, I guess there is always the Lily Bard series...sexual tension between Sookie and Eric and her awkwardness for being the only one who knows what happened between them.  We all know that Alcide and Sam have a thing for her and there are some interesting scenes with each of them.  Werepanther Calvin also has has his eyes set out on Sookie, and she doesn't know what to make of his feelings for her.  And now there is a new guy who may well get into the equation.  Some of the readers here have complained about the fact that all of those male characters have a thing for Sookie, but I rather enjoy the heroine's tension and history with each of them.  Each man has a different reason for having feelings for Sookie -- and all of those storylines are interesting and will no doubt make for great future installments.  I am all for a bit of romantic intrigue as long as Ms. Harris does not let Sookie take the Anita Blake ardeur route.  I love that all of the main characters had a chance to shine in this book (although not as much as I would have liked).  The fairies Claudine and Claude are great (Claude sounds yummy) and I enjoyed Bubba's funny, albeit brief appearance as well.  The mysteries are well done, but there is a loose end with the Debbie Pelt investigation thing. I also would have liked for Harris to concentrate more on Jason adjusting to life as a werepanther.  Aside from those two shortcomings, I enjoyed this installment. And I rather enjoyed the last page of the book in which promises a great plot for the next book.  Dead as a Doornail is another addictive Sookie Stackhouse book.  But now I'll have to wait a whole year for the next fix.  Oh, well, I guess there is always the Lily Bard series...	2005-05-07
253170:US	50774468	R1PKUYCQ0ZGLPU	0786714336	232992179	You Are Not the One: Stories	Books	5	2	3	N	N	One of the best short story collections I have read all year	Vestal McIntyre has created the most eccentric characters and bizarre situations in this collection of darkly funny short stories.  He writes about things that people could relate to, yet he adds a touch of peculiar situations that make the stories dark and compelling at the same time.  Some stories were written in second-person narrative and that gave the stories a more unique voice.  My favorite story is \\"ONJ.com.\\"  I like to think of the aforementioned story as Will and Grace with a twist.  I also loved \\"Nightwalking,\\" \\"Disability,\\" and \\"Binge.\\"  I enjoyed entering McIntyre's world with this fascinating collection and I look forward to reading more of his stuff in the future.	2005-05-04
253412:US	50774468	R24UU1PGDFOYRA	0385732317	443629566	A Great and Terrible Beauty (The Gemma Doyle Trilogy)	Books	5	134	144	N	N	A beautiful, page-turning Victorian/gothic novel...	I picked up this book on a whim because the premise seemed interesting.  A Great and Terrible Beauty is one of the most beautiful historical and gothic novels I have read in a while.  The story enthralled me from beginning to end.  Sixteen-year-old Gemma Doyle is different from the other girls at the London boarding school she lives in after her mother's tragic and strange death in India.  In addition to not having the conformist mentality that girls of her class and station are trained to have, Gemma has a deep, dark problem that she does not know how to control.  She has visions of tragic things that come true and has the magic key to enter an alternate place called the Realms, where every desire -- as well as every nightmare -- can come true.  When she finds the diary of a girl with similar powers, she learns about a secret society called the Order, and she and three friends decide to explore the magical and strange world.  But there are things that Gemma doesn't know about, secrets and mysteries that she will have to figure out on her own.  And she tries to do this while a rather strange Indian boy keeps an eye on her and demands that she put a stop to her visions.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />A Great and Terrible Beauty is the sort of novel that you cannot put down because there are so many elements, so many layers that make the novel compelling and enthralling.  I loved the backdrop of Victorian England and the way women were viewed and what was expected from them in those times.  The female characters spoke volumes about this particularly difficult time period for women.  Pippa's desire to meet the perfect prince touched me.  She is a very flawed character, but with dreams and desires that spoke to me.  Felicity is also quite a complex character.  She was a loyal friend and an innocent at times and was cruel, despicable and disturbing in others.  Gemma is a great heroine.  She had the sort of confusions and issues that girls at present time could definitely relate to.  There was a naivete quality to her voice that made her all the more compelling.  The gothic aspect of the novel is the perfect complement for the time setting.  The horror aspect of the novel were chilling at times.  The story became very fanciful about halfway through the novel, but the elements of magic in those scenes were very well done.  I fell in love with this book and Libba Bray seems quite an interesting author (an interview with Ms. Bray is included in the book).  There are loose ends that tell me there will be a second novel.  I hope this turns into a series.  It is too good for it to be a one-time story.  I recommend A Great and Terrible Beauty most highly.  This novel is one of the best reading investments I've made thus far this year!resent time could definitely relate to.  There was a naivete quality to her voice that made her all the more compelling.  The gothic aspect of the novel is the perfect complement for the time setting.  The horror aspect of the novel were chilling at times.  The story became very fanciful about halfway through the novel, but the elements of magic in those scenes were very well done.  I fell in love with this book and Libba Bray seems quite an interesting author (an interview with Ms. Bray is included in the book).  There are loose ends that tell me there will be a second novel.  I hope this turns into a series.  It is too good for it to be a one-time story.  I recommend A Great and Terrible Beauty most highly.  This novel is one of the best reading investments I've made thus far this year!	2005-05-04
257750:US	50774468	RTMDFZV466TGZ	0393059081	246720252	Ideas of Heaven: A Ring of Stories	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Well written and unique ring of short stories!	Ideals of Heaven is quite a unique collection of short stories in that a secondary character in one story has a chance to tell his or her own views on life, love and faith in the next offering.  All of the stories are in first-person narrative and each character has its own take on life, relationships, sex, and other subjects.  This book enthralled me from beginning to end because each story spoke to me -- the voice of each character has something special, with musings and insights that make the reader nod in agreement and be touched as well.  My favorite stories are \\"Ideas of Heaven,\\" \\"The High Road,\\" and \\"My Shape.\\"  The aforementioned stories touched me the most.  The link of characters in each story makes this book all the more interesting.  Joan Silber is a great author.  I recommend this wonderful piece of work.	2005-04-30
258332:US	50774468	R1GCYR12A6YVRM	1419951270	641252979	The Best of Jaid Black	Books	4	28	31	N	N	The best indeed!	Jaid Black is one of my favorite erotic romance authors.  Her stories are some of the steamiest I have read.  And so, I couldn't wait to pick up The Best of Jaid Black.  This collection features three of her most popular Ellora's Cave novellas.  These novellas are three of the best I've read by Ms. Black.  She has earned her nickname Queen of Steam.  My favorite novella is Tremors.  I love heroes with wounded souls and Fredrik was as wounded and as dark and mysterious as they come.  I loved the development of this story and the erotic scenes were smoldering to the max.  I liked the whole gothic backdrop as well.  The Obsession is my second favorite novella.  This one features a rather uninhibited heroine and how she brings out the brazen side of one conservative and sensible lecturer of mathematics.  I love this novella because the heroine is the one who takes the reins of seduction and drives the man over the edge with her daring ways.  I was a bit confused with the title of the novella though.  When I first read the title, I thought I was going to read a dark novella.  This story is not dark at all, but it is the most erotic one in the book!  My least favorite was Vanished.  The premise and opening chapters of the novella did not grab me, but I continued to read on.  It turned out to be a good read, but the whole rapist scenario in the first three or so chapters and the heroine's way of coping with the situation were not my favorites.  I took away a star because of the aforementioned things.  All in all, The Best of Jaid Black is a book I recommend if you're in the mood for some moving love stories coupled with delectable sex scenes that will satisfy you to no end (so to speak).  Jaid Black is an author that guarantees a naughty read in more ways than one.  I recommend this collection, but I warn you that this is a sheet burner through and through!	2005-04-30
261565:US	50774468	RW3J1QRH762AV	0679776907	706276148	A Whistling Woman	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent conclusion to the series!	I loved reading about the philosophical and intellectual musings of the Porter family in The Virgin in the Garden, Still Life and Babel Tower and had looked forward to reading A Whistling Woman.  I know that this is the final installment in this wonderful series and I held out on reading it because I had wanted to savor these wonderful offerings for as long as I could.  A Whistling Woman is one interesting and enthralling novel!  Set in London during the late 1960s, this fourth novel centers mostly on Federica Potter's chic talk show and its various topics on literature, politics, feminism, among other things.  The novel also introduces a plethora of new characters and their various intellectual insights and findings.  There are various twists throughout the novel as Federica once again regales us with her strong, feminist views.<br /><br />This novel, unlike the previous three, had a slow start for me.  It also came across as too bloated with all of those new characters and topics.  But A.S. Byatt pulled it off well and the novel became riveting afterwards.  I particularly loved how the topic of how the human brain was made for the body instead for reason had been delved into with so many thought-provoking views and personal philosophies.  I could get into so many subjects this novel got into-but I am afraid of spoiling it for the potential reader.  This is the sort of book that you read and then discuss with a group of friends or fellow bibliophiles.  The final chapter of this enlightening quartet did not disappoint me.  I will miss Federica and the rest of the Potter family.  My only hope is that A.S. Byatt continues to deliver wonderful books in the future.	2005-04-27
261742:US	50774468	R2XZ8I241WATJO	0425196992	532012809	Shakespeare's Trollop (Lily Bard, Book 4)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	This series looks very promising!	I was unable to obtain the previous three copies of the Lily Bard series and had to settle with starting with Shakespeare's Trollop.  I don't like to read series books out of order, but I love Charlaine Harris's Sookie Stackhouse series and wanted to give one of her mystery books a whirl.  Shakespeare's Trollop was a fun, engrossing novel that kept me guessing until its final pages.  Lily Bard is a thirty-something cleaning lady and karate expert who has discovered the dead body of a woman whose reputation was not the greatest one in Shakespeare, Arkansas.  The townspeople are disturbed, albeit unsurprised about Deedra's awful demise.  Lily has to find the man who raped and killed one of her employers.  She hadn't anticipated opening an unexpected can of worms...<br /><br />The mystery was well done and nicely presented.  Charlaine Harris kept me guessing.  I liked the southern town backdrop of the story.  Harris has brought out the same southern charm she had done with the Sookie Stackhouse book.  I only regret not having gotten reacquainted with the colorful characters with the earlier books.  It seems that there has been a lot of history between Lily and various characters in the series.  I hope to be able to read the first three parts at some stage in the future.  Lily is a great character.  I like the whole reluctant sleuth thing.  She is someone I want to read more of.  The overall story was well executed despite its shortness (only 194 pages).  All in all, I enjoyed Shakespeare's Trollop and I only hope to be able to read all of the books so that I could get a better feel of this promising mystery series.	2005-04-27
265383:US	50774468	R27TWA0ZVC9YOY	0971662355	312972151	Many Kisses: Stories of Dominant Love	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Beautiful, erotic, tantalizing stories...	Many Kisses is a collection of erotic short stories that center on one of the most taboo subjects: BDSM. The stories are no-holds-barred explicit and sensual to the max, but they also show a side to D/s relationships that few stories and novels show -- the side in which love, respect and trust play a major role in such an obscure, tantalizing lifestyle. There was also a great deal of humor in some of the stories. These are love stories with an erotic twist. Susie Santiago is quite a talented author. My favorite stories are \\"Do What You Love,\\" and \\"To the Glove.\\" Those are the two stories I found the most delectable. Do you want to add a smidgen of bondage to your lovemaking or are you curious about BDSM in general? I suggest you give Many Kisses a whirl.	2005-04-24
265713:US	50774468	R3VA86SEL6EXJJ	0345443578	528176152	A Stroke of Midnight (Meredith Gentry, Book 4)	Books	3	9	13	N	N	More entertaining than the previous one, but still below par	I was disappointed with Seduced by Moonlight and Anita Blake's Incubus Dreams and decided not to purchase any more of Laurell K. Hamilton's books unless I am sure they are worth the hardcover price.  Ms. Hamilton is officially in my try-before-you-buy reading list of authors whose work has gone haywire.  I borrowed this book from a friend and while this is better written than the two aforementioned novels, Laurell has not fully recovered her former riveting storytelling style.  Faerie Princess Meredith is still trying to conceive a child from one of her guards in order to become the next queen of the Unseelie Court (how much longer will LKH stretch this storyline?).  She is somewhat concerned over who will be the king to her queen (she loves all of her guards, after all), but is willing to marry whoever becomes the father of her child.  Now Merry has to investigate the murder of a lesser fey woman and a reporter who were killed during a press conference (where SBM left off).  She has allowed the human police to take part of the investigation -- something that the Queen Andais reluctantly accepts.  Merry suspects that one of Prince Cel's followers was responsible for the crime.  Merry also has to deal with her men, one of which brings an unexpected twist to the whole king to her queen thing.  And these things happen in a twenty-four-hour period.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The opening chapters were great.  The readers get a feel of Merry and her close relationship with her guards -- namely Rhys, Frost, Doyle and Galen -- in a more unique way.  I also like how the murder mystery comes into play.  But I have the same complaint about this novel that I had with Incubus Dreams.  The murder investigation gets lost somewhere in the midst of metaphysical and magical sequences and Merry's interactions with many, many characters.  There are some new ones in this installment.  And they drove me nuts.  There are far too many characters in this series, most of which are male.  For a large portion of the book you will get this: mindless dialogue, interactions with characters that include tears and violence, sex scenes with people watching, obtaining new powers, meetings with Queen Andais that illustrate her sadistic side, and so on.  The murder investigation is more incorporated into the filler stuff than it was in Incubus Dreams, but everything got tedious after a while.  There was not a great deal of action until the last sixty pages or so.  There are fewer sex scenes in this novel, and they were far shorter than the ones in the earlier books, which is a relief, for I have always thought LKH's sex scenes were boring.  Laurell K. Hamilton likes to run around in circles with a lot of dialogue and internal monologues.  I am glad that it appears that Ballantine Books, unlike Berkley Publishing, has a smaller word-count limit -- otherwise we would have gotten over six-hundred pages of rambling.  The editing is also better here than in ID, but there are still a lot of word repetitions.  Hamilton sure likes to type the words \\"tired\\" and \\"spill\\" a lot.  As for Princess Merry herself, it has gotten to a point where I can't tell the difference between Merry Gentry and Anita Blake anymore.  I have always thought that most of the male characters in this series were more or less replicas of the ones in the AB series, but now the heroines are also almost indistinguishable.  This wouldn't have happened if Anita hadn't started a harem all her own... but that's another can of worms.  All in all, A Stroke of Midnight is still below par to Hamilton's earlier work, but it nevertheless entertained me and that is why I give it three stars.  However, she is still on my try-before-you-buy list.es, most of which are male.  For a large portion of the book you will get this: mindless dialogue, interactions with characters that include tears and violence, sex scenes with people watching, obtaining new powers, meetings with Queen Andais that illustrate her sadistic side, and so on.  The murder investigation is more incorporated into the filler stuff than it was in Incubus Dreams, but everything got tedious after a while.  There was not a great deal of action until the last sixty pages or so.  There are fewer sex scenes in this novel, and they were far shorter than the ones in the earlier books, which is a relief, for I have always thought LKH's sex scenes were boring.  Laurell K. Hamilton likes to run around in circles with a lot of dialogue and internal monologues.  I am glad that it appears that Ballantine Books, unlike Berkley Publishing, has a smaller word-count limit -- otherwise we would have gotten over six-hundred pages of rambling.  The editing is also better here than in ID, but there are still a lot of word repetitions.  Hamilton sure likes to type the words \\"tired\\" and \\"spill\\" a lot.  As for Princess Merry herself, it has gotten to a point where I can't tell the difference between Merry Gentry and Anita Blake anymore.  I have always thought that most of the male characters in this series were more or less replicas of the ones in the AB series, but now the heroines are also almost indistinguishable.  This wouldn't have happened if Anita hadn't started a harem all her own... but that's another can of worms.  All in all, A Stroke of Midnight is still below par to Hamilton's earlier work, but it nevertheless entertained me and that is why I give it three stars.  However, she is still on my try-before-you-buy list.	2005-04-24
267538:US	50774468	R1L7ICFXIYL1NV	1843604965	698941123	Mesmerized	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Review of Sir Phillip Ashton's Eyes by Sahara Kelly...	Lady Abigail Foxworth has so many unwanted suitors that she does not know what to do to let her aunt know that she is not interested in marrying any of them.  She wants no one in her life.  However, things change after she attends a lecture.  Sir Phillip Ashton experiments with mesmerism -- a form of hypnotism.  The second Abby looks into Sir Phillip's eyes she felt something special.  Sir Phillip is as mesmerized with Abby as she is for him.  So he sets out to seduce her.  He wants more than just a few nights of pleasure, but a painful past keeps Abby from taking the plunge. What will it take to convince the pretty redhead with green eyes that he wants to spend the rest of his life with her?<br /><br />Sir Phillip Ashton's Eyes is another sweet, romantic and erotic offering by Sahara Kelly.  Having read Madam Charlie, Tales of the Beau Monde and Gypsy Lovers I knew I had to give her other stuff a whirl.  This is a great Regency novella.  It is a bit unoriginal when it comes to the actual story, but it is beautifully told, entertaining and smoldering nevertheless. Ms. Kelly has a way of making her scenes palpable.  And Sir Phillip is as sexy as a proper scientist could be!  I loved him!  I admit that I did not read the other two stories from the Mesmerized anthology because I had only intended to read the one by Sahara Kelly (and I was only in the mood for a period piece) -- however, I may give the other two stories a whirl another time.  In any event, I will edit this review if I read the novellas by Ashleigh Raine and Jaci Burton.  In the meantime, I recommend that you give Sahara Kelly's novella a whirl.  Give all of her stuff a whirl.  She's a wonderful romantica writer.	2005-04-22
268056:US	50774468	R2MK1XMG3SKBOK	0312198841	795197472	Flying Leap: Stories	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Incredibly creative short stories!	Flying Leap is a wonderful, if a bit strange and twisted collection of short stories.  The stories have elements of magic realism mixed in with some disarming storytelling.  In this collection, you can read about people on a subway train in New York without making it boring or mundane.  My favorite stories are \\"Train,\\" \\"Yellville,\\" \\"Directions,\\" and \\"Old Country.\\"  Judy Budnitz is a dark, creative voice in short fiction and I look forward to reading more of her stuff.	2005-04-22
271537:US	50774468	R2HYLY59C5SYTE	1562012959	134701421	The Altar of Venus	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Mind-blowing Victorian erotica...	I enjoyed this erotic account of a rich, aristocratic man's sexual adventures.  The unnamed male character regales us with his insatiable stories that begin when he was at a rather young age and continue throughout his life.  The author's descriptions of France give a more picturesque feel to this erotic story.  This is a very well written Victorian novel that enthralled me from beginning to end.  I cannot elaborate on the plot more, for it is simply about a wealthy man's sexual escapades -- suffice it to say that this is an amazing, erotic read by an anonymous, albeit very imaginative author.	2005-04-19
271729:US	50774468	R2WFIC7AMPAFHH	0345470532	107776338	The Goddess Rules: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fun romantic chick-lit!	I have loved reading Clare Naylor's witty novels since Love: A User's Guide.  She has a way to write that draws me in and does not let go until its final pages.  Yes, her novels are often predictable, but the manner in which her stories are written more than makes up for their banality.  The Goddess Rules is about Kate Disney -- a struggling artist who does not know her place in the world.  She lives in a shed in a chic house owned by an eccentric gay friend, is in a revolving door relationship with an unreliable man, and makes a pittance painting portraits of rich people's pets.  But when legendary Parisian actress Mirabella Moncur moves into the house, her life isn't the same.  While Kate paints a portrait of Mirri's lion cub, she reluctantly listens to the sixty-year-old sex kitten's advice on life and love.  Kate does not like Mirri's uninhibited and transparent nature at first, but as her life begins to make sense and she encounters several romantic prospects, she realizes that Mirri is not the arrogant, self-absorbed woman she once thought she was, especially when she discovers something that has haunted Mirri for years.<br /><br />The Goddess Rules was a pleasure to read.  I have not read chick-lit this good in a while.  Clare Naylor is the only Brit-chick author out of the famous lot of them (Jane Green, Marian Keyes, Helen Fielding) whose work has remained consistent over the years.  Her crisp wit and sharp dialogue are terrific.  She mixes the usual single-girl-in-London foibles with sweet, heady romance.  Naylor's work is not particularly unique per se, but it is nevertheless wonderful.  The characters are great.  Mirabella is quite a colorful character.  The fact that this novel features a beautiful, sexually confident sixty-year-old woman who can make younger men fall madly in love with her makes the book all the more special.  The way the character was written makes the aforementioned descriptions quite believable.  Kate is the usual dazed and confused twenty-something-going-on-thirty woman going through relationship dilemmas and career woes.  However, that is not to say that she is not a terrific character, because she is.  I also liked Louis and Jake -- they were very well developed, especially Jake.  The one thing I do not like is how the Jake situation was resolved. The aforementioned issue is a loose end that I did not like, especially since the story centered on Kate and Jake for a vast part of the novel.  And, like others here have said, the ending is a little too predictable.  Then again, I had expected it to be.  All in all, The Goddess Rules was a great read and another terrific offering by Ms. Naylor.  And I love the book cover.  The outside package gives the story justice.twenty-something-going-on-thirty woman going through relationship dilemmas and career woes.  However, that is not to say that she is not a terrific character, because she is.  I also liked Louis and Jake -- they were very well developed, especially Jake.  The one thing I do not like is how the Jake situation was resolved. The aforementioned issue is a loose end that I did not like, especially since the story centered on Kate and Jake for a vast part of the novel.  And, like others here have said, the ending is a little too predictable.  Then again, I had expected it to be.  All in all, The Goddess Rules was a great read and another terrific offering by Ms. Naylor.  And I love the book cover.  The outside package gives the story justice.	2005-04-19
277014:US	50774468	R2GGZGPU3CJ15B	0312310579	68269070	The Porno Girl: and Other Stories	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not what I expected...	The Porno Girl is a short-story collection centered on women and how they try to come to terms with the roles in their lives and how they face various adversities.  I was able to relate to some of the stories -- mostly the ones centered on being a sister or a daughter -- but most of the stories were centered on being a wife or a mother, things I cannot relate to much.  I was under the impression that the novel was centered on dealing with being a woman in modern society, but the aforementioned centeredness is too broad for it to apply to this book.  Also, most of the stories come across as too feminist and opinionated for my taste.  However, I did like various stories.  I enjoyed reading \\"The Closet,\\" \\"Helen of Alexandria,\\" \\"What Marcia Wanted,\\" and \\"Waiting to Discover Electricity.\\"  The Porno Girl has its moments, but it left me wanting more in terms of writing about a woman's place in the world without falling into one-sided feminism.	2005-04-14
277695:US	50774468	R1B7XUT1Q48H5D	0451459873	144981880	Blood Rites (The Dresden Files, Book 6)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The best Harry Dresden novel yet!	No sooner does Harry Dresden escapes from one problem than he jumps into several more.  He has agreed to a case Thomas, White Court vampire and incubus, wants him to solve.  Various people who work at an independent adult film production company have died with what appears to be dark magic.  The film producer thinks that someone is doing this to compromise his work.  Now Harry has to work undercover and find the person responsible before more people turn out dead.  To make matters worse, the Black Court of vampires want to get rid of him, he has made a deal with a no-nonsense killer, and his mother's past is revealed.  And all of this goes on around the same time he reluctantly takes on a pet puppy.  There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I loved all of the interesting twists and turns in this installment.  The reader finally learns some things regarding Harry's family.  That is my favorite part of the novel.  I also liked the fact that this offering centered is more or less on Thomas.  I never thought much of him during past books other than the fact that he seemed like a fun vampire.  I enjoyed the twists regarding the aforementioned character.  Speaking of characters, there are several new ones in this book.  I liked succubus vampire Lara and the other members of the film production.  They brought a great deal of entertainment to the plot.  Kincaid struck me as an Edward-type character (from Anita Blake) in which you don't know whether he's good or evil.  The aforementioned character was in Death Masks, but he was further developed in this one.  And I loved the twist regarding Thomas.  He has become quite a compelling character.  And then of course there are the old favorites, like Murphy and Bob.  I also loved the language.  The narrative and dialogue get funnier as the series progresses.  I like how Butcher adds humor into the mix.  Blood Rites is the best Harry Dresden novel to date.  This series is right up there amongst my favorites.  I look forward to picking up Dead Beat next month.forward to picking up Dead Beat next month.	2005-04-14
283116:US	50774468	R1NVD51UKIEKU6	1843609061	652261274	Something Wicked	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Witty and sexy paranormal romantica...	I picked up this book because I was in the bargain for an Ellora's Cave romantica and because I liked the cover blurb.  Something Wicked is a fun, witty, sexy novel that at times seemed like a story that could have easily been written by either Laurell K. Hamilton or MaryJanice Davidson. Desdemona Phatt -- also known as Desy -- has enjoyed a great career as a PI and is content with living with her aunt.  But then her life is turned upside down after she meets a gorgeous Frenchman named Armand.  No sooner does she exchange words with the dark, mysterious stranger than she begins to have some rather palpable erotic dreams about him.  That does not sit well with Desy.  She has a boyfriend and there is something not quite right about Armand.  You can imagine her reaction when he tells her that she is a witch and a High Priestess that needs to join forces with him, the High Priest, to destroy a rogue witch who wants to kill them.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The erotic scenes are wonderful.  Jacqueline Meadows does a great job with the scenes in which sex is integral with the magic (Laurell K. Hamilton, take note).  The plot, albeit underdeveloped and abrupt in some areas, is quite entertaining and promises to get better as the series progresses.  The characters are also great.  Armand sounds incredibly hot!  He is dark, gorgeous, sneaky and delicious.  Meadows's delectable descriptions of Armand are very erotic.  Who needs the sex scenes when you've got such wonderful imaginary eye candy?!  But of course the sex scenes are incredible as well, as I've already mentioned.  Nick is also a major hunkster.  I can tell that he will play an important role in Desy's life in future novels.  As for Desy, she is a great heroine who can utter a quip at the drop of a hat and is not afraid to take action.  She reminded me of MaryJanice Davidson's quick-witted heroines.  In fact, Desy is a cross between Undead and Unwed's Betsy Taylor and Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter -- only not as badass as the latter character.  I can tell that Davidson and Hamilton were major influences in Meadows's writing.  Her style of writing, the story and its characters are too similar to the aforementioned authors' works to be a mere coincidence.  But Jacqueline Meadows is a great author in her own right.  Her erotic scenes are far better written than the stuff in Hamilton's books (and Davidson's as well, for that matter).  I enjoyed this first part of a paranormal romantica series and I look forward to reading Something Wanton.ire Hunter -- only not as badass as the latter character.  I can tell that Davidson and Hamilton were major influences in Meadows's writing.  Her style of writing, the story and its characters are too similar to the aforementioned authors' works to be a mere coincidence.  But Jacqueline Meadows is a great author in her own right.  Her erotic scenes are far better written than the stuff in Hamilton's books (and Davidson's as well, for that matter).  I enjoyed this first part of a paranormal romantica series and I look forward to reading Something Wanton.	2005-04-10
283141:US	50774468	R2C6SY15Q737M7	0060520132	815416301	Things You Should Know: A Collection of Stories	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another incredible collection by A.M. Homes	I was blown away with The Safety of Objects and decided to give Things You Should Know a whirl right after reading the former book.  A.M. Homes's tales of the untold side of suburbia are dark, disturbing and insightful.  Holmes does not sugarcoat the stories with mindless narration and dialogue -- the author gets down to the subject matter with no pretenses.  My favorite stories are \\"The Chinese Lesson,\\" \\"Remedy,\\" \\"Georgia,\\" \\"Things You Should Know,\\" and \\"Do Not Disturb.\\"  All of the stories in this collection don't contain as much content for shock value as The Safety of Objects, but this book, like the aforementioned one, is quite disturbing at times.  They are not for the faint at heart.  If you enjoy thought-provoking short-story collections, I suggest you give A.M. Homes a whirl.  This author's work is a keeper!	2005-04-10
285140:US	50774468	R16JUCX8S97MJY	0060564512	495636268	Safety of Objects	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Rural America like you've never read it before!	This is not a typical book about a standard American suburban families!  The characters in Safety in Objects are odd and disarming.  The stories are dark, the language sharp and the dialogue is crisp.  A.M. Homes has written tales that are bound to become cult classics.  My favorite stories are \\"Slumber Party,\\" \\"A Real Doll,\\" \\"Adults Alone,\\" and \\"Jim Train.\\"  As said earlier, these are not stories about conventional families in rural America.  These stories will make you think and perhaps even offend some readers.  This is not for the faint at heart.  Holmes is a fantastic writer and I look forward to reading more work by this author.	2005-04-08
285215:US	50774468	RF2HY3M0O040U	0758210264	549668272	Wicked" Women Whodunit	Books	1	16	17	N	N	Worst Writing Whodunit...	This anthology is a complete and utter disgrace.  The so-called whodunit novellas are a total joke.  I cannot believe I spent fourteen dollars on this.  Talk about money down the drain!  The only mystery in this book is what made Brava decide to release this fiasco.  All of the novellas (or at least the first three I read.  I didn't bother to finish up the book by reading the last story) are underdeveloped and too abrupt to make the mystery remotely plausible.  There is supposed to be some building of tension and slow gathering of clues in a whodunit.  The reader gets none of that here.  I love MaryJanice Davidson and am partial to her work, but even her novella was a major stinker.  The plot is nonexistent, characterization is absent (especially with Turner -- the so-called hero in the story), the sharp wit and memorable quips are missing, and the murder mystery in reverse thing would have been clever had it been developed and executed in a better way.  I also noticed that the character Dana had been described as a \\"pleasant-looking blonde with curly Orphan Annie hair and big blue eyes,\\" and then her hair was later described as red.  Which brings me to another problem I had with this book: poor editing.  There is a plethora of mistakes in this book.  Was this book rushed into printing or something?  Well, one thing is certain is that the authors are encouraged to churn out crap at hyper speed!  Ms. Davidson is such a wonderful author, but her work as of late is below par to her earlier stories and to the stuff she writes for Berkley.  In fact, all of the stuff she has written for Brava -- with the exception of Under Cover, The Royal Treatment, and the novella in the How to be a Wicked Woman anthology was surprisingly good as well -- is nowhere near as good as Undead and Unwed, Thief of Hearts, Adventures of the Teen Furies (which I read just a few days ago), and the Wyndham Werewolf novellas in the Secrets anthologies.  Hello Gorgeous! is pretty good, but also not up to Davidson's standards.  I do not mention the other authors in this anthology because I am unfamiliar with their work.  And I don't think I'll be giving their stuff a whirl again after reading this.  I didn't expect War and Peace when I picked up this book, but I still expected something great -- or at the very least good -- for the amount of money I spent on this book. Alas, I won't be wasting my time or money on either the Bad Boys or Wicked Women anthologies anymore.  I won't be ripped off this way again.up to Davidson's standards.  I do not mention the other authors in this anthology because I am unfamiliar with their work.  And I don't think I'll be giving their stuff a whirl again after reading this.  I didn't expect War and Peace when I picked up this book, but I still expected something great -- or at the very least good -- for the amount of money I spent on this book. Alas, I won't be wasting my time or money on either the Bad Boys or Wicked Women anthologies anymore.  I won't be ripped off this way again.	2005-04-08
287065:US	50774468	R387V5BZFL9I84	1573441864	49407113	Taboo: Forbidden Fantasies for Couples	Books	4	39	40	N	N	Deliciously hardcore erotic stories!	Do you know what's great about this book?  The title is not deceiving or misleading in the slightest.  I have been let down by books with the words \\"erotica,\\" and \\"taboo\\" in the titles.  I enjoyed reading this short-story collection centered on couples who experiment with uninhibited, no-holds-barred sex in insatiable ways.  Taboo contains stories featuring the sort of sexual scenarios that most people are often too afraid to explore.  There is something for just about everyone here.  Alison Tyler, Sara DeMuci, Pearl Jones, Elizabeth Colvin, Donna George Storey, and the other authors did a wonderful job with all of the delectable stories, but the one I loved the most was \\"Medical Attention,\\" by Skye Black.  The aforementioned story blew me away (so to speak).  Violet Blue (pseudonym?) has quite an eye for selecting talented authors for erotic collections.  I look forward to reading Sweet Life, another erotic collection for adventurous couples by the aforementioned editor. In the meantime, I recommend this one most highly.	2005-04-06
287511:US	50774468	R1LYO2QALI052U	0385492162	582558887	The Girl in the Flammable Skirt: Stories	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Bizarre and wonderful short-story collection!	This has got to be one of the most bizarre short-story collections I have ever read!  The stories are strange and surreal to the max.  The Girl in the Flammable Skirt is full of magic realism and thought-provoking, yet disarming tales that enthralled me as much as they disturbed me.  My favorite stories are \\"Marzipan,\\" \\"Quiet Please,\\" \\"Skinless,\\" \\"Drunken Mimi,\\" and \\"Loser.\\"  Aimee Bender has quite a knack for odd, unconventional stories that are unexpectedly relevant to everyday life.  Bender explores the human condition in unique ways.  Her style is similar to the work of an author called Amanda Filipacchi.  The Girl in the Flammable Skirt is a short-story collection that I won't soon forget.	2005-04-06
290440:US	50774468	R3U3RBIGALMIFN	1843603942	178572308	Warrior	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Loved Kieran the Black!	I found myself in a frustrating dilemma: a lot of books, but nothing to read.  I wanted a light read to give balance to the more literary book I was reading at the time -- something that I always do.  But when I picked up a book I flung it aside almost immediately because it had failed to spark my interest. Then I saw the Warrior anthology and decided to give it a whirl. I loved Julia Templeton's Kieran the Black!  This time-travel novella is about a thirty-nine-year-old divorcee's journey from the present time to the year 1067.  The history enthusiast had no idea what to expect when a strange woman asked her to hold Kieran the Black's sword, but she hadn't anticipated waking up in Lady Elizabeth's eighteen-year-old body!  Not only is she alive during a time period that had always fascinated her, but she is young and beautiful again and is the wife of the gorgeous warrior Kieran the Black.  She will enjoy the company of the insatiable man and try to change the course of history by saving him from getting murdered by the leader of Saxon.  There are various delectable scenes and twists throughout the novella.<br /><br />The one thing I did not like about Kieran the Black was Lizzie's reaction to waking up in another time.  The whole \\"I woke up in 1067 in the body of a young, beautiful, and thin woman -- cool!\\" thing is too unrealistic for words, no matter how much she likes history and how unhappy she had been in her previous life.  There should have been a little culture and time period shock at least!  Other than that, I loved the story of Lizzie and Kieran and the sex scenes were wonderfully erotic.  Kieran sounded delicious!  The Warrior book comes with two novellas, and the other one is God of Fire by Jaid Black.  The moment I read the opening sentence of the aforementioned novella I knew I wouldn't get into it.  I gave up on it after reading the first chapter.  That is all I will say about the novella, for it wouldn't be fair to review a story I hadn't read.  Alas, this is the first Jaid Black story that didn't grab me and that surprised me.  Anyway, I recommend Warrior, if only for Julia Templeton's juicy novella.  It certainly put an end to my reading rut, at least for now!as, this is the first Jaid Black story that didn't grab me and that surprised me.  Anyway, I recommend Warrior, if only for Julia Templeton's juicy novella.  It certainly put an end to my reading rut, at least for now!	2005-04-04
290834:US	50774468	R2I45A8CAWMNX0	0743246853	479769502	Half in Love: Stories	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A must-read shorty-story collection!	I loved this wonderful collection of short stories, most of which have a western setting.  Half in Love deals with various aspects of the human condition, like infidelity, grief, growing pains and other issues.  The stories set in ranches are the best ones here, in my opinion.  My favorite stories are \\"Four Lean Hounds, ca. 1976,\\" \\"A Stakes Horse,\\" \\"The River,\\" \\"Ranch Girl,\\" and \\"Red.\\"  The aforementioned ones are my favorites, but all fifteen stories fulfilled and enthralled me from beginning to end and I cannot wait to read another wonderful, thought-provoking offering by Maile Meloy.	2005-04-04
294537:US	50774468	R3EF5528KWTHLZ	0505525550	564610108	Sex, Lies and Vampires (The Dark Ones, Book 3)	Books	2	24	29	N	N	Good first half, but goes downhill after that...	This is the second book I have read from the Dark One series (this is the third installment) and I have to say that this series is not as exciting as some of the vampire romance books I have read out there.  Sex and the Single Vampire had its comic and romantic moments, but it was nowhere near as fun as, say, MaryJanice Davidson's Undead series.  Nevertheless, I decided to give Sex, Lies, and Vampires a whirl. I enjoyed the first half very much in spite of some minor inconsistencies, but the story goes downhill after that.  Nell Harris is a historian interested in an ancient armor breastplate.  But she gets a rather interesting request from the owner.  The woman -- a Dark One -- wants Nell to help find her kidnaped nephew and remove the curse from a demon lord.  The woman is convinced that Nell is a Charmer, someone who unmakes curses and creates protective wards.  Nell insists that she is not a Charmer and does not want to use her magical powers after losing her best friend during an experimentation.  Reluctant, she agrees to help.  She is warned against a Moravian Dark One gone rogue called the Betrayer.  But when Nell meets said Betrayer, she not only has a strong connection with the sexy vampire, but she is also convinced that he is not the monster his comrades make him out to be.  Before the reader knows it, Nell has to deal with a lot more things than to help save a kidnaped child.<br /><br />The first half was somewhat good.  There is some intense, albeit brief sexual tension between the protagonists and there is some action.  However, as said earlier, the plot goes downhill about halfway through the book.  The plot twists make the novel even more disjointed than it already had been.  The characters that are introduced later in the story annoyed me at times to the point that I felt the urge to close the book and never open it again.  The boy Damian was especially irritating.  There was some romantic potential between Nell and Adrian, but somehow the romance gets lost somewhere in the middle of all of the other things going on.  The plot is overall disjointed.  I had a difficult time following the subplot surrounding the Dark Ones and the magic.  And the redundant dialogue did not make things better.  How many times did Nell say she wasn't a Charmer?  Thank goodness I didn't do the \\"drinking game\\" of swallowing a shot of tequila every time I read a certain phrase here, because I would have been completely plastered within the first half of this book!  All in all, this is not a great offering from a series I had lukewarm feelings for to begin with.  Katie MacAlister has disappointed me with this book.  Alas, I did enjoy the first Guardian novel, You Slay Me, very much.  The aforementioned series will be centered on one heroine instead of being a spin-off character series like this one.  Anyway, if you are a big fan of this author and of the Dark One series, you may want to give this one a try.  However, do not be surprised if this offering disappoints you.ets lost somewhere in the middle of all of the other things going on.  The plot is overall disjointed.  I had a difficult time following the subplot surrounding the Dark Ones and the magic.  And the redundant dialogue did not make things better.  How many times did Nell say she wasn't a Charmer?  Thank goodness I didn't do the \\"drinking game\\" of swallowing a shot of tequila every time I read a certain phrase here, because I would have been completely plastered within the first half of this book!  All in all, this is not a great offering from a series I had lukewarm feelings for to begin with.  Katie MacAlister has disappointed me with this book.  Alas, I did enjoy the first Guardian novel, You Slay Me, very much.  The aforementioned series will be centered on one heroine instead of being a spin-off character series like this one.  Anyway, if you are a big fan of this author and of the Dark One series, you may want to give this one a try.  However, do not be surprised if this offering disappoints you.	2005-03-31
294776:US	50774468	RYU33ZRH8ZZ07	0802117813	354136341	100 Strokes of the Brush Before Bed	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Erotic, compelling tale of a young woman's sexuality...	At first, I had no idea what to make of this book when a friend of mine recommended it to me, but 100 Strokes of the Brush Before Bed is one of the most smoldering, most thought provoking erotic novels I have read in a long time. This book chronicles a young Sicilian's erotic exploits that begin in her teens.  Melissa gives explicit details of all sorts of sexual experimentations and experiences-like oral sex, BDSM and other aspects of erotica.<br /><br />The author makes no mystery of the fact that this novel is semi-autobiographical.  100 Strokes of the Brush Before Bed does not have a plot or even tells a story -- this book is an account of an innocent girl who dreams of love and ends up experiencing sexual relationships unlike what she had dreamed of when she was younger.  Even though Melissa P. makes things seem as though her namesake has lost all of her innocence, the girl still has a naivete quality to her throughout the sex entries.  In fact, the novel has a rather fairy tale feeling to it that makes it all the more unique.  Melissa's sensual, erotic accounts riveted me from beginning to end.  I cannot recommend 100 Strokes enough!  I am glad I decided to give this gem a whirl.	2005-03-31
299975:US	50774468	R3Q5PHUP1ZSQZ5	0060541490	451528647	Sexy	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wonderful and thought provoking YA effort by Ms. Oates!	I decided to give this book a whirl because I have heard wonderful things about Joyce Carol Oates's Young Adult offerings.  Sexy is quite a compelling and thought-provoking novella.  When an English teacher is accused of committing a sexual crime, it is up to young Darren to speak in his favor.  But Darren is overwhelmed with confusions regarding his sexuality.  Darren is quite a popular sixteen-year-old who is part of the swimming team that one of the boys, out of spite for having been flunked, accuses Mr. Tracy of being a pedophile. Darren struggles with his identity and the reader wonders whether or not he is indeed gay.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The novella may seem disjointed at times -- especially toward the end -- but that is because Oates wants you to read between the lines and understand the sort of confusion Darren is going through.  The language is remarkable; you feel as though you are having a conversation with the narrator.  The language is also quite stark and ambiguous at times, which leaves a lot of room for interpretation.  That is the reason why the writing may seem disjointed at times, but this is done on purpose.  I was able to feel Darren's loneliness and confusions as though it were my own.  His inability to share his insecurities with others spoke volumes.  That is what makes Sexy an incredible book that all adolescents, male or female, should read.  The novella is thought provoking in more ways than one.  Once again, Joyce Carol Oates has wowed me with this effort.  This isn't her best book -- her short-story collections are much more literary -- but it is one of the best YA books I have read in a long time.  I cannot recommend Sexy enough.	2005-03-27
300104:US	50774468	R9C75BRL48D8U	0759900485	982072076	Adventures of the Teen Furies	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Wonderful and compelling YA offering by Ms. Davidson...	I have read and loved all of MaryJanice Davidson's novels and novellas and decided to give her Young Adult offering a whirl.  This is a wonderful novel with a great deal of humor and some poignancy to boot.  Andrea Grouper is a typical teenage girl going through growing pains while convincing her paranoid driving coach that she has been driving since she was eight years old and keeping her eye on her troubled friend Meredith.  When she convinces Meredith to join her in visiting her old friend Brenda, she does not know how she would interact with her.  But it turns out that not only is Meredith adored by Brenda and a new crop of male friends, she also becomes part of a game in which they pretend to be superheroes and villains.  They also have some adventures with the male friends.  Andrea accepts to become George's girlfriend while she drools for Kyle, the one Brenda has set her eyes on.  Meredith hooks up with Terry, who is as eccentric as she is at times.  However, how will the group cope with Meredith's suicidal episodes and the extreme side effects from her medications?  How will they cope with the knowledge that she'd had a nervous breakdown a few months before?  Will Andrea be able to break free from George and tell Kyle how she feels about him?  And are their imaginary characters a way to escape from their sometimes troubled realities?<br /><br />This is one of the best Davidson stories I have read.  She has a wonderful sense of humor, as all of her faithful readers are well aware, but she also adds some dark situations and poignant scenes in this offering.  Meredith saddened me at times.  She goes through some rather painful things brought on by her depression.  She has a wonderful friend in Andrea.  Speaking of whom, Andrea is the signature Davidson heroine in that she is a smart mouth and is fiercely independent.  She likes the idea of having a randy boyfriend who worships her even though she is not that into him.  Those scenes made me laugh.  Terry is also hilarious.  He is a hopeless flirt who is not afraid to voice his opinion on everything.  Kyle is the quieter one of the bunch, but he also turns out to be as three-dimensional as the other characters.  As said earlier, this is one of Davidson's best stories.  This also happens to be one of her first writing efforts. She started out writing Young Adult books and then branched out into writing romance and fantasy (or a combination of both genres). But she will release another YA book later this year.  Adventures of the Teen Furies is a true testament of just how talented and versatile Ms. Davidson is.  She is now one of the most popular romance/paranormal authors out there and for good reason.  I recommend this YA novel most highly.hilarious.  He is a hopeless flirt who is not afraid to voice his opinion on everything.  Kyle is the quieter one of the bunch, but he also turns out to be as three-dimensional as the other characters.  As said earlier, this is one of Davidson's best stories.  This also happens to be one of her first writing efforts. She started out writing Young Adult books and then branched out into writing romance and fantasy (or a combination of both genres). But she will release another YA book later this year.  Adventures of the Teen Furies is a true testament of just how talented and versatile Ms. Davidson is.  She is now one of the most popular romance/paranormal authors out there and for good reason.  I recommend this YA novel most highly.	2005-03-27
302238:US	50774468	R11ZXR9IYVG5O6	0373895127	786730833	Dating Can Be Deadly (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Interesting mystery-slash-paranormal chick-lit...	I used to be a big fan of Red Dress Ink books before I realized that all of the stories were too similar and felt like I was experiencing a literary deja vu.  But when I read the back cover blurb of Wendy Roberts's Dating Can Be Deadly I knew I had to give it a whirl.  The idea of an RDI paranormal whodunit fascinated me.  Tabitha Emery is the typical twenty-something chick with job problems, dating woes and a circle of friends she can rant and rave with during drinking excursions.  So far this all sounds like a typical chick-lit novel, but Tabitha has a rather unique gift: she is a clairvoyant.  She is able to perceive things and events unlike any other human can.  She has never liked having a second sight that can often see unpleasant things, and things only get worse when she becomes a suspect of an investigation centered on the murder of a woman who appears to have been killed during a satanic ritual sacrifice.  She is able to gather clues by way of nightmares and visions -- and the only way to make things better is either using a scrying mirror or getting involved in various forms of magic.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The paranormal aspect of the novel drew me in as much as the whodunit part did.  This novel is a great departure from the same old single-girl-with-job-and-dating-troubles-meets-with-friends-in-the-city books.  Not only was the mystery part of it fun to follow, but I also had a great time trying to guess which hunkster would end up with Tabitha -- gorgeous lawyer Clay or darkly sexy Lucien, a magic practitioner and owner of the Scrying Room.  The author kept me guessing on both accounts.  The subject matter of this book may seem dark and creepy, but it is also quite clever and, like I said before, a great departure from traditional chick-lit.  The characters are great.  I loved Tabitha's friends and thought both Clay and Lucien sounded delicious.  The heroine got on my nerves every now and then because she comes across as whiny and petty at times.  All in all, Dating Can Be Deadly is a great, unique chick-lit novel with a clever mix of mystery, romance and paranormal and you should give it a whirl. I hope Red Dress Ink continues to release oddballs like this one.ss as whiny and petty at times.  All in all, Dating Can Be Deadly is a great, unique chick-lit novel with a clever mix of mystery, romance and paranormal and you should give it a whirl. I hope Red Dress Ink continues to release oddballs like this one.	2005-03-25
302261:US	50774468	R5MOPULS6M4DK	0060088796	278088474	Lucky Girls: Stories	Books	1	8	14	N	N	Failed to spark my interest...	I picked up this short-story collection because someone had gushed about how wonderful it was.  However, I was not able to get into any of the stories.  The situations failed to spark my interest and the author's voice did not capture me the way other short-story writers have enthralled me.  The only story I was able to finish was \\"The Tutor.\\"  There was nothing special about the story, but it was the only one out of the five stories I was able to read from beginning to end without wanting to close the book and never open it again.  This does not mean that Lucky Girls is a bad collection -- I was simply unable to get into it.  And judging by some of the reviews below I was not the only one who had trouble enjoying it.	2005-03-25
307086:US	50774468	RAH52FIZIYXMU	0451459407	962252105	Death Masks (Dresden Files)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	On to the next challenge!	It is safe to say that Harry Dresden jumps from one challenge to another.  After taking on faeries and two battling councils in Summer Knight, he has to endure various new dilemmas in Death Masks.  He has been given the task of finding the stolen Shroud of Turin before either drug lord Johnny Marcone or a dangerous creature get a hold of it. To make matters worse, he has been challenged to a duel with a powerful vampire in order to end the war between the Red Court and the White Council.  In better news, Susan is back in Chicago, but will she and Harry get together again? There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Death Masks does not have as many overwhelming, over the top action and horror scenes in this book as the previous four books.  That made this book somewhat better for me.  The ending was filled with the aforementioned scenes though.  I also liked that Harry resolved some of his personal issues regarding his relationships with the people he cares about and his feelings for Susan.  And there are more hints in this book regarding Harry's past.  His family remains an enigma, one that I would love to discover in the next book. I hope Jim Butcher does not drag that secret out for much longer.  I was glad that some great characters were back in this installment, like Johnny Marcone, Susan and Michael.  The one bad thing was that Murphy only appeared in a few scenes this time around.  The humor remains fresh and Harry is as goofy as ever.  The one thing I didn't like about this offering is that there are a few inconsistencies -- things that were mentioned and then forgotten coupled with some disjointed scenes.  All in all, Death Masks is another fun Dresden book.  Butcher's series has not disappointed me. I look forward to reading Blood Rites.	2005-03-21
307399:US	50774468	R2D6KXF9LI54G	0670034045	46714252	The Other Woman	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Better than To Have and to Hold, relatable subject matter...	I was disappointed with To Have and to Hold and had wanted Jane Green to go back to writing wonderful single-woman-in-the-city novels like Jemima J. and Mr. Maybe. Well, it appears that Green will continue to write novels centered on marriage woes. While I appreciate the fact that she writes about what she now knows instead of continuing to cash in on the plights of single women, I nevertheless miss her earlier work. However, the problem the latest married heroine faces is so universal that all women could relate to it. The Other Woman centers on filling the shoes of the woman who has been number one in your significant other's life since the dawn of time: his mother. Ellie Black has met the perfect man. He is sweet, gorgeous and successful. To make things all the better, Dan appears to have the perfect family. Ellie is an orphan and has always dreamed of being part of a big, caring family. The Coopers seem to be quite close and she adores them upon meeting them. However, things don't go as well as she had hoped. Linda Cooper has let Ellie know that no woman will ever care for her son like she does. In fact, Linda's interference and manipulations are so bad that soon Ellie wonders if her marriage with Dan is worth fighting for. There are various interesting twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Before I give my overall impression of the novel, I'd like to elaborate on the observations I had made in the previous paragraph regarding the author's new approach to chick-lit. Jane Green is tackling more mature subject matters in her books since Babyville. She has put her no-nonsense, independent single women aside in favor of married women dealing with adult, albeit mundane issues such as motherhood, infidelity and mothers-in-law. Those are all good subjects; however, her new approach to chick-lit is not as interesting or as funny as her earlier work. The stuff she has written after Babyville lacks the spark and boldness of novels like Straight Talking and Mr. Maybe. But in spite of the aforementioned observations, The Other Woman is a novel all women could relate to. We have all met a man who has a metaphorical umbilical cord attached to his mother. I sympathized with Ellie's plight and appreciated the fact that she is a far stronger heroine than the one in To Have and to Hold. Linda is too much like a lot of mothers I have met in various relationships. The situations in the novel aren't as humorous as they could have been, but it will make you nod in agreement with some of the things Ellie has to endure in the Cooper household. I recommend The Other Woman to those who have been second best to Mr. Right's mother.t in spite of the aforementioned observations, The Other Woman is a novel all women could relate to. We have all met a man who has a metaphorical umbilical cord attached to his mother. I sympathized with Ellie's plight and appreciated the fact that she is a far stronger heroine than the one in To Have and to Hold. Linda is too much like a lot of mothers I have met in various relationships. The situations in the novel aren't as humorous as they could have been, but it will make you nod in agreement with some of the things Ellie has to endure in the Cooper household. I recommend The Other Woman to those who have been second best to Mr. Right's mother.	2005-03-21
311895:US	50774468	R8LN5Z8TU5QAN	1562013785	986154797	The Governess	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A smoldering, erotic surprise!	I loved M.S. Valentine's Celia novels and had looked forward to reading another one of her Victorian erotic tales with a BDSM twist.  The Governess is about Miss Hunnicut (the only name the author provides) and her entrance to the Crawleigh Manor.  In an attempt to move on from a painful breakup, Miss Hunnicut accepts to work as a governess at a private home.  However, she had not anticipated the debauchery that goes on inside the Crawleigh residence.  The Crawleighs are not an ordinary couple by a long shot -- and neither is the entire Crawleigh residence.  Miss Hunnicut finds herself going along with the extreme and sometimes deviant sexual games Mr. Crawleigh puts her through.  To make things all the more strange, there are some rather sexual ghosts inhabiting the home.  Miss Hunnicut hadn't expected all of the strangeness around her, but will she want to leave?<br /><br />I thought The Governess was an exquisite erotic novel.  Valentine does a wonderful job with the erotic scenes and the development of the characters.  This novel is kind of different from the Celia novels.  This one has a darker, more gothic language throughout the book.  I thought this book would be similar to the aforementioned books, but Valentine has proven to be quite a versatile writer.  The sex scenes are the highlights of the novel, as it should be, for this is erotica.  The delectable scenes and the unexpected turns the story took at times enthralled me.  I loved The Governess.  This author is now right up there with Emma Holly, Nina Roy and Lucinda Carrington as my favorite erotica authors.  I recommend this gem.	2005-03-17
312059:US	50774468	R2DOZEGXM2SGMI	006039384X	776351801	Mirror Mirror: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Beautiful, fanciful retelling of a classic!	Having read Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister, I wanted to give another one of Gregory Maguire's retold fairytales a whirl.  Mirror, Mirror is the retelling of Snow White from the evil Lucrezia Borgia's point of view.  Set in sixteenth century Italy, Maguire tells the story of Lucrezia and how she takes over the home of Vicente de Nevada and his other Bianca.  When Vicente is sent away on an assignment, Lucrezia decides to make young Bianca's life a living hell.  She plans to murder Bianca and be with Vicente.  But things don't turn out that way.  Bianca survives and is protected by seven dwarves, and Lucrezia might meet with the estranged girl sooner than she had expected.<br /><br />Mirror, Mirror has a rather dark language.  This is not the cute Disney story by a long shot!  I loved the historical setting and the fanciful language throughout the novel.  One of the things I enjoyed the most about this retelling is how the author describes the dwarves.  The aforementioned characters are told in quite a different way from the original fairytale.  I quite enjoyed the creativity that came from recreating the characters.  Lucrezia Borgia remains to be evil and calculative here, but with an edge that transcends all previous attempts to recreate the aforementioned villainess.  I loved Mirror, Mirror.  I enjoyed this book more than Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister.  I look forward to reading more books by Gregory Maguire.	2005-03-17
316795:US	50774468	R2TKG6H2HXPRJM	0765349132	451226211	Hunter's Moon (Tales of the Sazi, Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Unique werewolf romance...	I picked up this book because there was a huge review blurb by Laurell K. Hamilton in the cover.  However, I discovered a unique story and excellent writing within.  Sue Quentin has had enough of her manipulative family and feels that the only way to escape them is with death.  So she hires a hit man to kill her.  But she hadn't anticipated having feelings for the dark, mysterious man.  Her growing feelings for Tony don't change when she discovers that he is a werewolf.  As for Tony, his life is not the same after he meets the troubled woman.  And when his enemies -- with supernatural powers all their own -- come back to destroy him, his first instinct is to protect Sue. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This is not a light romance by a long shot.  The no-nonsense narrative style and compelling plot make this quite an original read.  It surprised me that Tony was the narrator of the novel.  It gave the plot quite a different spin on things.  The romantic scenes centered on Tony and Sue are sensuous, the action-packed scenes riveting.  The one thing that I did not like about this novel is that it ended.  I want more from these characters!  I recommend Hunter's Moon most highly.  Laurell K. Hamilton's blurb may have convinced me to buy the book, but the excellent writing of C.J. Adams and Cathy Clamp compelled me to read the book from cover to cover.	2005-03-13
316977:US	50774468	R270CUQZNYFFUR	031242390X	74763689	The Middle of the Night: Stories	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wonderful discovery!	Daniel Stolar sent me an e-mail a long time ago and asked if I'd like to read his collection of short stories.  I bought the book, but it got lost somewhere in the big heap of unread books in my library.  I stumbled upon his book a couple of days ago and decided to give it a whirl.  Glad I did.  Middle of the Night is quite a delightful, poignant and thought-provoking collection of stories, most of which are based in St. Louis.  The stories center on people who have difficulty dealing with overwhelming events in their lives.  Some of the characters are not comfortable in their own skin.  The characters are flawed and palpable -- it was impossible not to relate to their plights and nod in agreement with their thoughts.  My favorite stories are \\"Jack Landers is My Friend,\\" \\"Marriage Lessons,\\" \\"Mourning,\\" \\"Crossing Over,\\" and \\"Second Son.\\"  I wish I hadn't waited this long to read this book.  Middle of the Night was like finding a treasure box in my own backyard.  I will read whatever other books Stolar has written or may write in the future.	2005-03-13
320623:US	50774468	R1B7OYF8KF6Y7W	097545160X	827255633	Secrets: The Best in Women's Erotic Romance, Vol. 10	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Hamre and Sinclair wrote sizzling novellas!	I loved A Lady's Quest, the sizzling historical romantica in Secrets, Volume One, and had looked forward to reading another story by Bonnie Hamre.  I picked up Secrets, Volume Ten, when someone told me that Hamre had written another sultry Regency novella.  The Ruination of Lady Jane, though not as good as A Lady's Quest, is a delectable reading experience.  Lady Jane Ponsonby-Maitland runs away from her ward because she does not want to marry the man he has chosen for her.  So her ward sends his gorgeous, adventurous brother to track down and bring back Lady Jane.  However, Havyn Attercliffe had not anticipated seeing the once unattractive girl turned into a beautiful, curvaceous woman.  When she begs him to ruin her for her fianc&eacute;, Havyn cannot refuse.  But he gets more than he had bargained for.  I loved the precise way the author grasps that particular time setting.  I have read many historical novels with blatant anachronism, and this one is more accurate in all accounts.  I also love the tantric sex scenes and the different positions the couple experimented with.  The heroine did not go from an innocent virgin to a borderline nympho like in many books.  The transition is far more subtle and goes well with Jane's insubordinate nature.  The Ruination of Lady Jane is my favorite out of the two novellas I read in this anthology.  The other novella I read was...<br /><br />Private Eyes by Dominique Sinclair.  Nicolla Black is a PI who specializes in catching cheating husbands.  She hadn't anticipated running into a dark, mysterious and gorgeous stranger during one of her stakeouts.  The chemistry between them is immediate.  As she continues to run into him, she realized she could not resist his dark charms.  And then a game of seduction and surrender ensues -- with an interesting mystery plot that captures you until the final page.  Based on this novella, Dominique Sinclair is a great author and I will read her other stuff.  The sexual tension between the protagonists is so palpable you can almost cut it with a knife.  I love when there is intense sexual tension between the two main characters!  Sinclair supplies the tension and a whole lot more.  I have not read the stories by Jeanie Cesarini and Kathryn Anne Dubois.  I shall edit this review when and if I read their stories in the near future.  But I do recommend this anthology based on the two novellas I read.  I don't know about the other two authors, but the stories by Hamre and Sinclair are worth giving this volume a whirl.otagonists is so palpable you can almost cut it with a knife.  I love when there is intense sexual tension between the two main characters!  Sinclair supplies the tension and a whole lot more.  I have not read the stories by Jeanie Cesarini and Kathryn Anne Dubois.  I shall edit this review when and if I read their stories in the near future.  But I do recommend this anthology based on the two novellas I read.  I don't know about the other two authors, but the stories by Hamre and Sinclair are worth giving this volume a whirl.	2005-03-10
320916:US	50774468	R3KKVSKOK64DJ	0060976721	455647914	Reasons to Live	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Another amazing Hempel offering!	I knew this would be a great collection when I spotted this at the bookstore.  Reasons to Live contains a collection of fifteen wonderful, witty and sometimes poignant short stories that make you think of the loss of opportunities one has in life.  Amy Hempel, who also wrote the beautiful Tumble Home, writes with aplomb and insight of a classic writer. My favorite stories are \\"Nashville Gone to Ashes,\\" \\"Going,\\" \\"Pool Night,\\" and \\"Why I'm Here.\\"  Once again, Amy Hempel has floored me with another impressive, beautiful collection.  I will definitely give her other books a whirl.	2005-03-10
324699:US	50774468	R35HI8LF6F7MKS	1932560491	464354687	Bedtime Stories for Women	Books	5	136	171	N	N	Smolderingly erotic fairy tales for adults!	I loved this collection of erotic retelling of popular fairytales.  Bedtime Stories for Women reminds me of Anne Rice's Sleeping Beauty novels in that they turn a sweet fairytale into something extremely naughty and pleasurable (so to speak) to read.  Nancy Madore renames the titles of some of the most memorable stories out there.  The author also adds some original stories with a cartoonish setting.  My favorites are \\"The Empress' New Clothes,\\" \\"Cat and Mouse,\\" \\"Goldilocks and the Three Barons,\\" \\"Mirror on the Wall,\\" \\"Beauty and the Beast,\\" and \\"East of Sun.\\"  Not only are the stories smolderingly erotic, they also empower women to be uninhibited and independent.  Some of the stories also deal with issues about one's physical appearance.  \\"The Ugly Duckling\\" delves into the aforementioned issue in a profound, thought-provoking way.  Bedtime Stories for Women is one of the best erotic short-story collections I have read in a long time.  Ms. Madore is an excellent writer and I look forward to reading more of her stuff.	2005-03-07
324706:US	50774468	R1XQ0HPWR8FCVY	1843605643	995045608	The Academy	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Kind of slow with mechanical sex scenes...	I was in the bargain for a romantica centered on BDSM.  I picked up The Academy because I thought it would be interesting to read a BDSM novel with a futuristic setting.  Daria Evans visits the planet Utan to negotiate a billion-dollar contract for her superiors.  If she succeeds, she will get a big promotion (vice president) and her fianc&eacute; will finally set a wedding date.  But things don't run as smoothly in Utan as she had thought.  The beings who inhabit the planet feel that Daria thinks she is superior.  They also don't like that she is judgmental about their sexually uninhibited ways.  So in order to get the deal for her company, she has to become part of The Academy, where she learns to shatter her innermost sexual inhibitions and experiences feelings she had never felt before in the arms of her disguised master.<br /><br />I like that Daria is not able to adjust to life in Utan and she feels that humans have superior intelligence and have more sexual boundaries than the Utanians.  That sort of thing happens often in this world when an American visits a country they think is beneath them.  I also think that her transition from a sexually repressed woman with abandonment issues to an uninhibited, wanton sexpot is quite realistic -- at least more realistic than most erotic books.  However, the story development is a little too slow for my taste.  Also, some of the erotic scenes are not very... well, erotic.  The sex scenes were quite mechanical, especially the ones centered on Analet (a blue-skinned sex kitten from a neighboring planet called Carus) and Benwar.  I could not picture blue-skinned, silver-haired people in my mind as I read the scenes.  That is one of the main reasons I don't read futuristic stuff often.  All in all, The Academy has an interesting premise with a realistic sexual transition.  Unfortunately, the most important aspect of this sort of book -- the erotica -- failed to impress me.	2005-03-07
324895:US	50774468	RD9L8LJSM72UK	0441010652	440065240	Something from the Nightside (Nightside, Book 1)	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Didn't like it...	The premise of this series seemed interesting at first.  However, I was unable to get into it and, although this novel is only 230 pages long, it felt endless to me.  John Taylor is a detective who specializes in finding lost things.  He can find just about anything.  That is because John was born in a place called the Nightside -- the dark, secretive, preternatural part of London.  John had escaped the Nightside and has lived a fairly normal life since then.  But when a rich woman asks to find her missing daughter, John is faced with the dilemma of returning to the Nightside.  John does not want to revisit his old home, but Joanna has what he needs -- money.  Business has been rather slow and fifty-thousand pounds could sort out a lot of problems.  Now John must return to the place where your living nightmares come true...<br /><br />The problem I had with this novel is that the writing is too plain -- the characters are underdeveloped and John's narrative style is wooden at best.  Also, the Nightside seemed a little too benign to me at times.  With the exception of the last few chapters, the Nightside came across as a ghetto more than a place where monsters prowl the streets.  To make matters worse, this novel has zero humor.  I want fantasy novels to have some humor and for things to seem normal in a rather bizarre world.  Simon R. Green fails to do that.  The premise is quite similar to Jim Butcher's Dresden Files, but the execution is not only different, but not as good as Butcher's dark and witty series.  I have the second book of this series and I shall give it a second chance.  I just hope that it is better than this one.	2005-03-07
328471:US	50774468	R1VST4U66DLXGW	0061054909	231190015	Love in Vein	Books	1	5	11	N	N	Misleading and Incredibly dull...	I picked up this short-story collection because the cover said it was a collection of vampire erotica and because the book was edited by Poppy Z. Brite.  I feel like I've been ripped off.  First of all, to say that this book is a collection of vampire erotica is misleading.  Aside from some rough language here and there, there is almost no erotica in this collection.  This is a collection of horror stories, period.  And the stories are quite dull at that.  The only ones I liked were \\"In this Soul of a Woman,\\" by Charles de Lint; \\"The Alchemy of the Throat,\\" by Brian Hodge; and \\"Caf&eacute; Endless: Spring Rain,\\" by Nancy Holder.  The aforementioned stories are thought provoking and horrific at the same time.  The other stories simply failed to spark my interest.  Poppy Z. Brite has let me down.  I have the second part of the collection and am considering returning it to the bookstore.  If you are in the bargain for vampire erotica, try the Ellora's Cave books.	2005-03-04
333771:US	50774468	R3CPMEM3OGXJO7	0451458923	511698178	Summer Knight (Dresden Files)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dresden takes on Faeries...	Harry Dresden isn't the same after he fights ghosts and vampires in Grave Peril.  After Susan leaves town to deal with her new bouts of blood lust, Harry isolates himself from everyone and everything.  He has not worked in a long time and is in danger of losing his apartment and his office, but his depression is so strong that he does not care.  He hasn't even taken a shower in days!  But when the White Council pays him a visit and almost decide to hand over to the vampires, Harry has no choice but to again defend his life.  He also has to clean the name of a manipulative faerie who also happens to be the Queen of Air and Darkness.  A faerie known as the Summer Knight has been murdered, and Harry has to solve the case to both free himself from the faeries and clear his name for the White Council. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The supernatural beings in this series -- save for the teenage werewolves -- are evil to the core.  The faeries, vampires and ghouls are very dark creatures -- nothing benign about these monsters!  And that's what makes this series different from the ones authors Laurell K. Hamilton and Charlaine Harris write.  Summer Knight is my second favorite book of the Dresden Files (my favorite thus far is Fool Moon).  Harry feels like a puppet, for the faeries and the White Council want different things from him.  He is more vulnerable in this installment than in the other ones, but still as self-deprecating and goofy as ever.  I thought the scene where he tries to speak in Latin to the White Council was hilarious.  There are more comic scenes and quips in this installment.  The characters are great here, especially Billy and Murphy, and the new characters seem promising.  But Michael and Susan are absent in this one.  I hope that they will make a comeback soon.  I am loving the Dresden Files and I cannot wait to read Death Masks soon.	2005-02-28
333873:US	50774468	RQW9MVBTVPWJS	1400042852	185667669	Grace	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Incredibly dark, chilling novel...	I love the way Linn Ullmann has portrayed the married life in a darker, more surreal manner in Before You Sleep and Stella Descending.  She does not sugarcoat the events when it is time to show the darker side of characters in love.  Ullmann takes things to unflinching heights with Grace.  This novel centers on a man's terminal illness with cold, unsentimental language that is both thought provoking and disturbing.  Jonah, a journalist, learns he has six months left to live.  As he waits around for death to befall him, he regales the reader with stories about his former relationships and the things he had done up to the moment that the doctor gives him the terrible news.<br /><br />There is no way to summarize the plot of this novel.  Linn Ullmann readers know that her novels are complex -- they jump from one different scene to another, with a lot of magic realism into the mix.  The most fascinating part of Grace is the author's ability to turn what could have been a sad story into something disarming.  The characters are all dark and unpleasant -- and the language of the novel makes them all the darker.  The ending is one of the most disturbing ones I have read.  I finished this book last night and I am still spooked over some of the scenes and passages.  This is one incredible novel.  Linn Ullmann has proven once again that she is a talented Scandinavian literary novelist. I recommend all of her novels, including this new piece of work.	2005-02-28
337494:US	50774468	R2MLOWTGADQPAZ	1879194406	470050401	Boys Will Be Boys Two Novellas	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Hilarious novellas!	I was in the mood for a short-story collection and got Boys Will Be Boys.  This is not a short-story collection.  This book features two rather hilarious novellas about the sorts of things boys get off to in the form of parodies.  Even though the stories were silly, they were also quite vivid and profound at times.  Chris Kent is a very talented author and I look forward to reading his other works.	2005-02-24
338707:US	50774468	RXSLBHXXH6Y6Q	0758208049	345287319	Hello, Gorgeous! (The Gorgeous Series, Book 1)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Another fun Davidson offering!	MaryJanice Davidson has once again delivered a fun, feisty romance with Hello Gorgeous!  In this new offering, Davidson has written her signature sassy, no-nonsense, flighty heroine -- in the form of the Bionic Woman, so to speak.  Caitlyn James suffers a terrible car accident after a night of partying with her sorority sisters only to wake up in a strange facility feeling unlike herself.  She is incredulous when a nerdy doctor tells her that she is now a human cyborg.  However, she has no other choice but to believe him after she sees information and pictures in her head not unlike the ones Arnold Schwarzenegger sees in the Terminator movies.  To make matters worse, she has to work as a spy -- her job is to \\"neutralize\\" anyone who might endanger the US government.  She doesn't want to be a government spy -- she has a beauty salon to attend to!  She reluctantly accepts to do sporadic assignments.  When she is told to get rid of a fellow spy gone rogue, she does not know what to do.  After all, the man is gorgeous!  And he is a cyborg just like her!  But there is a murderer targeting on The Boss's lab underlings, and Mr. Gorgeous is the prime suspect.  There are various fun twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This novel, like all Davidson efforts, is a fun, quick read.  I finished it in two sittings.  The fast-paced plot, sharp dialogue and memorable quips make this book a wonderful reading experience.  Caitlyn is great and Dmitri is as sexy as a hero in a comic romance could be.  The other characters -- namely Stacy and The Boss -- are great as well.  I, like most of the characters in the book, wondered why Caitlyn disliked The Boss so much (he has an actual name, but everyone calls him that).  After all, he saved her life.  The whodunit aspect of the story is quite good.  Ms. Davidson kept me guessing.  I have some complaints regarding this book though. The thing that bothered me the most was that the ending seemed rushed and the novel was far too short -- one of the shortest MJD books to date. I feel somewhat ripped off considering the cover price. I have had this same complaint regarding Davidson's stories before. Then again, she writes several novels a year. Also, the characters in this novel are almost identical to the characters in the Undead series, especially Caitlyn (Betsy), Dmitri (Sinclair) and Stacey (Jessica).  It gave me the impression that Brava wanted to cash in on the success the Undead series has had by having Davidson write a very similar series -- because I can already tell that this is the start of a new series.  That of course is pure speculation (especially the cashing in on Undead's success part). All in all, Hello Gorgeous! is a great, fast read.  MaryJanice Davidson is one of my favorite romance/fantasy authors and I devour everything she writes.  She has a great sense of humor.  I recommend this comic gem.of the shortest MJD books to date. I feel somewhat ripped off considering the cover price. I have had this same complaint regarding Davidson's stories before. Then again, she writes several novels a year. Also, the characters in this novel are almost identical to the characters in the Undead series, especially Caitlyn (Betsy), Dmitri (Sinclair) and Stacey (Jessica).  It gave me the impression that Brava wanted to cash in on the success the Undead series has had by having Davidson write a very similar series -- because I can already tell that this is the start of a new series.  That of course is pure speculation (especially the cashing in on Undead's success part). All in all, Hello Gorgeous! is a great, fast read.  MaryJanice Davidson is one of my favorite romance/fantasy authors and I devour everything she writes.  She has a great sense of humor.  I recommend this comic gem.	2005-02-24
340971:US	50774468	R1N186SRN09TQ0	0743454529	354573823	My Sister's Keeper: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Incredible novel -- dark and poignant...	I loved Jodi Picoult's Keeping Faith and have looked forward to reading another one of her eleven novels. My Sister's Keeper caught my attention.  The plot seemed interesting and compelling -- the actual reading experience was remarkable.  Anna Fitzgerald was born under some rather interesting circumstances.  She was conceived to be the bone marrow donor to her sister Kate, a victim of Leukemia.  After thirteen years of doctor visits, surgeries and treatments, Anna has enough and decides to sue her parents.  She wants to make her own decisions about the treatments and transplants.  There are other problems that are triggered by Kate's illness and the family face many obstacles.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This is one of the most beautiful and poignant stories I have ever read.  Picoult makes you feel the characters' emotions to the core.  I cared so much about the outcome of the Fitzgerald family that I stayed awake until the wee hours of the morning just to see what would happen.  The characters are absolutely wonderful.  Anna had such great vitality and I sympathized with her plights.  She often feels used and unloved, especially by her mother, whose devotion is solely given to Kate.  Sara (mother) upset me a lot in this novel.  I understood her concern for her ill daughter, but the way she utilized Anna appalled me.  As said earlier, I was able to feel Anna's desperate need to make her own decisions and to stop being used like a laboratory rat.  I loved My Sister's Keeper.  It is one of the best reads I've had this year thus far.  The ending was different than I had anticipated, but the overall novel is incredible.  I cannot recommend this gem enough.	2005-02-22
341395:US	50774468	R33FSOHVK2215O	0451460103	990164638	Chill Factor (Weather Warden, Book 3)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Gets better every time!	Chill Factor, the third installment of the Weather Warden series, is full of the non-stop action scenes and page-turning narrative that made Ill Wind and Heat Stroke riveting.  Joanne Baldwin, Weather Warden, has been through a lot of things in a short period of time.  She had been given a demon mark, gotten killed and reborn as a Djinn, only to return to her normal human form.  Now she has to go after Kevin -- the troublemaker teenager that made her Djinn existence a living hell in Heat Stroke.  He is in Las Vegas with powerful Djinn Jonathan.  Jonathan wants to find missing Djinn, and he will stop at nothing to get what he wants, and that includes taking advantage of the powers that Kevin had stolen from Lewis.  But Rachel hadn't expected coming across a secret anti-Warden organization.  She also hadn't expected the twists that transpire between her and her Djinn lover David.  There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This novel is a roller coaster ride of action coupled with twists and turns that kept me riveted until the end.  Many things happen in this third book -- things that make me understand some of the characters better.  Lewis is finally developed in this installment.  His behavior in the previous two books makes more sense to me.  Marion is also further developed in this installment.  She is a more dimensional character this time around.  The other characters -- namely Jonathan, Kevin and Rahel -- are dark and have very obscure personalities.  You don't know whether they are good or bad.  I am sure they are intended to be that way.  Joanne continues to be the young, fun, sassy heroine who loves fast cars, fast men and the latest fashion trends.  She manages to maintain her spunk during the most chaotic scenes.  She is one of the best heroines I've read in books of this genre.  The Weather Warden series has become a favorite of mine.  This series gets better with each installment and I cannot wait for the release of Windfall.	2005-02-22
345850:US	50774468	R1AJXET1TZKQ6	1880684748	386507884	Poetry Like Bread	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Incredible, profound, political poems!	Ever since I read City of Coughing and Dead Radiators, I wanted to read more poetry by Martin Espada.  Poetry Like Bread isn't a collection of his poetry though. This is a collection of Curbstone Press poets -- most of which have written about politics and other controversial issues since the seventies -- from various parts of the Americas.  The poems are intense, thought provoking, profound and beautiful.  I have never read poetry like this.  Some messages were as clear as day, others required reading between the lines, but they were all incredible.  My favorites are \\"The Rivers,\\" by Claribel Alegria; \\"The Torturer's Apprentice,\\" by Doug Anderson; \\"Poverty,\\" by Noemi Ayala; and \\"The Voices of the Dead,\\" by Julia de Burgos.  I am glad I was able to read the Spanish version of some of the poems.  Sometimes words and meanings get lost in translation -- although the translator did a wonderful job writing some of the poems in English.  I recommend this gem most highly if you are a fellow poetry enthusiast.	2005-02-18
345887:US	50774468	R1D0R44BKWZDPO	0373250738	915121179	Live From New York, It's Lena Sharpe (Red Dress Ink Novels)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Fun, albeit predictable chick-lit...	Lena Sharpe is a television producer and a chic New Yorker who envisions the perfect relationship with every man she meets. She knows that getting worked up over a new guy has brought her nothing but disappointments -- and her friends have tried to protect her from another failure.  But when she meets a gorgeous author named Colin, her mind goes into overdrive once again, only that this time Colin appears to be the perfect man.  However, Lena hadn't anticipated certain romantic twists in her life...<br /><br />Life from New York, It's Lena Sharpe has its fun moments full of romance and wit. Single women can relate to the heroine's dreams of meeting Mr. Right. There are various scenes that wouldn't have been out of place on an episode of Sex and the City or in a scene of a romantic comedy starring Rene Zellweger, but said scenes are nevertheless fun.  The novel is quite predictable -- I was able to guess the outcome after reading the first thirty pages -- but you have to expect banality when you pick up a novel like this one.  All in all, Life from New York, It's Lena Sharpe is the perfect book to read when you're in the mood for something light and entertaining. I read it while I enjoyed a nice bubble bath and nursed a martini.	2005-02-18
347649:US	50774468	RY4114R4COL5N	0060572973	169911233	The Good, the Bad, and the Undead (The Hollows, Book 2)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Excellent second part of the series, better than the first!	I was impressed with Kim Harrison's Dead Witch Walking and had looked forward to reading the second part of the series. I am officially hooked on Rachel Morgan and the creatures in the Hollows of Cincinnati.  Rachel had been one of the best bounty hunters around until she quit her job and escaped death from her former employers. Now she has her own bounty business with pixie Jenks and vampire roommate Ivy.  But then the FIB hires her to help find a serial killer who prowls on witches.  Rachel has a suspect in mind, but things turn out to be more disturbing than she had originally thought.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />There were answers to some unanswered questions in this second installment. And there are new conflicts that will no doubt make interesting storylines in future books. The story in this book was more entertaining than in the first part, which means that this series will get better with each offering. The books are two of the most original I have read.  (I love the whole tomato thing!  I cannot imagine life without pizza and ketchup!) However, what I liked the most were the characters. Rachel is young, hip and fearless.  I liked her style in Dead Witch Walking and she was even better in this one.  I of course loved Jenks -- he is such a fun character! Vampire Kisten sounds incredibly yummy and I hope that there will be more of him in future novels.  But the most interesting character to me is Ivy.  She is a good friend to Rachel, but she is also dark, scary and dangerous.  She abstains from what comes natural to her as a vampire -- hunting for prey and bloodlust -- and it is more obvious in this installment than in the first one that she wants Rachel to be under her dominion.  The scenes in which she is tempted to attack Rachel are the most palpable ones in the book.  Those parts are incredibly well written and I enjoyed reading them.  The different vampire breeds in this book are truly unique. I loved The Good, the Bad, and the Undead and I cannot wait to read Every Which Way But Dead.  Kim Harrison is officially among my favorite authors of this genre.  I cannot recommend this book enough.the Undead and I cannot wait to read Every Which Way But Dead.  Kim Harrison is officially among my favorite authors of this genre.  I cannot recommend this book enough.	2005-02-16
347782:US	50774468	R3FJK38TWUKBYJ	1580627560	916830225	Why Men Love Bitches: From Doormat to DreamgirlA Woman's Guide to Holding Her Own in a Relationship	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Offers some good insights...	The title of this book caught my attention and I thought it would be just another fun, albeit run-of-the-mill self-help book to read. While the subject matter is indeed overused, Sherry Argov has an earnest, more honest approach to help empower women not to lose their own identities in relationships.  She does not advise women to be \\"bitches\\" in the classic sense -- rather she advises women to stand up for themselves and to not be afraid of having their opinions and views, even when said things differ from that of their partners.  I agree with some of the readers here about the author generalizing men, but sometimes generalization is the only way to get a point across.  This was an entertaining book to read.  I don't take these sorts of books and their advice within too seriously, but sometimes I crave the insightfulness of people like Sherry Argov.	2005-02-16
351911:US	50774468	R2M58ADUWEELYE	006053107X	45935744	Tattooed Girl, The	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Dark, thought provoking, beautiful... Classic Oates!	I have read all of Joyce Carol Oates's short-story collections and hadn't given one of her novels a whirl until now. The Tattooed Girl confirms my belief that Oates is one of the best writers of our time. The Tattooed Girl tells the story of a late-thirties Jewish writer and the strange girl he hires to be his assistant. He is taken by her gaunt, heavily tattooed appearance and lack of self-esteem. As he writes a historical novel based on his grandparents' struggles during the Holocaust, he is unaware of the anti-Semitic things that occur right from under his nose, things that are brought on by his assistant's racist boyfriend. There are various disturbing twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I couldn't put this book down. The writing is so beautiful and full of prose that it kept me turning the pages. The story is something I'd come to expect from Oates. Some of the dark and disarming passages would make excellent book discussions. This isn't just a story about hate, it is also a story centered on the layers of the characters' personalities and the inner workings of the soul. Oates delves once again on domestic abuse here, but she always adds a whole unique perspective to the aforementioned subject matter. I love how the author compared the things that go on in Seigl's novel with the things that occur to him in the real world. Some of those scenes moved me. Once again, Joyce Carol Oates has illustrated the reason why I love her writing so much. She is a true and rare talent and I look forward to reading all of her novels.	2005-02-12
352067:US	50774468	R148UA6WVWEN48	0451411528	445424368	You Slay Me (Aisling Grey, Guardian, Book 1)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very fun start of a series!	This promises to be a fun, light paranormal series. You Slay Me is about a courier who travels to Paris to deliver a dragon statue and encounters a series of unbelievable events.  The person she was to deliver the statue to is dead, and she is the only one there -- save for sexy Drake Vireo.  He tells her he is a dragon and that she is a Guardian, several people from the underworld confirm this, and she thinks that everyone in France is nuts. She also thinks that Drake is the murderer. But when she is able to summon a demon, she comes to terms with the fact that there are indeed such things as dragons and magic.  And when she is wanted for murder, she decides to uncover the mystery on her own. There are various fun twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The reviewer who states that this novel has little substance and that the heroine and monsters aren't dark and scary like the ones in the Laurell K. Hamilton and Kelley Armstrong books should know that this book is not meant to be taken as seriously as the ones by the aforementioned authors (two of my favorites, by the way). This novel, though paranormal, is more targeted to comedy and romance.  You can't pick up a book with a cover like this one and expect a dark, sci-fi/horror novel.  In this case, what you see is what you get and there is no mistaking the content of this particular book.  Having said that, I think You Slay Me is a fun treat with a not-to-be-missed premise for a series. MacAlister did a great job incorporating romance, comedy, mystery and paranormal into the story. The characters are great. I loved demon-dog Jim. He is hilarious!  And I also like Drake a lot.  He is a sexy, promising, albeit somewhat underdeveloped anti-hero.  I hope he is developed further in future books.  The novel is quite funny, but most of the wit comes from the protagonist's internal monologues.  The dialogue was funny only when Aisling bickers with Jim. Aisling is supposed to be flighty and kind of an airhead, a personality trait she wholeheartedly admits to having several times throughout the story, but MacAlister doesn't pull that off well, at least not as naturally as MaryJanice Davidson does with Betsy Taylor of the Undead series. I only had to read the opening paragraphs to realize that Betsy was not the sharpest knife in the drawer.  Anyway, all in all, You Slay Me is better than I had originally anticipated and I look forward to reading the other parts of the series as soon as they are released. I recommend this novel as a light, funny and entertaining introduction to a new paranormal series.y trait she wholeheartedly admits to having several times throughout the story, but MacAlister doesn't pull that off well, at least not as naturally as MaryJanice Davidson does with Betsy Taylor of the Undead series. I only had to read the opening paragraphs to realize that Betsy was not the sharpest knife in the drawer.  Anyway, all in all, You Slay Me is better than I had originally anticipated and I look forward to reading the other parts of the series as soon as they are released. I recommend this novel as a light, funny and entertaining introduction to a new paranormal series.	2005-02-12
353802:US	50774468	RKF9EJL9FC9UO	1416501592	508628536	Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down: Three Tales of Erotic Romance: Captivated by You / Promise Me Forever / Hunter's Right	Books	2	31	37	N	N	I only liked Jaid Black's novella...	Reading Jaid Black's novella, Hunter's Right, was a real treat. In fact, it is the only good novella in the Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down anthology. I am a big Black fan since I read The Possession and I admit that am partial to her work, but her scrumptious tale stands out among the three stories in this book. Ronda Tipton is a Corporal of the US Army. The chopper she is in crashes, leaving her as the only survivor in the collision. Alone in the middle of the Arctic Circle, she discovers a secret civilization of Vikings. The men in this alternate place sell women in auction blocks, branding them properties of the men who buy them. Ronda could not go back to normal civilization. And she may not want to after she meets Nikolas Ericsson. Sherrilyn Kenyon's Captivated by You is the second part of a series. I thought the story of a female undercover agent and her feelings for her fellow partner wasn't all that hot. I did not like Melanie George's Promise Me Forever at all. I thought the heroine was quite pathetic and too much of a conformist.<br /><br />As said earlier, and as another reviewer pointed out, Jaid Black's novella is the only saving grace in this anthology. The others have little or no heat. I think Pocket Books has exaggerated the whole erotica concept of this book. The stories were not that erotic. Even Jaid Black's novella read like a toned down The Empress' New Clothes (her hot Ellora's Cave novel). All in all, if you are in the bargain for some steamy romantica, check out the Ellora's Cave anthologies. I'd suggest you skip this one unless you're a big fan of one or all of the authors here.	2005-02-10
354921:US	50774468	R2V3Z07QZAI4LQ	1573223786	622945505	Drinking Coffee Elsewhere	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Enlightening short-story collection!	Drinking Coffee Elsewhere is quite a unique and enlightening short-story collection centered on various aspects of being an African American in this day and age. The stories have a combination of earnest humor and tear-jerking poignancy. The stories and their characters make you feel the emotions and messages that they intend to convey. My favorite stories are \\"Speaking in Tongues,\\" \\"Brownies,\\" \\"Our Lady of Peace,\\" \\"Drinking Coffee Elsewhere,\\" and \\"Geese.\\" The aforementioned stories are enriching and empowering. I love ZZ Packer's style. Her style is a cross between Zadie Smith and Toni Morrison. I will look for this author's work in the future. I cannot recommend Drinking Coffee Elsewhere enough.	2005-02-10
359093:US	50774468	R12M9GHAU99UMK	0425191257	446551779	Edge of the Moon (The Moon Series, Book 2)	Books	2	5	7	N	N	So-so paranormal romantic suspense...	There is a woman missing, and Detective Jack Thornton has taken on the job to find her.  He hadn't anticipated all of the strange things that occur after he takes on the case. There seems to be more than meets the eye. He also hadn't anticipated falling for Kathryn Reynolds -- the missing woman's landlady.  Things become all the more complicated when Jack protects Kathryn from a demon who has chosen her for a ritual sacrifice that will enable him to have supernatural powers beyond imagination. People have gone missing, and Jack has to find the demon responsible for the disappearances while fighting intense feelings for Kathryn. There are some twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Edge of the Moon is better than Killing Moon in that there are more paranormal elements in this one than in the first novel. However, this novel, like the first one, has also failed to spark my interest. The plot is romantic and suspenseful, but the paranormal side of the story comes across as filler at times. Perhaps I got that impression because I am used to reading flat out sci-fi/fantasy novels and not novels that throw in said elements as a subgenre. The novel would have been great had it been a simple romantic suspense. Werewolves, demons and magic work well when the storyline in general is centered on said things. I know many romance writers use supernatural subplots to add pizzazz to what would otherwise be a standard, run-of-the-mill story. Some authors pull it off because they are able to blend all genres well together, but York is not one of them. York fans will probably hate this review, but I am always honest about the stuff that I read, even if others don't agree with me.	2005-02-06
359437:US	50774468	R128GJE84QGUSL	0679742271	586437603	Sugar and Other Stories	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another literary collection by Byatt!	I marvel at A.S. Byatt's beautiful, literary prose. She has once again floored me with this short-story collection. Sugar and Other Stories centers on musings, philosophies and opinions about literature, culture and the human mind. Each story is enriching, enthralling and thought provoking. They remind me of her series based on the Potter family. My favorite stories are \\"Precipice-Encurled,\\" \\"The Next Room,\\" \\"The Dried Witch,\\" and \\"The July Ghost.\\" Some of the stories have magic realism in them -- something I find difficult to resist. I recommend this collection very highly. And I recommend that you read Byatt's work if you haven't done. She is an absolute genius!	2005-02-06
359484:US	50774468	R2G1093DF94PBV	0060995149	467423521	Come to Me: Stories	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Wonderful collection, Bloom has an amazing voice!	I found this collection by accident and didn't know what to expect. Short stories can be so good, or so bad. These stories are very good, consistently good. These are stories of people searching for something missing in their lives, well told stories with heart, soul and humor. Amy Bloom has quite a unique voice. The stories center on romantic love and family woes, but Bloom adds a spark of originality to otherwise common subject matters. My favorite stories are \\"Sleepwalking,\\" \\"Henry and Marie,\\" \\"The Sight of You,\\" and \\"Semper Fidelis.\\" If you're as enthusiastic about memorable, literary short stories as I am, then I recommend Come to Me most highly. Enjoy this collection.	2005-02-06
359906:US	50774468	R3U0QNWH9U57TM	0451458443	922158521	Grave Peril (The Dresden Files, Book 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dresden taking on ghosts...	Harry Dresden takes on ghosts, vampires and faeries this time around. Ghosts have emerged from the Nevernever, wreaking havoc among humans. Harry has to find whatever is responsible for stirring the supernatural creatures and threatening the lives of his friends. To make matters worse, he has made a bargain with his Godmother -- a beautiful, yet sadistic faerie who wants him under her command. Also, vampire Bianca has sought out revenge against him for having angered her (in Storm Front) and an evil spirit is possessing souls by way of nightmares. Harry, with the help of Michael, a God-fearing Knight, and Thomas, a sneaky vampire, must put a stop to things while avoiding death. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Grave Peril, the third installment of the Dresden Files, is somewhat different from the first two efforts. First of all, characters like Michael and Lea (faerie) are thrown into the story without so much as an introduction. The abruptness of the aforementioned characters' sudden appearances confused me at first. Also, the novel's execution is somewhat different from the first two offerings. The plot twists are downright over the top and overwhelming at times. Sci-fi/fantasy novels are full of action and twists, but this one has a little too much of those things. But I still enjoyed the novel. There are lots of witty passages and the dialogue is sharp and crisp. The characters are also great. Harry is still self-deprecating and that makes him all the more fun. I also liked Michael and his bantering with Harry. Bob was great, as usual. Lea was not developed enough. I hope I will read more on her in future novels. And I also hope that there will be more Murphy in the next installment. All in all, Grave Peril is another action-packed Harry Dresden novel and I look forward to reading Summer Knight.	2005-02-06
372871:US	50774468	R31O3726OHJDKV	1843608995	823890218	Wonderland: King of Spades (Wonderland)	Books	4	25	26	N	N	A scorching second effort...	I loved Cheyenne McCray's Wonderland: King of Hearts so much that I couldn't wait to read the second effort. I had expected this series to have storylines with identical executions, a mistake that most authors make, but I was pleasantly surprised to read that McCray mixed things up a bit. Alexi is desperate.  It has been a year since her fraternal twin sister Alice disappeared.  She refuses to think that Alice is dead and is determined to find her. However, she hadn't anticipated the strange events that occur after she arrives home from a drinking excursion with her cousin.  She lands in a strange world and is seduced by a strange, albeit gorgeous man who shape-shifts into a white tiger.  The man is Darronn, the King of Spades, and he is prepared to train his mate to be properly subservient.  But Alexi does not submit to any man.  She enjoys being submissive in the bedroom only.  It looks like Darronn will have to bend the rules in order to please his insubordinate and fiercely independent mate. Alexi has a difficult time trusting men.  How will she feel when she finds out that Darronn has kept quiet about knowing her sister's whereabouts?  And will Mikaela leave her King brothers alone?  There are some twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The sex scenes are as hot as the ones in the first book.  Darronn and Alexi have a different D/s relationship from Jarronn and Alice.  While Alice is submissive through and through, Alexi is a no-nonsense, ball-busting Sexual Harassment attorney.  I enjoyed reading just how different the twins' personalities are.  Though I enjoyed the Alice and Jarronn story better than this one, the fact that Ms. McCray made an 180-degree turn from what I expected to be a King of Hearts all over again impressed me. And I love the fantasy aspect of the novels.  I enjoy reading about a person landing in an alternate, more interesting universe filled with were-animals and magic.  I like this series better than Jaid Black's series that is somewhat similar to this one called Trek Mi Q'an.  I look forward to reading The King of Diamonds.  The third installment is centered on Annie, the twins' cousin.similar to this one called Trek Mi Q'an.  I look forward to reading The King of Diamonds.  The third installment is centered on Annie, the twins' cousin.	2005-01-26
372961:US	50774468	R30WWIVUO9860F	067003343X	206446430	A Bit on the Side: Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A short-story collection that made me FEEL!	I have read many great short-story collections, but this one is the best I have read in a very long time. A Bit on the Side showcases several of the darkest, bleakest, most thought provoking and haunting short stories out there.  William Trevor has delved into human emotion in a way that most short-story writers aren't able to convey in a few pages.  Some of the stories touched me, others disturbed me.  And that is what I love about this collection.  Trevor made me FEEL for the characters.  A book is definitely a keeper when the language is so palpable it almost jumps out of the pages.  My favorite stories are \\"Sitting with the Dead,\\" \\"Justina's Priest,\\" \\"Traditions,\\" and \\"A Bit on the Side.\\"  I haven't read Trevor's previous efforts, but I will definitely give them a whirl.  I cannot recommend A Bit on the Side: Stories enough.	2005-01-26
376330:US	50774468	RTKAXAFDKWXLV	0345441613	70261650	Among the Missing (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beautiful, dark, haunting stories...	Dan Chaon's Among the Missing  is a wonderful short-story collection, a collection with tremendous depth and imagination. Chaon's stories are all richly told and engrossing, each giving us their own world. What is remarkable about his stories, and what sets this collection off from most others out today is his focus on what goes on in the minds of truly sick, perverted people. This focus adds an additional layer to the stories and makes them somehow richer. There are stories here centered on child sexual abuse and other disturbing subject matters. Chaon does not shy away from the jarring nature of the characters and their stories and because of this, these stories have additional layers of meaning. My favorite stories are \\"Among the Missing,\\" \\"Prodigal,\\" \\"Burn with Me,\\" and \\"Safety Man.\\"  Those stories are dark, beautiful and haunting.  All of the stories are terrific. Pick them up.	2005-01-23
377320:US	50774468	R1IQSYGJUC8NW8	0451459849	792869632	Heat Stroke (Weather Warden, Book 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Action-packed fantasy... better than Ill Wind (4 1/2 stars)!	Ill Wind was a terrific introduction to the Weather Warden series.  Heat Stroke takes it one step further.  I am hooked on this series!  Joanne Baldwin is back... and this time she has powers she had never envisaged.  She had died during her fight with two demons and is now a Djinn.  Now she can use her power to have honeymoon-like encounters with fellow Djinn and lover David at five-star New York hotels and create chic clothes at the drop of a hat.  But it takes more than just a few tricks to be a Djinn -- something she finds out the hard way.  She must improve her skills or die.  To make matters worse, there is the threat of a potentially fatal storm in the atmosphere, a sadistic woman is after David, Lewis is in trouble, and she has been claimed by a sociopath teenager.  Joanna has to learn the Djinn skills and fast.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Heat Stroke is better than Ill Wind in so many levels.  This novel is action-packed and full of twists and turns.  There are no stale moments in this book.  I was better able to understand the things that the Djinn go through when they are claimed by humans.  The things Joanna goes through made me laugh at times.  The scenes where she has to wear a French Maid outfit whenever her randy teen owner ordered her to do so are especially hilarious.  And the characters are better developed this time around, except for Paul and Marion.  I'd like for the author to concentrate more on them in the future.  I liked the character Patrick a lot.  He was quite fun.  I hated what happened to Rahel.  She was such an awesome character.  I like the protagonist's voice.  She is a bit flighty at times, especially when it comes to cars and her wardrobe.  She sounds young and spunky and fun to read.  David once again is scrumptious.  I hope she has more feelings for him than for Lewis.  And the story in the second installment is great.  My one complaint is that the Djinn rules seem at times inconsistent.  I was confused in some parts.  She had to follow orders from her keeper, but she bended the rules a lot.  And the cliffhanger would have bothered me if I hadn't already had a copy of Chill Factor handy.  All in all, this is a great novel, one of the best fantasies I have read.  I look forward to reading Chill Factor.fused in some parts.  She had to follow orders from her keeper, but she bended the rules a lot.  And the cliffhanger would have bothered me if I hadn't already had a copy of Chill Factor handy.  All in all, this is a great novel, one of the best fantasies I have read.  I look forward to reading Chill Factor.	2005-01-23
383471:US	50774468	R1ZY66A6GISKVZ	0451458125	54721316	Fool Moon (Dresden Files)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Even better than the first book (4 1/2 stars)...	Harry Dresden, the Chicago-based wizard and paranormal investigator, is back with a whole new challenge. People have been tortured and mutilated to death by what appear to be werewolves. Harry decides to research the different kinds of werewolves out there and comes out with several types that are achieved either by summoning your own magic, summoning someone else's magic, or by a curse that forces someone to shape-shift and hunt for human or other prey during the full moon. The murders have been committed around the full moon, which leads Harry to believe that the murderer is someone with the aforementioned curse. But things don't add up and the number of suspects increases. Harry tries to get answers and bring the murderers down while being a fugitive of the law (cop-slash-friend Murphy suspects that he is involved in the crimes) and from people and shape-shifters who want him dead. There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Fool Moon was far more riveting and entertaining than Storm Front. This second novel is non-stop action and you cannot put the book down because you cannot wait to know what happens next. There is a lot of violence and gore in this offering as well as some scenes that saddened me -- characters that died and I wished they hadn't.  The last pages were the best part of the novel. And the characters are better here than in the first book as well. The self-deprecating, somewhat geeky protagonist has a great, candid voice and he makes you feel as though you're right in the middle of all the action and suspense. He is so adorable, someone I wouldn't mind dating in real life. And I love tough cookie Murphy. She is a stronger, more law-abiding version of Dolph from the Anita Blake series. She is also almost as badass and stubborn as Anita Blake herself. Drug lord And Johnny Marcone is as amoral and unreadable as Edward from the AB series as well. I know he is supposed to be ruthless, but I kind of like him. Nosy reporter Susan is further developed in this book as well. And of course I loved Bob, the spirit that lives inside a human skull at Harry's apartment. I wish he'd appeared in more scenes! He is hilarious. All in all, Fool Moon entertained me from beginning to end. I am officially hooked on this series and I cannot wait to read Grave Peril. I recommend Fool Moon, but only after you have read Storm Front. This novel makes a darn good stand-alone, but everyone should read a book series in order.veloped in this book as well. And of course I loved Bob, the spirit that lives inside a human skull at Harry's apartment. I wish he'd appeared in more scenes! He is hilarious. All in all, Fool Moon entertained me from beginning to end. I am officially hooked on this series and I cannot wait to read Grave Peril. I recommend Fool Moon, but only after you have read Storm Front. This novel makes a darn good stand-alone, but everyone should read a book series in order.	2005-01-18
383644:US	50774468	R1JTRFVT6UHNQK	0679736808	699806629	Babel Tower	Books	5	7	7	N	N	It gets better every time!	I read and loved The Virgin in the Garden and Still Life and I couldn't wait to read more of Frederica Potter and her eccentric, intellectual family. Babel Tower centers on Frederica's struggles to free herself from her rich, abusive husband. She is now in a custody battle that could well end in disaster. As she regains her independence and begins to work as a teacher in London, Frederica ponders on the reasons she married someone with a different social and intellectual background. There is another legal fight in the story. Jude Mason, a rebellious man who is described as a hippie before his time, is sued for writing an \\"obscene book.\\" What transpires is a story centered on the laws and prejudices in sixties London.<br /><br />Babel Tower is my favorite part of this literary series. A.S. Byatt focuses on Frederica and her plights here more than on the previous novels. And the references to art and literature in this offering are especially engaging and insightful. I did miss the other members of the Potter family, but I loved reading about Frederica one more time. This is one beautiful novel and I so look forward to reading The Whistling Woman with utmost anticipation.	2005-01-18
387395:US	50774468	R1D291XL6ILWSH	0684846861	562205633	In the Land of Men: Stories	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Another wonderful collection by Ms. Nelson!	I read and loved The Expendables and Female Trouble and couldn't wait to read another Antonya Nelson short-story collection. In the Land of Men is another collection centered on women and their relationships. Nelson's prose has a rather simplistic feel to it, but her stories have beautiful, thought-provoking messages within. This collection is quite similar to Female Trouble in that the main characters are all women dealing with their spouses, siblings, lovers, and themselves. My favorite stories are \\"Inertia,\\" \\"How Much We Could See,\\" \\"Fire Season,\\" and \\"The Happy Day.\\" I enjoy Nelson's collections of short stories. They are almost as good as Joyce Carol Oates's offerings. She is in my must-read list of authors. I recommend In the Land of Men most highly.	2005-01-14
387670:US	50774468	RPMTEX45GQRG5	0425199975	913829942	Derik's Bane (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A great addition to the Wyndham Werewolf series!	I loved MaryJanice Davidson's Wyndham Werewolf novellas in the Secrets anthologies and had looked forward to reading Derik's Bane. This is a full-length novel of a great series and I loved it! Derik Gardner has discovered that he is an alpha werewolf and has the urge to fight with the true Wyndham alpha -- his best friend Michael -- to the death. But then he gets a strange prediction from one of the werewolves. No one would consider the task of killing a sorceress and saving the world a relief, but it gives Derik an excuse to forget about his alpha issues, at least until the mission is complete. However, he hadn't anticipated the fact that the powerful sorceress -- her former life was King Arthur's sister Morgan Le Fay -- is ditzy, loud-mouthed Dr. Sara Gunn. Unable to kill her, he decides to travel to Salem, Massachusetts, with her to get some answers. He tries ways to get her to sleep with him throughout the journey, making the scenes extremely funny.<br /><br />Derik's Bane is full of Davidson's signature humor and memorable quips. The dialogue is sharp, witty and crisp and kept me laughing till the final pages. The dialogue in the last few pages of the novel is especially hilarious. Derik is everything I thought he'd be when I read him in Love's Prisoner and Jared's Wolf. And Sara is the typical Davidson smart-mouth, sarcastic heroine. I love her female characters! They are a great departure from all of the docile women in romantic fiction. I have three complaints regarding this novel though. The first one is that the novel is too short -- 292 pages. I wish Davidson's novels were longer because I absolutely love them. The second thing is that this novel is not as edgy as the first two parts of the Wyndham Werewolf series. Love's Prisoner and Jared's Wolf are dark and erotic. This one has its dark edges, most of them centered on Derik's bad boy behavior, but the novel in general is... cuter than the first two installments. My third complaint is that Derik's Bane seems rushed and incomplete. Some things are resolved in abrupt ways. As said earlier, it would have been great if this novel had been longer. Other than that, I love this novel. Davidson's humor is second to none. I read it in one sitting. I enjoyed Derik's Bane and I cannot wait to read the next installment. I think it'll be based on the werewolf-slash-psychic character Antonia.seems rushed and incomplete. Some things are resolved in abrupt ways. As said earlier, it would have been great if this novel had been longer. Other than that, I love this novel. Davidson's humor is second to none. I read it in one sitting. I enjoyed Derik's Bane and I cannot wait to read the next installment. I think it'll be based on the werewolf-slash-psychic character Antonia.	2005-01-14
390844:US	50774468	R1RPQSFCJCGEVN	0743486242	304961552	Hit Reply	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Great chick-lit!	The book's cover, title and blurb caught my attention. I am not unfamiliar with novels written in the form of e-mails, but I still thought Hit Reply would make a more original chick-lit read. This is a fun novel about two long-distance friends who communicate via e-mail. Amber Fleece decides to join a sort of Missing Persons website to see if she could find her high school boyfriend. To her surprise, he writes back, but he is not the successful, unapproachable man she had imagined. He is different in more ways than one. While Amber is single, her best friend, Stephanie, is married with two children in Florida. Her husband spends most of his time traveling for work and she's afraid that he might be having an affair with a co-worker. She used to be a successful career woman and resents being a stay-at-home mother. She hadn't known how lonely she was until she starts flirting with a former co-worker via e-mail and IM. Her former flame convinces her to accept the position as consultant at the marketing firm he and Amber work for. What transpires is a funny and sometimes poignant story centered on friends, love, co-workers, and various aspects of office politics.<br /><br />The e-mails and IMs make this novel a fun treat. Creating a convincing plot development and characterization that way can't be easy, but it worked out quite nicely. I admit that the e-mails and Instant Messages became a bit tiresome after a while though. I began to miss the conventional narratives and dialogue in novels. The novel has the signature wit and sassiness of chick-lit, but it also deals with some rather serious dilemmas, like infidelity and cancer. The way the author handled the development of the story centered on those subject matters impressed me. Rocki St. Claire is a great new chick-lit author. But based on the back cover details, I have the feeling that Stephanie's story is taken from the author's life. After all, she used to work in marketing and is married with two children and lives in Florida. Anyway, this is a fun book to read. It sort of reminded me of Meg Cabbot's The Boy Next Door. I recommend this entertaining novel if you're in the bargain for a good girlie read.s in Florida. Anyway, this is a fun book to read. It sort of reminded me of Meg Cabbot's The Boy Next Door. I recommend this entertaining novel if you're in the bargain for a good girlie read.	2005-01-12
390850:US	50774468	R1JZ5GUCWTXX5V	0446533475	457990569	Secret Smile (French, Nicci)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Nicci French's best and creepiest thriller to date!	I have loved Nicci French's work since Killing Me Softly. I recently found out that Nicci French is in fact a pseudonym used by a British couple. Well, they write awesome novels and I couldn't wait to pick up their latest work. Secret Smile is their best written and creepiest novel since Beneath the Skin. Miranda Cotton couldn't be happier with her life. She is a building contractor in London and her dating life is just as she likes it. But then an ex-boyfriend resurfaces, prepared to ruin her ordered life. He manipulates his way into her family's life to the point that she is not trusted among them anymore. To make matters worse, her friends and family are in danger and no one believes her when she tells them that Brendan Block is a raving psychopath. There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I couldn't put this book down. The scenes are so palpable that they gave me goose bumps. The plot is executed in such a clever way. There were times in which I thought that Miranda was indeed delusional and that Brendan was not as bad as she made him out to be. The novel's conclusion is one of the best I have read in a long time. The characterization is excellent. Brendan's behavior is believable in that in real life there are people who play mind games not unlike the ones he played. I hadn't read thrillers in a while because the genre had become stale. Nicci French has satisfied my craving for a dark, intelligent thriller. Secret Smile reads like a twisted chick-lit. It's incredible and I cannot recommend this gem enough.	2005-01-12
393122:US	50774468	R1PJ66COF2N3C4	0451459520	760489288	Ill Wind: Book One of the Weather Warden	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Forecast calls for a surprisingly engaging read!	I picked up this book because I have wanted to read a sci-fi/fantasy novel from a new female writer of said genre (or at least an author that is new to me). Not only did this novel satisfy my thirst for a cool new author, but it has also been added into my list of not-to-be-missed serials. What a fun, action-packed, engaging read Ill Wind turned out to be! The Wardens Association helps protect humankind from being devoured by mother nature. There are Wardens who control either the weather, the fire or the earth. After a Warden has worked a certain amount of time, he or she is given a Djinn -- a genie of sorts who possesses incredible powers and is there to obey and protect its master.  Joanne Baldwin is a Weather Warden in trouble. She is accused of murdering a senior Warden and is now escaping from punishment, which may include death. To make matters worse, she has the mark of a demon inside of her, something that will not sit well upon her superiors. Her only company is the road and Delilah -- her vintage Mustang convertible. She hopes that Lewis, the most powerful Warden in the world, who controls all elements of mother nature, will help with her plight. But luck isn't on her side. The Wardens are after her; a storm is chasing her, controlled by an unknown enemy; Lewis is missing; and the demon within her is becoming more difficult to control. An attractive and independent Djinn comes along and decides to help her, but will Joanne be able to free herself from all of her dilemmas?  She has far more problems than controlling the weather in her hands. There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This novel had a slow start for me, but I couldn't put it down after the story began to take off. Ill Wind has action from beginning to end. The whole weather angle is very interesting. This is one of the most creative fantasies I have read in quite some time. The plot goes into overdrive at times, especially toward the end, but that is precisely what keeps the reader turning the pages. Joanne is a great heroine. She is young and spunky and loves cars. Her narrative is sharp and crisp as she regales you with stories from her past and present. David and Rahel are also great characters. David is adorable and sounds yummy and Rahel is a very cool, no-nonsense Djinn. But the other characters are underdeveloped. In fact, that is the biggest flaw in this book -- insufficient characterization. I hope Caine delves deeper into some of the secondary characters in her next book. Other than that, I loved Ill Wind. The first installment's conclusion was one of the best I have read and I cannot wait to read Heat Stroke. Rachel Caine is an awesome author. I recommend Book One of the Weather Warden series most highly. If you love fantasy, action, mystery and some romantic tension, then you will love this one. I assure you that Ill Wind calls for a surprisingly engaging read!der turning the pages. Joanne is a great heroine. She is young and spunky and loves cars. Her narrative is sharp and crisp as she regales you with stories from her past and present. David and Rahel are also great characters. David is adorable and sounds yummy and Rahel is a very cool, no-nonsense Djinn. But the other characters are underdeveloped. In fact, that is the biggest flaw in this book -- insufficient characterization. I hope Caine delves deeper into some of the secondary characters in her next book. Other than that, I loved Ill Wind. The first installment's conclusion was one of the best I have read and I cannot wait to read Heat Stroke. Rachel Caine is an awesome author. I recommend Book One of the Weather Warden series most highly. If you love fantasy, action, mystery and some romantic tension, then you will love this one. I assure you that Ill Wind calls for a surprisingly engaging read!	2005-01-10
393178:US	50774468	R185OWXN54PSCB	0375713662	15995797	Sweet Agony: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Dark, engaging, another beautiful read by Ms. Huston...	Having read and loved The Mark of the Angel and Slow Emergencies, I couldn't wait to read another Nancy Huston novel. Her beautiful prose has always enthralled me, and Sweet Agony was not an exception. The story centers on Sean Farrell -- an eccentric, alcoholic poet who decides to create his own version of the last supper. He invites eleven of his closest friends over for Thanksgiving dinner, where he regales everyone with stories of the wonderful and sometimes poignant times they had shared, and where they also vent their unexpressed feelings of anger, baring harsh secrets and truths. But there is a catch to the occasion. Sean is terminally ill and this could well be his final celebration. There are some twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Huston has once again wowed me with a story so engaging and beautiful that it was impossible to put down. This Canadian author's writing is deceptively stark, unmistakably dark. The novel is told from all characters' points of views, jumping from one narrative to another. Yet the multiple narratives did not confuse me in the slightest. Each character possesses his or her own voice, making them all unique. And the conclusion is what I expected from this brilliant novelist. This novel touched me in so many levels and I cannot wait to discuss it with friends. Sweet Agony is a novel that should be savored like fine wine. I cannot recommend it enough. I also recommend her two previous books. They are all wonderful.	2005-01-10
398365:US	50774468	R3EB444EFPMU0J	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wonderful read by Nick Hornby...	High Fidelity is one of my favorite novels of all times and it's hard to open a Hornby novel and not hope for something great. I think the best advice for a reader of this novel is to forget that High Fidelity exists and appreciate this novel in its own right. About a Boy is a wonderful story about two people and their rather unique friendship. Will Lightman is a thirty-six-year-old man whose passions don't go beyond getting the latest gadgets, his CD collection, and having noncommittal sex with single mothers. But when he stumbles upon eleven-year-old Marcus, his life isn't the same. Marcus has a difficult time fitting in school and is terrified of losing his depressed mother to suicide. The strange bond he develops with Will is refreshing, and an unlikely friendship ensues between them. There are some amusing moments throughout the novel.<br /><br />One of the most interesting things about the novel is how effectively Hornby navigates the inner workings of Marcus's rationalizations, how he is able to see Will in a light that even Will himself does not see. Their bond has a \\"boys will be boys\\" feel to it in that Will's reluctance to commit to anything or anyone has a lot to do with his unwillingness to grow up.  The novel is very funny. I loved the scenes of Will trying to get a woman at SPAT meetings (Single Parents Alone Together). Marcus's point of view is more poignant. I loved this offering from Hornby. I had started reading this a few years ago and never finished it until now. I have not seen the movie, but I've been told that it is quite good. I know Hugh Grant plays Will in the movie, which cheated me out of imagining the aforementioned character in my mind. Anyway, I recommend About a Boy. I expected a great Hornby read and was not disappointed.	2005-01-06
398480:US	50774468	R2JY8O94UTUCZJ	1843607514	398127362	King of Hearts (Wonderland)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Hot, hot, HOT erotic fantasy!	I would have given anything to be in Alice's shoes. This novel is erotic beyond words, and the fantasy aspect of it gives it a creative twist. And the best part is that it is centered on BDSM -- something that I find quite insatiable. Alice O'Brien is having a bad day. She is sexually harassed at her job, gets fired and finds her fianc&eacute; in a rather kinky sexual encounter with the landlady and a, uh, strange fellow. But she hadn't anticipated just how strange her life would become thereafter. After being attacked by a white tiger in a park in San Francisco, she wakes up in a strange, surreal, albeit beautiful land. Then she meets King Jarronn -- the King of Hearts and high leader of Tarok. What transpires is a deliciously explicit training process in which Alice has to submit to Jarronn and obey him and is in turn taken to erotic heights she had never envisaged. But Jarronn has some worries regarding the future of his people in Tarok, things that could well destroy his union with Alice. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I devoured this novel in one sitting. I just couldn't put it down. The fantasy aspects -- the alternate universe Alice lands on, the kings shape-shifting into white tigers, and the constant references to Alice in Wonderland -- make this more than just a BDSM novel. I liked the fact that the heroine is a plump, voluptuous woman. That somehow made her more real. And the concept of the kings' names taken from poker cards (is it poker?  I actually have no idea, not being much of a card player) is quite unique and original. This is one great piece of work. I loved Cheyenne McCray's first installment of the Seraphine Chronicles and I cannot wait till the other parts come out in paperback, and this Wonderland series is one that I will enjoy reading as well. I cannot wait to pick up The King of Spades. Cheyenne McCray is now on my list of not-to-be-missed authors. If you love romantica, fantasy and delectable BDSM, then you will love this novel. I cannot recommend King of Hearts enough!love this novel. I cannot recommend King of Hearts enough!	2005-01-06
401789:US	50774468	R5O93UOHZI5II	0374281416	579098147	Natasha: And Other Stories	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Brilliant piece of work!	This is a brilliant piece of work. All of the stories in Natasha and Other Stories are connected and narrated by the son of a Russian-Jewish family from 1970s Toronto. The stories of their struggles with wanting a new life. The language is sharp and evocative -- the descriptions vivid and beautiful. And the stories are thought provoking and poignant. My favorite stories are \\"The Strongest Man\\" and \\"Minyan.\\" Reading about this family gave me the impression that David Bezmozgi was writing about his own experiences. It doesn't matter, for this is a brilliant short-story collection that I read in one sitting. I wish I had taken longer to read it and savored the experience. Natasha is going to my re-read pile. I cannot recommend this book enough...	2005-01-04
402135:US	50774468	R2L9YSZA0DC41K	0758207077	589811058	How To Be A Wicked Woman	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Davidson's novella is a "wicked" good read!	I was told that MaryJanice Davidson's novella in this anthology was great. And it is great. The Wicked Witch of the West Side is about a no-nonsense New York publishing editor who finds out that Hope Desiree, the publishing house's best-selling romance author, is actually Steven McCord -- a former police officer and total hottie. Jeannie has to get him to finish up his latest novel. What transpires is a sexy love story that is also hilarious and full of Davidson's signature quips. What a great opening to this anthology. The other two novellas -- Instruction in Seduction by Jamie Denton and Wicked Ways by Susanna Carr -- are not as memorable as Davidson's offering. Denton's story about an uninhibited cop who teaches his co-worker how to be a bad girl in the sack was pretty good if a bit clich&eacute;. And Carr's tale about a woman who decides to change her image to help her career and love life has its scenes full of steam but, like Denton's novella, the plot is a bit stale and not unlike so many Brava stories I have read for a while.<br /><br />All in all, this is a fun book to read while you are traveling to work or if you're in the bargain for some cute chick-lit-slash-romance. MaryJanice Davidson is one of the best romance authors out there and I admit that am partial to her work. Her sharp dialogue and crisp narration make her stories special to me. However, I love her novels more than her novellas and I look forward to reading one soon. As for the other two authors, they are good in what they do. I am not impressed with their offerings because they are not unlike the other stuff other Brava authors have released.  Their themes are too repetitious. I have read a lot of Brava anthologies and most of the stories within said anthologies have a \\"been there, done that\\" feel to them. Davidson is the exception. Her stuff is quite creative most of the time. Anyway, as said earlier, read this as a fun, no-fuss read and if you don't mind the woman-who-has-been-hurt-before-and-the-gorgeous-man-who-rescues-her theme in Denton's novella.-and-the-gorgeous-man-who-rescues-her theme in Denton's novella.	2005-01-04
403885:US	50774468	RFG78FJNP5NFC	1400030943	603943472	Stella Descending: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Amazing, thought-provoking read!	I read and loved Before You Sleep five years ago and I cannot believe that I waited this long to read another Linn Ullmann novel. The Scandinavian author is known for writing strange, imaginative literature with a great deal of magic realism. Her novels are more fables than anything else. She has once again floored me with Stella Descending. This dark story set in Oslo, Norway, centers on the mystery surrounding a married couple. Martin and Stella are on a rooftop where she plummets to her death. No one knows how it happened. Did she lose her footing, or did her husband kill her? Further speculations begin. Were Martin and Stella happy? How do their children feel about their parents? Martin is quite an enigmatic individual. He neither admits fault nor defends himself against the allegations. What transpires is a disarming story that centers on marriage, family and fidelity (or lack thereof). There are a lot of twists in this novel.<br /><br />Linn Ullmann uses different kinds of narrative throughout the novel. Even Stella narrates part of the novel after her death. Not only is the story told in various points of view, there are several stories within the story, fables as such, and has some rather bizarre magic realism and disarming erotica to boot. She did this with Before You Sleep, and it can be quite confusing if you don't follow the story. But that is what I love about this author. Ms. Ullmann writes with beautiful, stark prose. Her novels have a mixture of brutal truth and confounded metaphors. She is like Amanda Filipacchi in that she writes obscure, complex stories with magical realism and dark humor in the mix. This novel is though provoking to the max -- one that you will think about for days to come. I for one have placed this in my re-read pile. Are you in the bargain for a deep, literary read? I recommend Stella Descending.	2005-01-02
404383:US	50774468	RW3XIFMAVTDDS	0451457811	823834280	Storm Front (Dresden Files)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great first part of the series!	I have become a big fan of sci-fi/fantasy novels and devour everything that has vampires, werewolves or fairies in it. A friend of mine recommended a series called The Dresden Files by an author called Jim Butcher. I prefer to read novels of this sort written by female authors, but I decided not to veto this book because of the author's gender. I am glad I gave it a whirl. Storm Front, the first part of the series, enthralled me from beginning to end. Harry Dresden is a wizard and paranormal investigator who gets the most challenging case in his career. A woman hires him to search for her husband. She suspects that he uses sorcery magic for evil. Harry takes the case because he needs the money. Paranormal investigators don't have a huge caseload, after all. But then he has to help the police solve a rather strange case. Murders have been committed with black magic, and only Harry can figure things out. But to make matters worse, he is in the White Council's black list (the White Council makes sure wizards don't harm people with magic), a powerful drug lord wants him out of the investigation, and someone wants him dead. It will be difficult to survive without the use of magic. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This novel is quite similar to Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake books in various levels. It has a mixture of paranormal, mystery, action and suspense. The only difference is that Harry is a level-headed, uncomplicated guy, whereas Anita comes bundled with all sorts of prejudices and inner conflicts. I suppose that is the difference between men and women. I like that this series is set in Chicago and that it is centered on wizards and sorcerers. Also, the vampires and fairies in here seem interesting (although I would have liked to read more scenes with vampire Bianca in them). And Bob, the spirit that lives inside a human skull at Harry's apartment, is hilarious! I hope Butcher uses him more in future novels. I also liked ball-buster Murphy and nosy reporter Susan a lot. All in all, Storm Front entertained me to the max. I look forward to reading the second part of this promising series. In the meantime, I highly recommend Storm Front.rphy and nosy reporter Susan a lot. All in all, Storm Front entertained me to the max. I look forward to reading the second part of this promising series. In the meantime, I highly recommend Storm Front.	2005-01-02
408500:US	50774468	R2905FVC8BNYGW	051513970X	629396775	Bite	Books	4	50	54	N	N	Awesome anthology!	I was excited about reading this anthology. After all, it features stories by Laurell K. Hamilton, Charlaine Harris and MaryJanice Davidson. Those are three of my very favorite sci-fi/fantasy authors. I look forward to reading the next installment of their respective vampire books and I figured Bite would be a nice appetizer before the main course. Even though I was disappointed with the fact that Hamilton and Harris's offerings are short stories instead of novellas, I enjoyed this book to the max. Hamilton's \\"The Girl Who Was Infatuated with Death\\" is an Anita Blake story that takes place some time around Blue Moon and Obsidian Butterfly. In other words, it takes place right before the series goes haywire. Anita wants to stop a teenage girl with bone cancer from turning into a vampire. But when Anita asks Jean-Claude to help find the vampire who will do the transition, old feelings and intense sexual tension ensue between them. In Charlaine Harris's \\"One Word Answer,\\" Sookie Stackhouse discovers that a wayward cousin of hers had turned into a vampire and was recently murdered. In an attempt to offer her condolences, the Vampire Queen of Louisiana bestows a rather interesting favor upon Sookie. Davidson's \\"Biting in Plain Sight\\" is a fun novella about a vampire veterinarian who discovers she has a long-time admirer. When she finds out that a rogue vampire is responsible for the deaths of various teenage girls, she asks the Vampire Queen (Undead's Betsy Taylor) for help. Angela Knight's \\"Galahad\\" is about a young witch who travels to the world of King Arthur -- only that the people there are vampires. And Vickie Taylor's \\"Blood Lust\\" is about a fight over a stolen formula for synthetic blood for vampires.<br /><br />I loved the stories of Laurell K. Hamilton and Charlaine Harris the most. With Hamilton, it was like going back to the time when the Anita Blake novels were still riveting. This story took place before the ardeur and metaphysical contacts began to monopolize the plot and before Micah and other expendable characters came along. The story, albeit short, was a real treat. And Harris's Sookie Stackhouse story is my favorite one in the book. It tells the reader in various levels that Bill is now just a trusted and reliable friend of Sookie's. There is still some tension there though. After all, he still cares for Sookie and tries to protect her at all cost. MaryJanice Davidson's novella is told in third person and it centers on two new characters, but it was fun to read about Betsy Taylor and friends from other characters' points of view. I am not a big follower of Angela Knight, and Vickie Taylor is unknown to me, but their stories were entertaining. The last three stories center more on romance than anything else. As a whole, Bite is an excellent anthology. Read this if you're a fan of any of the big authors in this offering.ize the plot and before Micah and other expendable characters came along. The story, albeit short, was a real treat. And Harris's Sookie Stackhouse story is my favorite one in the book. It tells the reader in various levels that Bill is now just a trusted and reliable friend of Sookie's. There is still some tension there though. After all, he still cares for Sookie and tries to protect her at all cost. MaryJanice Davidson's novella is told in third person and it centers on two new characters, but it was fun to read about Betsy Taylor and friends from other characters' points of view. I am not a big follower of Angela Knight, and Vickie Taylor is unknown to me, but their stories were entertaining. The last three stories center more on romance than anything else. As a whole, Bite is an excellent anthology. Read this if you're a fan of any of the big authors in this offering.	2004-12-29
409508:US	50774468	R2CV6TS0EPOBYY	0865381100	931604237	Stories from Another World	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Incredible short-story collection...	I read Sheila Kohler's novel Cracks about five years ago and was mesmerized by the author's dark, lurid language. I had waited for the paperback release of Stories from Another World for over a year, but it never came out. Alas, I decided to pick up the hardcover at the library. I am glad I did. This is one incredible short-story collection. The style is similar to Cracks, but unlike the aforementioned novel, the stories within this book have no particular setting. The subject matters in Another World vary from child abuse to infidelity. There are tons of short stories with those exact subjects, but Kohler's work is truly unique. I loved \\"Baboons.\\" It shows just what an amazing storyteller Kohler is. It didn't even bother me that the story was very vague in some areas and was told in parts. \\"Underworlds\\" and \\"Death in Rome\\" were also excellent. I cannot believe it took me this long to give this collection a whirl. Some books are worth the hardcover price, and this is one of them. I won't hesitate to read another Sheila Kohler book in the future.	2004-12-29
412077:US	50774468	RR0AVR25KTW22	0684835037	640221683	Still Life	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Simply beautiful...	Having read The Virgin in the Garden, I couldn't wait to read the second part of this so far wonderful series about the Potter family. Still Life centers on Frederika, Marcus and Stephanie and their struggles with their Yorkshire upbringing and their thirst for all things intellectual. Stephanie has abandoned the life of academia and opted for a family of her own. She is somewhat content with her life, but things fall apart for her after a tragedy ensues. Marcus has some struggles of his own. He does not know his place in the world. Does he belong in Yorkshire, or should he do what his sister Frederika did? She goes to Cambridge to quench her thirst for knowledge. What transpires is a story about various intellectuals and the changes in their respective lives. There are various twists throughout this novel.<br /><br />Still Life, like The Virgin in the Garden, has beautiful, flawless language that you cannot help but devour in one sitting. I love A.S. Byatt's writing. Hers is a voice that I cannot get enough of. This trilogy is literary, thought-provoking and lyrical. It is difficult to write a review about it without giving some piece of imperative information about the plot. It is something you have to read and later discuss with friends or book club members. I cannot wait to tell friends about this amazing novel. Still Life is a literary marvel. I am still thinking of Frederika, such a memorable character. This is a truly superb story by an obvious master storyteller. I recommend Still Life, but I advise readers to read The Virgin in the Garden a whirl before this one.	2004-12-27
412108:US	50774468	R32UV0AXQ1E6OL	0373250606	512054140	Getting Personal (Red Dress Ink)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Fun chick-lit (3 1/2 stars)...	Getting Personal is a fun Brit chick-lit about three single Londoners who decide to set each other up on blind dates using the ultimate tool of desperation: personal ads. Ruby wants to find a handsome, rich and intelligent man to show off to her co-worker and ex-boyfriend at a party. Lou wants to find the gorgeous man she ran into on the morning tube to work. And Martin wants to find a woman who is neither psychotic nor clingy. What transpires is a humorous story full of the pitfalls in the dating world that single people know all too well. There are some interesting twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Getting Personal is a fun, no-fuss read that I enjoyed on my train ride to visit friends and family for Christmas. I was entertained throughout the dreadful trip. Chris Manby regales us with an addicting story full of British humor. However, there are some areas that should have been better. The characters are a little too neurotic at times. Ruby annoyed me often with her self-pity and desperation. And I sort of saw the developments in her love life coming from the very beginning. And, like another reviewer pointed out, there are some loose ends throughout the story -- some twists that seemed intrusive and out of place. The reader always gets a clue or a foreshadow of something important that will happen ahead in the story. I guess Ms. Manby forgot to do that. There should have been some fact-checking in some areas of the novel as well. Also, the novel is unnecessarily long. It should have been at least one hundred pages shorter. After all, this isn't a deep, literary novel. Other than that, this is a great read. It is not as clever as the Bridget Jones books, but it is entertaining nevertheless. I recommend Getting Personal if you're in the bargain for a British chick-lit.	2004-12-27
413812:US	50774468	R1TL3WT1BD3GR2	1843609533	679605214	The Gypsy Lovers	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Gotta love these Gypsies!	Having read and loved Madam Charlie and Tales of the Beau Monde, I couldn't wait to read another Sahara Kelly novel. The Gypsy Lovers is another historical marvel filled with smoldering erotic scenes and various love stories. Six wild gypsies have taken Regency London by storm with their passionate music. They move about Europe seeking adventure and wild affairs. But the most interesting part about these men is that they are not real gypsies as such -- a couple of them are aristocrats who became friends with four other noble men while fighting in the war (French Revolution). They have always fought together, made music together, and decided to live simple lives together. However, each man meets a woman who changes his life forever. And that is how the gypsies and their women discover that their lives are connected in more ways than one. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I like the way Ms. Kelly connected some of the love stories in the novel. I admit that the plot development seemed a bit too soap opera-ish at times, but I nevertheless enjoyed reading about the characters' revelations. I liked how Viktor and Madelyne met, and I loved the erotic scene between Gyorgy and Madeleine (it involved light bondage), but the most interesting one by far was the menage a trois between Luk, Mat and Priscilla. There is something for everyone here. My one complaint is that Peter never revealed his secret to Freddie about the duel. I was hoping his secret had the sort of Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon thing the other stories had. Other than that, I enjoyed reading this novel. It was the sort of good escapism I needed and sought out. I recommend this novel along with Madam Charlie.	2004-12-24
418800:US	50774468	R1RTDVL22O5ZLR	0786711299	517935640	Vapor: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Still fascinating after all this time!	I marvel at Amanda Filipacchi's originality. Her ability to turn people's stomachs and made them laugh out loud at the same time makes her quite unique. Vapor is a totally bizarre novel. We are introduced to Anna Graham, a neurotic xerox copy shop worker and ear-piercer who wants to become the best actress in her time. However, she has a difficult time getting into a certain character. Thus, her acting professor tells her she is \\"herself too much.\\" But in a twist of fate, Anna saves a strange man from dangerous muggers on a deserted subway station on the same day her acting professor tells her that it would be wise for her to switch career goals. Her life isn't the same after her automaton heroic act.  Damon, the eccentric victim, decides to show his gratitude in a strange and disturbing way.<br /><br />It is not easy to describe the twists and turns in this novel. There are far too many of them. The characters are all quirky, including Anna's fencing parents, her boyfriend-slash-stripper-slash-etiquette expert-slash-Weight Watchers guru and the drop dead gorgeous supermodel who's in love with him. There is a lot of magical realism here, mainly centered on Damon's experimentations with his invention of bonsai clouds and with a liquid solution that helps him float like one of his clouds (very strange scenes), making the story and the characters come across as caricature. But said things make Vapor unique. Amanda Filipacchi must be quite an interesting person. You will laugh, you will cry, you will cringe, but you will mostly laugh. Filipacchi is extremely witty. There are various aspects of literature in this novel: mystery, romance, thriller, and magical realism all rolled into one. This is the fourth time I reread this novel and it still enthralls me from beginning to end. I highly recommend this book. And don't forget to also pick up Filipacchi's debut novel called Nude Men! That one is just as bizarre as this one.	2004-12-19
419135:US	50774468	RZ7Y6NXZMYILN	0373802137	852511342	Elphame's Choice (Luna)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wonderful romantic fantasy!	I had no idea what to expect when I picked up this novel. All I know is that the premise seemed interesting. I loved this novel. Elphame's Choice is a beautiful fantasy novel about a rather unique woman taking charge of her life. Elphame had been born different. Goddess Epona had marked her with a physical appearance that makes her unique. Her legs resemble the legs of a centaur, making her look like she's half human, half horse, something that has awed the people around her. But Elphame wants to be accepted as a normal, ordinary person, not as the daughter of the Goddess's Chose One. So she sets out to reconstruct and live at the MacCallan castle -- a place that had been destroyed during a savage war. Something had driven her there, something that could well change her life forever. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I have never read the Goddess series, the series this novel is based on, so I was a bit lost at first, but I just let the story guide me. The writing is beautiful and the fanciful language and setting enthralled me from beginning to end. The characters are also fascinating. Lochlan, the man Elphame sees in her dreams, is quite an obscure character for the first half of the book, and that is what I found most fascinating about him. I also liked Cuchulainn, Elphame's overprotective and womanizing brother, and the things that transpire in his love life. The overall story is wonderful. P.C. Cast has a way with words. She transports you into her unique world. I couldn't put this book down. My one complaint is that the pace of the story seemed too slow at times. I don't like stories that are rushed, but I also don't like it when a story is dragged on either. Other than that, Elphame's Choice is a riveting romantic fantasy and I cannot recommend it enough.	2004-12-19
421176:US	50774468	R38DP3X7T5DRE2	1565121856	954039645	THE BAD DAUGHTER: Betrayal and Confession	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Pretentious, boring...	Julie Hilden blew me away with her novel called Three. It was one of the darkest, most thought provoking erotic novels I have read in a long time. And for that reason, I decided to give her memoir a whirl. Bad Daughter is pretentious in more ways than one. Julie talks about her painful childhood as she watched her mother hit rock bottom with her alcoholism. Her mother now has Alzheimer and is unable to take care of herself. Julie decides not to look after her mother and chooses to go to law school instead. What transpires is a long take of her childhood and self-torture for the decisions she has made.<br /><br />This memoir is pretentious because it tries to be philosophical and analytical about almost everything. The author should have limited things to just telling the reader about her childhood and the dilemmas she's faced as an adult. There are so many memoirs out there about alcoholic parents and family members with Alzheimer that one more makes no difference. Hilden wanted to come across as a careless, apathetic daughter trying to justify her decision to not look after her ill mother, and it got tiring after a while. There is nothing in this memoir that makes it standout. Reading Bad Daughter caused me to yawn more times than any other bad book I have recently read.	2004-12-16
421292:US	50774468	R3CRFE2E7BJJN0	0312316801	931084222	Minion: A Vampire Huntress Legend	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Not to my taste...	I love vampire fiction. I couldn't get enough of Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter novels (before the series went haywire) and the books by Charlaine Harris, Kim Harrison, MaryJanice Davidson, and Kelley Armstrong are also favorites of mine. Imagine how excited I was when I heard about a series called The Vampire Huntress Legend. However, Minion, the first part of said series, disappointed me to the max. Damali Richards is an up and coming artist at Warriors of Light Records. Music is her life. However, she hadn't anticipated the fact that she had been the chosen one to become the vampire huntress for the new millennium. Now she creates music by day and hunts down and kills vampires by night. To make matters worse, vampires are killing artists from her record company, and Damali has to find out the reasons for the savage killings. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The main problem I had with this novel was the narrative. I like these novels in first-person style because you have more affinity with the heroine. Reading about Anita Blake, Elena Michaels, Paige Winterbourne, Sookie Stackhouse, and Betsy Taylor were like reading about a great friend. I don't like novels of this genre in third-person narrative -- they're just not as gripping without the voice of the main character. What also bothered me were the Blade/Matrix-like scenes. I don't like it when the authors make these sorts of novels seem as though they should come with special bonus features like the ones found in DVDs. I know this is sci-fi/fantasy, but still. And to make matters worse, I didn't like the heroine. She seemed cool at first -- the bohemian vibe of Erika Badu with the self-righteousness of Buffy -- but then she bored me to bits. I just couldn't get into this novel. L.A. Banks is no Laurell K. Hamilton. I won't read the other parts of this series. The first novel was more than enough for me.	2004-12-16
423863:US	50774468	R1V3Z84VHP69HK	140003163X	458831348	Mendocino and Other Stories	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Wonder collection by Ms. Packer!	Having read and loved The Dive from Clausen's Pier, I couldn't wait to read another Ann Packer book.  I am glad that I stumbled upon this great collection of short stories. Mendocino and Other Stories centers on the abrupt and unsettling changes in the lives of various thirty-something-year-old men and women. Packer writes about parenthood, loss and other storylines that are both funny and poignant at the same time. I admit that I had a difficult time getting into some of the stories and abandoned them altogether at the end because the author tended to drag out the plot, but there were others that I loved. My favorites are \\"Babies,\\" \\"Horse,\\" and \\"My Mother's Yellow Dress.\\"  This isn't the best short-story collection I have read and this work does not exceed Packer's The Dive from Clausen's Pier. Yet this book possesses some wonderful stories and great passages. I recommend Mendocino and Other Stories.	2004-12-14
424236:US	50774468	R2XE19GU3CPBG5	0425198952	615129612	Men at Work	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Fun anthology! (3 1/2 stars)	Men at Work was a fun anthology to read. You get three novellas about gorgeous, sweaty men doing a lot of work with their hands in more ways than one. I loved Nina Bangs's feline novella called Color Me Wicked.  It is based on a series that I have not read, but the novella is a great stand-alone with a sensual male character to boot.  And I adored MaryJanice Davidson's Fixer Upper. This is a unique love story about a woman who buys an old Victorian house. She later finds out that the house is haunted. But Jack the ghost is far sweeter and considerate than the obnoxious, vulgar, but gorgeous neighbor Ken. The development of this story is quite interesting. I loved the characters and their quips, especially Nikki. This is the creative Davidson that I know and love.  Fixer Upper is my favorite novella in the anthology. I found Janelle Denison's Slow Hands boring at best. The story of a woman who reunites with her sexy ex is not unlike every Denison story I have read. Her descriptions and characters' lines are so repetitive. But I do like the way she writes her erotic scenes.<br /><br />I recommend Men at Work if you're in the bargain for fun, no-fuss escapism. This Berkley anthology sort of reminds me of Brava's bad boy anthologies, except that they allow the writers to be more creative here. As said earlier, Fixer Upper is the best in this collection and I recommend this anthology for that story alone.	2004-12-14
425514:US	50774468	R1GZUG52JLD8T3	1419950118	427241248	Hot in the City - French Quarter (Ellora's Cave Presents, Hot In The City)	Books	5	59	59	N	N	One word: WOW!	I had a hard time looking for a good book to read when I stumbled upon this one. I am glad I gave this book a whirl. French Quarter will take you into an exquisite ride of hot, uninhibited sex with a tender, sensual love story to boot. And New Orleans is the perfect backdrop for this sexy, no-holds-barred story of a conforming, unadventurous woman shattering her innermost sexual inhibitions. Liz Marsh hires a P.I. to find out if her fianc&eacute; is cheating on her. The P.I. is gorgeous Jack Wade -- a man who makes her want to change from shy to wanton the minute she meets him. Once her fiance's illicit behavior is confirmed, she goes into a sexual odyssey she hadn't envisaged. The yummy Jack Wade and the dark, steamy streets of the French Quarter district awaken a sexual awareness she hadn't known she had. But is Jack Wade interested in her in a romantic way, or is he just interested in going to bed (and other places) with her? And will her ex-fianc&eacute; take rejection lightly? There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This novel is delectable beyond words. The sex scenes are so hot and palpable that I wish my boyfriend were here with me. The scenes centered on Liz's experimentations at strip clubs and sex shows were incredible. I also loved the man-woman-man menage a trois (my ultimate fantasy). The shower scene, balcony scene, and the lovemaking with the Mardi Gras masks on... sheet burners to the max! The other books I'd found just as scorching as this one were The Ninety Days of Genevieve and The Captivation. Lacey Alexander did an excellent job writing about both male and female fantasies and desires. And the love story is wonderful. The romance mixes well with the erotica. One does not take away from the other, and that is how a good romantica should be. I visited the author's website and this is how she described her work: \\"Lacey's romantic erotica combines hardcore erotica and romance.  The sex scenes are very graphic, detailed, and plentiful, including graphic language and extreme sexual situations, but entwined is a romantic, loving relationship that will reach a level of monogamous commitment by the end of the book.  Perfect for the reader who enjoys extremely hot, graphic sex and fantasy-type situations, but who also finds satisfaction in traditional romance and wants to see characters fall in love.\\"  That, in a nutshell, is precisely what I want in my romance. This novel enthralled me from beginning to end and it gave me some ideas. Better than any sex guidebook I've ever read! This is another incredible Ellora's Cave offering. The aforementioned imprint has not let me down. French Quarter is the first part of Alexander's Hot in the City series. I will definitely give this author's other books a whirl. In the meantime, I recommend this gem most highly!iful, including graphic language and extreme sexual situations, but entwined is a romantic, loving relationship that will reach a level of monogamous commitment by the end of the book.  Perfect for the reader who enjoys extremely hot, graphic sex and fantasy-type situations, but who also finds satisfaction in traditional romance and wants to see characters fall in love.\\"  That, in a nutshell, is precisely what I want in my romance. This novel enthralled me from beginning to end and it gave me some ideas. Better than any sex guidebook I've ever read! This is another incredible Ellora's Cave offering. The aforementioned imprint has not let me down. French Quarter is the first part of Alexander's Hot in the City series. I will definitely give this author's other books a whirl. In the meantime, I recommend this gem most highly!	2004-12-13
425523:US	50774468	R2IEPRHEM874P8	0452280249	366306153	The Collector of Hearts: New Tales of the Grotesque	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Another amazing, disarming short-story collection by Oates!	Those who have followed my reviews know that I love Joyce Carol Oates's writing. Her books are beautifully written and her stories are poignant and haunting at the same time. There is nothing grotesque about The Collector of Hearts, but the stories within this collection are dark, strange, and sometimes downright disarming. This collection, like many of this author's other works, center on broken families and relationships gone awry, and, just like her other books, these stories are at times disturbing and thought provoking to the core. My favorite stories are \\"Death Mother,\\" \\"The Sepulchre,\\" \\"Demon,\\" \\"Posthumous,\\" \\"Scars,\\" \\"The Dream-Catcher,\\" and \\"Shadows of the Evening.\\" These are my favorites, but there are more incredible stories in this collection. Joyce Carol Oates is one of the best literary voices of today. I urge everyone to read her books if you haven't done. Her books are not for the faint at heart, but for those who enjoy reading strong, dark literature that touch and haunt you in more ways than one.	2004-12-13
430719:US	50774468	RAGVYA8P109HI	068987474X	794170346	He's Just Not That Into You: The No-Excuses Truth to Understanding Guys	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Amusing book...	This book was taken out of an episode of Sex and the City, but that's not the reason why I gave it a whirl. This magazine-like book is an attempt to open the eyes of all deluded single women out there who find every excuse in the book to justify men's reasons for not calling them or for avoiding them when the simple answer all along is... you've guessed it! They are just not that into them. This book will facilitate things for us single gals, right? Wrong! We will always torture ourselves by overanalyzing things. And there are exceptions to every rule, and I am the walking proof of that. The book does discuss possible exceptions to that strong piece of advice. Some of those letters made me laugh. I marvel at the way we women analyze everything. Anyway, this was a fun, no-fuss book to read. I didn't take it seriously and neither should you. I did enjoy the bold honesty though.	2004-12-08
430934:US	50774468	RH9YZASZLY61	1843609053	969907468	Dangerous Desires	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Absolutely loved this, full of passion and intrigue!	I enjoy all sorts of literature, romance being one of them. However, I have always liked my romance to be a little... rough. I don't like to read romantic novels in which the hero and heroine know they are right for each other from the start and have only eyes for one another and face an obstacle or two. As a cynic of sugarcoated love stories, I want my romance to have intrigue, real and raw emotions, and erotica. Historical settings are a plus, for I love to read about a different time period. And that is why I absolutely loved Julia Templeton's Dangerous Desires. This novel is full of the aforementioned reading requirements and a whole lot more. This pre-Regency story (1810) centers on one Arlie Whitman and her entrance to the Rochford Manor, where she meets and falls for Dominique Santrell, one of London's most infamous scoundrels. Her late father had wanted Dominique to be her new guardian, something that does not sit well with Dominique. Alas, he plans to train and educate the low-class beauty and introduce her to society and potential suitors. But Dominique hadn't anticipated the feelings of jealousy he experiences whenever a man approaches his beautiful, young ward. He wants her like he has never wanted a woman before, but Arlie wants a proper marriage, something that he cannot give her, for she is not of his social stature and he is unable to be faithful to one woman. He hopes that she'd be content with being his mistress. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Dangerous Desires is a roller coaster ride of lust and emotions. Arlie and Dominique touched me in a deep way. The feelings the main characters go through are so palpable they almost jumped out of the pages. I felt for Arlie. She is in love with Dominique and wants to be his wife, yet she is willing to settle for being his mistress. Dominique frustrated me at times. He lusted after Arlie and cared for her, yet he got his jollies from married women and other mistresses. Dominique had had his heart broken before and was afraid to love again, but his behavior was nevertheless infuriating most of the time. I wanted to go into the pages and strangle him whenever he thought the solution to his unrequited (or so he thought) lust and feelings for Arlie was to sleep with married duchess Veronica. He angered me a lot while I read the book. And that is precisely what I loved most about this novel. Templeton made me care about the characters. Arlie is brave, transparent, and determined. Dominique is as delicious as he is infuriating. I don't like boy-next-door types in romanticas. I like the heroes to be utter rogues -- dark, gorgeous, sensual miscreants with the sexual prowess of a bull. The male character in this book is more my cup of tea. The other characters are also great. I liked Langley and Dominique's grandmother a lot. As for the writing, the story is beautifully told and wonderfully executed. The sex scenes were very erotic. And I loved the historical references and the realistic portrayal of the caste systems and class differences. Titles and social statuses were imperative back then. I devoured this novel down in one sitting. What a great Ellora's Cave offering! Julia Templeton is on my to-read list and this novel goes to my reread pile. I cannot recommend Dangerous Desires (a reprint novel formerly titled To Honor and Desire) enough. I like my romance rough and my erotica sweet, and this novel is as good as it gets!had his heart broken before and was afraid to love again, but his behavior was nevertheless infuriating most of the time. I wanted to go into the pages and strangle him whenever he thought the solution to his unrequited (or so he thought) lust and feelings for Arlie was to sleep with married duchess Veronica. He angered me a lot while I read the book. And that is precisely what I loved most about this novel. Templeton made me care about the characters. Arlie is brave, transparent, and determined. Dominique is as delicious as he is infuriating. I don't like boy-next-door types in romanticas. I like the heroes to be utter rogues -- dark, gorgeous, sensual miscreants with the sexual prowess of a bull. The male character in this book is more my cup of tea. The other characters are also great. I liked Langley and Dominique's grandmother a lot. As for the writing, the story is beautifully told and wonderfully executed. The sex scenes were very erotic. And I loved the historical references and the realistic portrayal of the caste systems and class differences. Titles and social statuses were imperative back then. I devoured this novel down in one sitting. What a great Ellora's Cave offering! Julia Templeton is on my to-read list and this novel goes to my reread pile. I cannot recommend Dangerous Desires (a reprint novel formerly titled To Honor and Desire) enough. I like my romance rough and my erotica sweet, and this novel is as good as it gets!	2004-12-08
433476:US	50774468	R157MI0XEHSEM6	0806511672	401181638	Red-Dirt Marijuana and Other Tastes	Books	5	13	13	N	N	These stories blew me away!	Having read Candy and Blue Movie, I have wanted to read another Terry Southern book for ages. However, it has been almost impossible to obtain his other works. I came across this short-story collection at a store that sells used books and I couldn't resist giving it a whirl. Red-Dirt Marijuana and Other Tastes is full of Southern's signature dark humor and unconventional storylines. Southern has proven that he is a master storyteller with the disarming stories featured in this book. My favorites are \\"Twirling at Ole Miss,\\" \\"The Moon-shot Scandal,\\" \\"You're Too Hip, Baby,\\" \\"Razor Fight,\\" \\"I Am Mike Hammer,\\" and \\"The Blood of a Wig.\\" Those stories blew me away. \\"The Blood of a Wig\\" was the best one in the collection. This is the funniest and strangest book I have read in a long time! If you loved Southern's novels, you will love this collection of short stories. I cannot recommend Red-Dirt Marijuana and Other Tastes enough.	2004-12-06
433833:US	50774468	R2O2MR48JCC681	0373250770	352131613	Whose Wedding Is It Anyway? (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another fun chick-lit from Melissa Senate!	Is there such a thing as a free wedding? Eloise Manfred gets an offer she cannot refuse. She will have a $100,000 wedding with all the trimmings if she accepts to be part of a new wedding feature in Wow Weddings magazine -- the magazine she works for. She is the \\"Modern Bride,\\" and her wedding gown, bridesmaid dresses, reception hall, rings, honeymoon, and wedding registries should all be what the egocentric editor-in-chief sees in a modern wedding. The problem is that Eloise hates everything that has been chosen for her (all tacky stuff) and adores the beautiful things that are chosen for the feature's \\"Classic Bride.\\" But Eloise has more things to worry about, like the fact that she's having cold feet. Why is she having second thoughts about marrying a guy as perfect as Noah? To make matters worse, her troubled brother is having some commitments problems of his own and Eloise wants closure regarding her wayward father. There are some fun twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This is a spin-off of See Jane Date. This is Eloise's story. I read See Jane Date about two years ago, possibly longer than that, and it took me a while to remember Jane and the other characters. Ms. Senate took a little too long to release a spin-off novel. But it doesn't matter, for this novel makes a great stand-alone. The story is fun, fast-paced, and entertaining. The characters are well developed and the story is consistent from beginning to end. Eloise annoyed me at times with her commitment phobia, but her phobia is justified later on in the book. I would have liked to read more scenes with Noah in them though. And the whole baby and reluctant new father storyline reminded me of one of the character's dilemmas in The Solomon Sisters Wise Up. Anyway, all in all, I enjoyed reading Whose Wedding Is It Anyway? This isn't the best chick-lit out there and the ending is kind of predictable, but the novel is a cute, no-fuss read to enjoy on a lazy afternoon, and I recommend it as such...	2004-12-06
436334:US	50774468	R319699TH79PPA	0373513224	256716166	Urban Legend (Silhouette Bombshell)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Action-packed and riveting till the end...	I admit that my expectations weren't high when it came to this novel. Erica Orloff writes chick-lit and Silhouette Bombshell is a Harlequin imprint. And so I thought this romantic paranormal suspense wouldn't be to my taste. However, a friend of mine convinced me to read it. I am glad I didn't let my opinion of Harlequin books get in the way of enjoying such a fun, action-packed novel that is not unlike the Anita Blake Vampire Hunter novels in so many levels. Nightclub owner Tessa Van Doren fights to keep the streets and the youths safe from drug dealers. She, with the help of an agoraphobic Internet hacker, tracks down drug lords and destroys them. But when a new drug takes over New York City by storm, Tessa is afraid that it is the scheme of the man she's tried to run away from for over a century. Tessa is a vampire running away from her sire -- an evil vampire who believes Tessa is his eternal mate. With the help of her fellow vamp friend Lily, an underground vampire hunter and a detective-slash-love interest, Tessa is prepared to face her nemesis. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />As said earlier, the novel is action-packed from beginning to end and has a plot that moves fast and steady. I liked Tessa's badass attitude and superheroine moves. She and Lily are great together. They are strong female characters, and that is what I enjoyed the most about this novel. With the exception of some scenes and moves that wouldn't look out of place in a Matrix movie, I liked Orloff's vampires. I have some problems with the romance aspect of the novel though. The romance between Tessa and Detective Flynn comes across as filler at times. It is almost as though said romance was included because the imprint guidelines demanded it. The story could have done without it. But I did enjoy the bantering between Flynn and Williams. Williams is quite funny. Jorge and Cool, the club's bouncer and DJ, are also great characters. All in all, I thought I wouldn't like this novel because Harlequin romance imprints often follow a predictable formula that does not allow writers to be creative, but Urban Legend is one fun novel! I shouldn't have underestimated Ms. Orloff, for she's one of my favorite chick-lit writers. I recommend this novel to all romantic suspense fans that don't mind a side order of sci-fi/fantasy.e this novel because Harlequin romance imprints often follow a predictable formula that does not allow writers to be creative, but Urban Legend is one fun novel! I shouldn't have underestimated Ms. Orloff, for she's one of my favorite chick-lit writers. I recommend this novel to all romantic suspense fans that don't mind a side order of sci-fi/fantasy.	2004-12-03
436491:US	50774468	R16BGCU6GU37QZ	0805074627	965297963	Banishing Verona: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Another beautiful novel by Margot Livesey!	Ever since I read The Missing World, Margot Livesey has been one of my all-time favorite authors. Her novels are often dark and thought-provoking, but with a prose so beautiful that you cannot put her books down. I couldn't wait to read another one of her novels. I am so glad I read Banishing Verona. Zeke is a twenty-nine-year-old house painter and handyman in London. He is described as having the face of a Raphael angel. But Zeke is not good at dealing with people. He possesses communication problems that are not unlike that of an autistic person. However, the appearance of a strange woman changes things in his life in dramatic ways. No sooner does Verona appear at the house that he is working on than she vanishes. Zeke soon finds himself in a cat and mouse chase, trying to track down Verona, while at the same time dealing with unfinished business regarding his family. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Once again, Margot Livesey delivers a dark, beautiful novel that enthralls from beginning to end. This novel, while a little complex to describe in a short plot summary, is a literary marvel. It is in some ways better than Eva Moves the Furniture, my favorite Livesey novel. Zeke is a wonderful and abstruse character, and Verona is as elusive as a character could get. The development of the story is a little disjointed in the beginning, but falls into place quickly enough. There are a few disarming surprises in this novel that are not unlike the ones in Criminals and The Missing World, but without the shock factor of the aforementioned novels. The one thing I did not like in the story was how one of the characters settled in and was employed soon after arriving to Boston from London. That bit of the book is quite unrealistic. Other than that, Banishing Verona is a must-read in more ways than one. I urge readers to try Margot Livesey if they haven't done. She is without a doubt one of the best British writers of today.	2004-12-03
440743:US	50774468	R1PMDDZT9ZKK5M	0743470095	218862275	Little Earthquakes	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Middling third effort...	Jennifer Weiner's third novel centers on motherhood. It doesn't surprise me, for she gave birth to her first child not long ago. She joins Jane Green (Babyville), Laura Zigman (Dating Big Bird), and Melissa Senate (The Solomon Sisters Wise Up) in doing this -- writing a novel centered on marriage and motherhood, that is. I loved Good in Bed and In Her Shoes, but somehow Little Earthquakes failed to spark my interest the way her first two books had done. This is a good novel with a compelling story that is very informative about pregnancy and motherhood, but I simply did not enjoy it as much as her previous efforts. Little Earthquakes is about four women and their poignant tales of motherhood, marriage and friendship. Becky Rothstein-Rabinowitz is Weiner's signature overweight heroine who meets two fellow first-time mothers-to-be at a prenatal yoga class. Ayinde Towne is the wife of a basketball superstar. Her life isn't the same when she discovers her husband's indiscretion not long after she gives birth to their son. Then there is materialistic Kelly Day who loves her expensive apartment and various gadgets and perks. But things take an unexpected turn when her husband loses his high-paying job just weeks before she is due to give birth. And who is the strange blonde stalking Becky? Lia Frederick is trying to run away from a very painful loss in her life. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Little Earthquakes is full of Weiner's signature wit and keen storytelling. Mothers-to-be will relate to the plot and with the female characters. I for one had a difficult time getting into this novel, but I found it enjoyable if a bit boring at times. Lia's story touched me the most. Her plights and issues with her past made the most earnest character in the book. I disliked Kelly so very much. She was just too materialistic and demanding. And I must say that Ayinde bored me to bits. Her story is by far my least favorite. All in all, Little Earthquakes is a middling read to me. As said earlier, this novel just didn't hold my attention the way her previous books had done. I recommend it nevertheless, especially to women who are planning to become mothers or women who have recently had children.a middling read to me. As said earlier, this novel just didn't hold my attention the way her previous books had done. I recommend it nevertheless, especially to women who are planning to become mothers or women who have recently had children.	2004-11-29
441024:US	50774468	R36NF1V1TGZZC2	0758208863	601572023	Merry Christmas, Baby	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Short, recycled novellas...	These Brava anthologies get worse every time. It seems to me that two or three anthologies not unlike this one featuring pretty much the same authors are released every month. I noticed that some of the stories in Merry Christmas, Baby are not only undeveloped and too short for me to care about the characters, but they are also recycled. It is obvious to me that these authors are running out of ideas because this imprint makes them churn out crap at hyper speed. Donna Kaufman's Making Waves and Erin McCarthy's You, Actually are the better ones in this book. I was very disappointed with MaryJanice Davidson in this one. Undercover Claus is Santa Claws from Ellora's Cave's Naughty or Nice anthology, but with some minor alterations. The funny thing is that I read that Naughty or Nice anthology just a few days before reading this book. I can't help losing respect for an author who doesn't even bother to write an original story. I still love her work, but I shall read the stuff she writes for Berkley and for e-imprints in the future. I will read one of her Brava novels only if the plot is interesting (The Royal Treatment, which she wrote for Brava, was actually very good). The Lucy Monroe, Susanna Carr, and Nancy Warren novellas aren't any better. Having read Jingle Bell Rock last year, I should have known better than to read this one. Lucky for me, I borrowed this from a friend to amuse myself during the ninety-minute train ride to work. I suppose that this book was entertaining enough for work travel, but I couldn't help experiencing deja vu while I read the stories and a lot of the passages within them. I won't read any more of these Brava anthologies. They should give these authors some space to actually come out with good, or at least decent, material in the future. For the time being, I recommend the Secret anthologies from Red Sage Publishing.	2004-11-29
443090:US	50774468	R1TGCUEXB328O6	0060933577	311965109	Faithless: Tales of Transgression	Books	5	4	4	N	N	There is no stopping this amazing author!	Joyce Carol Oates is one of my all-time favorite authors. Her work is amazing and with prose so beautiful that it is at times lyrical. I have loved all of her short story collections and marvel at the fact that am all the more impressed every time I pick up a new Oates book. Faithless: Tales of Transgression isn't an exception. This amazing short story collection covers a vast variety of subjects that speak to you and move you to the core. Some are dark and others are downright shocking, but they are always memorable. My favorites are \\"Ugly,\\" \\"Physical,\\" \\"Secret, Silent,\\" \\"The Vampire,\\" \\"A Manhattan Romance,\\" \\"We Were Worried About You,\\" and \\"Faithless.\\" Here you will find stories centered on self-esteem, relationships gone awry and even murder mysteries (I should add that the story \\"The Vampire\\" isn't centered on the paranormal, but it is a quite impressive and somewhat disarming tale that ought to be read). There is something for every reader in this collection. I for one have fallen in love Oates's keen storytelling all over again. I cannot recommend Faithless enough.	2004-11-27
443388:US	50774468	R1U2LTL3P901TD	1843608103	239551573	Fetish	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Insatiable and unique vampire romantica!	This is one of the best Ellora's Cave novels I have read. I enjoyed Sherrie L. King's novel Bitten from the Moon Lust series, but said novel was nowhere near as well written as this one. Fetish is not just a vampire romantica -- it possesses a memorable story that you'd want to reread later on. Forty-seven-year-old Aerin Peters is tired of her lonely, unappealing existence. She is overweight and (according to her) unattractive and is a virgin spinster. But she couldn't resist visiting the club Fetish after reading about it in a flyer. There are no taboos at Fetish. Is it possible for her to find a night of pleasure? She gets more than she bargains with ultra-sexy escort Violanti D'Arco. He is determined to show Aerin the depths of her sensuality and have her see the beautiful, voluptuous woman that she really is. No sooner does Aerin begin Violanti's insatiable lessons than strange changes begin to occur. And Violanti's chameleon-like eyes, penchant for bites and other quirks are not normal. What has Aerin gotten herself into? There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The course of the story and the changes and revelations within the same are the most realistic in this sort of genre. I like the fact that Aerin's attitude doesn't change overnight. And I loved the fact that she isn't the typical drop-dead-gorgeous, petite twenty-two-year-old that most romance novels prefer. The discovery of her sensuality is the best I have read in quite a while. The erotic scenes are incredible and delectable and Violanti D'Arco is one sexy vampire! He is a truly scrumptious character and the ultimate alpha male. King did an amazing job with characterization and story development in a 190-page novel. My one complaint about Ellora's Cave novels has always been that they are too short. I wish this one had been longer. As for Sherri L. King, this is an author whose work I will look forward to reading in the future. As said earlier, I loved Bitten from the Moon Lust series, but this one is better by a long shot. I cannot recommend Fetish enough!s, but this one is better by a long shot. I cannot recommend Fetish enough!	2004-11-27
443897:US	50774468	R2Q48V94VPSBSN	0452274893	34033607	American Gothic Tales (William Abrahams)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Amazing collection of gothic tales...	I had no idea what to expect when I picked up this book. All I knew was that some of the authors sparked my attention -- namely Joyce Carol Oates, one of my favorite writers, as the editor -- because I had no idea that said authors wrote gothic tales. This is one of the darkest, most thought-provoking and downright sinister short-story collections out there. The horror in the stories are like no other ones I have read. I still haven't been able to get some of these stories out of my head. My favorite stories are \\"The Black Cat,\\" by Edgar Allen Poe; \\"Afterward,\\" by Edith Wharton; \\"Freniere,\\" by Anne Rice; \\"In Bed One Night,\\" by Robert Coover; and \\"Replacements,\\" by Lisa Tuttle. This book definitely made an interesting read on my round trip train ride to be with family on Thanksgiving. American Gothic Tales enthralled me from beginning to end. I highly recommend this collection to those who are in the bargain for literary gothic stories written by literature's biggest names from yesterday and today.	2004-11-26
443959:US	50774468	RXI46JA84VU6Q	0345443594	336353882	Seduced by Moonlight (Meredith Gentry, Book 3)	Books	2	8	9	N	N	LKH's downward spiral continues...	I have enjoyed the Merry Gentry series since A Kiss of Shadows. I hadn't read Seduced by Moonlight because I was waiting for the mass market copy to be released, but I finally caved in and borrowed the hardback from a friend. I am glad I didn't have to purchase the book because this third installment was disappointing to the max. Merry is still trying to conceive a child and beat Prince Cel to the throne of the Unseelie Court and she continues to deal with her sadistic aunt, the Queen of Air and Darkness. So she sets out to sleep with every willing goblin, elf, demi-fey and raven she encounters. And they are all gorgeous of course. And in typical Laurell K. Hamilton fashion, Merry faces other challenges, like the fact that someone wants to kill her. Will Merry finally get closer to the throne or will she face more obstacles? There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I'd like to say first and foremost that this sort of fantasy fiction fascinates me. The dark storyline about a world where kinky sex is considered the norm and violence is a necessary evil is a welcome change from all the fairytale-like fantasy fiction out there. I also like Hamilton's unique sort of faerie. The startup plot in A Kiss of Shadows was what drew me to this series. But what I found disappointing about this novel was the rather tedious first half in which centers on a mating frenzy between Merry and her men. I am an avid erotica reader. Sex in books, including stories centered solely on sex, isn't a problem for me, but even sex scenes can get boring when there is no plot to back it up. You see, my point of view would be different if I expected this to be an erotic novel and nothing else, like an Emma Holly or M.S. Valentine erotica, but LKH has made it clear more than once that erotica is one of many elements in her novels. Well, the aforementioned statement is not apparent with this book. Also, I thought that the dream sequences and sex with elements of magic (especially the magic mirror encounter between Merry and the king of goblins) were major snoozers for me. They reminded me of Anita Blake's metaphysical mumbo jumbo in that it takes too much unnecessary space in the story. The story improves toward the end where there is nonstop action (though over the top at times) and even some touching and intimate scenes between Merry and the men in her harem... and then the book is over just when it starts to get interesting. In other words, repetitive sex scenes, dream and magic sequences, and mindless dialogue monopolize a large portion of the book. A riveting, interesting series with an eye-catching premise, smoldering erotic scenes and several of the most gorgeous male characters ever written (Doyle, Frost and Rhys are especially delicious) is going downhill fast. I hope that A Stroke of Midnight will be better than this one because I am seriously considering throwing in the towel on both the Anita Blake and Merry Gentry series. At least I still have Charlaine Harris, Kelley Armstrong and Kim Harrison, three great authors in the sci-fi/fantasy genre, to entertain me.ic mirror encounter between Merry and the king of goblins) were major snoozers for me. They reminded me of Anita Blake's metaphysical mumbo jumbo in that it takes too much unnecessary space in the story. The story improves toward the end where there is nonstop action (though over the top at times) and even some touching and intimate scenes between Merry and the men in her harem... and then the book is over just when it starts to get interesting. In other words, repetitive sex scenes, dream and magic sequences, and mindless dialogue monopolize a large portion of the book. A riveting, interesting series with an eye-catching premise, smoldering erotic scenes and several of the most gorgeous male characters ever written (Doyle, Frost and Rhys are especially delicious) is going downhill fast. I hope that A Stroke of Midnight will be better than this one because I am seriously considering throwing in the towel on both the Anita Blake and Merry Gentry series. At least I still have Charlaine Harris, Kelley Armstrong and Kim Harrison, three great authors in the sci-fi/fantasy genre, to entertain me.	2004-11-26
445475:US	50774468	RBYDBXUBLI5P7	1419950002	605485827	Tales of the Beau Monde	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Truly exquisite four-part historical romantica...	Having read Madam Charlie, I couldn't wait to read more books by Sahara Kelly. Her stories are compelling and the erotica is sensual and tangible. And I love the way she incorporates the historical setting to her stories. Tales of Beau Monde is a collection of four intertwined novellas that make good stand-alones. This historical collection set in 1819 England is about four couples who fall in love in the most insatiable, erotic ways. Inside Lady Miranda has a rather confident, uninhibited heroine who seduces Lord Nicholas Barbour in ways he hadn't envisaged. While the first story has a sexually aware heroine, Miss Beatrice's Bottom has the standard virginal protagonist. Having escaped from her abusive father's home, she lands in the arms of Harry Boyd, Earl of Dunsmeer and pathological playboy. But to Harry's surprise, Beatrice goes from naive to wanton in the three months he had been absent. The reason to Miranda and Beatrice's sexual awareness is one Louisa Cellini. A forty-something spinster, Louisa has no inhibitions and she taught Beatrice and Miranda how to pleasure themselves and their partners in a quite unique room full of the most delectable sex toys. Louisa thought she was happy with her freedom and her toys, but she is proven wrong by a sexy scientist in Lying with Louisa. The fourth story, Pleasuring Miss Poppy, is the least connected novella and the biggest stand-alone in the anthology, but it is just as delicious as the previous three.<br /><br />I couldn't put this book down. The stories are delicious beyond words and the characterization and plot developments are quite impressive for such short novellas. Sahara Kelly reminds me of Emma Holly in her palpable descriptions and shock factor when it comes to language. Holly is far edgier than Kelly, but their styles are still quite similar. The novellas I liked the most were Inside Lady Miranda and Miss Beatrice's Bottom. But I also liked the great erotic ideas I got from Lying with Louisa. I shall definitely give other books by Sahara Kelly a whirl. I have purchased Gypsy Lovers and look forward to cracking it open. In the meantime, I recommend Tales of Beau Monde and Madam Charlie most highly.nitely give other books by Sahara Kelly a whirl. I have purchased Gypsy Lovers and look forward to cracking it open. In the meantime, I recommend Tales of Beau Monde and Madam Charlie most highly.	2004-11-24
446397:US	50774468	R22ROH9OKO5ZEV	1931561664	761099477	Beautiful Girls	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A short-story collection that speaks volumes...	Anyone who had gone through growing pains can relate to the stories in Beautiful Girls. This wonderful collection is mostly centered on young girls and their struggles with growing up and their self-image. Of course, the stories are far more dimensional than that -- they center on the sort of problems that kids and teens go through while growing up, things that seemed too important during that period in our lives. And the interesting part is that there are stories of adult women in this book who go through things not unlike the younger generation. My favorite stories are \\"Stew,\\" \\"The Middle of the Night,\\" \\"Safeway,\\" and \\"Wash, Rinse, Spin.\\" I marvel at Beth Ann Beauman's keen storytelling and wonderful prose. Beautiful Girls is one great short-story collection and I look forward to reading more by this author in the future.	2004-11-24
448204:US	50774468	RWB83U7GWIBG8	0964894262	430622832	Secrets: The Best in Women's Erotic Romance, Vol. 6	Books	5	22	22	N	N	The best Secrets anthology I have read!	I have loved these Secrets anthologies since I discovered them months ago. The novellas are romantic, provocative and erotic to the core. I picked up Secrets Volume 6 because I wanted to read MaryJanice Davidson's first story from her ongoing werewolf series (the third part, Derik's Bane, is a full-length novel scheduled for a January release. If only I could get the advanced copy!). Well, I loved Love's Prisoner. It is full of Davidson's keen storytelling, sensual scenes and memorable quips. Love's Prisoner is a bit darker than Jared's Wolf, the second part of the series, in content and situations, though I've noticed that her stories have always had a hint of edge to them. To my surprise, Davidson's novella isn't my favorite in this volume. I absolutely loved Alice Gaines's The Education of Miss Felicity Wells! The erotic scenes are so well written they are almost tangible, and I loved the story of a virgin getting lessons on how to satisfy her future husband from the very sexy Dr. Marcus Slade. The one thing I found confusing was the setting. Judging by the language and by Felicity's naivete, I assume that this is a historical romantica. I couldn't put this novella down and I wish it had been longer. The other two stories in the anthology -- Sandy Fraser's Flint's Fuse and Angela Knight's vampire romantica A Candidate for a Kiss -- were also great.<br /><br />This is the best Secrets anthology yet. The others had two or three stories that I liked, but I hadn't loved all of them like in this one. Red Sage Publishing has quality authors in its imprint, and the stories are not formulaic or recycled like the Kensington Brava novellas. I got the chance to read another Davidson story and encountered three other great authors in the process (especially Gaines). Are you in the bargain for beautiful, sensual romantica? I suggest the Secrets anthologies -- this one in particular. I have no idea why this page shows the Volume 7 book and reviews for the same. For those who are confused, Volume 6 has MaryJanice Davidson, Sandy Fraser, Alice Gaines and Angela Knight.re confused, Volume 6 has MaryJanice Davidson, Sandy Fraser, Alice Gaines and Angela Knight.	2004-11-22
455788:US	50774468	R8YJUMVX2DYHF	0375709258	983553680	Lust and Other Stories	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Beautiful, dark, haunting short-story collection...	I have wanted to read a Susan Minot book after reading Rapture.  Lust and Other Stories is one of the most beautiful short-story collections I have read.  The theme is centered on women and their bad choices with men.  The stories are to the point and hit close to home in more than one occasion.  I was enthralled by Ms. Minot's precise characterization and dark, compelling language.  My favorite stories are \\"Sparks,\\" \\"The Knot,\\" \\"The Swan in the Garden,\\" \\"The Man Who Would Not Go Away,\\" and \\"The Breakup.\\"  These stories have beautiful prose that borderline at being poetic at times.  And, as said earlier, a lot of the subjects here hit very close to home.  Don't let the title of the book mislead you, for you'll get more than you'd bargained for with this collection.  I cannot recommend Lust and Other Stories enough.	2004-11-15
456037:US	50774468	RM2O64QFWH7DP	0425199185	619249577	The Demon's Daughter (Tales of the Demon World, Book 1)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Another unique offering from Ms. Holly!	I have always marveled at Emma Holly's exquisite use of erotica in her novels.  I have enjoyed almost all of her work and had looked forward to reading more. I enjoyed Strange Attractions and couldn't wait to read The Demon's Daughter.  This novel's unique brand of romance, erotica and fantasy enthralled me from beginning to end.  Imagine a setting that is similar to Victorian London but with futuristic technology and demons inhabiting the earth.  You get the city of Avvar and demons that feed from human life force with sex.  Inspector Adrian Philips is one of the best police officers out there.  In order to tackle both humans and demons, he implanted demon strength into his system and has suffered major prejudices because of it. It even destroyed his marriage.  However, his life isn't the same after he meets Roxanne McAllister.  Strong, independent and uninhibited, Roxie seduces him to new heights.  But his romance with Roxie could cost him his career, especially after he finds out that she is the illegitimate daughter of a powerful demon, a demon her human mother had had an affair with.  There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The sex scenes in this novel are very hot and tangible -- branding it with the signature Emma Holly romantica.  The building of tension and scenes centered on seduction reminded me of Beyond Seduction, but the difference is that Roxie, i.e. the woman, is the seducer in this one.  It is so nice to read about a sexually confident woman in a romance novel for a change.  I loved the scene in the bathtub and the first encounter the most.  The overall story is quite intriguing and the characters are well developed.  But I couldn't help picturing the demons as aliens of some sort because of their silver eyes with no surrounding whites.  I also couldn't help but notice that this novel could have easily been a regular Victorian romance with all the social obstacles and other aspects that this one possesses. I understand that Holly wanted to be creative and write something a little more different, but the demons came across as unnecessary fillers at times.  Other than that, this is a great novel.  Emma Holly has once again illustrated the reasons why she is one of my favorite romantica authors.  I cannot wait to read her future projects.  In the meantime, I cannot recommend The Demon's Daughter enough.anted to be creative and write something a little more different, but the demons came across as unnecessary fillers at times.  Other than that, this is a great novel.  Emma Holly has once again illustrated the reasons why she is one of my favorite romantica authors.  I cannot wait to read her future projects.  In the meantime, I cannot recommend The Demon's Daughter enough.	2004-11-15
459473:US	50774468	R2SAH9NR2EPCJD	0060529709	420660459	Everything Is Illuminated: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Thought-provoking, albeit humorous piece of work!	Everything is Illuminated is an amazing book. Imagine a book about the Holocaust that will make you laugh out loud. Well, Mr. Foer has made the aforementioned storyline possible. Jonathan, a young American writer decides to travel to the Ukraine to learn about the woman who apparently saved his grandfather's life, helping him escape to America during World War II. He doesn't speak Ukrainian, and thus must hire a translator and a driver to take him to the village where his grandfather hid before escaping. This is where the humor comes in. The translator-slash-guide is also a young man, one with a bizarre knack for missing the meaning of all of the English words he has learned. He tells his story, as Jonathan tells the story of his ancestors. The translator's story is incredibly funny, and Foer demonstrates a marvelous mastery of the English language to be able to mangle it so well. There are various interesting twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Jonathan's story has a bit of magical realism thrown in -- babies born from rivers, that sort of thing. I have always loved novels with magical realism, and this novel does it with beautiful prose and impressive subtlety. If you don't like magic realism in literature then perhaps this isn't the novel for you. The translator's story, for the most part, is pure comic relief, until he is forced to face demons of his own. Everything is Illuminated is a moving and unique tale. I couldn't put it down. This novel has proven that thought provoking literature can be fun. It is fresh and full of life and somehow manages to make you laugh and cry on the same page. I cannot recommend this gem enough.	2004-11-11
460077:US	50774468	R3KXG9MIDSNEFL	0553587072	990987533	Industrial Magic (Women of the Otherworld)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Paige, Lucas and their sup friends are at it again!	Kelley Armstrong has become one of my not-to-miss authors and the Women of the Otherworld books are several of my favorites out there. Having read Bitten, Stolen and Dime Store Magic, I couldn't wait to read Industrial Magic. Former Coven Witch leader Paige Winterbourne is back to take on an even bigger task than protecting teen witch Savannah and starting her own coven. Being the girlfriend of the heir of the most powerful and influential Cabal in the world isn't easy, especially when the Cabal leader tries to be close to his wayward son. Benicio Cortez approaches Paige and Lucas to discuss a serious matter. There is a supernatural murderer on the loose, prowling on the teenage children of Cabal employees. No matter how much Benicio disapproves of his sorcerer son dating a witch, he has to nonetheless stay on his good side. Reluctant, Paige and Lucas decide to help, and with the assistance of a celebrity necromancer, a seemingly aloof vampire, and fierce werewolves, Paige discovers that the serial killer's intentions are far more sinister than she had originally thought. It'll take more than the most powerful spells to put the killer down. There are a lot of twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Paige is even better in this installment than in Dime Store Magic. Though she remains somewhat stubborn, she has grown up quite a bit and deals with the problems around her with more aplomb. I also like Lucas a lot better in this novel. His geeky, somewhat dry personality makes him surprisingly appealing. He is not as intense as Clay, yet he's still endearing. And I do like his wordiness -- makes me laugh all the time. His father, however, doesn't come across as the evil person Lucas had painted. Benicio is powerful, resourceful, controlling, and his Cabal operates not unlike an Italian Mafia, but he is not as bad as I thought he'd be. As for the story, I liked all the action and twists throughout the novel. It is the reason why I've enjoyed this series so much. I hope it remains as consistent as it has been thus far. I also loved that Ms. Armstrong brought back various characters from Stolen. I was glad to see that vampire Cassandra was further developed in this installment. I like her and Aaron a lot and I hope Ms. Armstrong writes a novel centered on those characters at some point in the series. As for the other characters, it goes without saying that I enjoyed the reappearances of Elena, Clay and Jeremy. (It was also nice to read that Elena's story is far from over.)  And I laughed with all of the characters' banters and quips. The sharp humor in this series is priceless. I am intrigued with the introduction to the afterlife in the story. I so look forward to reading Haunted. In a nutshell, I loved this book. I couldn't put it down. As said earlier, Kelley Armstrong's work is on my must-read list. She is a talented Canadian author and I've enjoyed the e-serials about Elena and Clay on her website. Anyway, I cannot recommend Industrial Magic enough. However, I strongly urge readers to start from the very beginning of the series. With the exception of Bitten, these books don't make very good stand-alones.remains as consistent as it has been thus far. I also loved that Ms. Armstrong brought back various characters from Stolen. I was glad to see that vampire Cassandra was further developed in this installment. I like her and Aaron a lot and I hope Ms. Armstrong writes a novel centered on those characters at some point in the series. As for the other characters, it goes without saying that I enjoyed the reappearances of Elena, Clay and Jeremy. (It was also nice to read that Elena's story is far from over.)  And I laughed with all of the characters' banters and quips. The sharp humor in this series is priceless. I am intrigued with the introduction to the afterlife in the story. I so look forward to reading Haunted. In a nutshell, I loved this book. I couldn't put it down. As said earlier, Kelley Armstrong's work is on my must-read list. She is a talented Canadian author and I've enjoyed the e-serials about Elena and Clay on her website. Anyway, I cannot recommend Industrial Magic enough. However, I strongly urge readers to start from the very beginning of the series. With the exception of Bitten, these books don't make very good stand-alones.	2004-11-11
464713:US	50774468	R2HAITCCIG5E33	1843605694	49170624	A Taste for Passion (Book 1):  Ellora's Cave Presents	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Beautiful, sensual vampire romantica...	All of the rave reviews made me want to give this novel a whirl, and am glad I did. A Taste for Passion, though short, is a wonderful vampire romance that will leave you wanting more, but in a good way. Rana Sterling couldn't believe the timing when she met gorgeous Lucian Trevane. Her grandfather had died some days ago and her grieve has overwhelmed her. However, she is able to forget her grief whenever tall, dark and gorgeous Lucian visits her bookstore. He is erotica personified and he is the star of the most insatiable wet dreams she has ever had. But are those erotic encounters actual dreams? To her horror, Rana discovers that Lucian is a vampire. What she doesn't know is that Lucian has waited for her since the death of the woman he had believed to be his mate. All he knows is that he is mad about Rana and is willing to face whatever obstacles get in his way just to make her his vampire wife. There are various interesting twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The erotic scenes in this novel are sensual, languid, beautiful. The author makes you feel both the characters' desires and feelings. I liked the fact that there was a lot of building of tension between Rana and Lucian before they hit the sack. The vampires in this novel are rather interesting. The fact that they shape-shift into ravens intrigued me. I wish the author had touched on that more. Ian, Lucian's business partner and fellow vampire, sounds scrumptious and I cannot wait to read his story in A Taste for Revenge. The one disappointing thing is that this novel is too short. Ellora's Cave novels are addicting but far too brief. I also would have liked to know more about Ian's twin brother Duncan, but I suppose that both those characters will be further developed in Revenge. Also, Kraid didn't seem threatening enough to be a worthy villain. The problem with novels that are only 170 pages long is that the story and some of the secondary characters aren't developed enough. Other than that, I loved this novel. If only it hadn't ended so soon. Are you in the bargain for a rich, sensual, erotic vampire romance? I suggest you give A Taste for Passion a whirl.is novel. If only it hadn't ended so soon. Are you in the bargain for a rich, sensual, erotic vampire romance? I suggest you give A Taste for Passion a whirl.	2004-11-06
464783:US	50774468	RYGRAQKFJW302	0684838877	730163838	Tumble Home: A Novella and Short Stories	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Don't let the shortness and simplicity fool you...	...this is an amazing piece of work. I loved reading Tumble Home. This short-story collection is brief (only 160 pages long) and the stories are deceptively simple. But each story holds profound messages centered on family life and other every day events that may seem insignificant at first glance. My favorite stories are \\"Sportsman,\\" \\"The New Lodger,\\" \\"The Children's Party,\\" and the novella \\"Tumble Home.\\" Again, the stories are very short, but nevertheless beautiful. Amy Hempel's writing is sparse but possesses such beautiful prose that I just couldn't put this collection down. Hers is a voice that sounds poetic at times. I recommend this book to all short-story lovers.	2004-11-06
466923:US	50774468	R3L521PZCCY8EU	0373250703	440018257	Mafia Chic (Red Dress Ink Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	If the Sopranos had a Carrie Bradshaw-type character...	...it would be Teddi Gallo. This fun chick-lit novel is about a Mafia princess and her relationship and career plights. Is it possible for the daughter of a big Italian mobster to find true love? That is something Teddi has always asked herself. Men run a mile when she tells them about her family. Not that that's a bad thing. After all, she doesn't want to be \\"struck by the thunderbolt,\\" an Italian expression for falling madly in love. She saw what happened to one of her uncles when he got struck by the thunderbolt, and she does not want the same thing to happen to her. But when two men show interest in her -- one a seemingly sweet journalist and the other a pestering FBI agent -- Teddi does not know what to do. To make matters worse, a rival mob is after her family and her restaurant business is in trouble. Could she sort out her problems on her own, or will she need her Mafia Chic connections?<br /><br />I loved the constant quips and the scenes centered on the Gallo-Marcello family. The heroine is a blast. Teddi is Orloff's signature no-nonsense city girl. As said earlier, if the Sopranos were to have a Carrie Bradshaw-type of character it would be Teddi Gallo. All of the characters are great, especially Diana, Teddi's upper crust British best friend. She is an awesome, three-dimensional character. However, even the pompous British don't sound like the actress Patricia Routledge in Keeping Up Appearances, especially if they are young. I have been to England various times and I've never heard anyone there use adjetives like \\"smashing\\" half as much as Diana does. Other than that, I loved this novel. Despite Robert the journalist's predictable outcome and the abrupt ending, Mafia Chic is an entertaining story about family love, delicious Italian food and the latest Jimmy Choo stilettos falling from trucks. Erica Orloff is one of my favorite Red Dress Ink authors and she has created another fun novel. I enjoyed Orloff's foray into darker fiction with The Roofer, but it was nice to read another one of her chick-lits. I look forward to reading her other stuff. In the meantime, I recommend Mafia Chic most highly.it was nice to read another one of her chick-lits. I look forward to reading her other stuff. In the meantime, I recommend Mafia Chic most highly.	2004-11-04
467189:US	50774468	RAO9VQSC43ATS	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Good, but inconsistent at times (3 1/2 stars)...	I'd had this book on my to-read pile for ages and I finally decided to give it a whirl. I must begin by saying that I didn't enjoy it as much as I should have done. Andre Dubus's House of Sand and Fog is a brilliant novel with several gaping holes that make it much worse than it should be. Dubus is a wonderful writer. That much is clear. His writing flows and the themes in the novel are quite thought provoking and compelling. The plot in general is constructed very well (aside from one major problem) and I think this book would make an interesting book club selection. That being said, I have some major problems with this novel. The entire conflict of the story is based on events that could not happen in Northern California (Eastern Europe, maybe). A woman's home is taken by the local tax authorities because of a clerical error and sold for nonpayment of taxes (a whopping $500 worth). The tax agency sells her house almost immediately to an Iranian immigrant who had been in the United States for several years, desperately trying to hold on to the wealth his family once had in pre-Ayatollah Iran. He has visions of selling the house and making money on it, but the woman just wants her house back. The way her house is taken from her could never happen in California. There are other details concerning the house, which I won't go into here (can't give too much away), that were also unbelievable. I am sorry, but I just cannot suspend my disbelief that much. The preposterousness of this factor of the story tainted the rest of it for me. The novel is a gritty story based on some sad but truthful realities, yet the entire conflict stems from impossible and unrealistic occurrences. It was just too contrived for me.<br /><br />I also had a problem with some of the characters' behaviors, particularly Kathy, the woman who owned the house. Kathy narrates the novel. As a narrator, she comes across as fairly intelligent and thoughtful. However, her behavior and her conversations are far from that. I think if Dubus wanted to make her more believable, her narrative voice should have been that of the vacuous, narrow-minded racist that she was, based on her actions. Despite those flaws, House of Sand and Fog has its merits. And I found it hard to put down for the last 150 pages or so. I just wish Dubus had been more true to Kathy's character and had come up with a more convincing reason as to both characters would have fought over the house. There were far too many inconsistencies for my taste. This would have been a truly terrific novel had it been more real and precise.far from that. I think if Dubus wanted to make her more believable, her narrative voice should have been that of the vacuous, narrow-minded racist that she was, based on her actions. Despite those flaws, House of Sand and Fog has its merits. And I found it hard to put down for the last 150 pages or so. I just wish Dubus had been more true to Kathy's character and had come up with a more convincing reason as to both characters would have fought over the house. There were far too many inconsistencies for my taste. This would have been a truly terrific novel had it been more real and precise.	2004-11-04
471327:US	50774468	R3DD08LPUZZKXD	0452274133	763384867	Will You Always Love Me?: And Other Stories	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Joyce Carol Oates does it again!	Joyce Carol Oates's short-story collections get better and better each time I pick one up. This is one of the most beautiful, haunting, dark collections ever written. This time Oates tackles American life with unflinching honesty. The stories in this collection touched me to the core. Oates has such a vivid, incredible imagination. My favorite stories are \\"You Petted Me, and I Followed You Home,\\" \\"The Missing Person,\\" \\"The Girl Who Was to Die,\\" \\"The Goose Girl,\\" \\"The Brothers,\\" and \\"The Vision.\\" Some of the stories are poignant, others have a touch of humor and there are those that are all out sinister. One thing is certain: they are all dark and thought provoking. Joyce Carol Oates is one of my favorite authors. Her lurid tales haunt me long after reading them. I cannot wait to read one of her full-length novels. I cannot recommend Will You Always Love Me? enough.	2004-10-31
472100:US	50774468	R1WNM1V07A1AGM	0394534433	630892090	The Vampire Lestat	Books	4	1	4	N	N	This time it is Lestat's story!	After rereading Interview with the Vampire, I decided to give The Vampire Lestat a whirl again as well. I have always marveled at how different this novel is from the first installment of the Vampire Chronicles. This one has a more interesting edge, a gothic feel that is more contemporary than its predecessor. The one big similarity between the first two installments, however, is that they are both stories within another story. After almost a whole century's sleep, Lestat rises in the mid 1980s -- where the people have more freedom and there is such a thing as pop culture. Rock music and its dark messages intrigue him to the point of approaching a struggling band and offering to help with their music careers. After reading Louis's confessions in the fictionalized Interview with the Vampire (no one would have believed the story was real), Lestat decides it is his turn to tell his life story -- becoming a famous underground rock star in the process. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Lestat's story is fascinating as he goes from being an unloved son of a marquis and hunter in France (before the Revolution) to becoming a vampire in the hands of Magnus and seeking other immortals to relate. I remember wanting to know how Lestat became a vampire when I first read this series and his side of the story is as compelling as it was to me the first time around. His perspective is different from Louis's and far more complex as well. He is my favorite character in the series -- dark, compelling, sensual. And I love how Anne Rice switches time periods from pre-Revolutionary France to the MTV generation in late twentieth century America. The one thing I found strange was that Lestat wanted to feed off of criminals and not of innocents in this installment. He was far more sinister in the first novel, but I suppose that Louis exaggerated things -- or is Lestat the liar? I suggest the Vampire Chronicles to those who haven't read it yet. Interview with the Vampire is great, but the series takes off with The Vampire Lestat, though I suggest you read this series from the very beginning.re is great, but the series takes off with The Vampire Lestat, though I suggest you read this series from the very beginning.	2004-10-31
473427:US	50774468	R2HILHPIT7M01U	0373770103	962939597	Night's Edge	Books	3	8	10	N	N	So-so romance/paranormal anthology...	Charlaine Harris's novella is the reason why I bought this anthology. According to Harris's web site, her novella is based on the Sookie Stackhouse series, only with different characters. I was disappointed with Dancers in the Dark. The vampires here are nothing like the ones in the Sookie novels. They are so benign they might as well be humans. Sean is a sexy enough vampire, but he is not dark and compelling like Eric and Bill. Actually, he's quite one-dimensional. (Also, Harris's description of Sean being a redhead Irish dancer reminded of Michael Flatley's Lord of the Dance.) The story itself is good and quite compelling, but the ending confused me. Everyone who has read the Southern Vampire novels knows that drinking vampire blood cures fatal injuries and gives the person temporary super strength. I know this particular ending is the sort of thing that romance readers enjoy. I for one have enjoyed some endings like this in paranormal romanticas, but the ending results are not necessary if we go by what Sookie has been through. Harris should have written an original vampire romance novella, without the synthetic blood drinks and the history surrounding vampires taken from her popular series. The short story Harris wrote for the Powers of Detection anthology was far more enjoyable than this one.<br /><br />Night's Edge is a romance anthology with paranormal as the subgenre. So, this book is basically tender, PG-13 rated romance with a side order of vampires, ghosts and other creatures that go bump in the night. I often steer clear from this sort of anthology. A friend of mine loaned me the Immortal Bad Boys anthology and returned it as soon as I realized that it was the usual bad boy nonsense, only with gorgeous, so-called bad boy vampires instead of humans. I like paranormal fiction to be dark, intriguing, suspenseful, erotic, romantic, and with a touch of creativity and sharp humor -- as it should be. Berkley releases paranormal anthologies not unlike this Harlequin one, but said anthologies have a slightly darker language and are very erotic. Anyway, as for the other two stories, Maggie Shayne's ghost story Her Best Enemy entertained me from beginning to end. The ending is quite abrupt though. And Barbara Hambly's Someone Else's Shadow is the best novella in this collection. This one has a bit of a dark edge and Phil is very hot. All in all, Night's Edge is a good anthology if you're in the bargain for romantic paranormal with some light suspense. However, these novellas were not compelling enough for me. I should have known this collection would be formulaic and mild at best. After all, it is a Harlequin offering...quin one, but said anthologies have a slightly darker language and are very erotic. Anyway, as for the other two stories, Maggie Shayne's ghost story Her Best Enemy entertained me from beginning to end. The ending is quite abrupt though. And Barbara Hambly's Someone Else's Shadow is the best novella in this collection. This one has a bit of a dark edge and Phil is very hot. All in all, Night's Edge is a good anthology if you're in the bargain for romantic paranormal with some light suspense. However, these novellas were not compelling enough for me. I should have known this collection would be formulaic and mild at best. After all, it is a Harlequin offering...	2004-10-29
474016:US	50774468	R2H2O3VJI4CXK9	0743251350	832774663	The Place Will Comfort You: Stories	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Beautiful, evocative, witty short stories...	Naama Goldstein's The Place Will Comfort You is full of humorous, mesmerizing stories centered on the cultural differences between Israel and America. Each story is strong and stands on its own. I finished this collection last night, yet am still thinking about these stories. In most cases, I find a short story is an instance of excellent writing that somehow lacks the power and force of a novel, but in Goldstein's case, all of these stories have tremendous power, even more than your average 400-page long novel. My favorite stories are \\"A Pillar of a Cloud,\\" \\"A Verse in the Margins,\\" and \\"The Conduct of Consoling.\\" Each story has a touch of earnest humor coupled with deceptively simple prose. The combination was irresistible and I couldn't put this book down. This is an impressive debut effort from a promising author. I highly recommend this collection, even if you tend to shy away from short stories. I for one love short stories and these are as good as they get. They are not to be missed.	2004-10-29
474537:US	50774468	R4FFQXM42L71V	0375506527	92035040	In His Arms: A Novel	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Hardly interesting...	A friend of mine loaned me this book because she thought I'd love it. She knows I love foreign literature, especially French novels. I couldn't get into this book though. In His Arms is the story of Camille, a librarian and writer who's in therapy. She tells her life story to her therapist in a series of flashbacks. She analyzes her parents' marriage and her own failed relationships. What transpires is a story within a story in which the author goes back and forth with the story of the narrator and the character in the heroine's novel that is also called Camille.<br /><br />The story is very complex, very seductive and very French, but it is also very dull at times. The French culture is rather unique, and their uninhibited ways make Americans look like prudish nuns in comparison. However, I did not like the way the story was told. The narration came across as mechanical, the dialogue wooden. I am sure that a lot of the story and the author's voice are lost in the translation. I wish I knew enough French to read the original stories. I couldn't wait to finish this book. If you want to give In His Arms a whirl, I suggest you do as I did -- loan it from a friend.	2004-10-28
474732:US	50774468	R1AHO6F7KDSBNJ	0312313829	265469425	The Dirty Girls Social Club: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun, sassy, edgy, but with some loose ends...	I have wanted to give this novel a whirl for quite a while but never got around to reading it until now. The Dirty Girls Social Club is about six spunky, vibrant Latinas -- or \\"sucias,\\" as they call themselves -- dealing with career and relationship plights as well as addressing various takes on cultural politics, and dealing with their identities as Latin Americans. They have been friends since college and get together to catch up on their lives every so often. During the course of one year, a big, beautiful, sassy and somewhat materialistic Puerto Rican tries to decide on whether she should give her heart to a sweet, albeit broke gentleman; a bohemian and politically conscious musician tries not to lose her identity and beliefs as her CD skyrockets on the pop charts; an uptight, anal retentive magazine chief wonders why she'd married a phony, self-centered billionaire; a young housewife's life isn't as perfect as others think; a drop-dead gorgeous lesbian anchor is forced to come out of the closet before being ready; and a frustrated, opinionated Cuban American journalist deals with her dwindling love life and her headache-inducing neurosis. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The sucias are fun, intelligent women who have a lot to say about many things. As a Latina, I nodded in agreement with a lot of the things the characters said -- it is clear that the aforementioned arguments are the author's musings. I liked the novel's earnest humor and political backdrop. However, it was hard to take the author's work seriously when she herself stereotyped various characters (namely Usnavys). I realize that some of it was intentional, but some nationalities were shown on a better light than others. Also, there are a lot of loose ends in this novel. What happened to Elizabeth's feelings for Lauren? Why weren't the male characters in the story developed enough? What was Sara's take on her situation after all the changes she endured? What did Usnavys's job entail? There are many other things left undeveloped. I agree with various reviewers here that said the novel has too many female leads in a story that's only a little over 300 pages long. It was difficult for me to have any sort of affinity to the characters when their stories are told in parts. Other than that, I loved this novel. I couldn't put it down and loved reading about smart, successful Latinas, though I must add that the women should have been older. I, like the characters, am a Hispanic woman in my late twenties. I work in Public Relations and am a part-time writer. But I make nowhere near as much money as these ladies and neither do my peers, regardless of race. The women in this book sound like they are in their mid to late thirties. Anyway, this is a great chick-lit that should be appreciated as the lighthearted, compelling read that it is. I think Alisa Valdes-Rodriguez has a lot of potential and I shall give her second novel a whirl.ob entail? There are many other things left undeveloped. I agree with various reviewers here that said the novel has too many female leads in a story that's only a little over 300 pages long. It was difficult for me to have any sort of affinity to the characters when their stories are told in parts. Other than that, I loved this novel. I couldn't put it down and loved reading about smart, successful Latinas, though I must add that the women should have been older. I, like the characters, am a Hispanic woman in my late twenties. I work in Public Relations and am a part-time writer. But I make nowhere near as much money as these ladies and neither do my peers, regardless of race. The women in this book sound like they are in their mid to late thirties. Anyway, this is a great chick-lit that should be appreciated as the lighthearted, compelling read that it is. I think Alisa Valdes-Rodriguez has a lot of potential and I shall give her second novel a whirl.	2004-10-28
477980:US	50774468	R5WJ6VCYM2S3I	0140288481	828207438	Hunger	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Beautiful collection!	Lan Samantha Chang touched me with her profound stories in Hunger. The characters in this collection are starving for love, success and respect and said hungers manifest themselves in thought-provoking, dark dilemmas and endless sorrow. My favorite stories are \\"Water Names,\\" \\"Pipa's Story,\\" and \\"The Unforgetting.\\" But it is the novella and book title that touched me the most. The story of a struggling violinist and how his failure affects his family enthralled me from beginning to end. Their problems as Chinese immigrants made the novella all the more compelling. Chang writes with beautiful, flawless prose and hers is a talent that transcends all genders. Her work reminds me of Banana Yoshimoto in that she, too, transmits the characters' emotions flawlessly. If you're in the bargain for thought-provoking short stories and novellas, I recommend Hunger most highly.	2004-10-25
478541:US	50774468	R1JD7606AVY7J3	1843605724	365414490	Madam Charlie	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An insatiable Regency romantica...	I hadn't read a historical romantica so scorching and memorable since Emma Holly's Beyond Seduction. Madam Charlie is one insatiable, delicious and erotic romantica! I couldn't put it down and savored the last few pages like rich chocolate. Colonel/Seventh Earl of Calverton Jordan Lyndhurst finds the beautiful blonde Madam of a high-class brothel intriguing and darkly sensual, and he wants nothing more than to get her into bed. But who is Madam Charlie? She is a tormented young woman with a secret that she cannot reveal. Despite owning one of the most erotic salons in 1815 London, she has sworn off sex, but Jordan Lyndhurst could well change that. The problem is that he is the one man she should avoid...<br /><br />The story is compelling and the characters -- especially Charlie and Jordan -- are well developed. The building of tension between Charlie and Jordan is scrumptious. The sex scenes are erotic beyond words. I found myself wanting a cigarette after each sizzling scene, and I don't even smoke! The descriptions are one of the best I've read. This is an incredible Regency romantica. For those of you who like your romance rough and your erotica sweet (so to speak), you get an equal amount of romance and erotica in this novel. The historical aspect of it is also wonderful. My one complaint is that this novel is only 235 pages long. I wanted more! Sahara Kelly is officially on my to-read list. I loved a quickie novella of hers I read a while ago and this novel proves once again that she is a great author of erotica. Are you in the bargain for a historical romantica? Give this amazing Ellora's Cave offering a whirl. The aforementioned imprint delivers once again!	2004-10-25
480469:US	50774468	ROVR2G96PSLFD	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A true American classic!	I first read The Great Gatsby while in high school. I thought it was wonderful at the time, but I didn't appreciate it as much as I did now that I've read it for the second time. The story of Jay Gatsby and Daisy Buchanan enthralled me from beginning to end. Written during the Jazz Age, which is also the story's backdrop, F. Scott Fitzgerald tells the tragic and decadent love story of an impoverished officer who seeks wealth in an attempt to woo Daisy. He also happens to want to obtain a respectable place in society. However, Gatsby's attempts to obtain both Daisy and richness beyond his wildest dreams backfire and he soon falls from grace in a poignant conclusion that brought tears to my eyes.<br /><br />Someone once asked me if I wanted to be like Jay Gatsby -- if I wanted to aspire to things beyond my means and want someone who will never be within my reach. And that is the reason why this novel touched me so much. It spoke to me. Gatsby is one of the most compelling characters ever written. And the love story is quite a sad one, but I think that that's what makes it memorable and special to me. And the fact that the story is narrated by a third character -- Nick Callaway -- makes the reader appreciate both sides of the coin, though Callaway is quite vocal about his own observations and prejudices. F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote a true American classic. I have read it twice and will no doubt reread it at some stage in the future. I cannot recommend this American classic enough.	2004-10-23
480618:US	50774468	R1V4R4Z44BWWG5	0553587064	106938653	Dime Store Magic (Women of the Otherworld)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Armstrong does it again, great third WOTOW installment!	I am hooked on Kelley Armstrong's Women of the Otherworld series. I loved Bitten and Stolen and couldn't wait to read Paige's story. Dime Store Magic is non-stop action from beginning to end. Twenty-three-year-old Coven leader Paige Winterbourne decides to look after teen witch Savannah after rescuing her from a scientific compound where pyrokinetic half-demon Leah and sorcerer Katzen held the child captive. Looking after a teenage girl, especially one with powers that can be used for both good and evil, isn't easy, but Paige has managed just fine. That is until Leah returns with a legal custody petition. But when human laws don't work, Leah and a group of powerful sorcerers known as Cabals break havoc upon Paige's life, making her appear like a Satanist and a murderer. The people of East Falls, Massachusetts, are outraged and disgusted with Paige. Even the Coven elders no longer want her in their lives. But with the help of a young, well-intentioned sorcerer, Paige, once an immature know-it-all, is forced to grow up and learn how to utilize the strongest and most potentially fatal magic spells to keep herself and Savannah safe. There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Paige was stubborn and somewhat irritating in Stolen, but in this installment she has shown a great deal of maturity that comes from protecting young Savannah. I thought I wouldn't like Paige as much as Elena Michaels. However, I think she's a compelling heroine. I like her way of thinking and her quips when handling the bad guys are also great. I especially love her interactions with Lucas Cortez -- the geeky, wordy lawyer-slash-sorcerer. Witches and sorcerers are sworn enemies, and the bickering between Paige and Cortez are the funniest bits in the novel. I wasn't sure about the switch of storyline that went from werewolves to witches at first, but the transformation went smooth because this novel picks up right where Stolen left off. I miss Elena, Clay and Jeremy though. I hope there will be novels centered on them again in the future. Anyway, this novel enthralled me from beginning to end. My one complaint is that Adam, Paige's best friend, doesn't play an important role in this installment. The aforementioned character showed a lot of potential in Stolen. I cannot believe that he, with the exception of a few phone conversations he had with Paige, wasn't part of this story. Other than that, I loved this novel. Kelley Armstrong is a great author and an awesome new voice in paranormal fiction. I cannot wait to pick up Industrial Magic next month and Haunted early next year. In the meantime, I cannot recommend Dime Store Magic enough.will be novels centered on them again in the future. Anyway, this novel enthralled me from beginning to end. My one complaint is that Adam, Paige's best friend, doesn't play an important role in this installment. The aforementioned character showed a lot of potential in Stolen. I cannot believe that he, with the exception of a few phone conversations he had with Paige, wasn't part of this story. Other than that, I loved this novel. Kelley Armstrong is a great author and an awesome new voice in paranormal fiction. I cannot wait to pick up Industrial Magic next month and Haunted early next year. In the meantime, I cannot recommend Dime Store Magic enough.	2004-10-23
482921:US	50774468	R1GSW7XH4ATMSS	0451451430	249749712	Nightseer	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Disappointing debut...	I'd looked forward to reading Laurell K. Hamilton's debut novel for as long as I could remember. However, I was disappointed with Nightseer. This lackluster, over the top novel is about Keleios and her many powers. She is a witch, sorceress and enchantress all rolled into one. She is also a prophet, something that does not sit well with her, for she foresees unpleasant events by way of dreams, one of which is her mother's death. But when she harnesses demonic powers, she is able to protect the lives of her fellow witch friends and apprentices and, more important, avenge her mother's death in the hands of Harque the witch...<br /><br />I saw some similarities between this novel and the Anita Blake series. First of all, Keleios is a badass fighter with pretty much the same hang-ups, double standards and self-righteousness as Anita. Keleios is also very protective of the people she cares about, just like Anita. I also noticed that Eduard, the journeyman herb witch, is identical to Jean-Claude in physical description, dress sense and dark demeanor. It is obvious to me, especially judging by the slight cliffhanger, that this novel was going to be extended into a series, but perhaps LKH decided to abandon this storyline in favor of the Anita Blake one, taking a lot of the elements of this story into the other one. I for one am grateful for that. This novel just didn't do it for me. I didn't like the third person narration, the fanciful, over the top wordiness and the overall plot that reminded me of a video game my brother and I used to play when we were kids called The Legend of Zelda. There is a lot of action and suspense in this novel, especially toward the end, but it did little to spark my interest. You can tell this was Hamilton's first effort because she tried too hard with this novel. Die-hard Laurell K. Hamilton fans might want to give Nightseer a whirl, but they'll either love or hate it. I didn't like it, but at least I got to read Hamilton's first effort.	2004-10-21
484419:US	50774468	R38P35EBV53K2L	0312990456	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good first installment of the series...	A lot of people recommended the Stephanie Plum series to me. I heard and read so many praises that I decided to give the first book a whirl. One for the Money starts out with the heroine's desperate need for cash. She has lost her job as a buyer at a third rate lingerie shop in Newark and is penniless and in dire need of a job. So she asks her cousin to help her out. She goes to sort out files and instead ends up with the job as bounty hunter for people who miss their court dates. Her first assignment is Joe Morelli -- her one-time lover turned murderer. She is unsure about turning in a childhood acquaintance to the authorities, but the $10,000 commission is too difficult to resist. Besides, she hasn't forgiven him for having sex with her and then forgetting all about her. So Stephanie sets out to find Morelli at all costs, even if it means going to the biggest ghettos in New Jersey, where she encounters many unpleasant things. Will she be able to turn Morelli over to the police? There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The good thing about this novel is the heroine's sharp wit. She is quite funny at times and the situations she faces have a mixture of suspense and dark humor. The story is fast-paced, the dialogue is crisp, and some of the characters are great, though ridiculously stereotyped and one-dimensional at times. The character I liked the most was Ranger. His street-smart manners and blunt quips made me laugh. The story is quite original, albeit frustrating when Stephanie has Joe right in front of her and does nothing to capture him or call the police. She gets into one stupid situation after another, and I just wanted to toss the book to the nearest wall when that happened. All in all, it was an okay read to me. I am not as enthusiastic about it as most of the reviewers here though. Maybe it's because I have the flu. I'll give Janet Evanovich's popular series another chance to impress me by reading the second installment.	2004-10-19
485175:US	50774468	RLBJXJEZWTGMF	0385415443	77434560	The Ice at the Bottom of the World: Stories	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Beautiful, haunting Southern short stories...	I loved reading this collection of short stories. The stories are dark, haunting, beautiful, and some even heartwarming. Mark Richard's stories are quite similar to Faulkner's work in that they are set in the South and have a gothic, no-nonsense quality to them that make them unforgettable. Richard's voice is one of brutal honesty, and I found myself nodding in agreement with various passages. My favorite stories are \\"Happiness of the Garden Variety,\\" \\"The Ice at the Bottom of the World,\\" \\"On the Rope,\\" \\"The Theory of Man,\\" and \\"Strays.\\" The one bad thing about this collection is its lack of popularity. I cannot believe that such a beautiful book could go almost unnoticed, but that is often the case with true literary offerings. I feel bad enough that it took me ten years to give this collection a whirl. Mark Richard is a brilliant storyteller and I would have liked it if he had written other works. I shall give this wonderful piece of work all the word of mouth it deserves.	2004-10-19
487430:US	50774468	R22YPNBGCGKL6F	0425198219	335481412	Strange Attractions	Books	4	36	36	N	N	A bizarre, albeit insatiable erotica...	I have always been an Emma Holly fan. She and MaryJanice Davidson rank highest priority whenever I'm in the bargain for a good romantica. Everyone who has read Holly's novels, especially her Black Lace offerings, is familiar with her uninhibited, no-holds-barred approach to erotica, and said approach is evident in Strange Attractions. Charity Wills is a man-eating high school dropout who jumps from one dead end, boring job to another. But things take an interesting twist when she is approached by the gorgeous Eric Berne. He's noticed her sharp intelligence and great potential, so he makes an offer she cannot refuse: the opportunity to get an Ivy League education in exchange to being the plaything of one B.G. Grantham -- an eccentric physicist with a penchant for exotic sexual games. Eric and B.G. have a rather close relationship, so to speak, and things take a delicious turn when intense feelings between Eric and Charity ensue. What transpires is a delectable story of the most sensual, erotic, mind and body games ever imagined...<br /><br />This is Emma Holly's most interesting novel to date and the most daring one since Menage. This novel is not unlike the books she used to write for Black Lace. The plot is rather strange, but it works well with the sexual dynamics within the story. My favorite scene is the one with Eric, Maurice the chauffer and Charity and their little \\"stop\\" before arriving to B.G.'s mansion. I also like the encounter with Eric and Charity. There is of course a menage a trois in this novel. I can't help but notice that the men in Holly's novels are bisexual. The only novels that didn't have bisexual males in them were the paranormal ones with the word \\"Midnight\\" in their titles. Nicolas Craven, the hero in Beyond Seduction, my favorite Holly novel, hinted at having once indulged in bisexual escapades in the last chapters of said novel. Does Holly like the idea of two men together so much that she's centered most of her novels on said encounters? I like how sensual the aforementioned encounters are in her stories. I also couldn't help but notice that she is always precise with her research on the subjects she writes about -- or at least she makes said subjects sound very believable and convincing. Anyway, as said earlier, this is Holly's most unique offering to date. She has a wonderful imagination. Another winner from Emma Holly! This was the perfect book to read while nursing my flu. I cannot recommend it enough.I like how sensual the aforementioned encounters are in her stories. I also couldn't help but notice that she is always precise with her research on the subjects she writes about -- or at least she makes said subjects sound very believable and convincing. Anyway, as said earlier, this is Holly's most unique offering to date. She has a wonderful imagination. Another winner from Emma Holly! This was the perfect book to read while nursing my flu. I cannot recommend it enough.	2004-10-17
488794:US	50774468	RAIWK5D97QFTM	0441011977	693014527	Powers of Detection: Stories of Mystery and Fantasy	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Great short stories centered on fantasy and mystery!	I loved this short-story collection full of writers that mix mystery with fantasy. The twelve stories in Powers of Detection are fresh, imaginative and original. You will read about vampires, werewolves, fairies and other supernatural creatures with just the right touch of suspense without overloading the stories with too much plotline. My favorites are Anne Bishop's \\"The Price,\\" Donna Andrews's \\"Cold Spell,\\" John Staley's \\"Lovely\\" (the goriest in the book), Michael Armstrong's \\"The Boy Who Chased Seagulls,\\" and my favorite one, Charlaine Harris's \\"Fairy Dust,\\" which is taken from the Sookie Stackhouse series.<br /><br />There are stories that focus on the fantasy/paranormal aspects while others lean more toward mystery. There are also those that come across as too Harry Potter-like for my taste while others have a lot of gore. But my favorite of all, as said earlier, is Charlaine Harris's effort. I love the Sookie Stackhouse series and Harris didn't let me down with her contribution to this book. All in all, this is a great short-story collection. Perfect for Halloween! If you like mysteries with fantasy as the subgenre (or vice versa), then don't hesitate to pick up Powers of Detection.	2004-10-15
489344:US	50774468	R1IJWYBOKO6S56	0452285933	886454300	Stolen (Women of the Otherworld, Book 2)	Books	4	56	59	N	N	Great follow-up to Bitten!	Having read and loved Kelley Armstrong's Bitten, I couldn't wait to read Stolen, the second installment of the Women of the Otherworld series. Elena Michaels, the only female werewolf in the world, is back to take on a far bigger challenge than chasing killer mutts. Elena and the pack members don't believe in supernatural creatures and think that werewolves are the only phenomenon on this planet (go figure!) -- that is until she meets witches Ruth and Paige Winterbourne. Elena learns that in addition to werewolves and witches there are also demons, shamans, sorcerers, vampires, and other creatures living among humans. To make matters worse, a top secret scientific lab wants to research every supernatural creature they can encounter. And when Elena is held captive by said lab researchers, she discovers the real motive behind the captivations and witnesses the torturous methods used by lab investor and sadistic millionaire Tyrone Winsloe whenever he gives a prisoner the illusion of escape only to hunt them down and kill them in a bizarre live version of a video game. Elena hopes that her pack will come to her rescue, but will it be possible to get past the tight security of the compound? There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Stolen, like Bitten, has lots of action, suspense and interesting twists. But the difference between this installment and the previous one is that, as said earlier, this novel does not center solely on werewolves. There is also quite a big subplot surrounding witchcraft and other preternatural powers. And there are far more gruesome scenes in this offering, especially during Elena's captivation. The gory scene with lab scientists Bauer and Carmichael is one of the most graphic parts. The novel is great, but I have a couple of complaints. One is that the reader doesn't get a lot of interaction between the werewolves -- especially between Elena and Clay -- and some of the supernaturals aren't developed enough. My other complaint is that the whole captivity thing becomes tiresome after a while. By page 300 I just wanted Elena to either escape or be rescued or something. Other than that, Stolen is riveting from beginning to end. I love the scenes with Elena and Clay. I love how they bond while in wolf form. Those parts are very well written and believable. I wish there had been more scenes like that. The characters are great. Paige and Adam are great, and Xavier is hilarious! He is quite interesting, albeit vague. And I love Jeremy and his role as alpha-slash-mediator. I wish Ms. Armstrong had written more scenes with him in them. And Clay! There aren't enough words to describe Clay. He sounds so scrumptious! Kelley Armstrong is a great storyteller. I cannot wait to read Dime Store Magic, the third part of the Women of the Otherworld series with Paige Winterbourne as the narrator. Anyway, I cannot recommend this novel enough, but I urge potential readers to start with Bitten, for you will get a better look into Elena's life as a werewolf and how she became one, her relationship with Clay, and how she comes to terms with her past and present.that the whole captivity thing becomes tiresome after a while. By page 300 I just wanted Elena to either escape or be rescued or something. Other than that, Stolen is riveting from beginning to end. I love the scenes with Elena and Clay. I love how they bond while in wolf form. Those parts are very well written and believable. I wish there had been more scenes like that. The characters are great. Paige and Adam are great, and Xavier is hilarious! He is quite interesting, albeit vague. And I love Jeremy and his role as alpha-slash-mediator. I wish Ms. Armstrong had written more scenes with him in them. And Clay! There aren't enough words to describe Clay. He sounds so scrumptious! Kelley Armstrong is a great storyteller. I cannot wait to read Dime Store Magic, the third part of the Women of the Otherworld series with Paige Winterbourne as the narrator. Anyway, I cannot recommend this novel enough, but I urge potential readers to start with Bitten, for you will get a better look into Elena's life as a werewolf and how she became one, her relationship with Clay, and how she comes to terms with her past and present.	2004-10-15
492032:US	50774468	R2OD3RAPLGFNU0	0345466934	231616442	Eye Candy	Books	4	7	11	N	N	A fun, entertaining suspense!	Having loved R.L. Stine's Goosebumps series when I was a kid and enjoyed his foray into adult suspense with The Sitter, I looked forward to reading Eye Candy, Stine's newest adult effort. Eye Candy is a suspenseful thriller about a beautiful twenty-something New Yorker's search for Mr. Right gone awry. After she lost her boyfriend to a car wreck a year ago, Lindy Sampson is ready to date again. One of her roommates suggests placing an ad at the online personals. There she meets various potential suitors and proceeds to go out on dates with them and has a great time. But then the fun stops when she starts receiving frightening phone calls and letters telling her he'd kill her if she stops seeing him. She doesn't know who is making the threats, so she accepts the dates from the four men she is seeing. However, Lindy hadn't envisaged the sinister and dangerous game behind the threats...<br /><br />This is one of the most fun and fast-paced thrillers I have read. It kept my interest from beginning to end and the twists and turns kept me guessing till the final pages. The conclusion is indeed surprising, albeit silly. Lindy does get lots of attention for being an \\"eye candy,\\" but her stupidity frustrated me at times. She was terrified of her unknown stalker, yet she did nothing to conceal her personal information or keep away from potential danger. And I couldn't help but notice that this novel's language is not unlike Stine's young adult offerings. The author plays it safe by making the characters a bit over the age of twenty-one. He should perhaps write main characters that are much older to see if he can in fact write adult fiction. All in all, this is an entertaining thriller that is not unlike the slasher movies that are so popular out there. The plot is a bit cleverer than most horror flicks though, but that doesn't say much, does it? I recommend Eye Candy as an entertaining novel, but don't expect this to be in any way thought provoking. Then again, you shouldn't expect a literary read when you pick up this sort of book to begin with. Read it if you're in the bargain for horror lite.expect a literary read when you pick up this sort of book to begin with. Read it if you're in the bargain for horror lite.	2004-10-12
492704:US	50774468	RPEQRJED9SAD1	0374103909	198993018	After	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Dark, disturbing, erotic, brilliant!	This is one of the darkest novels I have read. After is the story of a widow who decides to take on a lover in the most unique, albeit disturbing way. Some time after her husband died in the hands of terrorists, the unnamed female character decides to shack up with a married Muslin man at a rundown hotel somewhere in California (the novel's exact setting is unspecified). What transpires is a disarming story centered on hatred, prejudice and reflections on the meaning of true love.<br /><br />The affair is told in graphic detail. The couple at times turns violent, and said scenes are quite disturbing. The story is incredible, philosophical at times, dark and suspenseful to the core. The theme has a taboo appeal to it that is thought provoking and provocative. I loved the scenes in which the protagonist talks about her husband with her lover and the discussions regarding the Jewish (her husband was Jewish) and Muslin faiths. As said earlier, a lot of the passages come across as dark philosophies centered on religion and politics and I found myself pondering certain lines after I finished the book. After is brilliant. Claire Tristram is a talented, incredible author and I look forward to reading her future works -- that is if there will be future projects. I do hope she will write something as impressive as her debut effort. I can't recommend this novel enough.	2004-10-12
495494:US	50774468	R27N3VI7XPPH9Q	0060572965	661385357	Dead Witch Walking	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Fun, riveting fantasy!	Dead Witch Walking was far more fun and riveting than I had anticipated. It is a mixture of action, gothic, fantasy and dark humor. Rachel Morgan is one of the best witches out there. She is also one of heck of a bounty hunter, searching for vampires, weres, fairies, and other creatures that prowl in the Hollows of Cincinnati. But one mistake costs Rachel her career and she soon finds herself doing simple undercover assignments for Inderland Security. She decides she cannot take any more mediocre jobs and, along with an up and coming, though disgruntled, coworker, she quits. And that's when her nightmare begins. There is a price on her head. No one leaves IS, helps others quit, and lives to tell about it. There are lots of twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />As said earlier, this is one of the best fantasy novels I have read. The supernatural aspects blend well with the somewhat dark humor and compelling plot. I also love the characters. Jenks the pixie is hilarious! All of the characters are wonderfully three-dimensional. Rachel is a great, tough heroine. Kim Harrison is an author whose work will be anticipated in the future. Her writing and her wonderful look into the preternatural world reminds me of Laurell K. Hamilton before her Anita Blake series went haywire. I see that this will be an outstanding series, and I look forward to the second part. I knew this would be a great read after I read the blurbs from two of my favorite paranormal authors (Charlaine Harris and Kelley Armstrong). I cannot recommend Dead Witch Walking enough!	2004-10-09
495860:US	50774468	R3CILPKT2LUYZG	0425198243	55431338	Incubus Dreams (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	2	50	55	N	N	Ugh!  What happened to this series?!	I was so looking forward to reading Incubus Dreams that I went to the bookstore and got it on its release date. I cracked it open with both anticipation and dread -- anticipation to read more of the Anitaverse and dread because I would have to wait a year for the next installment. However, Incubus Dreams disappointed me in more ways than one. To me, the series was not the same after Burnt Offerings, and it reached a downward spiral with the developments that arose in both Narcissus in Chains and Cerulean Sins, but I nevertheless loved reading all of those novels. But I couldn't get into this one and almost threw in the towel several times by the time I was halfway through the book. In this installment, Anita Blake has to find the vampire serial killer who is preying on strippers. She is certain that the local vampires aren't responsible for the murders, but then again the fact that she is the Master of the City's lover and friends with most of the local vamps may have blinded her perception a bit. To make matters worse, she has to deal with the metaphysical communications that help her see the painful pasts of the monsters around her, cope with her feelings about the men in her life and with the ardeur, which has almost taken a life of its own. In typical LKH fashion, there are many, many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Several things bothered me about this novel. First of all, I liked the symbolism of Anita wearing a tuxedo at Larry's wedding. Hamilton has always done a subtle and clever role change between Anita and the men in the series. However, it bothered me that Micah, Nathaniel, Damien and Louie cried somewhere within the first eighty or so pages -- on the same night but in different scenes. It seemed excessive to me, especially since all men, with the exception of Louie, cried over something Anita did. Another thing that bothered me was that the murder mystery was introduced in the first few pages but was completely forgotten until almost halfway through the story. The rest was wasted on metaphysical contacts in which she saw Damien and Nathaniel's pasts, tried to control a deranged Damien and, of course, fed the ardeur. The ardeur is bothersome in this installment. That storyline almost took over the plot. I am no stranger to reading stories centered on sex. I'm an avid erotica reader who's devoured almost every Black Lace, Blue Moon and Ellora's Cave book out there, but most of the sex scenes in this novel are gratuitous and unnecessary, not to mention nasty (having sex with several characters in a matter of hours, wearing the same clothes and underwear and... well, you get the picture). The whole ardeur bit wouldn't bother me so much if the series had intended to be this way from the very beginning, like the Merry Gentry series. Also, I don't like what LKH has done to Jean-Claude. He used to be one of the most compelling, sexiest and darkest characters in the series, now he's just another Anita follower. And where the heck was Asher? He hardly appeared in this installment. LKH should do a spin-off novel centered on Jean-Claude and Asher and the things that happened between them and Belle Morte centuries before Anita came along. A prequel of sorts. That would be neat. And finally, I won't even deign to elaborate on the blatant lack of editing in this book. Suffice it to say that the grammatical errors, typos and word repetitions were very distracting. Anyway, the only parts I enjoyed about this novel were the first twenty or so pages and the bits and pieces centered on the mystery aspect of the story and some of the action that had nothing to do with the metaphysical mumbo jumbo that monopolized the book. And there are some other good points -- however small -- about this novel. I liked that LKH delved deeper into Nathaniel, Damien and Micah. (But I still don't like Micah.) I also liked that Anita and Richard got into the heart of things a bit. Those two characters will always have issues though. And I alsoliked the fact that, though brief, Anita and Dolph worked together the way they used to in the earlier novels. All in all, Incubus Dreams was below my expectations -- 658 pages of lots of twists and turns, but by the last pages of the book I just didn't care what happened anymore. I couldn't wait to finish reading this book. I am sure that I will read the next installment, but I'll check the book out from the library or loan it from a friend. I won't spend my hard earned money on the hardback if the next novel is written in the same vein as this one. Note to Ms. Hamilton: we the readers, at least most of us, judging by the reviews on this page, want more action, mystery and suspense and less filler metaphysical and sexual situations.liked the fact that, though brief, Anita and Dolph worked together the way they used to in the earlier novels. All in all, Incubus Dreams was below my expectations -- 658 pages of lots of twists and turns, but by the last pages of the book I just didn't care what happened anymore. I couldn't wait to finish reading this book. I am sure that I will read the next installment, but I'll check the book out from the library or loan it from a friend. I won't spend my hard earned money on the hardback if the next novel is written in the same vein as this one. Note to Ms. Hamilton: we the readers, at least most of us, judging by the reviews on this page, want more action, mystery and suspense and less filler metaphysical and sexual situations.	2004-10-09
497105:US	50774468	R2TO7VOT6TKWMK	0385338090	955347785	Shopaholic & Sister (Shopaholic Series)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Not the best in the series, but still fun (3 1/2 stars)...	I have read and loved all of Sophie Kinsella's Shopaholic novels. The novels are light and fun and it is always a droll trip to read about Becky Bloomwood's adventures in retail therapy. Shopaholic and Sister, though not as good as the earlier novels, is another romp starring the shopaholic we know and love. Rebecca Brandon (her new married name) is having the time of her life with her husband. They have spent almost a year making honeymoon trips around the world. But when she returns to London, things are different. Her parents don't seem pleased to see her, her best friend Suze has found a replacement friend with motherhood in common, and there's the little issue of having purchased far too much furniture and souvenirs in every country she had visited, not to mention maxing out her secret credit card by buying the most expensive and trendiest handbag in the world. But things start looking up when Becky discovers that she has a long-lost sister. She is thrilled to have a sister and potential shopping partner -- except that said sister is the exact opposite of Becky. There are various fun twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />There are lots of funny moments in the novel that center on Becky's uncontrollable spending. The excess furniture is the funniest bit in the novel. But the novel isn't as good as the previous installments because Becky goes into overdrive in pretty much everything. She was overly cheerful and somewhat delusional in the other novels, but here she is that way all the time! It was like she had overdosed on caffeine and other stimulants. I know she's supposed to be annoying, but it is kind of off-putting because now her annoyance is just over the top. She gets especially overwhelming in the second half of the book. There is also the factor that Becky and Luke have misunderstandings and incidents not unlike the ones from the first three books -- i.e., Becky keeping secrets from Luke. I was entertained nevertheless. I wanted a fun, no-fuss read and I got it. I enjoyed Shopaholic and Sister. Based on this novel's bit of a cliffhanger, there will be more shopaholic books in the future. I just hope that Ms. Kinsella tones the heroine's enthusiasm down a notch or two.I got it. I enjoyed Shopaholic and Sister. Based on this novel's bit of a cliffhanger, there will be more shopaholic books in the future. I just hope that Ms. Kinsella tones the heroine's enthusiasm down a notch or two.	2004-10-07
498070:US	50774468	RLUHVCNOSJKNN	015602943X	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Clever, unique love story...	A friend of mine loaned me this book because she thought I'd like it. I admit that I was reluctant to read it at first because I have never been a fan of books with time travel themes. I am glad I gave it a whirl. The Time Traveler's Wife isn't just a time travel novel -- it is a clever and unique love story that touched me to the core. Henry De Tamble suffers from a disorder in which he travels to the past or future, usually to relive or foresee an important time of his life. During some of his time travels, he recaptures the moment in which he meets his wife Clare and even sees bits and pieces of her childhood and how their life together will be like in the future. What transpires is a beautiful tale with various interesting twists.<br /><br />The Time Traveler's Wife is one of the most beautiful novels I have read. It has quite a clever science fiction-like element that is mixed with a rather particular love story. I like the moral of the story, and that's to enjoy the moment and treasure the one you're with. Henry and Clare are such great characters! I enjoyed reading about Henry's glimpses into Clare's childhood. The scenes are quite memorable. I must warn the potential reader that the time traveling might confuse them to the point of getting lost. It happened to me a few times. I was able to catch up, but only after rereading some of the chapters. Other than that, this novel is enthralling from beginning to end. I might just give other time-traveling books a whirl in the future. I cannot recommend this gem enough. I am so disappointed that I have to return this book to my friend. I will definitely get my own copy. This book is going to my \\"must reread\\" pile.	2004-10-07
500558:US	50774468	R3GF8M73KDI88S	0684846853	287459398	The EXPENDABLES: STORIES	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wonderful and thought provoking short stories!	Having read Female Trouble, I looked forward to reading another short-story collection by Antonya Nelson. The Expendables is as memorable as Female Trouble in the way Nelson delves into human relationships. Most of the stories here deal with marriage and the various aspects of the same. Ms. Nelson's stories are dark and profound and almost as good as Joyce Carol Oates's work. My favorite stories are \\"Mud Season,\\" \\"Dog Problems,\\" \\"Affair Life,\\" and \\"The Expendables.\\" Each story is full of prose, insight and thought-provoking messages. Antonya Nelson is now on my list of favorite short-story writers. I shall read more of her stuff in the future.	2004-10-04
500694:US	50774468	R3DIBTFR1K6JM8	0441011675	477958501	Dead to the World (Southern Vampire Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	5	121	123	N	N	My favorite one in the series!	I have loved this series since Dead Until Dark and I tried to resist reading the newest installment Dead to the World, for the next book won't be out in quite some time. This is the best Southern Vampire novel in the entire series! This is of course my favorite installment and I hated to see it end and savored the last pages with gusto. Sookie Stackhouse is still mourning her breakup with Bill when he tells her that he's off to Peru to meet with some vampires there. But Sookie isn't able to think about Bill much when, on her drive home from work, she finds vampire Eric, scared and vulnerable, wandering the streets in the middle of the night with almost no clothes on. He's lost his memory, has no idea what has happened to him, so Sookie decides to look after him. She is shocked to find that he is no longer the no-nonsense vampire trying to get into her pants that he'd once been. It appears that some witches have put a spell on Eric and are planning to wreak havoc among the supernaturals in Shreveport. To make matters worse, Sookie's brother is missing. Sookie seeks the help of the local vampires, werewolves and other shape shifters, but will they be able to fight against the most powerful witches ever encountered? There are many twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />As said earlier, this is my favorite installment. There is a lot of action and Sookie is quite a tough cookie in this one. She is also reaching an uncertain future regarding her love life. She is not over Bill, but she is attracted to vampire leader Eric, werewolf Alcide and shape-shifter Sam. I have a feeling that the next installment will be quite interesting in the relationship department. I adore Eric. He sounds so scrumptious! He is what made this novel so memorable to me. He is the most interesting and sexiest of the male characters in the book, and there are quite a few hot men in this series! But that scene with Eric... I won't spoil it for the reader. Suffice it to say that it was the most delectable scene in the book. Anyway, I cannot recommend Dead to the World enough. This is the best part of Charlaine Harris's series thus far. The only bad thing is that I have read all of the books now and I will have to wait who knows how long till the next one. The good news is that Ms. Harris is releasing a novella based on this series in the Bite anthology next year. In the meantime, I strongly urge you to read this, but make sure you read the previous three installments before you do.ctable scene in the book. Anyway, I cannot recommend Dead to the World enough. This is the best part of Charlaine Harris's series thus far. The only bad thing is that I have read all of the books now and I will have to wait who knows how long till the next one. The good news is that Ms. Harris is releasing a novella based on this series in the Bite anthology next year. In the meantime, I strongly urge you to read this, but make sure you read the previous three installments before you do.	2004-10-04
504925:US	50774468	R2F7WHGWCMRIIV	0679738290	429997308	The Virgin in the Garden	Books	5	30	33	N	N	A.S. Byatt does it once again!	This is one of the best literary works I have read. I cannot fathom the bad reviews here. The story of the eccentric Potter family and the quirky works of their minds enthralled me from beginning to end. Frederica Potter is my favorite character in the book. She takes me back to heroines made famous by authors the like of Jane Austen. She is one of the most colorful characters I have ever read. All of the central characters are great. This novel chronicles the life of an eccentric family with subtle magic realism and palpable dark language.<br /><br />This novel's setting floored me. Fifties Britain is described in such a way that made me feel as though I had been alive during those times. The Elizabethan backdrop is also mesmerizing. And I love the quirkiness and darkness in this book. A.S. Byatt is no doubt one of the best writers of this era. Hers is a voice you cannot help but love. She writes with beautiful prose. I have read her short-story collections and now this book and I cannot wait to read her other works. I cannot recommend The Virgin in the Garden enough.	2004-09-30
505150:US	50774468	RA2YO4FU8DS5B	1843607247	785689212	Tempting the Beast (Feline Breeds, Book 1)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Great paranormal romantica!	I loved this novel. It has quite an original take on paranormal romantica. Callan Lyons is part of a genetic experiment. A science lab mixed human and lion DNA which resulted in the gorgeous, insatiable but animalistic Callan. The experiment is part of a conspiracy that plans to create someone with animal-like strength to work as a political assassin. Callan and his friends, who were also genetic experiments, were able to get away and have been hiding for a long time. But that could change with the appearance of Merinus Tyler, a young journalist who wants Callan to share his story with her and help expose the evil Genetics Council responsible for using women as the beasts' surrogate mothers. However, Merinus gets more than she bargains for when she meets the irresistible Callan. She wants him like she's never wanted someone before. In fact, her need for him is so intense and acute that it cannot possibly be normal -- and it isn't normal. Merinus and Callan are in the middle of a \\"mating frenzy.\\" What transpires is a story so smolderingly erotic that is guaranteed to burn the sheets...<br /><br />Tempting the Beast is delicious from beginning to end. Callan Lyons is quite a character. He sounds delicious and his animalistic ways make him all the more appealing. The sex scenes are insatiable beyond words. The one thing I didn't like is that the author sort of overdid it when describing Merinus's heat. It was just too much after a while. Other than that, I loved this romantica. I was quite impressed with Lora Leigh's Surrender, but this novel of hers is something else. This is the first part of a series and I look forward to reading the other installments. I also look forward to reading more of Leigh's work. In the meantime, I cannot recommend this delectable Ellora's Cave offering enough!	2004-09-30
507154:US	50774468	R2YX2RCLEN2W2H	0345409647	494921316	Interview with the Vampire (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Still riveting the second time around!	I first read Interview with the Vampire when I was fourteen years old. Many years later my paranormal fiction phase has driven me to reread the entire Vampire Chronicles. Interview with the Vampire is still beautiful, riveting, captivating, dark and disturbing the second time around. Again, I was enthralled with Louis's chronicles of his first years as a vampire. The horrors he went through in his struggle to accept himself as an immortal riveted me once again. From the death of his brother, to his converting into a vampire and the long, insufferable journeys with Lestat, Louis tells his story with wonderment, insight and loneliness so palpable that I felt it to the core...<br /><br />I still find this novel chilling, though-provoking, sinister and beautifully erotic. I still found Claudia, the child vampire, to be the most disturbing character in the book and Lestat and Armand are still my favorites. I love the language and storytelling, but, like the first time I read it, the story loses force in the middle, but gains it back toward the end. Anne Rice created one of the most memorable vampire series out there. None of the latest vampire novels and series compare to this one. I never watched the movie, but I might give it a whirl to see if it gives the novel justice. I haven't seen it because I was told that it isn't as good as the book. But for now I shall concentrate on rereading the first half of the series because I haven't read the last three installments. The Vampire Lestat is next. I shall see if it's my favorite installment the second time around as well.	2004-09-28
507442:US	50774468	R2SRB0W3KYEHUX	0670031658	537101603	Lisa33: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Quirky, raunchy dark comedy...	After his wife and kids are fast asleep, a bored lawyer logs into chat rooms at Literoticus.com to engage into some harmless, albeit naughty online encounters with the people there. He meets Lisa33 and is immediately drawn to her words. They have a lot in common and the cyber sex is excellent. What transpires is a dark, quirky story about the Internet chat rooms and the lonely people that frequent them...<br /><br />Dan Allan has written a darkly funny novel about living a double life -- one of them on the Internet. The author delves into the reasons why some people interact with others online and go as far as changing bits and pieces of their identities in favor of something more interesting. The people in this novel live very sad lives in which they're unhappy with their surroundings and settle for a more tolerable and far more interesting existence on the Internet. Lisa33 is a dark comedy, but there is some truth, sad and pathetic as it might be, behind the satirical language. I for one loved this novel and I highly recommend it as a dark, quirky, raunchy read.	2004-09-28
509367:US	50774468	R1OHUHIN4H6BKI	0060564644	646479669	Hissy Fit	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Couldn't put this one down!	This is the first Mary Kay Andrews novel that I've read. It won't be the last. Hissy Fit is one of the funniest chick-lit novels I have recently read. Andrews reminds me of Marian Keyes in the way that she mixes lighthearted humor with dark subject matters. But Andrews adds her Southern charm in this book. Keeley Murdock is a successful interior designer engaged to A.J. Jernigan -- the most gorgeous, not to mention richest man in Madison, Georgia. But things take an awkward spin after she discovers her fiance knocking boots with her maid of honor during the rehearsal dinner. Outraged, she throws a hissy fit in front of everyone -- including the social-conscious Jernigans -- before she calls off the wedding. The hissy fit costs her dearly, for the Jernigans are determined to sabotage Keeley's interior design business. But they aren't counting on Will Mahoney, a handsome millionaire with a sizable, not to mention strange, business proposal for Keeley. Keeley tries to rebuild her business and reputation while searching for the mother who had abandoned her when she was a child. Things don't look too good for Keeley. There are some big twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This novel blew me away. It has the perfect combination of wit and poignancy. Keeley is a Southern gal that holds no prisoners when it comes to preserving or regaining her self-respect. What surprises me most about her is that she isn't as whiny as the female leads of this sort of novel. Thus, you can identify with her plights without wanting to strangle her. I also loved the characters Gloria, Will and Austin. They made me laugh a lot. I hated Stephanie the minute she was introduced. I knew she'd be annoying. And, as mentioned earlier, I love the mixture of chic, lighthearted humor and dark, sometimes satirical situations. Mary Kay Andrews is the American Marian Keyes and Anna Maxted. I love her and I shall definitely give her other novels a whirl. In the meantime, I highly recommend Hissy Fit.	2004-09-26
509709:US	50774468	R101K435SY3MH	035233682X	614664279	Sweet Thing (Black Lace)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Tyler delivers a very sexy LA story...	I stopped reading Black Lace books for a while because the novels they've released lately aren't as good as their older ones. But I have wanted to give Alison Tyler a chance after reading the disappointing Something About Workmen. I have heard that she is a great erotica author and so I decided to give Sweet Thing a whirl. This novel is a vast improvement from Workmen and the best Black Lace book I've read in quite a while. Jessica Taylor is an LA girl looking for a successful career as a journalist. She loves sex, especially with James Dean look-alikes. But the man who holds the key to erotic heights is Dashiell Cooper, her new editor. A sexual chase game ensues in which Cooper does just about everything to obtain the wanton Jessica. There are various insatiable scenes throughout the novel.<br /><br />Sweet Thing is one of the sexiest contemporary erotic novels out there. I loved the scenes between Jessica and Kelly (male) and the game-playing between her and Cooper. This novel will satisfy various sexual fantasies. I like the scene with the Popsicles. Very creative. I also like the contemporary feel of the novel. It's like an erotic chick-lit book. I couldn't put it down. I like the Black Lace print of this novel -- not the Cheek reprint with the chick-lit cover. Most readers won't know what they'll be getting themselves into with a cover like that, especially if they're expecting a cute romance novel. Are you in the bargain for a chic, sassy erotic novel? I recommend Sweet Thing most highly. I shall definitely give Alison Tyler's other books a whirl.	2004-09-26
513180:US	50774468	R6F5RH64044X2	0515136964	602424818	Hot Blooded	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Wonderful paranormal romanticas...	I couldn't wait for the release of Hot Blooded because I was dying to read Emma Holly's novella. The stories in Hot Blooded have a mixture of fantasy, romantica and some suspense. Christine Feehan's Dark Hunger is part of an ongoing series of hers. I am not familiar with the series, and I don't know if this story is a stand-alone or if the characters are taken from another story, but I liked the fact that it was full of suspense from beginning to end. The erotic scenes were also hot. However, what put me off Hunger a bit is that Feehan tried to incorporate too many elements in one short novella. The novella seems too cluttered as a result. Maggie Shayne's Awaiting Moonrise is my second favorite in the anthology. This one has a more science fiction feel to it than the other ones. The erotic scenes in Moonrise are very sensual and the story enthralled me from beginning to end. I am not familiar with Shayne's work, but I shall look to her stuff in the future. My favorite is of course Emma Holly's The Night Owl. This novella is part of Holly's \\"upyr\\" series. This time it is Bastien's story. The novella is full of Holly's signature romance and eroticism. The one thing that I found strange is that Bastien's story is set in modern times. I last read him in Hunting Midnight, which was set during medieval times. I know the upyr (shape-shifting vampires) are immortal, but that was nevertheless a big leap of settings. I hope she will continue with this series. Angela Knight's Seduction's Gift is my least favorite of the four, but it is a great romantica nevertheless.<br /><br />This anthology is a great reading investment if you're in the bargain for paranormal romanticas. It is also a great find because it features four great authors of the aforementioned genre. Emma Holly is my favorite of the four, which is why I give her more praise, but fans of Feehan, Shayne and Knight will also be pleased with their stories. I recommend this gem. I also recommend the Fantasy and Cravings anthologies.s anthologies.	2004-09-22
513623:US	50774468	R1MQVU9I328010	0786712945	250951862	Rape: A Love Story (Otto Penzler Books)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	This one will go to my must-reread pile!	I admit that the title of this novella caught my attention. I have read and loved Joyce Carol Oates's short-story collections and I couldn't wait to read more of her stuff. Rape: A Love Story is one of the most thought-provoking novellas I've ever read. The darkness and poignancy of this story enthralled me from beginning to end. Teena McGuire is an attractive thirty-year-old widow and mother of a pre-teen girl. Her life is normal until the day she is gang-raped and left for dead. Now her life isn't the same as she disintegrates from the life as she'd known it. What's worse is that her twelve-year-old daughter is left to pick up the pieces. But the truly disturbing things arise when Teena is in the witness stand and in front of her attackers. There are various disarming twists throughout the story.<br /><br />I have noticed that Oates likes to delve into rape and sexual abuse issues, but she has gone all out with this novella. The story is truly chilling and you don't know whether to cry or wish the characters the best. I wanted the attackers to pay for what they did more than anything -- that's an excellent indication that the story and its characters have touched you in a deep level. Oates has always made me care about the stories and characters, even in her short stories. This is one of the best books I've read this year and I cannot recommend this one enough. Rape: A Love Story is definitely going on my must-reread pile.	2004-09-22
515408:US	50774468	R222BUZJTJMXAN	1413702767	476915380	Love And Madness	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Amazing dark, thought-provoking read!	This is one dark love story!  Love and Madness tells the story of a love affair gone awry. Karl is a wealthy man with a rather lavish lifestyle. He enjoys the intelligent discussions regarding religion and philosophy during dinners and parties. However, he is in the lookout for a romantic adventure. He meets Bertha and immediately falls in love with her. And then his life takes a rapid spin toward disaster. Bertha, with the help of her lesbian lover Christine, sets up a scheme to ruin Karl's impeccable reputation by way of lies and manipulation. Her motive is far more sinister than the reader anticipates. There are various disturbing scenes throughout the novel.<br /><br />This is one of the most disturbing novels I have read this year. It is more than just a story about a man falling from grace -- the language, the development of the story and the psychological backdrop make this novel a unique, literary read. I love novels of this sort, and they don't get better than this. I also love the setting of turn of the century Sweden. It added darkness to the story. David Rehak is an amazing author. I loved A Young Girl's Crimes, but this one's better by a long shot. I look forward to reading more books by this author. I am hooked on his keen storytelling.	2004-09-20
515649:US	50774468	RS4JTEZN487S8	0441010512	149624845	Club Dead (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not up to par with the first two, but still great...	Sookie Stackhouse and her bloodsucking buddies are back, but this time things take an unexpected spin in Sookie's personal life. Bill has been kidnapped somewhere in Jackson, Mississippi, and Sookie and Eric, with the help of a werewolf, drive there to try to get information out of the local vampires. What makes things worse for Sookie is that she has to nurse her broken heart as she keeps an eye on the locals, for Bill had been having an affair with a female vampire before he was captured. Rescuing Bill without getting caught will be tricky, and to make matters worse, killer werewolves are after Sookie, Eric is hitting on her, and Bill has a lot of explaining to do. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This novel isn't as good as the previous two in the sense that the mysteries are resolved in a way that seemed far too easy. Sookie went through too many things to get Bill -- the ending seemed rushed with a too simplistic solution. Sookie put up with a lot of violence and assaults in this installment. No one would get out alive from all those things in real life, but, of course, the vampires always save her life. Vampire powers are indeed convenient in these sorts of books. The best thing about this book is Eric. He is one sexy vampire and I hope that he and Sookie get together. I also liked Bubba. He and Eric always make me laugh. I like Bill, but he behaved appallingly in this book. I do hope Sookie decides to give up on him altogether. All in all, Club Dead isn't the best part of the series. I loved it nevertheless. I cannot wait to read Dead to the World, for I've been told that it is the best installment in the series. Give this a whirl, but don't be surprised if this one's your least favorite.	2004-09-20
518159:US	50774468	R1G94TH9ZG02SE	0373250746	88811	Girls Night In	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Fun chick-lit short-story collection!	I gave up on Red Dress Ink for a while, for its books were getting quite monotonous, but I couldn't resist this short-story collection featuring several of the best RDI authors and other big names in the chick lit genre. Girls' Night In is the perfect anthology for those who love those single-woman-in-the-city tales. The big bonus is that you get a lot of popular authors here. My favorite stories were \\"Party Planner,\\" by Meg Cabot; \\"Changing People,\\" by Sophie Kinsella; \\"Know It All,\\" by Sarah Mlynowski; \\"Rudy,\\" by Lisa Jewell; \\"The Truth Is Out There,\\" by Marian Keyes; and \\"Good Men,\\" by Jennifer Weiner.  But the ones that I liked the most were \\"Cat Lady,\\" by Alisa Valdes-Rodriguez (I now cannot wait to read The Dirty Girls' Social Club) and \\"Don't You Know Who I Am?\\" by Adele Lang. The two aforementioned stories were the wittiest of them all.<br /><br />The one big disappointment here is that the stories written by UK authors like Keyes, Colgan, Wolff and others were featured in the three-year-old British version of this anthology. I was also disappointed with Lynda Curnyn's short story. It wasn't what I expected from her. All in all, this is a great book to pick up if you're in the mood for some light, fun reads. Girls' Night In should be devoured during a nice bubble bath. Enjoy!	2004-09-17
518661:US	50774468	R11F973CWXJO31	0670033332	293714732	Olivia Joules and the Overactive Imagination	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Made me long for Bridget Jones...	I think it is great that Helen Fielding has written a novel that is quite different from Bridget Jones's Diary. It proves that she can write about other things, that she can create different storylines and unmistakable characters. Olivia Joules and the Overactive Imagination is fun, different and full of Fielding's British humor. However, as humorous and clever as this book sometimes is, Olivia comes across as a lunatic rather than someone with an overactive imagination at times. The Osama Bin Laden look-alike thing is so over the top I didn't even find it funny. I know Fielding leaned toward satire at times here, but I found the novel a chore to read halfway through the book...<br /><br />As said earlier, I appreciate Fielding's attempt at writing a different sort of novel, but I still missed Bridget Jones.  It isn't fair to the author, but some things aren't replaceable, like the ditsy Bridget we all know and love. Olivia Joules and the Overactive Imagination is clever and humorous, but I advise readers to keep in mind that Fielding can write more heroines other than Bridget Jones, but I also advise the reader to be honest about your take on the book. It's great if you love it, but it is also okay if this novel is below your expectations. To me, Helen Fielding's newest effort is just... okay.	2004-09-17
521466:US	50774468	R3H39LZARVKC0M	0515136816	549489959	Cerulean Sins (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 11)	Books	4	7	15	N	N	Not the best in the series, but not as terrible as...	...almost all reviewers make it out to be. At least I don't think it deserves the one-star ratings and heavy bashing that it's gotten here. Anita Blake is back and this time she will protect her monster friends from the leaders of the vampire council. This one picks up right where Narcissus in Chains left off. Musette arrives earlier than everyone had anticipated, and she is there to help start out Belle Morte's revenge against the only two men who had dared to walk out on her. Belle Morte is top dog of the vampire council and the most desired woman of all time. She was the one responsible for all the pain and suffering Jean-Claude and Asher endured as sex slaves many centuries ago. She has sent Musette to reclaim Asher -- something that does not sit well with Anita. In order to stop Belle Morte from taking Asher, Anita decides to claim Asher by sleeping with him and Jean-Claude at the same time. Thus, starting a menage a trois not unlike the one the two vampires had many centuries ago with Julianne. Anita might save Asher from Belle Morte, but could she save him from his inferiority complex? To make matters worse, there's a killer werewolf on the loose, an international terrorist is after Anita, Richard has become suicidal, and Anita has to continue to feed the ardeur. There are various twists throughout the novel...<br /><br />As said earlier, the novel isn't as terrible as some of the reviewers make it seem. I for one was entertained. However, there are various things that I did not like about this installment. I didn't like that LKH devoted almost the whole middle part of the novel to metaphysical contacts. LKH centered various chapters on a rather long drive to the Circus of the Damned in which Anita fights the ardeur and has mind conversations with Belle Morte, Richard and the Mother of all Darkness. That was not the highest point in the novel for me, to say the least. And as much as I enjoyed the ardeur in Narcissus in Chains, here it comes across as mere plot filler. I hate to say it, but the subplot centered on the ardeur does come across as a blatant excuse to have Anita sleep with various characters. The ardeur wouldn't have bothered me if it had been remotely relevant to the overall storyline in this novel. And I hate what Hamilton has done with the character Dolph. She's turned him into a bigot. He used to be one of my favorite characters. Oh well, at least Zerbrowski is still a fun character. I won't even deign to comment on Richard. I don't know what to make of the ending. It just seemed rushed. And last but not least, I still don't like Micah. What I do like about this novel is that Asher finally plays a more prominent role in the series. He's become one of my favorite characters. I also got to know Jason in a deeper level. He too is a favorite character of mine. And of course I loved the threesome between Anita, Jean-Claude and Asher. JC and Asher are scrumptiously described in this series and that scene was a real treat. There are of course a few twists and creepy moments in that scene as well. I guess you'd come to expect that from Ms. Hamilton. I also liked the erotic scene between Anita and one of my favorite werewolves.  And I finally got to read about Anita doing an assignment as the Executioner. I can't believe it took LKH eleven installments to finally delve deeper into that part of Anita's work. All in all, Cerulean Sins isn't the best Anita Blake book, but it isn't the horrid reading experience I came to expect based on the reviews. I guess the reader will either love it or hate it. The storylines and characters have evolved -- the series would've become boring if it had remained in the same vein as the earlier books. I advise AB fans not to give up on the series. Well, I for one can't wait for the release of Incubus Dreams...t filler. I hate to say it, but the subplot centered on the ardeur does come across as a blatant excuse to have Anita sleep with various characters. The ardeur wouldn't have bothered me if it had been remotely relevant to the overall storyline in this novel. And I hate what Hamilton has done with the character Dolph. She's turned him into a bigot. He used to be one of my favorite characters. Oh well, at least Zerbrowski is still a fun character. I won't even deign to comment on Richard. I don't know what to make of the ending. It just seemed rushed. And last but not least, I still don't like Micah. What I do like about this novel is that Asher finally plays a more prominent role in the series. He's become one of my favorite characters. I also got to know Jason in a deeper level. He too is a favorite character of mine. And of course I loved the threesome between Anita, Jean-Claude and Asher. JC and Asher are scrumptiously described in this series and that scene was a real treat. There are of course a few twists and creepy moments in that scene as well. I guess you'd come to expect that from Ms. Hamilton. I also liked the erotic scene between Anita and one of my favorite werewolves.  And I finally got to read about Anita doing an assignment as the Executioner. I can't believe it took LKH eleven installments to finally delve deeper into that part of Anita's work. All in all, Cerulean Sins isn't the best Anita Blake book, but it isn't the horrid reading experience I came to expect based on the reviews. I guess the reader will either love it or hate it. The storylines and characters have evolved -- the series would've become boring if it had remained in the same vein as the earlier books. I advise AB fans not to give up on the series. Well, I for one can't wait for the release of Incubus Dreams...	2004-09-14
522029:US	50774468	R2LSHWHQOZKEV2	0525947671	7966085	The Lady and the Unicorn	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Beautiful, provocative, creative...	Having read The Girl with the Pearl Earring, I couldn't wait to read another one of Tracy Chevalier's wonderful novels. She writes with such beautiful prose, and her stories based on famous paintings are wonderful. The Lady and the Unicorn is another tour de force by this author. This novel is based on a series of large tapestries known as The Lady and the Unicorn (currently on display in Paris's Cluny Museum). Parisian aristocrat Jean Le Viste hires artist Nicolas des Innocents to design the tapestries for his large hall. No sooner does Nicolas begin work than he meets Jean Le Viste's beautiful daughter. Intense passion ensues between the two, but their class differences keep them apart. It is through the tapestries that they express their feelings for one another. There are various clever moments and beautifully crafted fourteenth century references throughout the novel.<br /><br />This is one of the most beautiful novels I have read. Chevalier mixes historical references and forbidden romance with a compelling story. The love story between Nicolas and Claude enthralled me from beginning to end. Chevalier is a truly creative author. I learned some very interesting things about the famous tapestries and got a wonderful story to boot. I loved Girl with a Pearl Earring, but The Lady and the Unicorn showcases Chevalier's writing talent to full advantage. I recommend this beautiful novel. For I think it is a marvelous piece of art all its own.	2004-09-14
524835:US	50774468	R2ZFKUE4V35T5S	1843601788	977622210	Darkest Hour (Bondage Erotica)	Books	4	19	29	N	N	Delicious to the core!	I hate reading e-books. There's nothing worse than reading a book that's on your computer screen. I like to curl up with a nice hard or paperback. However, J.W. McKenna's Darkest Hour was worth it. This is one of the hottest BDSM novels I have read! Ellie Martinson awoke inside a dungeon where she is later subjected to all sorts of sexual torment by her secret captor. As days go by, Ellie is convinced that she will never be free, but hope is renewed when she encounters a new protector. Ellie may find freedom after all -- the only problem is that she no longer wants it. The pleasure she has received is something she'd never envisaged...<br /><br />Darkest Hour is insatiable from beginning to end. This is one no-holds-barred BDSM novel! Ellora's Cave has once again pleased me (so to speak) with this erotic gem. J.W. McKenna (pseudonym?) has created sensual situations coupled with a compelling story. I couldn't get enough of this book. As said earlier, reading a book from my computer was well worth it. I cannot recommend this e-book enough...	2004-09-11
525594:US	50774468	R2ED9KEHOCBB5W	0425190714	681392429	Killing Moon (The Moon Series, Book 1)	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Failed to spark my interest...	Having read Rebecca York's novella about a werewolf in the Cravings anthology, I decided to give her Moon series a whirl. However, I am disappointed with Killing Moon. Ross Marshall is a private investigator who has a rather unique way of finding missing persons. He is a werewolf and his senses help him solve the most unsolvable cases. But an old case has gotten him into trouble. Now the detective he's helped solve cases suspects that Ross had killed a most-wanted murderer some time ago. To make matters worse, there's a new serial killer on the loose, and this one is determined to find the owner of the \\"dog\\" he'd found sniffing around his property. But what Ross definitely doesn't need right now is finding his life mate. Genetic researcher Megan Sheridan has come along in the worst possible time for him...<br /><br />The story seemed promising, but it failed to spark my interest. The plot development and characterization didn't pull me in. Also, the serial killer's motive for raping and murdering women was far too simplistic for me. To me, a good suspense novel has a complex murderer. I am also disappointed with the werewolf in the novel. What I like about paranormal novels is that the supernatural being in question -- whereby a vampire, werewolf, faerie or a witch -- is unique beyond human comprehension. The whole ancient chanting thing here just didn't do it for me.  I read about it in Burning Moon, the novella in Cravings, but this time it did nothing for me. I am not attacking Ms. York's writing, but Killing Moon simply failed to impress me. I shall give the other two parts a whirl anyway, for I bought them along with this one and was told that they're better than the first installment. I hope so...	2004-09-11
526804:US	50774468	R1SPAXV07RSOXJ	155970411X	664832232	Letters From Prison	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The real Marquis de Sade...	I have read many things about the Marquis de Sade and I've also read his erotic stories, but this book shows a whole different side of the man with the dark sense of humor and off-kilter philosophies. Letters from Prison is a memoir of sorts -- a series of letters, entries and overall views on his life and things in general. His letters to his wife are especially insightful. The reader gets to know the Marquis on a more personal level, without his rather interesting erotic fiction standing in the way. What transpires is an interesting book that explores a more human side to the Marquis de Sade, a side that is seldom mentioned in biographies.<br /><br />I recommend this book to those who have devoted time to reading various biographies based on this unique man's life. This is something far more personal than anything you could ever read about the Marquis. And the fact that he wrote these letters and entries from prison makes them all the more riveting. You cannot help but appreciate the complexity of his mind and wonder if he was an evil genius or just a philosopher with a penchant for controversy.	2004-09-09
527475:US	50774468	R3FK4N5XFXD4KN	156201398X	17837019	The Possession of Celia	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Insatiable sequel!	The Captivity of Celia was a wonderful, delectable surprise and I looked forward to reading the sequel. The Possession of Celia picks up right where Captivity left off. Celia has finally been freed from her sexual obligations -- Sir Jason Hardwicke has decided to let Celia and Colin go free. But Celia cannot forget the erotic encounters she'd had with Sir Jason.  So, just when you think things are over between Celia and Sir Jason, a new twist comes along, and the erotica sizzles even more than the first time. But how does Celia feel about the two men in her life? Who will possess Celia? There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The scenes in this installment are hotter than the first. Sir Jason Hardwicke is such a dark, delicious character. I couldn't get enough of reading about him. Also, I love the backdrop of the French countryside. The setting makes the novel all the more interesting. But the thing I like the most is that there is a compelling plot along with the erotica. This is classic erotica you cannot miss. M.S. Valentine has become one of my favorite erotic authors. I recommend The Possession of Celia, but you'll have to read The Captivity of Celia first.	2004-09-09
531642:US	50774468	R3OH11IL73IKF	B00013AX6W	14543326	After the Plague: AND OTHER STORIES	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Darkly funny stories!	I enjoyed this short-story collection. Boyle uses a rather interesting brand of dark humor centered mostly on male characters. My favorite story is \\"Killing Babies.\\" This story about an abortion doctor is the darkest one in the book. There are other great stories that enthralled me, like \\"Death of the Cool\\" and \\"Friendly Skies.\\" I marvel at Boyle's crisp, sharp wit. I see that this author is known for writing historical novels -- but he's just as good as writing contemporary tales. This is an interesting collection. Give it a try if you are at all interested in black, earnest humor.	2004-09-05
531848:US	50774468	RD236P586MHWG	0758206461	290207803	Under Cover	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Another fun, sexy read by Ms. Davidson!	MaryJanice Davidson is one of my favorite romance writers and one of the wittiest out there. I want to devour every story she's written, and Under Cover is a wonderful anthology with a big dose of Davidson's signature humor. The stories center on former co-workers at a biotech firm and how they fall in love and in lust. The characters are all taken from the first story, but the subsequent tales are stand-alones. My favorite novella is Delightful Deception. Jimmy Scrye is sarcastic and fun and I couldn't resist the story of a goofy prodigy falling for dry, brainy Thea \\"IQ\\" Foster (\\"IQ,\\" as in Ice Queen). The erotic scenes are delicious. This is the novella I like the most, but the other two stories -- Sweet Strangers and Lovely Lies -- are great and have wonderful erotic scenes as well.<br /><br />Once again, MaryJanice Davidson delivers a great piece of work with these three comic, sexy stories in this anthology. I read them in two sittings and I cannot wait to read more of her stuff. These stories aren't as creative as her vampire novels, but she does a wonderful job here. And even though the novellas contain Brava's formulaic brand of light romantica, Davidson does a splendid job in adding her sharp quips and fast-paced style. Also, unlike most Brava anthologies, these stories have wonderful story development and characterization. Anyway, this is another great effort from Ms. Davison. Highly recommended...	2004-09-05
535182:US	50774468	R1AQGE1GGVWW5T	0440217989	94179133	Wormwood: A Collection of Short Stories	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dark, terrifying, wonderful short stories!	Poppy Z. Brite has officially become a favorite author of mine. Her books are dark, disturbing and literary. And the fact that her stories have gothic elements makes them all the more appealing. Having read Are You Loathsome Tonight?, I couldn't wait to pick up another one of her books. Wormwood caught my attention the moment I lay my eyes on it. I am so glad I gave it a whirl. The stories here are dark, horrifying and full of beautiful prose (at least that's my take on them). Brite has incredible talent. My favorite stories are \\"Calcutta, Lord of Nerves,\\" \\"Xenophobia,\\" \\"How to Get Ahead in New York,\\" \\"The Elder,\\" \\"His Mouth Will Taste of Wormwood,\\" and \\"The Sixth Sentinel.\\" I devoured these stories from beginning to end. The stories are sheer horror. I recommend this anthology to those who like to read about things that go bump in the night with a literary twist.	2004-09-02
535225:US	50774468	R3JWPZZ572AGNA	1843609290	554593555	Blood of the Rose (The Embraced, Book 1)	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	An insatiable, different brand of vampire romantica...	It was refreshing to read a vampire romantica that doesn't follow the usual formula and stereotypes about vampires. Blood of the Rose is quite a unique read. I couldn't put it down and the erotic scenes are insatiable beyond words. The best part is that the scenes are coupled with a compelling love story. The year is 1890. Penelope Coddington is the daughter of a wealthy, albeit wayward father in upper class England. Aidan O'Shea is a working class Irishman and stableman of the Coddington Estate. Penelope and Aidan had been childhood friends. That is until their class differences forced Penelope to put some distance between them. Strong feelings of attraction arise between the two when they become adults. But then some strange things begin to happen. On a whim, Aidan leaves for the US in the hopes to work hard enough to buy some lands of his own. Not long after that, Penelope's father dies in a bizarre accident at home, leaving Penelope with nothing but debts. Under different circumstances, Penelope and Aidan end up in New York, where they discover that they had been marked at birth as creatures known as the Embraced Vampir. Now Penelope and Aidan must leave their class differences aside and work on keeping the Dominion from destroying humankind. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I loved this story. As said earlier, it has quite an original take on vampires. I like how the vampire angle mingles with the erotica in this novel. The scenes are absolutely delicious, especially the ones in which Penelope struggles with being the well brought up girl she was raised to be and the wanton, sensual vampire that she now is. The sex scenes are scorchers. Definite sheet burners! The one in which Aidan treats Penelope like an object in a misguided attempt to put her off is my favorite. There aren't very many characters in this novel, but I did enjoy Gabriel and Charlie. I found Charlie's story fascinating and I'd like it if the author wrote a second novel centered on him. It would be nice to see if he finds happiness and closure with his parents. I liked the historical setting and the author's focus on the puritan mentality of people during that time. Anya Bast is a talented erotic romance author, one whose future work I'll look into. Anyway, the whole novel is scrumptious. My only complaint is that the story is far too short. The book's more of a novella than a novel. I also would have liked to know some more about the Embraced Vampir and the Demi-Vampir. And it wouldn't have hurt to see more scenes centered on the vampires shape shifting and using glamour. But all in all, Ellora's Cave has done it again with this gem. Blood of the Rose is an original vampire romantica and I highly recommend it.centered on him. It would be nice to see if he finds happiness and closure with his parents. I liked the historical setting and the author's focus on the puritan mentality of people during that time. Anya Bast is a talented erotic romance author, one whose future work I'll look into. Anyway, the whole novel is scrumptious. My only complaint is that the story is far too short. The book's more of a novella than a novel. I also would have liked to know some more about the Embraced Vampir and the Demi-Vampir. And it wouldn't have hurt to see more scenes centered on the vampires shape shifting and using glamour. But all in all, Ellora's Cave has done it again with this gem. Blood of the Rose is an original vampire romantica and I highly recommend it.	2004-09-02
538405:US	50774468	R1RXN9WFKNIZI6	0441009239	302398899	Living Dead in Dallas (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 2)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	I'm loving this series!	Having read and loved Dead Until Dark, I decided to continue reading this series.  I love it thus far. This vampire series set in rural Louisiana is full of action, romantica and humor. Living Dead in Dallas is another adventure starring Sookie Stackhouse and her undead boyfriend Bill. Sookie seems to have found some normalcy. The hometown folk are still shaken by her telepathic abilities, not to mention her bloodsucking significant other, but she has begun to deal with the criticism by defending herself and her relationship with Bill. So, things have been fairly peaceful for a while. That is until she is attacked by a supernatural creature seeking tribute from the local vamps. The vampires are more than happy to save Sookie's life (after all, it involves drinking her blood), but in return she has to help them find a kidnapped vampire. So she travels to Dallas to use her mind-reading \\"disability\\" to full advantage. To make matters worse, a co-worker of Sookie's is found dead inside a policeman's car, an anti-vampire organization is out to get Bill's friends, and it appears that Bill's master Eric has a thing for Sookie. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Charlaine Harris has once again written a rather entertaining novel. The characters and situations are a fun treat. And I like the intelligent and realistic portrayal of southern life. The characters have become all the more compelling in this installment. I love Bill, but I've begun to like Eric a lot. Not only does he sound delicious, his flirtatious ways make me laugh. I'd like to read more on him in future books. Also, Sookie Stackhouse is a great heroine. I see that she is often compared with Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake. Anita is a tough and independent heroine, whereas Sookie, in my opinion, is independent too, but far more grounded. She is not gun crazy and self-sufficient like Anita, but she is also not high maintenance like the aforementioned character either. Anyway, I think Sookie is quite a compelling character in her own right. And the romantica here is excellent. The scenes between Sookie and Bill are very sexy. All in all, Living Dead in Dallas is another awesome Southern Vampire novel. I look forward to reading the other two. In the meantime, I highly recommend this one. Though I suggest you start with Dead Until Dark.okie is quite a compelling character in her own right. And the romantica here is excellent. The scenes between Sookie and Bill are very sexy. All in all, Living Dead in Dallas is another awesome Southern Vampire novel. I look forward to reading the other two. In the meantime, I highly recommend this one. Though I suggest you start with Dead Until Dark.	2004-08-30
538693:US	50774468	RYM2N3554H6SN	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Nothing disgraceful about this gem!	I bought this book because I heard it won the 1999 Booker Prize. It has to be good if it won a prize, right? Well, the book is undeniably good, and it gave me the opportunity to discover a talented writer whose work I hadn't come across before. Disgrace is the story of David Lurie -- a middle aged, twice divorced, disillusioned, burned out professor of literature at a university of Cape Town. After an impulsive affair with a student, Lurie loses his job. He moves to a farm somewhere in South Africa to live with his daughter for a while. Once he settles in, Lurie and his daughter have to deal with the harsh realities of post-apartheid South Africa on a day to day basis. Their difficult father-daughter relationship doesn't facilitate things. More details would spoil the reading of the book; suffice to say that there are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />First of all, J.M. Coetzee's writing is beautiful, precise, sparse and to the point, and those are a few of the good reasons to read this book. The reader has to read between the lines to understand and empathize with David Lurie. Feelings and relationships are not described in detail -- you just have to use your own thoughts and feelings in order to step into the world of Disgrace. It's a very earnest story. It's about human frailty, mistakes, even about sins. There is no easy conclusion, no easy redemption, no rising above the disillusionment. But the moral of the story is letting go of the past and the hope for a new beginning, at least that's what I think the moral of the story is. All in all, Disgrace is a book that can be read on many different levels, not only because of the great information about South Africa, but also because of its honest, almost brutal portrayal of a \\"fallen\\" man who's struggling to go on living. The fact that this book won Mr. Coetzee a Booker Prize makes it extra appealing, but it is by far not the most appealing thing about this novel. J.M. Coetzee is a great author and I shall look forward to reading more of his work. Highly recommended...hall look forward to reading more of his work. Highly recommended...	2004-08-30
541369:US	50774468	R3KG9X4G8COPE6	1562013424	965941588	The Captivity of Celia	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Delectable, captivating erotica!	I couldn't put this erotic delight down. I hadn't read M.S. Valentine until now and I shall definitely give her other books a whirl. The Captivity of Celia is one of the richest, most erotic novels I have recently read. The story of Celia's forceful submission enthralled me from beginning to end. All Celia wants to do is protect her boyfriend Colin after he is falsely accused of murder. The only way to keep him safe is to seek refuge from Colin's cousin, the very rogue Sir Jason Hardwicke. Jason is willing to protect Colin, but there is a catch: Celia has to succumb to Jason's unconventional, depraved sexual needs. What follows is one sensual, delectable, albeit quite dark scene after another. It gets especially interesting when a battle between the cousins over Celia ensues...<br /><br />Sir Jason is one of the most interesting characters I have read in this genre. He is both sensual and unscrupulous. He's a darker version of Captain Alexei from Natasha Rostova's The Captivation and just as ruthless as Lucas from Sedalia Johnson's The Pleasure's Daughter. The brand of domination and submission in this novel is excellent. There is mind control as well as some physical dominance. The one thing I don't like about this novel is that Celia is a little too willing to sacrifice for her lover. She hardly puts up a fight. I would have liked a little more resistance on her part. Anyway, this is a great erotic novel. Blue Moon has taken precedence over Black Lace in my bookshelf recently. The latest Black Lace books have been quite disappointing. They're not how they used to be. I never thought I'd like Blue Moon books so much. And this is one of the best BM books I've read. As said earlier, M.S. Valentine is a great author and I look forward to reading more of her stuff. In fact, I can't wait to pick up The Possession of Celia, the follow-up to this one. In the meantime, I recommend that you pick up this gem.	2004-08-27
541708:US	50774468	R2FAU7W3ZPFLBF	0778320804	944828088	The Halo Effect (Mira)	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Another clever erotic thriller from M.J. Rose!	I have read all of M.J. Rose's novels. She mixes suspense, erotica and romance in a unique, unconventional way. I loved Lip Service, her first novel, and am excited to see that she's started a series centered on the Butterfield Institute. (You don't have to read Lip Service before reading this book, for this is a complete stand-alone novel, but it wouldn't hurt to give LS a whirl if you haven't done.) Dr. Morgan Snow is a sex therapist who has heard it all. But there's something about Cleo Thane that intrigues her. It is not her job as a high tier prostitute, or the fact that she's written a memoir revealing her sexual exploits with wealthy, successful businessmen, but rather something else that makes her want to keep Cleo safe. And then everything falls apart when a rather sinister, unconventional serial killer is discovered. He is known as the Magdalene Murderer -- killing prostitutes in a misguided attempt to cleanse and purify their souls from sin. It is up to Detective Noah Jordain to find the killer, but when Cleo disappears, Morgan decides to do some amateur sleuth work of her own...<br /><br />This is one of the cleverest psychological/erotic thrillers out there. There are a lot of references on sex and religion and the roles they play in today's society. I like how Rose delves into the psyches of a psychopathic killer, a woman who had been sexually abused when she was a child, and the traumas of a girl's motherless childhood. And I like the way that Rose uses butterflies as analogies. I love the erotic elements in this novel. The erotica mingles well with the plot. Eroticism is subtle here -- quite tasteful, not in your face, which is refreshing. The romance here is also subtle. Said romance illustrates Morgan's sexual repression caused by her profession. There are so many things here that make this novel a complete must read -- better than the average whodunit suspense. That is why I enjoy reading M.J. Rose's books so much. Hers is a voice that transcends all the genres she incorporates into her writing. I look forward to reading the second part of this series. For the time being, I recommend this wonderful novel most highly.all the genres she incorporates into her writing. I look forward to reading the second part of this series. For the time being, I recommend this wonderful novel most highly.	2004-08-27
545795:US	50774468	R3T82NBR0R7L16	0452266467	55462618	Heat and Other Stories (Contemporary Fiction, Plume)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Oates's best collection yet!	I can't get enough of Joyce Carol Oates's clever short-story collections. Having read I Am No One You Know and The Assignation, I couldn't wait to read more of her short stories. Heat and Other Stories is the best Oates collection I've read thus far. Her writing is dark and disturbing, yet possesses a beautiful prose that makes her tales unforgettable. \\"Heat,\\" \\"Why Don't You Come Live with Me It's Time,\\" \\"Twins,\\" \\"Passion,\\" \\"Naked,\\" and \\"The Boyfriend\\" enthralled me the most. Each story has a special brand of darkness, magic and quirkiness that make them irresistible. They're thought provoking and unforgettable. I agree with the reviewer that compared Oates's writing with the likes of Gabriel Garcia Marquez. She's brilliant! I look forward to reading more of Oates. I shall give one of her novels a whirl next time.	2004-08-23
546479:US	50774468	R1TKTNIKM3TTLW	0452283485	1013337	Bitten (Otherworld)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Great werewolf novel!	I decided to pick up Bitten after I read all of the excellent reviews here. I am so glad I gave it a whirl! Kelley Armstrong's Bitten is one of the best werewolf stories I've read. The non-formulaic approach is what appealed this novel to me. And the story enthralled me. Elena Michaels was never an ordinary person. After all, she was an orphan who jumped from one foster family to the next, never settling anywhere for a significant amount of time. But she hadn't known what being different was about until she was bitten by a werewolf, turning her into the only female werewolf in the world. However, that hasn't stopped her endless quest for normalcy. Now she lives a rather conventional life in Toronto working as a journalist and playing house with her architect boyfriend. But when her pack's alpha wants her to help the pack get rid of various rogue werewolves -- also known as \\"mutts,\\" for not belonging to a pack -- Elena is forced to face reality. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This novel had a slow start for me, but then I couldn't put it down. I loved all of the characters, especially Clay. I like how his relationship with Elena unfolds. Anyway, as said earlier, this novel isn't your typical formulaic paranormal. In this book, the werewolves aren't immortal and don't have special powers or abilities other than super strength, ability to heal faster than humans and enhanced senses -- in other words, the abilities of a regular wolf. Also, there is no mystery to solve here, just a wonderful, consistent plot that keeps you riveted till the end. But the best part about this novel is that there are a lot of scenes centered on the characters bonding while in wolf form. I have wanted that for such a long time. So many werewolf novels concentrate on the actual shape shifting, but never take the time to actually delve into their behavior as wolves. It is refreshing to see that Ms. Armstrong actually took the time to develop that side of the characters, and the fact that the author illustrates this using first person narrative from Elena's point of view makes it all the more interesting. Bitten is a great reading investment and Kelley Armstrong is a great writer. I see that Bitten is the first part of a series called Women of the Otherworld. I shall definitely give the other parts a whirl. In the meantime, I highly recommend Bitten.s, and the fact that the author illustrates this using first person narrative from Elena's point of view makes it all the more interesting. Bitten is a great reading investment and Kelley Armstrong is a great writer. I see that Bitten is the first part of a series called Women of the Otherworld. I shall definitely give the other parts a whirl. In the meantime, I highly recommend Bitten.	2004-08-23
549310:US	50774468	R1VRQWAPRP9IZK	0515133876	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	4	4	10	N	N	Yes to the ardeur, no to Micah...	I wanted to take a break from the Anita Blake novels, so I decided to wait a while before I read Narcissus in Chains, but I just couldn't wait any longer. Having read Obsidian Butterfly -- i.e., the Edward book -- I missed Jean-Claude, Asher, Jason and all the other regulars like crazy. This new installment is rather interesting. Anita goes through some changes -- changes she'd never envisaged. It all starts when Nathaniel and Gregory are kidnapped by various sexual sadists at an S&M club. In order to have the power to keep her wereleopards safe, Anita decides to consummate the triumvirate she has with Jean-Claude and Richard. Now Anita harnesses the power of vampire and beast, making her more invincible than ever. However, she hadn't anticipated the overwhelming side effects her new abilities bring. She's inherited Jean-Claude's incubus called the ardeur, and she has to feed it with sex, power and/or blood. This new twist in her life gets in the way of everything she's ever believed in, jeopardizing her morals and ideals. To make matters worse, Richard's title as Ulfric has been challenged, various wereanimals are missing, someone is out to get Anita, and vampire Damian is on the verge of insanity. As always, Anita Blake is quite a busy girl. There are many twists in this novel.<br /><br />I've noticed that some readers are bothered with the ardeur. They've said that it is a blatant excuse to mingle explicit sexual situations with the story. I for one like the ardeur. It adds intrigue and makes the scenes surrounding blood lust all the more palpable. The sex scenes aren't as bad as some reviewers make them seem. They're erotic and nicely written. However, there are things that I don't like about this installment. First, I don't like Micah. As if Anita's love life weren't complicated enough, LKH adds an alpha wereleopard into the equation. While I appreciate the irony in the difference between the way her relationships with Richard and Jean-Claude unfolded and the abruptness of the new coupling, Micah is intrusive somehow, and the fact that he's as petite and delicate in appearance as Anita creeps me out. Second, I don't like that Ms. Hamilton always leaves me wanting more as far as the history between Jean-Claude and Asher is concerned. There is a new twist in their story, but LKH doesn't delve deep enough into it. I hope she does in the next book. Third, I don't like that Ms. Hamilton keeps changing the rules on the reader. I won't go into details, but there are several inconsistencies in this book. And Richard's whining reaches new heights in this one. Just when you think he's made some progress... He and Anita don't belong together. They're both too stubborn to make things work. Richard has never been a favorite of mine, and I like him even less now that he's lost the bit of spark he once had. Ronnie and Dolph have lost spark too. They illustrate the fact that Anita has practically lost all human contact, that her life is now centered on the monsters. But at least I finally know what's been bothering Dolph. Anyway, despite the aforementioned flaws, Narcissus in Chains entertained me from beginning to end. It is still full of action and suspense, and the conclusion is the most surprising one in the series. Another great Anita Blake novel! It's no wonder I'm addicted to this series. I await next month's paperback release of Cerulean Sins with utmost anticipation.bruptness of the new coupling, Micah is intrusive somehow, and the fact that he's as petite and delicate in appearance as Anita creeps me out. Second, I don't like that Ms. Hamilton always leaves me wanting more as far as the history between Jean-Claude and Asher is concerned. There is a new twist in their story, but LKH doesn't delve deep enough into it. I hope she does in the next book. Third, I don't like that Ms. Hamilton keeps changing the rules on the reader. I won't go into details, but there are several inconsistencies in this book. And Richard's whining reaches new heights in this one. Just when you think he's made some progress... He and Anita don't belong together. They're both too stubborn to make things work. Richard has never been a favorite of mine, and I like him even less now that he's lost the bit of spark he once had. Ronnie and Dolph have lost spark too. They illustrate the fact that Anita has practically lost all human contact, that her life is now centered on the monsters. But at least I finally know what's been bothering Dolph. Anyway, despite the aforementioned flaws, Narcissus in Chains entertained me from beginning to end. It is still full of action and suspense, and the conclusion is the most surprising one in the series. Another great Anita Blake novel! It's no wonder I'm addicted to this series. I await next month's paperback release of Cerulean Sins with utmost anticipation.	2004-08-20
550041:US	50774468	R2RWGXHTXDOQBY	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Loved it!	Fellowship of the Ring is a beautifully told story. If you love fantasy... well, you've probably already read this one, but if it's  not your thing, try it anyway. It's definitely written on a much more sophisticated level than The Hobbit. It's readable, engaging without going over the top. One warning: the novel just ends pretty much in the middle of the action, so you'll probably want to run right out and pick up The Two Towers -- just be prepared to devote a large block of time to reading the series. Have fun.	2004-08-20
554197:US	50774468	R18BLN2AZQ8E0	0425191753	90964978	The Lipstick Chronicles: Book One	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Great start, but didn't hold my interest...	I liked the premise of this book. It promised an interesting mix of chick-lit, romance and some very light erotica. The Lipstick Chronicles is a fun book with four stories about four friends and colleagues who meet the loves of their lives in unexpected ways. I liked the first story about an independent CEO and the handsome investor who steals her heart. This book was fun to read at first, but it became tiresome after the third story. The stories were too similar and the characters became tedious after a while. Each story is written by a different author, but there isn't a single thing that differentiates the writers -- it's almost as though one person wrote them. I guess what I'm trying to say is that The Lipstick Chronicles had a good premise, but it didn't hold my interest for long. It just didn't do it for me...	2004-08-16
554499:US	50774468	R2J2W80HPH2RW6	0743237188	434448992	Fall On Your Knees (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	1	3	7	N	N	I tried to enjoy this novel, I really did...	...but I just couldn't. And for that reason I cannot recommend Fall on Your Knees. While it is well written, the story is just a series of tragedy piled upon tragedy. After a while, I couldn't care at all about any of the characters because I knew they were all doomed, and there was nothing in them to like anyway. In a nutshell, the novel is about a Canadian family that essentially destroys itself. Reading it is like watching a train wreck in slow motion over and over again -- too torturous and downright depressing. I appreciate books of this sort, for I am a sucker for novels with dark plots, but the aforementioned darkness here is just overkill. It's a shame though. I'd looked forward to reading something that would enthrall me, but this book just didn't do it for me. Disappointing read...	2004-08-16
556177:US	50774468	R1C8Z4MQYLA0UR	044661193X	628573598	Basket Case	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A fun mystery...	Basket Case is an amusing read full of offbeat, eccentric characters. Hiaasen has a breezy style that is easy to read; he's funny in a cynical and ironic sort of way. Once upon a time, Jack Tagger was a promising journalist, but he got into trouble with management and is now banished to writing obituaries, which he somehow manages to make amusing for the reader. He learns of the death of a former rock star... And that's when the fun begins. Tagger sees a story in the death and notices some inconsistencies surrounding rock star's demise. He digs deeper, believing that this may be his ticket back onto the front page. There are various fun twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Jack's experience makes an enjoyable, amusing read. His exploits kept me enthralled and entertained from beginning to end. I hadn't read this author's work until now. His whodunit style is both intriguing and funny. I shall definitely look to this author in the future. In the meantime, I highly recommend Basket Case.	2004-08-14
556404:US	50774468	R1KVCUJIK7Q0SP	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A great Southern Vampire mystery!	A friend of mine recommended this series. I am glad I gave it a whirl. Dead Until Dark is a vampire mystery set in rural Louisiana and a great introduction to Charlaine Harris's Southern Vampire series. Sookie Stackhouse is a young cocktail waitress with a \\"disability\\" that's made her self-conscious about dating. The aforementioned disability is that she can hear people's thoughts. But when she meets a sexy vampire named Bill, not only is she excited to have finally met an actual vampire, she also likes the fact that she cannot hear his thoughts. Despite some disturbing habits, associations with various creepy vampires and the fact that he's over a century old, Bill is quite a charming fellow, especially after he tells some poignant stories about his stint as a soldier during the Civil War to Sookie's grandmother. However, strange things begin to happen in the small town of Bon Temps. Several women with a penchant for vampires turn out dead. The fact that the women have vampire marks makes Bill a suspect. After all, he's admitted to having killed people... There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Many reviewers have compared this series with Anne Rice's vampire chronicles and Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake novels -- especially the latter one. The only similarities between Hamilton's and Harris's books are the vampires and the whodunit aspects of the stories. Also, in this book the vampires are far more benign, even the scary ones. The story in general is lighter and funnier. In fact, sometimes the author spoofs the vampire genre, making fun of stereotypes in vampire novels (like the fact that Bill has an ordinary name instead of a ridiculously exotic one). The aforementioned aspect of the story reminded me of MaryJanice Davidson's Undead series, only this one is nowhere near as zany. I must say, however, that the potential love triangle between Sookie, Bill and a shape shifter reminded me of Anita Blake. But the novels are essentially different. The sometimes satirical approach makes it great for me. I loved the whole Bubba thing! It made me laugh out loud. I am glad that the author came up with such a funny idea. All in all, comparisons with Laurell K. Hamilton and Anne Rice aside, Charlaine Harris has written a terrific book.  The series seems promising, and I'll definitely give the other installments a whirl. Highly recommended...The sometimes satirical approach makes it great for me. I loved the whole Bubba thing! It made me laugh out loud. I am glad that the author came up with such a funny idea. All in all, comparisons with Laurell K. Hamilton and Anne Rice aside, Charlaine Harris has written a terrific book.  The series seems promising, and I'll definitely give the other installments a whirl. Highly recommended...	2004-08-14
560179:US	50774468	R2TOYR4TY8O260	1887368256	916069278	Are You Loathsome Tonight?: A Collection of Short Stories	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Brilliant short stories -- Ms. Brite is a gifted writer!	Having read Liquor, I wanted to read more of Poppy Z. Brite's work. Are You Loathsome Tonight? is quite a surprise. I hadn't expected this sort of writing from Ms. Brite, but I'd been told that this work is right on her alley and that she had branched out of the gothic genre with Liquor. These short stories are a mixture of gothic, paranormal and magic realism with some adult fairy tale elements thrown in for good measure. The writing is incredible -- dark, disarming and creative. My favorite stories are \\"Vine of the Soul,\\" which from what I've read is the update of a previous story, \\"Monday's Special,\\" \\"Self-Made Man,\\" and \\"King of the Cats.\\" I marvel at how marvelously written these stories are. I have placed Poppy Z. Brite in my \\"must-read\\" list. She is a very talented, gifted writer. I cannot recommend this short-story collection enough...	2004-08-10
560296:US	50774468	R29T65HLGOT8OX	0425197484	929904269	Undead and Unemployed (Queen Betsy, Book 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent follow-up to Undead and Unwed!	Having read and loved Undead and Unwed, I couldn't wait to pick up the follow-up of what I hope will be a long series. Betsy Taylor, the ditsy, loudmouthed, shoe-obsessed but adorable vampire queen is back! Not wanting to live of her friend Jessica's wealth, Betsy decides to look for a job -- a night job that is. And she lands her dream job as a shoe saleswoman at Macy's. The mother ship has called her home! However, her enjoyment is short-lived after she's put in charge of solving the mystery surrounding the murders of various vampires. To make matters worse, she needs the help of darkly sexy Eric Sinclair, her consort and nemesis. Poor Betsy has to leave her passion for designer shoes aside (for the time being) and get to the bottom of things. There are various fun twists throughout the novel...<br /><br />My only complaint is that this novel is far too short. I wanted more of Betsy, Sinclair, Tina, Jessica and Marc. These Betsy novels are hilarious, fun and enthralling from beginning to end. Once again, MaryJanice Davidson creates a laugh-a-minute, fast-paced story that I couldn't put down. Betsy's sarcasm is second to none and Sinclair is one sexy vampire! I love him! And of course the other characters are awesome. I cannot recommend Undead and Unemployed enough. I look forward to reading another one of these Undead books. And the sooner, Ms. Davidson, the better.	2004-08-10
561944:US	50774468	R1ZRFC4PXQXKAA	014016930X	21744022	Angle of Repose (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	A true classic...	Wallace Stegner's Angle of Repose is simply a wonderful novel -- a serious and classic piece of fiction about love and marriage. Lyman Ward, a fifty-something professor whose own marriage has disintegrated has returned to his childhood home to write about his grandparents' marriage. He wants to determine why their relationship lasted through tremendous adversity when his own could not. His grandparents, Susan and Oliver Ward, met in New York during the 1870s, where she was a promising illustrator and he an engineer. They marry and travel west, living in various places. Susan feels that she never quite fits into this \\"uncivilized\\" place, expressing her unsettledness beautifully in her letters to her good friend Augusta, who lives the sort of life in New York that Susan wanted to live. Lyman is fascinated with his grandmother, telling her story as he discovers how it unfolds. Lyman suffers from a degenerative bone disease and must rely on young Shelly Rasmussen to help him construct this book on his grandmother. Shelly has just escaped a failed marriage of her own. Lyman tells the story of his grandmother while also telling us both his and Shelly's stories. There are some wonderful scenes throughout the novel.<br /><br />Stegner's writing is beautiful and evocative. Angle of Repose is a big, beautiful, unique novel. Stegner's method of weaving the stories together works marvelously and so many of his sentences are simply perfect. The language enthralled me from beginning to end. Susan Ward's life (and Lyman's and Shelly's) is the believable story of a flawed human being. His story isn't picture perfect. You won't find a rosy, sugarcoated story here! However, the novel is beautiful and memorable. I can see why this novel won Stegner a Pulitzer Prize. I highly recommend this literary classic...	2004-08-08
562230:US	50774468	RKPWA536YR89H	0786713380	557223293	Good Girl Wants It Bad: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Darkly funny, disturbing novel!	I saw Good Girl Wants It Bad on the bookstore shelf and picked it up on a whim and was immediately enthralled by the dark language and unsettling humor. I couldn't put the memoirs of a nineteen-year-old nymphomaniac serial killer on death row down. With dark humor, beautiful prose and disturbing descriptions, Delilah \\"Lah\\" Riordan regales the reader with her life story and countdown to her demise. She also tells us about her affairs with her prison psychologists and research analysts. The secrets surrounding the murders she had been convicted for are discovered throughout her entries, legal files, interviews and letters.<br /><br />Good Girl Wants It Bad is one of the darkest, most disturbing novels I've recently read. Scott Bradfield delves into the psyche of a deluded young woman and her sad childhood and dependency toward men and sex with excellent insight and prose. The book may come across as confusing at times. Lah has a rather disarming way of convincing herself and the reader that she is the proverbial \\"good girl,\\" just someone who has been deeply misunderstood. And she does come across as endearing and even innocent in some very darkly funny scenes. Are you in the bargain for something dark, literary and different? I strongly suggest you give this novel a whirl. I am so glad I stumbled upon this book. For it is one of my best reading investments of the year!	2004-08-08
565120:US	50774468	R2S308OKCT7DVN	0375724400	388721998	When We Were Orphans: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A very complex story with excellent character study...	This is one of the most complex novels I have read in quite a long time. There are bits and pieces that don't seem coherent at first, but then they make perfect sense. And that is how I was sucked into this fascinating novel. When We Were Orphans tells the story of Christopher Banks, a young boy whose parents disappear under mysterious circumstances while they live in Shanghai. Christopher is sent back to England to live, where he grows up and where the mystery of his parents' disappearance begins to erode his grip on reality. Christopher achieves some notoriety in London (or at least he thinks he has) as a private investigator. He returns after many years to Shanghai to finally try and solve the mystery surrounding his parents' disappearance. He believes he knows what happened to them, even before arriving back in Shanghai. It is his misguided beliefs that lead him into an almost Kafkaesque spiral into unreality and delusion. This section of the book must be read as a partial deluded episode because much of what happens is implausible. The book and Christopher ultimately return to reality and we understand at least part of the truth of Christopher's life and what his parents' outcome had been.<br /><br />The story is told in first person narrative, and almost from the start Ishiguro tips us off to the idea that Christopher may not be telling us the whole truth, that he may not be able to grasp the whole truth. Christopher's story and the way he tells it is fascinating. Ishiguro is able to navigate seamlessly from time frame to time frame. I thought this was a brilliant work, not as a detective novel, but as a character study of someone who has been fooling himself his entire life. Some readers may find the narrative and the events confusing at times, I did, but I advise readers not to give up on it. This seemingly confusing story is actually an extraordinary, literary experience. When We Were Orphans is one the most thought-provoking books I've read. I recommend this beautiful, staggering novel.is beautiful, staggering novel.	2004-08-05
565137:US	50774468	R23QIBJASKVX8I	0505525542	280223908	Sex and the Single Vampire	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Fun vampire romantic comedy... (3 1/2 stars)	I wanted to read a vampire novel that was funny and romantic. Sex and the Single Vampire is a fun, sexy and quirky romantic comedy that was perfect for an afternoon sunbathing beach session. The romance centers on Allie and Christian. Allie has to summon a ghost if she wants to move forward in her career. But the tortured man she thinks she's summoned is actually a vampire -- or rather, a Moravian Dark One, as he prefers to be called. Whatever he is, he is an eccentric, domineering and gorgeous author who cannot stand the daylight and is on a liquid diet. He is also searching for his Beloved (with a capital B). Could Allie be the one? With a strange eye condition, an almost immobile leg and a painful romantic past, Allie is hardly Beloved material, or so she thinks... There are some fun twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />  The novel is definitely funny, not laugh-out-loud funny like MaryJanice Davidson's Undead and Unwed, but very amusing nevertheless. I like the scene in which Allie fakes illness in order to save two ghosts from being researched by a corrupt paranormal organization. My favorite thing is the sexual tension between Christian and Allie. Christian is quite a sexy vampire. The one thing I didn't like was the ghost Esme. She annoyed me to bits. I know that the aforementioned character is meant to be irritating, and she indeed irritated Allie, but she also irritated me. Other than that, Sex and the Single Vampire is a great romantic comedy. Katie Macalister is an author that I will look to in the future. I recommend this book as a fun beach and/or vacation read. Enjoy...	2004-08-05
568907:US	50774468	R2OEGPR0IZUWQ2	0451410580	271939084	Jake & Mimi	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Contrived, lackluster erotic thriller...	Dark erotic thrillers are scarce these days, which is why I'd looked forward to reading Jake and Mimi. What a big disappointment! I couldn't agree more with the critic that said that this erotic thriller is neither erotic nor thrilling. Jake and Mimi is about a successful career woman (Mimi) who is considering having an affair with her co-worker (Jake). She is engaged to be married, but her relationship lacks a sense of danger and adventure. Jake promises rough, BDSM sex -- something that both scares and thrills Mimi. But little does she know that her life is at stake. Someone doesn't want her near Jake, and things take a spin toward bizarre...<br /><br />  I forced myself to finish this novel. I admit that I almost gave up on it. I couldn't get into it. The author goes around in circles too much. The sexual descriptions, especially the ones that illustrate Mimi's voyeuristic tendencies, are borderline ridiculous and the overall story is too contrived to be believable. I didn't care what happened to the protagonist by the time I reached the last few pages. As said earlier, this novel is neither erotic nor thrilling. Jake and Mimi is one of the most lackluster thrillers I've read. I suggest you skip this and read Topping from Below by Laura Reese or Three by Julie Hilden instead.	2004-08-02
569304:US	50774468	R1ZFPGGT56JRMV	0515138150	81264330	Cravings	Books	4	50	51	N	N	It satisfied my Cravings for paranormal romantica...	I couldn't wait to pick up this paranormal romantica anthology because two of my favorite authors of said genres, Laurell K. Hamilton and MaryJanice Davidson, are featured in it. However, I was disappointed when I found out that Hamilton's \\"Blood Upon My Lips\\" is actually some sample chapters of the upcoming novel Incubus Dreams -- the twelfth Anita Blake installment. I haven't read Narcissus in Chains and Cerulean Sins, and so I decided not to read the new novel's excerpts. My disappointment was short-lived because I absolutely loved MaryJanice Davidson's \\"Dead Girls Don't Dance,\\" and Rebecca York's \\"Burning Moon.\\" Davidson's novella is an in-between story of the hilarious Undead series. It's about a depressed vampire who runs into her old high school crush. After her crush discovers that his old schoolmate is now a nocturnal babe on a liquid diet, he agrees to take her to meet the new vampire queen (Undead and Unwed's Betsy Taylor). What transpires is a novella full of Davidson's signature wit and hilarious dialogue. I loved it! I also loved York's \\"Burning Moon.\\" This is a sweet and sensual story about a werewolf's quest for revenge. He wants to find and kill the serial killer who has murdered several women, including his wife. However, a beautiful and blind tarot card reader could well change all of that. This is a very well-told story. The characterization is excellent for such a short novella. And I loved the fact that there is some mystery in the story as well. Eileen Wilks's \\"Originally Human\\" is truly remarkable. The whole guess-what-supernatural-species-the-hero-is enthralled me from beginning to end. \\"Originally Human\\" is definitely the most creative story in the book.<br /><br /> This is a wonderful anthology. I've become a big fan of paranormal fiction, and this book has the perfect blend of fantasy, erotica and romance that I love. I give it four stars instead of five because Ms. Hamilton has truly disappointed me. This anthology could have been the perfect opportunity for her to write a separate story about one of Anita Blake's characters. A prequel of the Anita Blake novels centered on Jean-Claude, Asher and Julianne's love triangle would've been excellent. Well, all isn't lost. At least I discovered the works of Rebecca York and Eileen Wilks. \\"Burning Moon\\" is part of a series, and I look forward to reading said series. All in all, Cravings is a very fun anthology that's perfect for the beach. Enjoy...rfect opportunity for her to write a separate story about one of Anita Blake's characters. A prequel of the Anita Blake novels centered on Jean-Claude, Asher and Julianne's love triangle would've been excellent. Well, all isn't lost. At least I discovered the works of Rebecca York and Eileen Wilks. \\"Burning Moon\\" is part of a series, and I look forward to reading said series. All in all, Cravings is a very fun anthology that's perfect for the beach. Enjoy...	2004-08-02
570356:US	50774468	R23CIJA6D9KMSF	0688170528	990695172	The Pact: A Love Story	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Amazing!  Thought provoking and poignant!	I was unable to put this book down. Jodi Picoult has perfectly described the feelings of love, loss, grief and devastation in The Pact. I think I must have begun weeping several times while reading this book (on the subway train, in line at the coffee shop, etc.). Not only is the book gripping while you are reading it but it stays with you afterwards, and now I can't stop thinking about it. This is the story of two teenagers who grow up next door to one another from birth, their parents are best friends and have always expected that their children will fall in love and marry each other one day. The book jumps from Chris and Emily's perspective as well as both sets of parents. The novel centers on a suicide pact gone awry and its terrible aftermath (as well as what has lead up to the central moment). There are some rather disturbing and poignant moments in the novel.<br /><br />  This is one of the most moving, touching, thought provoking and disarming books I have read. It certainly made me think about the lives of those around me. Read this wonderful gem, but make sure to keep a box of tissues nearby because this novel will touch you to the core.	2004-07-31
570694:US	50774468	R1O0ZJ10C25DCX	0352334983	611569697	In the Flesh (Black Lace)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Great first half, but then it goes downhill... (2 1/2 stars)	I am a huge Emma Holly fan and I've looked forward to reading all of the books she wrote for Black Lace. Having read Menage, Cooking up a Storm and Velvet Glove, I couldn't wait to read In the Flesh. This novel started out great. I liked the story of a beautiful exotic dancer and her torturous past and the sweet and sexy Japanese-American businessman who wants to protect her... among other things. It had an amazing premise, and the erotic mind games that Chloe subjected David Imakita and his faithful servant to were second to none. I especially loved the scenes in which Chloe teased David without allowing him to get the release that he needed. Also, I enjoyed all of the Japanese culture references. But the story lost vitality after Chloe opens the erotic dinner theatre. I was not able to connect with the characters anymore. I didn't care about them as much as I did for the characters in her other books. And the sex scenes left me cold thereafter as well. I had looked forward to a man-woman-man encounter between Chloe, Sato and David, but that, too, was disappointing. This is my least favorite Emma Holly novel by a long shot. I am still a big fan of hers and I look forward to reading Top of Her Game, her last Black Lace book.	2004-07-31
572153:US	50774468	R288M72GDJ9PVW	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Brilliant! Not your typical whodunit!	If only I could give this book more than five stars! The Blind Assassin is a fantastic, fabulous novel that enthralled me from beginning to end. Margaret Atwoood has written a terrific story told in such a way that the reader will always be kept guessing as to what the real truth is. It is a mystery, with a death, but it isn't the typical whodunit you'd come to expect. The Blind Assassin is the story of two sisters: Laura and Iris Chase. Laura died in what may or may not have been a suicidal car crash in 1945. Iris tells the story of her family and the events leading up to Laura's death, with the events of the past reflected on the present. What fascinated me about The Blind Assassin is that things are not always what they seem, but there are layers upon layers of story and truth. Atwood reveals the story to us in many ways. We see newspaper accounts of what happened to the Chase family. These accounts are told with the confidence that they convey the whole, true story -- but do they? Then we hear Iris's story, but something is not right with her side of things. Iris admits that she has omitted crucial details and bit by bit, the reader is able to piece together what did happen. Interspersed in Iris's narrative are excerpts from Laura's posthumously published novel, The Blind Assassin, which also give us insight into what happened.<br /><br />Atwood tells this story marvelously. Iris's observations about the present day are witty and sharp. Atwood kept me guessing right up until the end. The mystery of this novel makes it just that much more fun to read. The Blind Assassin is a wonderful addition to the body of work of one of the most talented living authors. I couldn't help but be enthralled from beginning to end. I am so glad that I decided to read this wonderful gem. As said earlier, this wonderful mystery isn't formulaic. It doesn't come with the bells and whistles that accompany most whodunits. I cannot recommend this novel enough!	2004-07-29
573098:US	50774468	R2SQF2TTSFSSJ4	0515134503	951523061	Obsidian Butterfly (An Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 9)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Gotta love Edward!	What do you do when a professional hit man threatens to kill you? Give in to whatever alternative he has to offer of course! Anita Blake owes Edward a big favor after she killed his friend and fellow assassin in The Killing Dance. So she agrees to fly to Santa Fe, New Mexico, to help him solve what appears to be a preternatural case. It's either that or agree to do a duel that will determine which of the two is the best killer. Various things happen when Anita arrives in New Mexico. She discovers that Edward, whose false identity is of a bounty hunter named Ted Forrester, has a secret life she'd never envisaged. To make matters worse, the pending case involves finding the ones responsible for the mutilation of several families. Anita knows that there is some sort of dark magic involved, and with the help of a fellow necromancer, an Aztec vampire and Edward's two sociopath friends... Anita is in more trouble than she had originally thought. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />  One of my complaints regarding this novel is the misspelled Spanish words. Ms. Hamilton should do a bit more fact-checking.  The other thing I didn't like about this novel is that Anita's monster friends aren't featured here. Even though I wanted a break from all of that I still missed Jean-Claude, Asher, Jason, and all the other regulars. That is the reason why I give it four stars instead of five. Even though this is a good installment, it still somehow feels different without the characters I know and love. It feels as though this novel weren't part of the series. Other than that, I enjoyed Obsidian Butterfly. It brought me back to the earlier books when Anita got the job done without having any boyfriends to answer to. That is what kept this book from being my last favorite one (Burnt Offerings remains to be the book I liked the least). The whole Richard and Jean-Claude menage a trois, triumvirate thing isn't mentioned in the novel all that much. Anyway, the scenes in this book are scarier and far more disturbing than anything Ms. Hamilton had written before. The scenes with the babies freaked me out to the core. Also, the characters featured in this book are very interesting. I liked Itzpapalotl, Bernardo and Ramirez. I hated Olaf. The guy gave me the creeps. But the highlight of Obsidian Butterfly is definitely Edward. I like how LKH delved deeper into the aforementioned character without losing his elusiveness. I like the fact that I may never completely understand Edward. He is meant to be unpredictable. All in all, this is one of the best Anita Blake books I've read thus far. I look forward to reading Narcissus in Chains. In the meantime, I highly recommend Obsidian Butterfly. Edward fans rejoice!this book are scarier and far more disturbing than anything Ms. Hamilton had written before. The scenes with the babies freaked me out to the core. Also, the characters featured in this book are very interesting. I liked Itzpapalotl, Bernardo and Ramirez. I hated Olaf. The guy gave me the creeps. But the highlight of Obsidian Butterfly is definitely Edward. I like how LKH delved deeper into the aforementioned character without losing his elusiveness. I like the fact that I may never completely understand Edward. He is meant to be unpredictable. All in all, this is one of the best Anita Blake books I've read thus far. I look forward to reading Narcissus in Chains. In the meantime, I highly recommend Obsidian Butterfly. Edward fans rejoice!	2004-07-29
573527:US	50774468	R342XK9URYYHFL	0312273231	594654916	Moth Smoke: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A dark, literary read!	This is a rather dark and literary novel. Mohsin Hamid's Moth Smoke is the story of a man's road to self-destruction. Daru has lived a decent, good life in Lahore, but things quickly change for him and he descends into a life of drugs and deception. To make matters worse, his reunion with an old friend named Ozi makes things worse for him. Ozi has done well for himself, something that Daru cannot handle. The differences between Ozi and Daru only serve to bring about Daru's fall sooner. Daru's downward spiral occurs against a backdrop of heightened nuclear tension between Pakistan and India. Very bad things happen rather quickly in this novel. Daru tries to keep up appearances of being a success, but his deceptions quickly catch up with him. His lack of wealth and power and his need for the same lead to some staggering twists. I enjoyed Moth Smoke. This is one of the darkest novels I've read in quite some time. I highly recommend it...	2004-07-28
573922:US	50774468	R39SXAN1CP6KMS	1562013564	887987074	A Stately English Mansion	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Insatiable, smoldering underground Victorian erotica...	I don't read a lot of Blue Moon books and I especially don't read books written by anonymous authors, but this novel was too smoldering to resist. A Stately English Mansion is a classic erotic novel written during the Victorian era. It tells the story of a young woman who lets loose after she takes the reins of the English mansion she works in. She becomes a rather interesting dominatrix with the employees, home's family members and the neighbors. The unidentified author takes this tale to erotic heights I have seldom read. I would have liked to know who the author of this wonderful novel is, for this is a true Victorian classic, but I guess that holding on to this wonderful book will have to suffice. I cannot recommend it enough!	2004-07-28
577867:US	50774468	RKIEU36ES8W6T	1843607506	32265239	Wild: Wildfire (Book 1)	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	Saddle up, partner!  (Corny, I know.)	This is the first Western romantica I've ever read, and Wildfire is one of the yummiest, sexiest, most erotic romances out there. The thing that I like the most is that it is set in rural Arizona with a backdrop of country life. Dean &quot;Dee&quot; MacLeod has had a great deal of horses and other life stock stolen from her ranch, and no one in town appears to know what's going on. But things get even more complicated in Dee's life when ex-boyfriend Jake Reynolds decides to help out with the case. He'd left her ten years ago and her heart is still broken. Her plan is to make the ultimate seduction that will show him what he's missed out on all these years, but Jake has other ideas in mind...<br /><br /> Cheyenne McCray's descriptions are insatiable beyond compare. I couldn't help but turn the pages until I was done with this gem. I had loved Book 1 of The Seraphine Chronicles, and now McCray has outdone herself with this first installment of the Wild series. The one thing I didn't like is that she left a rather big cliffhanger -- the reader doesn't get to find out who the rustler is. I guess I'll have to read the other books and find out, not that I wasn't going to anyway! I highly recommend this delicious romantica. Ellora's Cave and Ms. McCray have done it again!	2004-07-24
577995:US	50774468	R17THILH2HFD7D	0060592885	682371142	I Am No One You Know: Stories	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Wow... that's all I can say!	I can only expect something staggering and literary when I pick up Joyce Carol Oates. I am No One You Know is one of the darkest and most disturbing short-story collections I've ever read. And I've read my fair share of incredible short stories! Oates writes about rape, murder and depression like very few writers. These stories are thought provoking and gripping, beautiful and poignant. My favorite stories are &quot;Upholstery,&quot; &quot;The Girl with the Blackened Eye,&quot; &quot;Fire,&quot; &quot;Mutants,&quot; and &quot;Three Girls.&quot; Each of these stories enthralled me from beginning to end. Their messages affected me. I cannot recommend this short-story collection enough. It is the perfect thing to pick up if you're in the bargain for some deep reading.	2004-07-24
580936:US	50774468	R1EW76ZPV7NOPP	0515134457	552287926	Blue Moon (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 8)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Back on track, but not the best installment...	Laurell K. Hamilton is back on track with Blue Moon. The installment before this one, Burnt Offerings, wasn't as enthralling and as consistent as the other Anita Blake books, but this one returned to familiar ground as far as the subplots blending in together are concerned. Anita goes to Tennessee when she learns that Richard's been arrested there on a sexual assault charge. She has to make sure he'll be out of jail before the night of the full moon. His identity as a lycanthrope could be revealed and therefore ruin his career, not to mention the fact that he might lose his family's love. But that's the least of her problems. A sadistic millionaire wants Richard and his comrades out of town, and so does the local vampire Master of the City. To make matters worse, something strange has possessed Anita's body, making her do things she never thought she'd do. Anita becomes the most desired woman among her monster friends. In typical LKH fashion, there are lots of twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />It seems that these novels become all the more erotic with each offering. It appears that some reviewers are bothered with said erotica. I for one have looked forward to this. However, I am not sure I like the shape shifters and vampires worshipping Anita so much. I also don't know what to make of the wereleopards. They're too needy and borderline annoying at times. Not only is their clinginess over the top (yes, I know they're part animals and therefore need constant body contact, but still...) but it also caricatures the heroine too much, making her seem almost omnipotent and goddess-like. I noticed that Anita's world now centers on the monsters. None of her human friends appear in this book. It's as though she's almost lost all human contact. I'll have to see where the author is headed with this. Anyway, there are some important developments involving Richard and Anita. Richard fans will love this book. And as far as the subplots go I am glad to say that they're back to being consistent. The characters are also consistent. Anita is getting a bit irritating, but the other characters, namely Jason, Asher and Damien, keep the story interesting. Jason becomes more and more appealing with each book. And what can I say about Asher? He is such a hot vampire, scars and all. I hope Ms. Hamilton pays more attention to him in the other novels. All in all, this is another entertaining AB book. My biggest complaint is that there isn't enough Jean-Claude in this one. Other than that, I highly recommend Blue Moon. I look forward to reading Obsidian Butterfly, which centers on Edward, one of my favorite characters in the series.to being consistent. The characters are also consistent. Anita is getting a bit irritating, but the other characters, namely Jason, Asher and Damien, keep the story interesting. Jason becomes more and more appealing with each book. And what can I say about Asher? He is such a hot vampire, scars and all. I hope Ms. Hamilton pays more attention to him in the other novels. All in all, this is another entertaining AB book. My biggest complaint is that there isn't enough Jean-Claude in this one. Other than that, I highly recommend Blue Moon. I look forward to reading Obsidian Butterfly, which centers on Edward, one of my favorite characters in the series.	2004-07-21
581860:US	50774468	R1XN0CBYOCGLD9	0375705759	902715319	Elementals: Stories of Fire and Ice	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another amazing short story collection by A.S. Byatt!	I love A.S. Byatt's short-story collections. Elementals is another staggering offering from this talented writer. These adult fairy tales enthralled me from beginning to end. I love Byatt's use of magical realism. She takes you into a unique and literary reading experience. I also love the stories settings -- the ones set in France are especially great. My favorite stories are &quot;Crocodile Tears,&quot; &quot;A Lamia in the Cevennes,&quot; &quot;Bag Lady,&quot; and &quot;Jael.&quot; I liked all of the stories, but these were the most unforgettable ones for me. I look forward to reading more stuff by A.S. Byatt. She is truly one of the best writers of the moment.	2004-07-20
583226:US	50774468	R3PR1N8SSD5HJB	006092988X	892654736	A Tree Grows in Brooklyn	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A beautiful classic!	I read A Tree Grows in Brooklyn when I was about twelve years old, and I decided to give it a whirl once again. I recommend that adults who loved this book as a child return to it because the magic of reading it is as wonderful and beautiful in your adult years as it was when you were a child. The story of Francie Nolan and her family will most likely have a different and interesting effect on the reader, or at least it had a different effect on me this time around. Francie is a bright young girl growing up in a poor, but hardworking family in 1912 Brooklyn. Although her life is a constant struggle over money, she still manages to eke out much joy. The novel, which does not really have a plot, is rather a collection of vignettes about Francie's life. While so much of her life appeared to be conspiring against her success, she never gave in to defeatism. A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is an inspiring and beautiful story that people of all ages will love. I cannot recommend this book enough.	2004-07-19
583705:US	50774468	R331ACWYOD7SJS	0972437738	479563169	Seized	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Good second part of Black's Trek Mi Q'an series!	The second part of Jaid Black's Trek Mi Q'an series is centered on Geris and Dak's relationship. If you've read The Empress' New Clothes, then you would know that Dak got one look at the black beauty and knew that she was his Sacred Mate and brought her to the planet of Tryston where she had to adjust to the aforementioned planet's rather unconventional sexual lifestyle and lack of inhibitions. Well... in Seized, we get to read about Dak and Geris's erotic couplings and how each one has to compromise with each other's attitudes and customs. Dak expects his sacred mate to behave in a submissive nature while Geris finds it difficult to shatter all of her inhibitions and forget about the feministic thoughts that she'd learned on earth. There are some smolderingly erotic moments throughout the book...<br />I like that the reader gets the opportunity to know more about Geris and Dak. Geris is a great character. I also like Dak -- I actually like him better than Zor from Empress. I liked the interracial romance between the protagonists -- though skin color and race aren't issues in planet Tryston. Jaid Black's scenes are wonderfully explicit, deliciously descriptive. My biggest complaint about this novel is that it is too short. It's more of a novella. I also noticed that Black repeated some of the scenes from Empress, but this time from Geris and Dak's point of view. All in all, this is a great second part of the Trek Mi Q'an series and I look forward to reading more. Jaid Black has satisfied me once again with this delectable treat.	2004-07-19
586588:US	50774468	RJWKZBIZMYXTM	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Disturbing... Will never eat fast food again!	I must warn the reader that you'll never want to eat fast food again after you read this book. I've never been a big fast food junkie, though I've eaten it if there isn't anything else around, but I won't again take a bite of the same even if I'm starving during a road trip and the only food available is a drive-thru burger joint. Eric Schlosser's book is an impressive, albeit disturbing dissection of the fast food industry in the United States, one that examines each aspect of said industry with unflinching, well-researched facts. The result is an unflattering picture of an industry that has changed US business and eating habits in an almost secretive fashion. The book is a fascinating look into the business and talks about the process of hiring, franchising, purchasing and other practices. The most fascinating and disturbing chapters concern, however, the beef served at fast food restaurants and how it gets there. I warn you that it is not a pretty picture. If you care about the food you eat, these chapters will sicken you. You must read this book (unless you never eat fast food at all). The quality of the food aside, this book is extremely critical of the fast food industry and I believe that if you are a fast food lover, this book will disturb and upset you. As I said above, the picture Schlosser paints isn't pretty, nothing is sugarcoated. This is well-researched and well-written book and I highly recommend it.	2004-07-16
586813:US	50774468	R6B2QMD2JJZNI	0758207727	736286586	Perfect for the Beach (Dean Brothers)	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Perfect for the beach indeed!	This book is perfect for the beach indeed! I was looking for the perfect no-fuss book with some soft erotica to take with me for a sunbathing session, and this one satisfied me to no end (so to speak). I have read almost every Bad Boy offering, so I knew what to expect. I loved it! My favorite stories are the ones by Janelle Denison, MaryJanice Davidson and Erin McCarthy. Janice Denison's One Wilde Weekend has the yummiest scenes in the book. Even though the whole sexual escapade inside an airplane bathroom thing has been done numerous times before, the aforementioned scene is nevertheless hot. Denison's descriptions are quite palpable. And I love the fact that Dana Reed, the novella's heroine, is strong and independent, albeit vulnerable about trusting Alex Wilde with her heart. The aforementioned dilemma is one that Denison has written about many times before, but I loved the way she's addressed it this time. My second favorite is MaryJanice Davidson's My Thief. This story is full of Davidson's signature bantering and low-brow humor. The story isn't as creative as her other stuff, but it's nonetheless fun. The conclusion is a bit abrupt though. Erin McCarthy's Blue Crush and Kayla Perrin's Hot and Bothered sizzled in their own right, as had Morgan Leigh's Murphy's Law. The only disappointment here is Lori Foster's Some Like it Hot. This story is a revised version of every other Foster offering. The story isn't bad -- just too similar to her other stuff. You read one Lori Foster book or story and you've read them all. All in all, this is a great beach read. The title says it all. So be sure to take this gem with you on your next visit to the beach...	2004-07-16
588080:US	50774468	R3FZOQ2J8EJ8OF	0515134473	733422192	Burnt Offerings (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 7)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Not as gripping as the previous six, but still great...	Anita Blake is involved in vampire politics in Burnt Offerings. She meets the vampire council and its quite unconventional methods. The council, especially Yvette, wants Jean-Claude to replace Oliver (from Circus of the Damned), but for sinister reasons. To make matters worse, a pyrokinetic (someone who can call fire physically) has burned various people and vampire establishments with the hope of illegalizing vampires again. Anita and Jean-Claude have to put a stop to this before it is too late. But first Anita has to deal with Fernando, a wererat and son of a sadistic vampire. Fernando is the kidnapper and rapist of various wereleopards and other shape shifters. In order to protect the leopards Anita has to become their leader and protector -- something that does not sit well with werewolf ex-boyfriend Richard. He decides to make her as miserable as he has been since she broke up with him. Her hands are quite full. Will she be able to save the monsters, even those who aren't worth saving? There various twists throughout the novel...<br /><br />Several interesting things happen in the seventh installment. The most important part is that there are a few new characters. The ones that I think will play important roles in the other novels are Asher, Jean-Claude's former best friend and nemesis, and Nathaniel, a wereleopard with submissive tendencies. Asher is the one that intrigued me the most. Hundreds of years ago, he and Jean-Claude had loved the same woman. Asher blames Jean-Claude for Julianne's brutal death. This is a great subplot -- one that I hope Ms. Hamilton delves deeper into in the other novels. I wonder if this love triangle foreshadows the future of Anita, JC and Richard. Asher is gripping, almost as sexy as JC, and I look forward to reading more on him. I don't yet know what to make of Nathaniel. I'll have to wait and see how he develops, though I must say that I'm not crazy about him thus far. Another good thing about this installment (other than Asher and his subplot) is that we are reacquainted with some of my old-time favorite characters, like Larry and Dolph. Though others were notably absent (I missed Edward!). And, of course, I was happy to read that the relationship between Anita and Jean-Claude has solidified into something loving as well as sexual. They're so cute together! The restaurant scene is adorable. Also, there are a few semi-erotic scenes in this novel and I think I know where LKH is headed. Burnt Offerings is another great installment, but it didn't grip me the way the previous six novels did. There are things that I did not like about this one. The thing that bothers me most is that this book has far too many subplots. I felt that LKH was going around in circles, not really stopping to delve into a particular subject. The story was hard to follow at times. Also, I don't like the direction the characters Richard and Dolph are headed. Richard is understandably hurt and angry with Anita, but his ranting and whining are too over the top for me. And since when did Dolph become a vampire hater? His attitude with Anita has changed since she started dating Jean-Claude. I do miss their friendly banters. Other than that, this is another great Anita Blake novel and I look forward to reading the next one.and his subplot) is that we are reacquainted with some of my old-time favorite characters, like Larry and Dolph. Though others were notably absent (I missed Edward!). And, of course, I was happy to read that the relationship between Anita and Jean-Claude has solidified into something loving as well as sexual. They're so cute together! The restaurant scene is adorable. Also, there are a few semi-erotic scenes in this novel and I think I know where LKH is headed. Burnt Offerings is another great installment, but it didn't grip me the way the previous six novels did. There are things that I did not like about this one. The thing that bothers me most is that this book has far too many subplots. I felt that LKH was going around in circles, not really stopping to delve into a particular subject. The story was hard to follow at times. Also, I don't like the direction the characters Richard and Dolph are headed. Richard is understandably hurt and angry with Anita, but his ranting and whining are too over the top for me. And since when did Dolph become a vampire hater? His attitude with Anita has changed since she started dating Jean-Claude. I do miss their friendly banters. Other than that, this is another great Anita Blake novel and I look forward to reading the next one.	2004-07-15
588972:US	50774468	RDBZHHO2LWG41	0743464001	250310778	Maneater	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Fun satire of a Beverly Hills socialite (3 1/2 stars)...	Maneater is a fun, satirical novel about a Beverly Hills socialite looking for Mr. Right -- or rather, looking for Mr. Rich. Clarissa has everything a jetsetter and party sweetheart should have: an enviable designer wardrobe, a trendy apartment and friends she can talk to and criticize behind their backs. But Clarissa is now thirty (though she tells everyone she's twenty-eight) and must find her future husband pronto. Aaron Mason is the ideal dream boat. He's the hottest producer in town and a confirmed bachelor. Clarissa thinks she has him right where she wants him, but then her ex-boyfriend resurfaces and complicates things...<br />I thought this novel was very funny. I even ignored the fact that the author is a well-connected Hollywood screenwriter. Well... she seems to know a lot about the L.A. scene and satirizes it in a low-brow, clever way. Clarissa and her equally superficial friends irritated me at times, but then again the aforementioned characters aren't supposed to be enchanting. I couldn't help but think of the story and its female characters as a parodied imitation of Sex and the City. This is an entertaining, darkly funny chick-lit novel and I recommend it as a no-fuss summer read.	2004-07-15
590900:US	50774468	R2G3AUMRYEI4C7	0345423429	192644371	A Caress of Twilight (Meredith Gentry, Book 2)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Great second part of the Merry Gentry series!	I sort of abandoned this series when I discovered Anita Blake's world, so reading about Merry Gentry after reading five Anita Blake novels was a refreshing change of pace. Merry Gentry, the sexy, sassy faerie princess-slash-L.A. private detective, is back for another dangerous and erotic adventure. Bearing a child is the only way Merry can beat Prince Cel to the thrown, so she sets out to conceive a baby with various warriors of her royal guard. If her life weren't complicated enough, there is a series of mysterious, gruesome deaths that endanger the faerie world. Could the deaths be connected with the exiled Hollywood faerie goddess Merry has agreed to help? And will Merry bear the child that's needed to be Queen? There are various twists throughout the novel...<br />A Caress of Twilight, like A Kiss of Shadows, is full of erotic scenes and wonderful suspense. Merry is quite an earnest female character that isn't afraid of her sexuality and of acknowledging her harem. I do like this heroine very much. She isn't as tough as Anita Blake, but she isn't as self-righteous as the aforementioned character either, which is refreshing. I was also glad to get reacquainted with her bodyguards, especially Doyle and Rhys. I've noticed that Doyle is the Jean-Claude of this series -- a dark and sensual character whose feelings for Merry are noble. He is quite irresistible. Laurell K. Hamilton has once again written an enthralling fantasy novel that I couldn't put down. I cannot recommend A Caress of Twilight enough!	2004-07-13
591644:US	50774468	R1AIP7BTXAX0O9	0812971043	518214282	The Dante Club: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Over hyped in my opinion...	All of the positive things I've heard about The Dante Club led me to believe that this was another thinking-person's mystery along the lines of Caleb Carr's terrific The Alienist from several years back. Well... it is a somewhat good mystery, but not as brilliant as The Alienist, and that's putting it mildly. It is a well-written historically-based murder mystery with a clever premise, written by an obviously brilliant Dante scholar. But the novel lacks a certain something that keeps it from being special. It doesn't ever come together. I found nothing to make me care about what happened and nothing compelled me to keep reading. I see from other reviews that many others absolutely loved this novel and I am sure that many reading this review will agree with them. If you haven't read the novel yet, don't be surprised if it's not as good as the hype machine would have you believe.	2004-07-13
593972:US	50774468	R39NU1U022C3GM	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Just fantastic!	I am in awe of Richard Russo. Empire Falls is a wonderful novel, brilliantly crafted and completely readable. This novel tells the story of Empire Falls, a Maine town that has seen better, much better days, and the people who inhabit it, namely Miles Roby, a middle-aged man who is not having the best of times. Both Miles and the town of Empire Falls have shown much promise, but then things change. For the town, it was the closing of the textile factories about twenty years earlier. For Miles, it was his return to the town from college, one semester short of his degree. Miles now runs the Empire Diner under the thumb of Mrs. Whiting, a wealthy old woman who apparently owns most of the town. His marriage is almost over, his ex-wife soon to marry the local health club owner. He is trying to salvage both his relationship with his teenage daughter and the restaurant he manages. The aforementioned restaurant may face financial ruin. He and all the other residents in the town try to get their life back together, trying to find that promise that they all felt their lives once held back when the mills were still working.<br />What I first perceived as a depressing tale is actually a story full of hope with a touch of wonderful, earnest humor. Most of the characters and their relationships with each other are funny, not in the Bridget Jones, low-brow sort of way, but in an everyday, wholehearted sort of way. Miles's ex-wife, Janine, comes up with a funny, yet somehow sad, future of the lives of the Empire Falls High School football players and cheerleaders as she watches the big game from the stands that is devastatingly accurate, but funny just the same. Empire Falls is truly a fantastic novel. I couldn't put it down. Highly recommended...	2004-07-11
594138:US	50774468	R2DC0Z4XFHPAAL	0759900639	711361305	By Any Other Name	Books	4	36	36	N	Y	Funny, sexy, all out enjoyable read!	I know what I'm getting when I pick up a MaryJanice Davidson novel. I expect a droll, sexy, no-fuss read and I am never disappointed. By Any Other Name isn't as laugh-out-loud funny as Undead and Unwed and The Royal Treatment, but it is nevertheless full of Davidson's signature bantering and lighthearted humor. But this isn't just a light romantic comedy by any stretch, it has quite an interesting and compelling plot. Erik Chambers is known to be a ruthless, savvy businessman who has lost trust in women. But when he meets Stephanie, a tall, blonde and gorgeous, not to mention insubordinate and fiercely independent woman, his life isn't the same. Erik isn't exactly Prince Charming, and Stephanie can't stand him -- that is until she falls in love with him. They try to uncover and find closure to a poignant incident surrounding Stephanie's birth while pretending that they hate each other's guts. What follows is a humorous and moving story about love, family and... going fishing?<br />This is a great, fun little gem. The story surrounding Stephanie's past is very touching and it compelled me to finish it up in one sitting. Erik is an earnest hero -- flawed and far more realistic than most male characters in romance novels, though he got annoying at times. Stephanie is Davidson's typically strong, independent heroine with a mind of her own and a penchant for quips. Sometimes the novel got a bit sugarcoated for my taste. I like my romance to be edgy, erotic, creative and less formulaic than the dime-a-dozen romance novels out there, and Ms. Davidson has supplied that to me. This novel has a bit of the aforementioned sweet-as-candy narrative and dialogue, but what saves it from being formulaic for me is the strong, determined heroine. I loved it. By Any Other Name is the perfect novel to read on the beach or on a hammock during sunset. Another great one from MaryJanice Davidson! Enjoy...	2004-07-11
599961:US	50774468	R2S45IMEKJ7RUV	0140185437	968521947	Malgudi Days (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Incredible stories!	Malgudi Days was my introduction to R.K. Narayan and frankly I have been wondering where he's been all my life. These stories are wonderful. They are the kind of stories that will stay with me for several days after reading them. Narayan brings you to a time and a place with each story. His characters are believable, his stories moving, his writing impeccable. Each story is full of humanity. I love this classic author! I really enjoyed this collection and look forward to reading more of his work.	2004-07-07
600388:US	50774468	R25D91VZQ0OUE8	1562013432	202181695	The Intimate Memoirs of an Edwardian Dandy I, II, III (v. 1-3)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	True erotica book of an uninhibited sensualist...	This is one of the sexiest, most uninhibited books I have read in a long time. The best part is that it is true classic erotica -- originally published in 1913. In the three volumes of The Intimate Memoirs of an Edwardian Dandy, I read about Rupert Mountjoy's erotic exploits from growing up in the countryside to his prestigious Oxford education. The reader gets a glimpse into the life of a real sensualist with audacious imagination. I marvel at this wonderful book. I love classic erotica, for the fact that said books were written so long ago make it all the more delicious. I couldn't put this book down. I read this book in two sittings and I cannot wait to read something like it. I'm not a big fan of Blue Moon books, but this one's very special. Highly recommended to all erotica bibliophiles...	2004-07-07
600654:US	50774468	R13NXYS7QJXVYI	0515134511	84311395	The Killing Dance (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 6)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The most delicious one yet!	These Anita Blake novels get better and better with each installment and Laurell K. Hamilton has outdone herself with The Killing Dance. What I love most about this novel is that it contains a particular unforgettable chapter. More on that later. The strong, independent, trigger-happy heroine's new dilemma is way out of her league. Someone has put a price on her head and it is up to her and her assassin friend (of sorts) Edward to find out who wants her out of the picture and why. Many people have wanted Anita dead, but this one's an unknown enemy, something that does not sit well with her. Seeking refuge from her two boyfriends, vampire master of the city Jean-Claude and alpha werewolf Richard, will give her enough time to investigate the murder of a vampire and a declared battle among shape shifters before the hit man finds her...<br /><br />The sixth part of the series is centered more on the lycanthropes and whether or not Richard decides to be courageous (a sugarcoated way of putting it, really) enough to fight to the death with another alpha werewolf. His self-righteousness got irritating at times. Richard was fun and flirtatious in Circus of the Damned, but I no longer see anything remotely appealing about him. Why Anita loves him so much is beyond me. Jean-Claude on the other hand becomes sexier and more compelling in each installment. The love triangle between Anita, Richard and JC comes to a head in this one and readers will finally get some of the erotica that's been promised to them since Guilty Pleasures. But Ms. Hamilton makes us wait awhile until we get to read the juicy chapter I mentioned earlier. You can cut the sexual tension with a knife before said chapter comes along. But it was worth the wait. This is by far by the best part of the series! I cannot wait to continue to read more of these great characters, especially Jean-Claude. He's truly one sexy vampire! He can call me \\"ma petite\\" any time. :-)	2004-07-06
601804:US	50774468	R1I6YNJGZCHLIV	0375705198	314955975	Amy and Isabelle: A novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Beautiful, memorable mother/daughter drama...	This novel is exceptional. Elizabeth Strout manages to take a simple, almost mundane story about a mother and her teenage daughter and turn it into something special. The story takes place in a year in the life of Isabelle, a single mother, and her daughter Amy. Amy falls in love with her math teacher, and mother and daughter are, at least for a while, torn apart due to said feelings. Amy is not the easiest person to deal with, but Isabelle's love and patience make an already wonderful, staggering story truly shine...<br />The special thing about this novel is the incredible evocative powers Strout has. She is able to, with very few words, bring you to a time and a place, and you are there. That is not to say that the writing is in anyway &quot;sparse&quot;. Quite the contrary, this is a rich novel, but without any excess weight. Amy and Isabelle, as characters are completely real, completely believable. Although I do give this novel five stars, it does have a few, minor flaws. Amy never wonders about her father, which I found a little hard to accept. Additionally, sometimes, Strout's involvement of the minor characters seemed a little forced. As a whole, however, this is an outstanding first novel and I look forward to her future works. This is a great book to discuss with other book enthusiasts. I've had this book for quite a while. I don't know why it took me this long to give it a whirl. Highly recommended...	2004-07-06
604912:US	50774468	R39OI6KKCQQL5X	0375703861	363806782	White Teeth: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Brilliant, darkly funny novel!	There have only been a few times when I come across a book that I have to tell everyone I know about, one that immediately pops into my head when someone asks &quot;Have you read anything good lately?&quot; White Teeth is such a novel. What an enjoyable, hilarious and exuberantly written work this is. Zadie Smith is a very talented writer and I look forward to reading her other stuff. The book opens with Archie Jones's failed attempt at suicide in London in 1975. This sounds serious, but Smith handles it with such wit and aplomb that the scene is hilarious. We follow Archie, his friend, Samad Iqbal as they marry, have children and watch their children grow up in a London they just don't understand. The characters are hilarious. Archie is completely clueless, but that doesn't bother him. Samad is a frustrated intellectual stuck being a waiter, trying desperately to validate an act of bravery of one of his ancestors. Their children come of age in the cultural and ethnic melting pot that is modern London. Smith's characters are all wonderfully unique and terrifically funny. This is dark humor at its best! I highly, highly recommend this novel. It lives up to, and surpasses, any of the hype you may have heard. Zadie Smith is a brilliant author. I cannot believe I waited this long to give this novel a whirl. As said earlier, this is novel is unforgettable.	2004-07-03
605011:US	50774468	R3PCQ51CNA52VG	0352337826	78452007	Learning the Hard Way (Black Lace)	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Unrealistic smut story...	This novel gives a whole new meaning to the word &quot;terrible.&quot; Tamsin is a young British photographer who has been given the opportunity to work on a book of nude photos in Los Angeles with the uninhibited, wanton Leandra. Tamsin is supposedly inexperienced and somewhat repressed -- something she does not want Leandra to know. So she sets out to be part of exploit after exploit and in doing so she discovers her sexuality... Blah blah blah.<br />The premise seemed promising, but the actual story left a lot to be desired (so to speak). The main problem with this novel is that Tamsin is supposed to be a woman who lacks experience. The aforementioned inexperience is hardly believable when she takes her clothes off and does things at the drop of a hat. I hate it when authors do this. Black Lace books are novels for women who shatter their innermost inhibitions, but few authors fail to do this in a realistic way. How do they expect readers to believe that a repressed person would open up to explicit sexual situations without giving it a second thought? At least make the transformation slow and remotely relatable. I know erotica is supposed to be read for fantasy and escapism, but I nevertheless expect a well-told story at the very least. This one just doesn't cut it. I learned the hard way that this is one of the worst Black Lace books out there.	2004-07-03
607392:US	50774468	R5W54F43FYLSB	0515134465	132449687	Bloody Bones (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 5)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	The best one yet!  Lots of Jean-Claude!!	It is official that I'm addicted to this series. I've even neglected the Merry Gentry series, Laurell K. Hamilton's faerie novels, which I started reading before the Anita Blake one. This is my favorite one to date. This series just keeps getting better and better! And the best part is that there is a lot of Jean-Claude in this one. The most I'd read him was in Circus of the Damned, and there are only bits and pieces of him in the other three, but he plays a more prominent role here. Bloody Bones illustrates the most challenging monsters Anita has ever had to deal with. Teenagers have been slaughtered in a small city of Missouri. The culprit is a creature unlike anything Anita has ever seen. It is stronger than a vampire, more dangerous and immortal to the core. To make matters worse, she has to raise an entire graveyard of three-hundred-year-old corpses to determine the fate of the graveyard's rather lucrative land, which is owned by a family of faeries. Anita suspects that the graveyard raisings and the murders are connected, and with the help of her friends she is determined to bring all of those involved down...<br /><br />Bloody Bones, like its predecessors, is nonstop action from beginning to end. The suspense is incredible, the fast-paced plot riveting. But it's more than just the action and suspense that kept me glued to this book. I loved that I finally got to know Jean-Claude in a deeper level. We learn more about Jean-Claude's background and history in a rather sexy bubble bath scene. JC and Anita fans will love to know that there is some closeness between them in this offering -- a fleeting closeness, but an important one nevertheless. And the best part is that Anita's werewolf boyfriend Richard is not in the way. I loved it!  Laurell K. Hamilton describes Jean-Claude's sensuality in such a way that he's almost tangible. He's definitely one of the sexiest characters I've read. I also got to read about some great characters that were back after some notable absence, like Larry. I also like werewolf Jason. Anyway, this is my favorite offering. As said earlier, this series keeps getting better and better. I cannot wait to read the next one. In the meantime, I recommend Bloody Bones most highly...le absence, like Larry. I also like werewolf Jason. Anyway, this is my favorite offering. As said earlier, this series keeps getting better and better. I cannot wait to read the next one. In the meantime, I recommend Bloody Bones most highly...	2004-07-01
607865:US	50774468	R2BWX0NK06NSUQ	0880014407	401233815	Assignation, The	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Brilliant, dark, haunting short-story collection!	Joyce Carol Oates has really outdone herself with this collection. These stories are wonderful and -- Oates at the top of her game. Each story is so well crafted and haunting, she gives you little slices of American life, each one revealing a different aspect of that life. She usually focuses on some seemliness, something dark, something sinister, but manages to keep the stories enjoyable to read. The Assignation is a collection of explicit, racy stories that awaken your senses almost as much as your intellect. My favorite story is \\"In Traction.\\" You can almost feel the main character's despair. The aforementioned story enthralled me like few short stories have done. I highly recommend this collection. Oates fans will not be disappointed and for those who are not familiar with her work, it is the perfect introduction.	2004-07-01
612074:US	50774468	R3SLUF83VU84OZ	1400041775	570663583	Little Black Book of Stories	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Brilliant, magical, evocative!	I love A.S. Byatt. Hers is a voice full of magic, her stories incomparable. Having read The Djinn in the Nightingale's Eye, I couldn't wait to read another one of her collections of short stories. The Little Black Book of Stories offers dark, disarming vignettes with a touch of magical realism. Reading between the lines is required in most of the stories. My favorites are &quot;The Thing in the Wood,&quot; &quot;Raw Material,&quot; &quot;Body Art,&quot; and &quot;The Pink Ribbon.&quot; The aforementioned stories are written with beautiful, magical prose. I marvel at this author's literary talent. I cannot wait to read more of her stuff. In the meantime, I recommend this amazing, evocative effort...	2004-06-28
612660:US	50774468	R7LPYOAH2PGW1	0515132764	92530279	Fantasy	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A very sexy anthology!	I bought Fantasy because Emma Holly was featured in the anthology, but I was pleasantly surprised with two other writers in the book. I've never read anything by Sabrina Jeffries and Christine Feehan before, and their erotic stories in this book enthralled me from beginning to end. Jeffries's The Widow's Auction is my favorite story in the book. This Victorian novella centers on a young widow's desire to shatter her boredom by selling herself at a widow's auction. However, she hadn't anticipated that her buyer, the luscious Lord Justin, would give her pleasure so insatiable that one night wouldn't be enough. Christine Feehan's The Awakening is about two passionate were-cats who are in danger of being hunted and losing one another as a result. Emma Holly's Luisa's Desire is a paranormal romantica set in the seventeenth century. Luisa is an &quot;upyr&quot; who wants to end what she considers to be a curse. She no longer wants to crave human blood, so she seeks the help of a Tibetan monk hoping that he will give her spiritual guidance and peace. However, she hadn't anticipated the pleasure the monk supplies. And last but not least, Elda Minger's Mr. Speedy is a fun contemporary romantica about a reporter posing as a man at a how-to sex seminar. She wants to do an expose on the establishment, but gets more than she bargains for...<br />Sabrina Jeffries and Christine Feehan supply the best novellas here. Emma Holly's novella is quite erotic, but this isn't her best work. Luisa's Desire doesn't have the same cachet as Personal Assets, Beyond Seduction, Hunting Midnight, The Love Slave, and the erotic novels she wrote for Black Lace. She is still among my favorite authors though. I am glad that I picked up this book, for I've discovered two rather talented romantica authors. I will definitely give their novels a whirl. All in all, Fantasy is an erotic, sensual and romantic tour de force that guarantees to burn your sheets. Highly recommended...	2004-06-28
613791:US	50774468	R282QZ6L6M81DI	051513452X	989309946	The Lunatic Cafe (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 4)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A werewolf or a vampire for a lover... Decisions, decisions!	Once again, Laurell K. Hamilton hits a home run with this exceptional novel. The Lunatic Cafe is the fourth Anita Blake installment and my favorite thus far. Though this one has a bit of a slow start action-wise, it has a far more compelling plot that centers on Anita's personal life. Anita is dating Richard, something that doesn't sit well with Jean-Claude, the vampire Master of the City. Jean-Claude wants Anita as well and he, too, wants to date her. She's always said she wouldn't date one of the monsters, yet she is involved with a werewolf. But Richard has great human qualities. He is a schoolteacher, a genuinely nice guy, a boy next door of sorts -- minus the small fact that he's an alpha werewolf and that images of blood and violence in illicit sex videos turn him on. Jean-Claude is the proverbial bad boy -- a fearful leader and a shameless seducer who doesn't bother to hide his monstrous side, but irresistible all the same. In order to keep Jean-Claude from killing Richard, Anita acquiesces to his proposal of dating both men at the same time. But the reader knows that Anita is attracted to Jean-Claude, no matter how much she denies it. If this interesting little love triangle isn't bad enough, she has to find out why eight shape shifters and lycanthropes are missing. There are various twists throughout the novel...<br /><br />This is the most exciting part of the series I've read thus far. Laurell K. Hamilton keeps you in suspense from beginning to end. Richard is a great character, but he's nowhere near as compelling and sensual as Jean-Claude. I am still hoping that he and Anita will get together. The building of tension is so slow it's torturous! But the aforementioned tension is delectable beyond compare. The characters are always excellent. The most interesting character in this series is Edward. He's a caricature of a character with an unreadable personality. Perhaps this is intentional, but I'm not sure. I hope to get to know this character in a deeper level in the future. Anyway, as said earlier, this is the best Anita Blake offering. I cannot recommend The Lunatic Cafe enough. A great summer read to enjoy resting on a hammock overlooking the sunset.level in the future. Anyway, as said earlier, this is the best Anita Blake offering. I cannot recommend The Lunatic Cafe enough. A great summer read to enjoy resting on a hammock overlooking the sunset.	2004-06-26
614299:US	50774468	R3IXERZ074XXJC	0345446860	493062492	Back When We Were Grownups: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Interesting, thought-provoking read...	I enjoyed Back When We Were Grownups much more than I expected to. I have never been a huge fan of Anne Tyler, but I couldn't resist this novel's compelling subject matter. Needless to say, I was pleasantly surprised at how much I liked this book. There were some minor things that bothered me, which I will discuss later, but all in all, this novel is an enjoyable and quick read, which I found rather thought-provoking. The thought-provoking nature of the novel made it an irresistible read. Rebecca, the fifty-three-year-old protagonist, wonders how she ended up as she did after a particularly bad day with her extended family. Her thoughts send her in pursuit of the life that she could have had, had she not married as she did when she was twenty. She married a divorced man, thirteen years her senior, with three young daughters and a family business to run. He died several years later and she essentially took over his life, raising his daughters (and one of her own), looking after his elderly uncle, and running the family business, which is hosting parties and events. Thirty-three years later, she wonders, did she make the right choice, is this as good as life gets for her?<br />The novel answers that question in a very satisfying, non-simplistic, non-formulaic manner. The novel is honest and based in reality which I found refreshing and enjoyable. Rebecca is a likeable, albeit imperfect protagonist. There were times in the novel when I just wanted to shake her, but most of the time she's a level headed, mature woman. The other thing about the novel that I had difficulty liking was the part of the four daughters. Their selfish behavior was a little over the top for me. Other than that, Back When We Were Grownups is a compelling, thought-provoking tale that centers on the ever elusive question of how one's life might have turned out had we made different choices. That alone makes the novel a worthy read.	2004-06-26
618918:US	50774468	R1TOMJQWKPE8A0	1843604078	907164060	Moon Lust - Bitten	Books	4	38	38	N	N	Sexy paranormal romantica!	This is the first book I read from Sherri L. King's Moon Lust series (this being the second installment) and I absolutely loved it. The story can stand on its own because a lot of the things that happened in the first offering fall into place in this one. Bitten is a luscious, romantic story of a struggling artist who meets the love of her life in the most interesting way. Julia works at a five-star hotel in New York to make ends meet and is unhappy with her uneventful life. That is until she meets the unforgivably sexy and mysterious Nikolai. Julia sees that Nikolai is not an ordinary man, especially during the bizarre moments in which he avoids her right after seducing her, not to mention his animalistic tendencies, but she is still shocked when Nikolai tells her that he is an alpha werewolf from the deep forests of Russia. Now it is Julia's job to keep Nikolai from changing into wolf in the heart of New York City...<br /><br />This novel is more romance than erotica, but it is wonderful all the same. The story is enthralling, the characters are compelling and the sex scenes are pretty hot. Actually, with the exception of the scene in which Julia torments and teases Nikolai while he is tied up to the bed in a wolf-like, uncontrollable state, the scenes are not so very steamy, but the story is so good that I didn't care. I have taken an interest in paranormal fiction, especially if it's erotic and/or romantic, and this is as good as it gets. Sherri L. King is a great romance author. Ellora's Cave has once again satisfied me (so to speak) with this wonderful novel. I shall read other stuff by Ms. King. Highly recommended...	2004-06-23
618920:US	50774468	RMJ8RU9XUTR4K	0385498802	223812993	Bee Season: A Novel	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Dark, wonderful and unique piece of work!	Bee Season is a wonderful, enthralling dark novel. It is both a coming of age tale and a dysfunctional family drama. I must also add that this novel is unique and somewhat dark and therefore not for everyone. Eliza Naumann is a shy, unremarkable nine-year-old girl -- treated as nothing special by everyone, including her family. It isn't until she wins the area spelling bee and is off to the nationals that she finally gets some attention from her cerebral father. Her mother is another story, another plot line. From the moment Miriam, Eliza's mother, is introduced, there is something simply not right with her. One of Goldberg's threads in this novel explores what's inside Miriam's head. We also meet Eliza's brother Aaron who, because Eliza has displaced him from the child of honor in the household, goes off on a spiritual quest of his own. Things are not what they seem in this novel, there is much brewing in this seemingly simple suburban family. Saul, the father, sees Eliza's spelling talent as a sign of her inner mysticism, but he focuses on her talents so much that the rest of the family are neglected to the point of breakdown...<br />There are no easy resolutions to their problems and the novel does not end with loose ends tied up neatly like most novels do -- the problems continue. The mysticism element of the novel may strike some as odd, but it adds a particular brand of magic realism that I like. Perhaps the aforementioned factors are the reasons why many readers dislike this novel. But it would be a shame not to give this wonderful piece of work a whirl. Bee Season is a marvelous novel written by a talented young writer. Myla Goldberg's writing is beautiful, her characters real and compelling. It took me a long time to give this novel a whirl. I am glad I did!	2004-06-23
620666:US	50774468	RR6SCQA5HK4DH	1843605708	247533430	Power Exchange	Books	3	34	35	N	Y	Smolderingly erotic, despite the poor editing...	I was very excited about reading Power Exchange. I'd looked forward to picking up this book and devouring it from cover to cover. But the poor (or lack of) editing almost spoiled a beautifully told story about trusting your dominant partner. Ellora's Cave is the most creative and enticing romantica e-imprint out there, but I hope that they've hired better editors. Alas, this is a great novel about a woman who, with the help of her insatiable and imaginative lover, shatters all of her innermost sexual inhibitions. Mark has found the perfect woman -- an independent, intelligent woman with desires she hasn't discovered. Annie submits to Mark's unconventional sexual demands and discovers the depths of her sexuality in doing so. However, Mark wants more than just a submissive partner -- he wants to turn Annie into his slave. But he discovers things about himself along the sexual and emotional odyssey that he hadn't expected...<br />I love Power Exchange because it is a perfect example of what an important role trust plays in a D/s relationship. I marvel at the realistic and compelling making of a wanton woman. I roll my eyes whenever I read an erotic novel about an inexperienced woman who turns into a borderline nympho after one or two chapters. This novel is so not like that. I love the scene in the shower with Annie, Mark and Alan. The man-woman-man sex scene is delicious beyond words! I also loved how Annie learned new ways to be submissive and obedient. And I loved the first spanking scene. I almost felt Annie's pleasure-pain. But, as said earlier, the poor editing was in the way of full reading enjoyment. There were so many grammatical errors and typos that I almost gave up on finishing up the book. They were distracting and annoying. Was this book edited at all? It seems to me that Ellora's Cave published this novel just as it was turned in. The story was great, the sex scenes even better, but the actual writing was awful. Madeleine Oh (pseudonym) should have done some proofreading of his or her own. I hate to do it, but I've removed two stars because of it. The lack of editing was that bad. Other than that, this is a terrific read. If you're in the bargain for a well-told BDSM novel, Power Exchange is the one for you. I just hope that you're more tolerant to typos and grammar mistakes than I am...some proofreading of his or her own. I hate to do it, but I've removed two stars because of it. The lack of editing was that bad. Other than that, this is a terrific read. If you're in the bargain for a well-told BDSM novel, Power Exchange is the one for you. I just hope that you're more tolerant to typos and grammar mistakes than I am...	2004-06-21
623493:US	50774468	R36S6MLUAU3M8A	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An amazing adventure indeed!	This is a wonderful read. You don't even have to be a big comic book fan to love this novel. Michael Chabon has outdone himself with this brilliant effort. The story is wonderful and is big enough to fill the 600 plus pages in the novel that took me two weeks to finish while I read others. What I really loved is the writing. Chabon has so much fun with words and it is a pleasure to read every sentence.<br />We meet Joe Kavalier and Sammy Klayman when they are in their late teens. It is pre-WW2 Brooklyn and Joe has just escaped (and daringly so) from Prague. We follow them as they create a comic book character which lifts Sammy out of the dull life he has been leading and allows Joe to follow his dream of vengeance against the Nazis who in effect forced him to escape Prague and leave the family he loves. Sammy marries and has a child, but Joe fights in the war and then disappears (but not for the reader). Their story is fascinating and wonderful. The characters are hilarious and compelling at the same time. Michael Chabon has done a tremendous job. The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay is funny, touching and engaging -- a true delight.	2004-06-19
623675:US	50774468	R1D0HPLJJMSNZR	0964894289	372366677	Secrets: The Best in Women's Sensual Fiction, Vol. 8	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Get this -- if only for Mary Janice Davidson's novella!	I have read and loved several of these Secrets anthologies. Again, I skipped a few volumes because Mary Janice Davidson, one of my favorite new erotic romance authors, is featured in this one. She also wrote a novella on Volume 6, but I was unable to get a copy of that book. I loved her novella! It is full of Davidson's signature wit and crisp dialogue. Jared's Wolf is the follow-up to Love's Prisoner -- the novella featured on Volume 6. Jared Rocke wants to find and destroy the werewolf who murdered his sister. He hates werewolves and is determined to find Michael Wyndham, the leader of the pack. However, he stumbles upon Moira, a beautiful accountant who works for Wyndham -- or so he thinks. Moira decides to spend time with him and get information about his intentions. Intense attraction and mind-blowing sex ensue between the two. But how will Jared feel when he finds out that Moira is a she-wolf? He'll be shocked; after all, he thinks only men are werewolves...<br />Again, Mary Janice Davidson entertains the reader with the bantering between the characters. Her stories make me laugh all the time. This is the best novella in this anthology. I also like Alice Gaines's historical tour de force My Champion, My Love. I love the old New York setting and the wonderful erotic scenes. And Jeanie Cesarini's Western erotica Taming Kate is a wild ride! It has the no-holds-barred D/s elements that I love in erotic romance. I didn't like Liz Maverick's futuristic story Kiss or Kill. The story of a female soldier who falls for a robot that resembles a human being left me cold. All in all, Secrets Volume 8 is smoldering erotica at its best (save for Liz Maverick's story). I recommend it, if only for Ms. Davidson's novella.	2004-06-19
624562:US	50774468	RPTF4IWWOEHPH	0515134481	4008031	Circus of the Damned (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 3)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another action-packed tour de force from Ms. Hamilton!	I've become addicted to this series! Laurell K. Hamilton knows how to keep you turning the pages all the way to its staggering conclusion. Circus of the Damned is the third part of the Anita Blake series and the best one thus far. A pack of vampires has murdered several people. Anita has to figure out who is in charge of the crimes. What ensues is a battle between various vampire masters who want to replace Jean-Claude as the Master of the City, and Anita is right in the middle of said battle. Jean-Claude and Alejandro want her as a human servant. She has to choose between the two -- something she isn't prepared to do...<br />Circus of the Damned, like the first two novels, is action-packed from beginning to end. Hamilton does not allow any breathing room between the horror scenes. Her novels are riveting and suspenseful from beginning to end. What I like most about this novel is the progress, however small, between Anita and Jean-Claude. Anita has reluctantly caved to Jean-Claude's charms a bit. I love Jean-Claude! He is a great character -- mysterious, complex, sensual. The reader also gets a glimpse of erotica in this offering. The building of tension is second to none. The action, horror and suspense aspects are better than ever. I recommend this series and I cannot wait to start on the next one.	2004-06-18
625185:US	50774468	RRQ9PFIRJ28WY	0352332360	463078291	A Dangerous Lady (Black Lace Series)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Mind blowing! Another sizzler from Lucinda Carrington!	This novel, like all out of print Black Lace offerings, was not easy to find. I am so glad that I persevered and was able to obtain this copy. Having read The Ninety Days of Genevieve, one of my top three Black Lace favorites, I couldn't wait to read another novel by Lucinda Carrington. Once again, Ms. Carrington has written a mind-blowing erotic novel that sizzles with inventive erotic scenes coupled with a compelling story and an interesting historical setting to boot. Lady Katherine Gainsworth is forced into marriage and moves to Prussian Duchy of Heldenburg. Katherine knew that her life wouldn't be the same, but she hadn't anticipated the erotic games of control and debauchery that transpire in Heldenburg. Katherine discovers things about her sexuality through Heldenburg's unconventional erotic couplings. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br />I couldn't put this book down. Lucinda Carrington sure knows how to write excellent erotica! The best part is that the novel has an ingenuous romantic appeal to it that makes it all the more irresistible. Neither one of the two male characters is as sensual as Sinclair in Ninety Days, but they're nevertheless yummy. And I loved the scenes! They're inventive, sizzling and amazing! I also found the setting -- European Prussia -- fascinating. Again, I am so glad I didn't give up until I found this novel. I cannot recommend it enough. If you're unable to obtain a copy, get The Ninety Days of Genevieve instead.	2004-06-17
625700:US	50774468	RBVM2US4E9EEO	0767912268	873187256	To Have and To Hold	Books	2	45	53	N	N	Not Jane Green's best...	I am a huge Jane Green fan since her Jemima J days. I've bought and devoured all of her books ever since. However, I've noticed a decline in her writing since Bookends. Though Green now writes novels centered on women that have bigger priorities than going to trendy clubs and searching for Mr. Right, her new material lacks the edge and sharpness of her earlier work. To Have and to Hold was a chore to read. As much as I love Jane Green, I just couldn't get into this novel. The main reason is that I couldn't empathize with the somewhat pathetic heroine. Alice sacrifices her dream of living in the country and having kids in the name of her love for Joe -- the man she has loved since she was a teenager. Not only does she have to give up on various lifelong dreams, she also changers her appearance to please her selfish husband. But blond highlights and trendy clothes don't keep Joe from having more than just a wandering eye. He has a thing for leggy blondes, something that gets him into trouble at work and is forced to transfer to Connecticut. Alice is excited about finally living in suburbia, but with Joe's constant infidelity and overall awful behavior Alice may well venture into a little indiscretion of her own...<br />I know that a lot of women turn a blind eye on blatant bad behavior when they're in love, but Alice's conforming ways irritated me at times. The thing about the Connecticut home's so-called curse made Alice's denial all the more acute. I am aware of Green's message in the story, but it was still difficult to swallow. But the bigger picture is that this novel didn't enthrall me the way Green's earlier work did. I missed Jemima as I read about Alice. Perhaps Jane Green's earlier novels were lighter and more simplistic, but they had a naivete quality to them that is missing in her most recent novels. And, as mentioned earlier, this new novel lacks Green's sharp narrative and crisp dialogue. All in all, frustrating heroine aside, To Have and to Hold failed to spark my interest. I couldn't wait to finish it up. In a nutshell, this is a disappointing read from one of my favorite authors...to spark my interest. I couldn't wait to finish it up. In a nutshell, this is a disappointing read from one of my favorite authors...	2004-06-17
629494:US	50774468	R2BKUUWBK2PDUD	0425152251	380749586	Sophie's World: A Novel about the History of Philosophy	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Philosophy text disguised as novel (2 1/2 stars)...	Sophie's World has an interesting concept, but this philosophical read is not for everyone. I have some criticism of the book, but also some praise. I'll start with the criticism. This is really a philosophy text disguised as a novel. The characters are caricature at best. They're really just devices Gaarder uses to get his point across. The dialogue is not believable either. Another potential problem for certain readers is that the philosophy lessons contained in this book are, in the novel, aimed for a young audience, for the novel centers on a fifteen-year-old character. If you have studied philosophy at some point in your life, this will probably be far too simplistic for you.<br />However, there are various things I liked about this novel. Sophie's World is a great introduction to philosophy. Those who find philosophy intimidating will very likely enjoy this book. I think it's a wonderful introduction to philosophy because it is aimed at the fifteen-year-old character. Even if you have studied philosophy, this book will be thought provoking, if only because it makes you think about what you once studied. I think this would be a wonderful book for parents to read with their teenage children. It would certainly make for some excellent discussions. The true strength of this book is the material it covers. Philosophy is a fascinating subject and Sophie's World is the perfect choice for anyone who would like to gently ease themselves into that subject.	2004-06-14
629850:US	50774468	R3DXDME3SZJJ0Q	1843605627	120574902	Fantasy Fix (Fixed, Book 1)	Books	5	41	41	N	N	The title says it all!	I savored this deliciously erotic novel like fine wine. Fantasy Fix mixes two fantasies of mine: Domination/submission and vampires. The latter isn't doable, but I sure love to read vampire erotica! This intoxicating novel introduces us to Regina, a New York career woman who has just ended a bad relationship. In a misguided attempt to help her move on, Reggie's friends force her to be part of a game called Fantasy Fix in which they fix each other up with men who'll fulfill their deepest erotic fantasies. Reggie has fantasized about vampires and being dominated in bed. She may well meet a dominant man, but the closest she'll come to a vampire is by hooking up with a wannabe vamp at a gothic club. Or so she thought. Dmitri Vidame is the dominant rogue she'd never allowed herself to envisage and a whole lot more. Not only is he gorgeous and has the sexual prowess of a bull, but he can read her thoughts and communicate with her mind as well. But Dmitri hides the fact that he's a nocturnal creature with a penchant for blood...<br /><br />This is one of the most erotic novels I have read. The romance and erotica mingle well and one does not outdo the other. The building of tension was flawless. I loved Dmitri. He's one of the sexiest characters I've read. And, as said earlier, the fact that he's both dominant and a vampire makes him all the more delicious. The whole fantasy about an immortal offering a human woman eternal youth and beauty is very sexy. What could be sexier than a sensual and masterful alpha male who can offer his female mate eternal life? I loved this novel, but found a loose end. How did Dmitri become a vampire? The author fails to supply that very important piece of information. I would've liked to know. Other than that, this is an erotic novel that should be devoured from beginning to end. I shall look forward to reading more books by Christine Warren. Another great offering from Ellora's Cave! I cannot recommend this delectable novel enough!	2004-06-14
632332:US	50774468	R4RTE0T6GSDWG	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great dark read!	I bought this book when it first came out, which means that I have had the hardcover somewhere in the to-read pile for about two years. I don't know what took me so long to read it. Jonathan Franzen treats us to an unforgiving and dark exploration of the nature of early 21st century America in this sharp and witty novel. The Corrections focuses on an average American family -- average in that though they're somewhat unconventional yet have hopes, dreams, flaws and foibles like the rest of us. The Lamberts are kind of a mess. Alfred, the family patriarch, suffers from Parkinson's, and his wife, Enid, is in denial about the nature of his suffering, as well as many other details about her family. She is trying desperately to have &quot;one last Christmas&quot; at the family home in the Midwest, trying to convince her three grown children to leave the east coast where they now live to let her have this one dream. Good luck Enid with getting them all together! Her youngest, Denise is the only one who agrees to come. Denise perhaps has to escape the mess she has made of her life in Philadelphia. Chip, the middle child, has left New York, after being fired from his cushy academic position for sexual harassment, and is somewhere in Eastern Europe perpetrating securities fraud on an unsuspecting American public. And Gary... well, Gary's wife doesn't see the point of dragging their three boys out there because she cannot get along with her mother-in-law...<br />Franzen explores this family through various viewpoints. We witness their struggles, despair and happiness with a witty and ironic narration that makes The Corrections a terrific read. The Corrections is a big, long, enjoyable novel that maybe could have used some editing, for the author does over explain things at times. But having over explained some things doesn't make Jonathan Franzen any less gifted. He has a unique writing style that captures the reader from its first page. It's funny in the dark, dry, sarcastic way that I love in this sort of novel. I've no idea why it took me so long to give this great novel a whirl. I am glad I did. I cannot recommend The Corrections enough.way that I love in this sort of novel. I've no idea why it took me so long to give this great novel a whirl. I am glad I did. I cannot recommend The Corrections enough.	2004-06-12
632566:US	50774468	R1GX7JAMZ0Q5XO	0515134449	632637589	The Laughing Corpse (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 2)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Vampires and zombies and voodoo priests... Oh my!	Anita Blake is quite a busy girl in this second installment of the series. Gaynor, a sadistic millionaire, has offered Anita a million dollars to raise a very old corpse. Anita is an expert in raising the dead, but there's a catch in this particular request. Human sacrifice is required in order to raise the three-hundred-year-old corpse -- something Anita isn't prepared to do. However, Gaynor won't take no for an answer. To make matters worse, a powerful zombie has killed various families and Anita has sought out help from one of the most powerful and evil voodoo priestesses she's ever met. It is up to Anita to find the monster and the person who had raised it.<br /><br />The Laughing Corpse is action-packed and suspenseful from beginning to end. Just when you think Anita is out of the woods something else comes along. This novel is as entertaining and riveting as Guilty Pleasures. There is a lot of gore and gruesome descriptions in this one, but said descriptions aren't gratuitous -- except for the police murder scenes involving slaughtered children. That was a bit too much. I also wish that Jean-Claude had been in more scenes. He is one sexy vampire! I look forward to reading the third installment with gusto. I can see why so many people swear by this series. It's as addicting as chocolate! Highly recommended...	2004-06-12
634706:US	50774468	RWJUIAQPRIV8G	0778320723	517656787	The Roofer (Mira)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Absolutely engrossing dark gangster novel!	I saw immense talent in Erica Orloff's Red Dress Ink novels and couldn't wait to read her first non-chick-lit book. The Roofer enthralled me from beginning to end. The characters and situations had me turn the pages until the late hours of the night. This is the story of an infamous Irish gang in New York's Hell's Kitchen. Ava O'Neil, daughter of &quot;The Roofer,&quot; named after his notorious rooftop killings, tells her fascinating and horrifying life story in a series of flashbacks during her father's wake and funeral. She recounts her horrid childhood, her mother's suicide, her father's constant imprisonments, and her overall rather unconventional lifestyle. When a reporter writes about the O'Neils' notorious life, the story sparks a Hollywood director's interest. And that is how she meets and falls for the lead actor of the movie. It appears that Ava has been given a chance to live a semi-normal life, but she cannot escape her past -- the things that have driven her brother Tom to depend on drugs, alcohol and Ava's affection as a form of escape. There are some flooring twists throughout the novel.<br /><br /> As said earlier, I saw great potential in Orloff when I read her RDI offerings. I am glad she wrote this amazing novel. Her plot development and characterization are flawless. The darkness of the novel is not unlike a film noir. And she makes the reader feel what it is like to be in the O'Neil family, to be surrounded not only with crime but also with love -- for the O'Neils showed affection in their own way. Also, Ava's cynical look into her dysfunctional surroundings spoke to me. This is one of the best novels I've read this year. Brava for Ms. Orloff for writing this dark novel. I cannot recommend it enough.	2004-06-10
638852:US	50774468	R3FYXS9MS0KWBQ	0352336145	235370207	Hotbed (Black Lace)	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Not Portia's best...	I loved Portia Da Costa's The Tutor and Continuum and looked forward to reading Hotbed. This is one of the most shocking Black Lace novels I've ever read. And that's the problem with this novel. I think Ms. Portia Da Costa was more preoccupied with supplying a vast amount of shock value than she was of developing the characters and situations. Natalie is one of the weakest characters Portia's ever written. A London journalist, Natalie returns to her hometown of Redwych to do an expose on a clean-cut, moralist businessman. She suspects that he lives an illicit lifestyle that could ruin his golden boy image. In doing so she discovers a world of dark, lurid and kinky games she's never before witnessed. She also discovers that her half-sister and her new crop of sexual comrades have set her up. I don't know if it's the dominant transvestite, the attraction between the two sisters or what, but Hotbed is more about perversion than sensuality. The part in which Natalie has a rather steamy encounter on a train with a pseudo-academic is the only good erotic scene in this novel. The rest just isn't worth reading. It's a shame. The Tutor was such a great novel -- what happened to this author? I sure hope that the other novel I have of hers, Shadowplay, is better than this one.	2004-06-07
639751:US	50774468	R3RUH8RE6IS8LP	0312275420	697393202	Being Dead: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Dark, gruesome, but great!	When is a love story not a love story? When two lovers are found dead in the dunes. Jim Crace's Being Dead is a magnificent tale told in an unconventional way. Instead of telling the story of Joseph and Felice starting with how they met, got married, had kids, grew old and so on, Crace starts with their demise. From there, the narrative develops in many different directions. Most disturbingly, perhaps, is how their bodies decay on the beach after their murder. He also tells the story of how they met years earlier, not far from where there bodies lie. Another story works backwards, very slowly, on the day they met their demise. And finally, there is the story of their daughter, as she slowly discovers what has happened to her parents. These four intertwined narratives reveal much about Joseph and Felice, perhaps more than would the traditional &quot;love story.&quot; Being Dead is inventive, creative, and a pleasure to read, but it is definitely not for the faint of heart. The description of the bodies' decay is very graphic and some would find it disturbing. The gruesome scenes are not gratuitous and I found the descriptions to be so well done, so elegantly crafted, that they're almost a pleasure to read. If you think you have the stomach for some rough descriptions, I highly recommend this novel.	2004-06-07
640740:US	50774468	R2FDAJKSJDDIT7	0679420088	677408907	The Djinn in the Nightingale's Eye: Five Fairy Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beautiful fairty tales for adults!	A.S Byatt is one of the most talented and brilliant writers today. The Djinn in the Nightingale's Eye is an engaging collection of adult fairy tales that are a delight to read. Byatt has a wonderful way with the English language. Her writing is delicate and precise without being too precious. &quot;The Story of the Eldest Princess,&quot; &quot;The Glass Coffin,&quot; and &quot;Dragon's Breath&quot; are my favorites. Byatt has such incredible range and depth, and it shows in this fine short story collection. This is not a large volume, there are only five stories here, but it's a wonderful way to spend a few hours transported into other worlds by an extremely talented writer. Highly recommended...	2004-06-06
641562:US	50774468	RIMX7BNI0VZMW	051513449X	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter: Book 1)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	An excellent guilty pleasure!	Having read and loved A Kiss of Shadows, I decided that it was time I gave the Anita Blake vampire series a whirl. Guilty Pleasures is a fast-paced, enthralling horror novel that kept me turning the pages until the wee hours of the night. The series starts out when Anita, a professional vampire executioner, is forced to investigate the recent murder of various vampires. But Anita's job is to execute vampires, not help them, but the master vampire Nikolaos is not someone you can turn down. There are various twists throughout the novel that will keep you on the edge of your seat...<br />I love Anita's narration and the story's steady motion. There isn't a single boring moment in this novel. I can see why so many people have become addicted to this series. Laurell K. Hamilton is a great talent of paranormal fiction. There is plenty of horror and suspense throughout the novel, but there isn't a trace of romantica. That's the only thing I didn't like about the first installment. But I was told that the romance and erotica come along later in the series (and I hope that Jean-Claude, a dark and sensual vampire in the story, will be part of said romance and erotica). Even though I prefer vampires as sex gods rather than evil, this is one series that I intend to read from cover to cover. A great start to the Anita Blake series! This novel is definitely a guilty pleasure...	2004-06-05
641796:US	50774468	RXSESHVRHWCD4	0060520515	836724652	The Other Side of the Story: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another page-turner from Marian Keyes!	I have read and loved all of Marian Keyes's novels. Keyes continues to deliver chick-lit that mixes fun and wit with tenderness and poignancy with this latest book. The Other Side of the Story centers on three female characters in multiple points of view. Gemma has always lived a normal, almost uneventful life. She's a successful events planner and a woman in charge of her life. She wanted to be a writer instead of a planner, but she is content with her life as it is. That is until her father leaves her mother for a younger model and Gemma is the one left picking up the pieces. Gemma's mother is depressed and confused and she now requires the time, affection and patience that Gemma does not have. The only way Gemma is able to cope with the unprecedented turn of events is by sending quirky e-mails to her best friend in Seattle. The aforementioned e-mails land in the hands of Jojo, a successful editor at a publishing house. While she deals with office politics and an illicit affair with her married boss, Jojo is determined to convince Gemma to publish her hilarious e-mail entries. This is Gemma's opportunity to get back on Lily, her former best friend and nemesis. Not only did Lily steal the only man Gemma has ever loved, but she's also written a successful novel. However, Lily's life isn't as peachy keen as Gemma thinks. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br />Marian Keyes has once again written a fun, sassy chick-lit. Her characters and the situations they face are always a fun treat. The best part about this novel is the narrative -- using first and third person narrative and various other POVs -- which make the writing style a bit more different than her previous novels. And again she tackles various serious subject matters with a mixture of humor and poignancy. The only thing that I didn't like about this novel is that it isn't that much different from her two previous books. She gave us a glimpse into the LA scene in Angels and tackled the magazine industry in Sushi for Beginners. Now she writes about the book publishing world... Her novels are becoming a bit one-dimensional. I'd like to see her write an oddball like Rachel's Holiday again. All in all, this is another great novel from this wonderful Irish author. As said earlier,  her novels are always a fun treat. This is a great chick-lit book that should not be missed!ndustry in Sushi for Beginners. Now she writes about the book publishing world... Her novels are becoming a bit one-dimensional. I'd like to see her write an oddball like Rachel's Holiday again. All in all, this is another great novel from this wonderful Irish author. As said earlier,  her novels are always a fun treat. This is a great chick-lit book that should not be missed!	2004-06-05
642369:US	50774468	R12WIWLP1I1H8	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Beautiful and literary short story collection!	I marvel at this beautiful collection of short stories. I cannot believe that I hadn't read this book until now. Jhumpa Lahiri illustrates the fact that she's earned her Pulitzer Prize. She writes like a dream and brings you into the worlds of her stories and doesn't let go until you've devoured them. All the stories in this collection concern the culture clash between America and India. Clash is perhaps too strong a word. It is more like the two worlds are bumping into one another, like they're inexplicably connected somehow. &quot;A Temporary Matter&quot; is my favorite story. It deals with a young couple coping with the stillbirth of their first child and the disintegration of their marriage during a week of hour long blackouts. My second favorite is &quot;The Third and Final Continent,&quot; a beautiful tale about an Indian man's memoirs of his first days in Boston, before and after he brought his new bride to the country. These two stories were the ones that enthralled me the most, but I loved each and every one of them and savored them line fine wine. I cannot recommend this exquisite collection enough.	2004-06-04
642949:US	50774468	RTUAASL7N3S8B	0373835884	33234864	Under His Skin	Books	2	6	9	N	N	So-so romantic anthology (2 1/2 stars)...	I picked up this romantic anthology last summer on a whim. I'd decided not to review it when I realized that these stories were reprints and had been around for a long time. I was cleaning up my library, ready to give some books away to friends, when I came about Under His Skin again. Despite the mediocrity of this anthology, I somewhat enjoyed Lori Foster's Outrageous. It is the story of a young woman's quest to find the person who had sold a gun that had backfired and almost killed her brother. But in doing so she almost blows Judd Sander's cover. He, too, is searching for the person selling illegal weapons. He reluctantly accepts to help Emily. However, it won't be easy keeping his hands off the beautiful woman. The other two novellas -- Carla Neggers's Bewitching and Linda Lael Miller's Snowflakes on the Sea -- were ho hum at best. I didn't even bother to finish reading Snowflakes.<br />All in all, this is a mediocre anthology. Harlequin should have reprinted stronger novellas. Lori Foster is one of the best soft romantica writers of this time. I enjoyed Outrageous, even though the aforementioned novella isn't one of Foster's best efforts (this is one of her early works). If you're looking for soft romantica to read on the beach, I'd advise you to check out the Kensington Brava novels and anthologies instead. This one just isn't good enough...	2004-06-04
643930:US	50774468	R2XGL5I1RD6Q7T	0352337192	318046264	Divine Torment (Black Lace)	Books	1	1	6	N	Y	Nothing divine about this torment!	I suspected I was in trouble when this novel began from the male character's point of view. And I knew I was in trouble when I had to endure reading a scene between the randy soldier and two slave girls. This novel continued to go downhill from there. If the wooden dialogue and flat storyline were bad enough, the sex scenes were far worse. The aforementioned scenes wouldn't have been out of place in the Penthouse forum. I wonder if Janine Ashbless is really a man using a female pseudonym. I also wonder why Black Lace published this novel. Divine Torment isn't erotic fiction written by and for a woman -- more like erotic fiction written for a women's imprint but targeted toward randy college boys. I cannot fathom the good reviews here, but I guess there's no accounting for taste. You be the judge.	2004-06-03
644140:US	50774468	R234KCF1F4JWA1	1591290562	597400744	A Young Girls's Crimes	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Compelling, thought provoking, incredible!	This book had been on my to-read pile for a very long time when I decided to give it a whirl. I cannot believe it took me so long to read it! A Young Girl's Crimes is a gripping, thought provoking tale of a teenager who loses her innocence in the most disturbing ways. Flora is a girl who has had everything in life -- after all, her father is wealthy and influential -- save her freedom. Her father is domineering and abusive and does whatever is possible to keep Flora locked up in the mansion. But Flora rebels in the most disarming ways. She seeks love and attention in all the wrong places, only to feel emptiness afterwards. In an attempt to clean up her act, she turns to God to find spiritual guidance and escape her inner demos. However, the odyssey to self-discovery has just begun...<br />I love the dark language in this novel. Flora's thirst for love and acceptance is gripping beyond compare. I was able to feel a great deal of compassion for this character -- even when I found her behavior appalling at times. I like how the author uses elements of Marquis de Sade within the story. Marquis de Sade is one of my favorite authors, and the fact that the works of said author are incorporated in this story made this novel all the more enjoyable for me. David Rehak is a brilliant author and I look forward to reading his other books. In the meantime, I recommend A Young Girl's Crimes most highly. It is one of my favorite reads this year thus far. He uses the sort of dark language that I adore in this sort of fiction. Again, I have no idea why it took me so long to read this compelling, thought provoking novel, but am sure glad I did!	2004-06-03
647806:US	50774468	R3RIMJXKT5S6YR	1573229865	234989381	The Dream of Scipio	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A philosophical and historical masterwork!	I wasn't impressed with Iain Pears's An Instance of the Fingerpost, but I was told that this novel was an outstanding work of fiction. I am glad I gave it a whirl. This is a wonderful and true work of historical fiction. What makes this novel all the more memorable to me is that it is philosophical as well. The Dream of Scipio is an extremely well done and beautiful novel -- a challenging read involving three different characters at three different points in history. All come from the same French town, and each one affects the subsequent character. The story flows in a marvelous and steady motion, moving seamlessly from one historical period to the next. The three main characters are concerned, perhaps obsessed, with making morally correct decisions in a seemingly immoral world. Each lives in a time when tremendous calamities of historical consequences were occurring around them and throughout the whole of Europe. The decisions they make are not easy and the latter characters look for guidance to the writing of the Manlius, the first character in the novel. The Dream of Scipio is a highly interesting read, one that enthralled me from beginning to end. I love historical fiction and this novel is one of the best I've read. If you are not afraid of a philosophical and somewhat complex novel, pick this one up. You won't regret it.	2004-05-31
648296:US	50774468	RRCLPBTF91LQM	0972437703	732147203	The Empress' New Clothes (Trade Paperback Erotic Romance)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Very delicious and interesting romantica...	I admit that I'm not a big reader of futuristic and sci-fi novels, but I couldn't resist picking up the novel that made Jaid Black famous amongst romantica enthusiasts. The Empress' New Clothes is the introduction to the Trek Mi Q'an series -- a series that, based on this first installment, seems to be quite a steamy and creative reading experience. In Empress, Zor, a seven-foot tall barbarian, has decided to seek his Sacred Mate. He finds Kyra, a beautiful redhead, on earth and immediately takes her to his home planet Tryston. Kyra soon discovers that Tryston is nothing like earth in terms of erotica. This is a rather uninhibited planet where women submit to their sacred mates and their constant sexual demands. Kyra is not keen with Zor at first, but his sexual prowess, undying devotion and even his possessive temper are hard to resist. There are various twists throughout the novel...<br /><br />I thought the erotic scenes were insatiable beyond words. They aren't Black's best descriptions, for I think The Possession and Sins of the Father are far steamier, but said scenes left me satisfied -- so to speak. Also, there is a great balance between plot and erotica, something that is seldom done in this specific genre. I give it four stars instead of five because I didn't like the whole brainless female sex slaves thing. That's the sort of storyline you'd find in the Penthouse fiction column. But it doesn't cut it in women's erotica. I've read some of the reviews here and am surprised that a lot of readers find the domination and submission subplot off-putting. I think most readers missed the mark on the sensual implications in the objectification of women within the story. The point is that it is not considered as such on this fictional planet. Also, it is all written in the name of fantasy and escapism, which is the whole point of reading this brand of fiction to begin with. I loved this novel and Jaid Black is on my premier author list! I shall read all of her books, regardless of the subgenre. This is also another great offering from Ellora's Cave! I recommend The Empress' New Clothes most highly!, regardless of the subgenre. This is also another great offering from Ellora's Cave! I recommend The Empress' New Clothes most highly!	2004-05-31
650862:US	50774468	R2DR4PDS8BD2O5	0375727132	750223073	The Dive From Clausen's Pier: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Thought provoking and compelling!	The Dive from Clausen's Pier is a beautiful, well written story of 23-year-old Carrie Bell, a young woman from Madison, Wisconsin. The novel begins with Carrie spending a Memorial Day picnic with her childhood friends, including her fiance, Mike. Carrie has pretty much had it with the relationship with Mike and he suspects the same. She is also beginning to get a bit bored with her friends, including Jamie, her best friend for many years. Things suddenly change for everyone at the picnic when Mike dives off the pier, and breaks his neck, and is permanently paralyzed. Carrie, who can be a bit of an ice queen, as far as narrators go, can't really decide what to do now. She is still going through an existential crisis, and although she doesn't say it, suspects she has outgrown many of her relationships in Madison. She decides that she needs a change of scenery, but breaking away from the life as she's known it proves difficult...<br />Her misguided choices may anger some readers, but I think most will appreciated her story and understand how she grows as a person. I found Carrie's story thought provoking and compelling. I literally could not put the book down for the last 100 pages or so because I had to see what she decides to do. As I said, as a narrator, she can be a bit chilly, even unlikable at times, which makes sense given her fear that the story she is relating may seem selfish (which I don't think it is). I marvel at this wonderful tale of a woman and the choices she finds herself making. I highly recommend this novel and believe that most readers will enjoy it.	2004-05-28
651207:US	50774468	RZHPIZBTTYXAA	0758208022	485004309	The Royal Treatment (Alaskan Royal Family, Book 1)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Another fun treat from Ms. Davidson!	I so love Mary Janice Davidson. Her novels are always a fun treat. I loved Undead and Unwed and Thief of Hearts and couldn't wait to read another one of her books. The Royal Treatment is a hilarious trip from beginning to end! I loved reading Christina's tale of going from a common orphan working as a cook for cruise lines to the potential Queen of Alaska. In this awesome novel, Alaska never became a state and is in fact a country with its own government and a royal family to boot. And Christina's misadventures with the eccentric royal family made me laugh from beginning to end.<br /><br />There have been complaints that this novel and its characters are caricature at best and that there is too much banter throughout the novel. I've also read here that Christina has an unmistakable resemblance to Undead and Unwed's Betsy Taylor. I agree with the latter part. Christina is edgy and sarcastic, just like Betsy... I couldn't help but notice that the two characters are almost identical. But the novel's satirical language and caricature manner are what make the story special to me. I like a story that can make me laugh, and I pick up fiction of this sort because I expect the same. So, people should not pick up this book and expect something serious or thought provoking. This is a no-fuss romantic read for laughs. And I happen to love banter. Mary Janice Davidson has become one of my favorite authors of the romance genre. I recommend this book as an excellent beach read!	2004-05-28
654153:US	50774468	R3PEOIY9YWLQ7K	0352336919	339780044	Manhattan Passion (Black Lace)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Sexxx and the city!	This is one great contemporary erotic novel! Manhattan Passion gripped me from beginning to end. Even though I prefer erotica written in third person, this one is as entertaining and as fun as a chick-lit novel. Julia, an art conservator at a New York museum, decides to leave her husband. David is a drug addict, but Julia suspects that there are more serious problems with him, especially after he disappears with all of their money. While she tries to regain her finances, Julia discovers her sexuality working at the Where Everything Happens club. There are some sensual and insatiable scenes as Julia shatters all of her inhibitions...<br />What I like most about this novel is the plot development. There is a plausible story that moves in a fluid and steady motion. And, as mentioned earlier, the one-person narrative gives it a fun, contemporary feel not unlike a chick-lit novel. Also, there are no gratuitous sex scenes in this novel. Each erotic scene is well structured and illustrates Julia's slow metamorphosis from a repressed married woman to an uninhibited and wanton sexpot. I love the scene between Julia and Jack and how she is able to decipher the difference between having sex and making love. A truly erotic scene! The only thing that I didn't like about this novel is that sometimes the dialogue is a bit disjointed at times. The author is unable to get the voice and message across, making the dialogue seem wooden. Other than that, Manhattan Passion is great contemporary erotica! Antoinette Powell is a great new author. A great new offering from Black Lace! Highly recommended...	2004-05-26
654530:US	50774468	R3JAZZWDEE0013	1400050073	8843288	Liquor: A Novel (Rickey and G-Man Series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Bound to become a cult classic!	I so loved this novel! I love the inside look into the restaurant industry and how two young men try to open a restaurant with a fresh concept. And I especially love that it is set in New Orleans. This novel showcases a darker and more eclectic side of the aforementioned city. Struggling restaurant cooks Rickey and G-man have come up with the ultimate concept for a New Orleans restaurant: a place that is devoted to liquor. Not only will they serve almost every drink known to man, they will also create original recipes with liquor added to all of the dishes. But with a disgruntled neighbor, a demented ex-boss and a silent partner with a hidden agenda these two southerners will have to beat many obstacles in order to make their dream come true...<br />As said earlier, I loved this novel! Its dark humor and unique look into New Orleans captured me and didn't let go. This novel reminds me of a memoir called Kitchen Confidential. It contains the same sort of language and humor. Also, I loved how the author handled Rickey and G-man's homosexual relationship without the grotesque stereotypes and generalizations that accompany a lot of novels of this sort. Poppy Z. Brite is a brilliant author and I look forward to reading her other stuff. I cannot recommend Liquor enough!	2004-05-26
657575:US	50774468	RQY1E0RC46FZ4	1843605600	911455526	Forbidden (The Seraphine Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Absolutely delicious and wonderfully unique!	I have become addicted to Ellora's Cave authors. The erotic romance novels in this e-imprint are erotic, sensual and creative to the core! I decided to give erotic fantasy a whirl with Cheyenne McCray's Forbidden, the first installment from the Seraphine Chronicles. This novel sucked me in and didn't let go until its last page. This is an insatiable story of tasting the forbidden fruit. Liana has been chosen by the Sorcerer. She cannot mate with anyone other than him. The Sorcerer has got to get her before moon change... but Aric, the king of the Nordain, beings that transform from human to bird form, captures Liana before this happens. Liana cannot believe that the object of her fantasies and desires has come to her rescue. Aric, too, is attracted to Liana and he finds it difficult to resist the beautiful faerie girl with the moonlight tresses and luminous beauty. But Aric cannot succumb to Liana's seduction, for he'd endanger the fate of his people. But will he be able to resist the forbidden fruit?<br />I just loved the erotic descriptions in this novel. This novel contains several of the best erotic scenes ever. They're delectable beyond words. And this is also one of the most unique love stories I've ever read. This novel takes fantasy into new heights! I just couldn't put this novel down. It enthralled me from beginning to end. The other parts of this series haven't been released in paperback, but I hope that Ellora's Cave releases them soon. I have become addicted to this author's work! I cannot recommend this beautiful fantasy romantica enough!	2004-05-23
658071:US	50774468	R1OYE9CBL9GUD4	0345423402	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hooked on Laurell K. Hamilton!	This is the first Laurell K. Hamilton novel I've read. Most people recommended her Anita Blake vampire series, but I decided to give this shorter series about faeries a whirl first.  I can see why so many people are hooked on Hamilton. Hers is a world so beautiful and magical that you find it difficult to escape. A Kiss of Shadows is a great novel (with a great cover). Princess Meredith NicEssus, half faerie and half mortal, is hiding from her aunt, the Queen of Air and Darkness, and has changed her name to Merry Gentry and now assumes the identity of a PI who specializes in supernatural cases. But when her cover is blown, she succumbs to her aunt's wishes. To seduce and be surrounded by gorgeous immortal men doesn't seem like a bad thing, except that her life depends on it...<br /><br />I loved the fanciful language throughout the novel. I gave up on fantasy fiction a long time ago due to the lackluster books in said genre. Laurell K. Hamilton's writing is wonderfully creative and incredibly riveting. I cannot fathom the bad reviews here. Most people have complained about the many sex scenes in the novel and thought that Meredith was promiscuous. I for one loved the erotic undertone. I am a fan of erotica and I thought that the sexual content in this novel wasn't bad at all. The one thing I didn't like about Shadows is that Ms. Hamilton over explains the plot. The novel should've been a bit shorter. Other than that, it's great. Laurell has made me fall in love with fantasy fiction all over again. I cannot wait to read the other parts of this series. And since I've become a vampire novel enthusiast, I shall definitely give her Anita Blake series a whirl.	2004-05-23
660505:US	50774468	RMI6C4Y9A45DK	0375712925	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Very well-written thriller!	I was curious when I heard that Stephen Carter, the highly regarded Yale law professor, had written a legal thriller. And, more to the point, I cannot believe it took me so long to pick it up and read it. But I'm glad I gave it a whirl. The novel is far from perfect, but it has an original and compelling plot. One thing I appreciated was its accurate portrayal of the legal world. Carter has some brilliant and on target observations of the justice system -- and the legal issues addressed in this novel are not as crass as most of the John Grisham-type novels. Another strong point is the great plausible plot. It is grounded in reality, without being dull or boring. Professor Carter is a very intelligent person, and he reflects said intelligence in his writing. I do, however, have some problems with this novel's editing -- or lack thereof, as it seems. The novel is too long. It could've been shortened to make the plot more fast-paced and riveting. Also, the conclusion is a bit frustrating. The author runs in circles a little too much. All in all, The Emperor of Ocean Park is a well written and engaging novel that cannot be missed. A very well-written thriller...	2004-05-20
661408:US	50774468	RJP0FUUOEZ1P3	0352332379	536037352	Pleasure's Daughter (Black Lace Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent historical erotica!	The Pleasure's Daughter is one of those novels that suck you in and don't let go until the final page. The story, characters, situations and, of course, the sex scenes enthralled me from beginning to end. The year is 1750. Amelia goes to live with her wealthy aunt after her father dies. During the trip she encounters Lucas the Marquess of Beechwood -- a tall, dark and gorgeous aristocratic rogue. When she refuses to answer to his overwhelming seduction, he does whatever's possible to obtain her, even going as far as asking her aunt and uncle to allow him her hand in marriage. Used to having his way with every woman he sets his eyes on, his bruised ego cannot accept her rejection, so he proves again and again his mastery and power over her in the most humiliating ways. But when Amelia flees to London's Convent Garden district, she not only discovers the depths of her sensuality, she also sets out to teach Lucas a lesson he will never forget. There are various interesting twists throughout the novel...<br /><br /> I hated Lucas throughout the entire novel. His ruthlessness and dark demeanor made me favor Amelia's vengeful mentality all the more. However, Lucas redeems himself in the most sensual scene in the entire novel. I love it when novels affect me in a way that I find myself caring about the characters -- and this novel did just that! BDSM is a big theme in this novel, but it is more focused on mind control than on the physical aspect of it, although there is quite a bit of that also. I give it four stars instead of five because the antiquated language annoyed me at times. I don't want modern erotica, even those with a historical setting, to use cliche euphemisms like \\"heaving bosom,\\" and \\"throbbing member.\\" They're incredibly corny. Other than that, this is one of the best Black Lace books I've read. Highly recommended...	2004-05-20
664004:US	50774468	R3HTUKCLS1LZJ3	0373250576	486942866	Bombshell	Books	4	4	6	N	N	More substantial than it seems!	Red Dress Ink has released some rather bland novels as of late, but I enjoyed Lynda Curnyn's first two novels and I couldn't wait to pick up Bombshell. Bombshell isn't as breezy as the back cover of the book makes it out to be; the plot and characters are wonderful and compelling. Grace Noonan is a blonde, bodacious, glamorous fashionista who works at a successful cosmetics company. However, beneath her glossy exterior lies a woman with much insecurity. Not only does her latest boyfriend turn out to be another Mr. Wrong, but her quest to find answers to her painful past proves difficult. Grace wants to fill the empty void inside of her. Is having a baby the solution to her problems? There are various interesting twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />It was nice to get a clearer picture of the friend of Engaging Men's Angie DiFranco. Grace was somewhat elusive in the aforementioned book, but now the reader gets to know her in a deep level. And I'm surprised to see that this character isn't just another shopaholic, cosmopolitan-drinking city girl with dating dilemmas -- her issues are far more substantial than that. I love this novel; it reminds me of the great books that RDI released last year. The only thing that I don't like about Bombshell is Angie. I don't remember her being so whiny and neurotic in Engaging Men. Other than that, this is a great novel. Chick-lit with soul. Highly recommended...	2004-05-18
664285:US	50774468	R2NMC1FKI088VV	1843605732	690668256	Thief of Hearts	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Sexy, funny, perfect!	Having read Undead and Unwed, I wanted to read more of Mary Janice Davidson's books, especially the erotic novels she wrote for Ellora's Cave. Obtaining a copy of Thief of Hearts wasn't easy, for it is out of print, but I'm sure glad I was able to get a used copy! This fun, sexy novel enthralled me from beginning to end! Sparks fly between Dr. Jared Dean and Kara. Jared thinks Kara is special, but he becomes even more impressed when he discovers that she's tried to protect him from dangerous mobsters. Kara is a modern, female version of Robin Hood -- she steals from mobsters and drug lords to provide for the poor. And now she's taken a particular interest in Jared's safety. And that is how a steamy, original and entertaining love story begins. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This novel is full of Davidson's signature sharpness and wit. I've noticed that her novels have an awful lot of banter -- a significant part of her writing style. The erotic scenes are sensual and original. I am hooked with this author. Her crisp dialogue and wonderful storytelling are addicting. I can't wait to read her other novels, especially Undead and Unemployed, the sequel to Undead and Unwed, for I have a particular interest in her paranormal stories. In the meantime, I recommend this wonderful gem. That is if you're able to obtain a copy.	2004-05-18
664873:US	50774468	R2695UKQ0CJCZG	0964894246	233469685	Secrets: The Best in Women's Erotic Romance, Vol. 4	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Get this -- if only for Emma Holly's novella!	I skipped over a couple of installments because Emma Holly is featured in Secrets Volume 4. I am a big Emma Holly fan and I've devoured everything she's written. The Love Slave, her novella in this anthology, is so hot it sizzles! Set in make believe times, Princess Lily has to choose three gorgeous men to attend to all of her needs. While she revels in the attention of two of the slaves, it is the tall, dark, gorgeous and mysterious Grae that refuses to submit to her desires. Not only is he rough and insubordinate, he has a painful secret that keeps him at bay. This is a beautiful erotic story that awoke my senses as well as my intellect.  Emma Holly has done it again!<br />Desiree Lindsey's Enslaved is my second favorite. This is a wonderful novella of dark desires and exquisite building of tension. Nicholas Summers is one of the most insatiable heroes I've ever read and the scenes are smoldering and delicious. I'm not familiar with Ms. Lindsey's work, but I'll be sure to look for her stuff in the future. The other two novellas, An Act of Love and The Bodyguard, are contemporary romanticas that failed to spark my interest. I guess I was in the mood for some fanciful stories. The Love Slave and Enslaved more than satisfied my craving for the same. I recommend Secrets Volume 4. Emma Holly's delectable story is well worth the cover price!	2004-05-17
664950:US	50774468	RCNIVMPBLD64M	1573227951	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	1	3	23	N	N	Mind-numbingly boring, just couldn't get into this...	I bought this book to read during the four-hour train ride to New York. What a waste. An Instance of the Fingerpost is a historical novel with a touch of intrigue. I love historical novels, cannot resist them, but this one left a bad taste in my mouth. For one thing, the author drones on and on with descriptions that serve no purpose to the story. It felt as though Pears wanted to share his thoughts -- however remote -- to the reader even if it had no relevance whatsoever.<br />Yawning and wishing you had something else to keep yourself amused are never good signs. So I gave up on this book before finishing it. I felt cheated the way I do when I watch a very good film trailer: good premise, big hype, bad outcome. I cannot fathom the good reviews here. Disappointing...	2004-05-17
668605:US	50774468	R1OHAN3U1HRIQL	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Bibliophiles love this one!	Having read The Flanders Panel, I couldn't wait to read another one of Arturo Perez-Reverte's books. This great author strikes gold again with The Club Dumas. Based on Dumas' masterpiece The Three Musketeers, Perez-Reverte weaves his own tale of rare book collecting and the history surrounding the Musketeers. While I suggest that you read The Three Musketeers first, (I didn't and for that reason I often lost track of the plot, hence the four-star rating) the novel was still interesting without any knowledge of Dumas' work. But this novel is full of the clever and dark writing that I loved in Panel. Perez-Reverte is one of the most brilliant authors of today and I look forward to reading more of his stuff. Bibliophiles swear by this book.  Highly recommended...	2004-05-14
669159:US	50774468	R2WIH6HTIYUA32	0352338601	857589567	Wicked Words 9: An Erotic Short Story Collection (Vol 9)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	The novels are definitely better (2 1/2 stars)...	I'd heard great things about Black Lace's short story collections. I picked up Wicked Words 9 and hoped for the best. The good thing about this collection of erotic short stories is that most of the stories have quite good characterization and palpable situations, something that seldom happens in short story erotica. My favorites are &quot;Man's Best Friend,&quot; &quot;Smooth Hands, Soft Lips, Sharp Teeth,&quot; &quot;Charlotte Meets Her Match,&quot; and &quot;Caught You!&quot; Each one of the aforementioned stories is original, inventive and insatiable. While I wouldn't say that I cared about the characters in the stories, they were at lest interesting. I've never heard of the authors who wrote those stories, and I must admit that I had hoped to encounter at least one of my favorite Black Lace authors, but they did an excellent job. The rest of the stories in this anthology, however, fall short in more ways than one. They just weren't interesting or gripping enough. All in all, I'd rather read a Black Lace novel than another installment of Wicked Words.	2004-05-13
669257:US	50774468	R1OHQE0HLSE1XO	0452285178	160915099	Azur Like It	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Disappointing...	I am a big Wendy Holden fan. All of her novels, especially Simply Divine and Gossip Hound, entertained me from beginning to end. However, Azur Like It, her new novel, is a big disappointment. This novel contains the same tale of a simple but ambitious young woman dreaming of having a glamorous job in which she mingles with the most fashionable socialites. It also contains satirical language with some fun puns. The main problem with Azur Like It is that it isn't quite as funny or as clever as her previous novels. This one bored me to tears and I couldn't wait to finish it! If Ms. Holden isn't able to bring something new to her formula, then her novels will continue to go downhill. I am still a big of this author -- I just hope that her next project is in the same vein as Gossip Hound.	2004-05-13
674261:US	50774468	R114SIAVDITJUU	0316782505	480327121	The Weight of Water	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Still memorable the second time around!	I read this novel when it first came out six years ago but had to reread it if I wanted to have a proper discussion about it during my book club meeting. Reading this book was a great reminder of how riveting it was to me when I first read it. Anita Shreve writes hauntingly beautiful books about important moments in our lives. The Weight of Water is a bewitching tale that without a doubt rings a bell in every woman's life.<br />Instead of addressing the suspense and the poignant tale of family struggles, I grasped the protagonist's worries about infidelity this time. Hasn't every woman imagined her loved one having an affair? Maren had seen the signs and been absolutely sure that she was cheated on. Is it instinct or paranoia? Anita weaves these feelings in amidst a haunting tale of murder and intrigue during the 1800's. I have read all of Anita's books, but this one is by far one of my favorites. I found it hard to put down and the characters' emotions spoke to me. Shreve makes me care about her characters. There were times I wished I could reach into the book and shake some sense into Maren. The historical references and suspenseful plot add appeal to this irresistible novel. The Weight of Water is still riveting and memorable the second time around. I cannot recommend this beautiful novel enough!	2004-05-10
674291:US	50774468	R3H2GJU6WLFDV0	0352333065	724793814	Forbidden Fruit	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Gives a whole new meaning to the term &quot;boy toy&quot;!	What is the ultimate fantasy? To many people, the ultimate fantasy is having an affair with someone forbidden. Beth, the protagonist in this enticing novel, knows a bit about tasting the forbidden fruit. When she discovers that sixteen-year-old Jonathan spies on her as she changes from work to regular clothes, she cannot contain the mixture of shock and excitement coursing through her. (Sixteen is the official legal age in the UK.) Beth finds it difficult to resist Jonathan's charisma and young swimmer's body, but she knows that encouraging him is wrong. So she sets out to punish him for his voyeuristic habit, but what transpires is an insatiable and downright sinful game in which she discovers her femininity and sexuality through the eyes of her young lover...<br />The subject is rather dark and taboo. This book could shock a person who's never read erotica before. However, a seasoned reader of this obscure genre could appreciate the psychological implications in Beth and Jonathan's steamy affair. Beth is thirty-eight years old and rather inexperienced, for she's only been with one partner, her ex-husband, in her entire life. With Jonathan, she shatters all of her inhibitions while at the same time turns Jonathan into a selfless and seasoned lover for his young age. There were times in which I didn't know who was in charge of whom, even if Beth was the one who called the shots. At first, I felt sorry for Jonathan, for it seemed that Beth was toying with his emotions, but the ending more than makes up for Beth's unorthodox behavior. As said earlier, Forbidden Fruit is an extremely shocking novel, but also thought provoking and memorable. The building of tension between the two characters is second to none. Susie Raymond is a great author and I look forward to reading her other titles. By far, this is one of the best Black Lace novels I've read. Bravo for releasing this risque novel.	2004-05-10
675941:US	50774468	R11O3TT32PDJKR	0670032670	760845381	The Forest Lover	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Beautiful and inspirational!	This novel was such an enriching and enthralling read. I don't understand the bad reviews here. The Forest Lover is a fictional account of Canadian artist Emily Carr and her voyage through her love of art and the people she touches with her beautiful paintings. Susan Vreeland, like her previous novels, takes the life of a classic artist and artfully spins a tale into a mesmerizing and inspirational account of an interesting real-life character. That the actual artist once existed adds to the novel's magic. The magic adds to this imaginative tale.<br />Ms. Vreeland's imagination -- her grasp of history, her attention to the senses, to details, to the soul of the artist, artisans and lovers -- is as lovely as the artist's tapestries. As said earlier, this novel and its beautiful descriptions enthralled me from beginning to end. I recommend this wonderful novel...	2004-05-08
676038:US	50774468	RAH3XV20LFXHX	042519485X	806820342	Undead and Unwed (Queen Betsy, Book 1)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Hilarious, entertaining vampire farce!	I knew I'd found a droll, entertaining vampire farce when I picked up this book. However, I hadn't expected it to be a laugh-a-minute novel that had me in hysterics in inappropriate times! Who would have thought that ditsy, shoe-loving former model Betsy was the queen of the undead? That's exactly what happens when she wakes up inside a coffin. She had been run over and killed by a car just a couple of days ago. And if discovering that her stepmother dressed her up in a pink suit and cheap shoes isn't traumatizing enough, she craves blood, is a creature of the night and has to stay away from the charms of Eric Sinclair -- a tall, dark and gorgeous vampire with a hidden agenda...<br />I laughed so many times reading this novel. Betsy is dry and sarcastic and I lost count of her many quips. The story and characters have a caricature quality to them that makes the novel seem more like a parody than a satire. Undead and Unwed is a fast-paced, fun novel that you won't be able to put down. If you like paranormal novels, sassy and chic heroines, dry wit and low-brow humor, then make sure you give this novel a whirl. Perfect for the beach! I look forward to reading more of Mary Janice Davidson, especially the erotic novels she wrote for Ellora's Cave.	2004-05-08
678909:US	50774468	R2QM62QF47LS3G	0451204298	745541196	A Maiden's Grave	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great thriller!	There are many novels written with kidnapped children as their central story line, but this book certainly leads the pack and stands out as a gut wrenching thriller. A Maiden's Grave is an interesting take on hostage negotiations and Deaver really makes it work. You feel the tension the hostages feel and the pressure the negotiator goes through. You can feel the terror and bravery of the characters. It is so wonderfully well written that the story is almost palpable. I look forward to reading more books written by this author. Great thriller...	2004-05-06
679115:US	50774468	R363PQS5XO84N8	0425193039	779232387	Hunting Midnight	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Phenomenal, spellbinding!	I can't believe I'm giving this book a five-star rating when I gave the predecessor only two stars, but Hunting Midnight, the follow-up to Catching Midnight, is a true phenomenal, spellbinding read. This novel picks up where Catching Midnight left off. Ulric, the leader of a pack of shape-shifting vampires known as \\"upyr,\\" is heartbroken. Gillian, the love of his life and object of his fixation, has left him for a mortal. In order to keep his pain at bay, he has one-night stands with mortal women. But when a particular mortal woman named Juliana, desperate to escape from an arranged engagement, asks for help, his existence isn't the same. Juliana, wooed by Ulric's sensuality and charisma, wants to become upyr, but she does not know that Ulric does not possess the ability to convert her into one...<br /><br /> I love the combination of romance and erotica in this novel. It is far steamier than the first installment and it doesn't go on explaining the life of the upyrs like in the first part. Also, the characters are far better developed this time around. It was great to get reacquainted with some of the characters. All I knew about Ulric in Catching Midnight was that he was very possessive, but he is far more dimensional in Hunting. And he is one irresistible hero! I even found myself thinking that wolves, at least the ones in the novel, were sensual and erotic. Though I find it strange that in this series the characters are shape-shifting vampires. I always thought that in these sorts of books the characters are either vampires or shape shifters, not both. But I suppose that paranormal fiction writers are free to be as creative as they want to be. Anyway, I also loved the medieval setting. The aforementioned setting added a great deal of magic and darkness to the story. This is classic Emma Holly! She awoke my senses, my heart and intellect with this phenomenal gem. There's a slight cliffhanger in Hunting, which means that there are more surprises to come. Perhaps the next installment will center on Gytha or Bastien. I cannot recommend this gem enough! But you have to read Catching Midnight first or else you won't know the whole story.he next installment will center on Gytha or Bastien. I cannot recommend this gem enough! But you have to read Catching Midnight first or else you won't know the whole story.	2004-05-06
680012:US	50774468	R2XFLBFMKNT0QD	0352338741	703294121	Feminine Wiles (Black Lace)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Smut novel with no plot...	This novel left me cold. Feminine Wiles is centered on a heroine who, despite having supposedly fallen in love with a passionate French artist, sleeps with everything with a pulse. The aforementioned exploits are expected in erotica, but I often like plot, eroticism and sensuality to back the scenes up. And the story of a woman who comes back home from vacationing in France to claim her late father's inheritance, only to encounter problems with her greedy, sadistic stepmother, isn't well developed, to put mildly. This is smut erotica with very little plot, characterization and sensual scenes to make it interesting. By far, one of the worst Black Lace books I've read. I agree with the other reviewers here. Skip it...	2004-05-05
680320:US	50774468	R15I7VR9B1XKVR	0553377868	735890843	The Flanders Panel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Clever, intriguing mystery!	Arturo Perez-Reverte is an amazing and truly gifted writer. Not only is he gifted in the art of spinning a creative, sophisticated, literary mystery, but also in jumping the cultural and historical boundaries. Julia, a woman who restores paintings for a living, is asked to help restore a fifteenth-century masterpiece. The painting depicts a chess game between the Duke of Flanders and his knight. But there is a message within -- a message that begins a whodunit search that is flooring...<br /><br />The Flanders Panel is a mystery enthusiast's dream come true. It breaks the tiresome mystery formula by adding bits and pieces of true originality. It is also filled to the brim with fascinating information about art, history and chess. I especially loved the history references centered on art. This effort flabbergasted me. I so look forward to reading more books from this brilliant author!	2004-05-05
683664:US	50774468	R3USAXELSS50F2	0373250584	285917287	It's Not You, It's Me (A Red Dress Ink Book)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Entertaining chick-lit (3 1/2 stars)...	Charlie, a struggling student-slash-artist, which makes her part of the &quot;something-slash-something&quot; generation, thought she'd never see Jasper, her former roommate, again after that ill-fated night in which she made a move on him only to get the dreadful &quot;it's not you, it's me&quot; speech. And the aforementioned thought is confirmed when she finds out that the sweet, generous aspiring songwriter is in a hardcore metal band. So imagine her surprise when she runs into him on a flight to London. They rekindle their friendship during a rather interesting beer tour. But will Charlie get real answers about that night? And, more important, does she still love her ambiguous friend? There are some fun twists throughout the novel.<br />It's Not You, It's Me is a romantic comedy about friendship, love and beer enthusiasts. I like the whole beer tour thing -- though I thought it was a strange storyline. I also like the whole unfinished business theme. This isn't the best Red Dress Ink novel out there, but it is a fun, light read from an up-and-coming Aussie author. I recommend it as a fine beach read...	2004-05-02
684121:US	50774468	R211RBWK64CWCJ	0156005891	865843112	Eden Close	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Can't go wrong with Anita Shreve!	Anita Shreve has once again enthralled me with her wonderful writing. Eden Close enthralled me from beginning to end. This novel entertained and engrossed me in a way that a novel of this sort hasn't done for a long time. The story centers on Andrew and his journey to self-discovery after his mother dies. While I guessed what the &quot;secret&quot; was early on, and I won't go into deal so as not to ruin it for the potential reader, it did not matter at all to the enjoyment of the novel. Full of twists and turns, what really makes this novel incredible, as well as all of Anita's other works, is her character development and her unique style of writing. She really makes me care about the characters in a way that you wish them well in their endeavors.<br />Not only do I recommend this novel, I guarantee that it will pull you in and won't let go until its final page. Also try The Pilot's Wife and The Weight of Water.	2004-05-02
685639:US	50774468	R2PV48BM9G4LX9	0446602612	243715630	The Poet	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Wonderfully creative and clever!	The Poet is one great book! Connelly's premise was very creative and great for bibliophiles and I'm glad I gave it a whirl! The killer uses Poe's literary works as a basis for his murders. What a fabulous way for Connelly to merge his genius with the brilliance of Poe -- one of the genre's greats. I just could not put this one down. I read this till the wee hours of the night. This is a great beach read and Connelly at his finest!	2004-04-30
686484:US	50774468	RCOSKJ8AV631P	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Beautiful, haunting and thought provoking!	Midwives is a wonderful book any way you look at it. The subject matter is definitely hard to swallow, but the reader gets a lot of insight into the birthing process -- perhaps a little too much information about the whole thing. The characters are very well written. And I find it amazing that a man was able to write from a young girl's perspective and be so dead on about it. Chris Bohjalian is a brilliant storyteller.<br />I couldn't put this book down. Some of the descriptions disturbed me as much as they enthralled me. This is a great book about love and family. The plot is also filled with twists that really keep the reader on his or her feet. I'm glad I gave this book a whirl and I cannot recommend it enough.	2004-04-30
686700:US	50774468	R1A4UXXHIZE1EN	0964894203	313682925	Secrets Volume 1 (Red Sage - Secrets Volumes)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Insatiable romantic erotica!	I loved this erotic anthology. It awoke my senses from beginning to end. And the best part is that this wonderful series illustrates various sub-categories of romantic erotica -- contemporary, historical and fantasy. My favorite out of the four novellas is Bonnie Hamre's A Lady's Quest. This historical story centers on a young widow's tenacious need to find a lover that could replace her lust for Dougal MacDonald, the gorgeous seventh Duke of Sutherland and notorious womanizer. But she'd never envisaged Dougal's delectable intentions. I savored this story like fine wine. It was as sensual as it was erotic. The Gift is my second favorite novella. I loved the historical elements and delicious erotic scenes. The Spinner's Dream is the weakest one out of the four, but it entertained me nevertheless. And I loved The Proposal. The aforementioned novella reads like a toned down Black Lace novel.<br />This is a memorable erotic anthology. The novellas' descriptions are rich with sensuality -- guaranteed to satisfy the reader. They're lighter than Black Lace books, but not sugarcoated like the rather formulaic erotic romance novels in Kensington Brava. I cannot wait to pick up the other volumes. Highly recommended...	2004-04-30
690313:US	50774468	RBM48IHS6QKMH	0352331208	133601919	Continuum (Black Lace)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Another hot novel from Portia Da Costa!	Joanna hadn't anticipated the strange occurrences that arise after she accepts a work sabbatical. No sooner does she take the work break than she is introduced to the dark and lurid world of domination and submission that centers on pleasurable spankings. Joanna finds herself in a continuum of surreal experiences as she, like an erotic Alice in Wonderland, tries to uncover the mastermind of the disarming, albeit smoldering pleasures...<br />I like the way the author illustrates this unique brand of BDSM. The novel is a dark and erotic delight. I loved the scenes centered on Kevin and Joanna, but the whole exploit with the transvestite Denis Davidson left me cold. The aforementioned scene was the least favorite parts of the novel. This is another great offering from Portia Da Costa. It isn't in the same realm as The Tutor, but it's a great erotic novel nevertheless. Black Lace has satisfied me (so to speak) once again with this great book. Highly recommended...	2004-04-27
690531:US	50774468	R2UQLQL3FK67E9	038572053X	163913586	Out of the Girls' Room and Into the Night: Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beautiful and disarming collection of short stories!	Out of the Girls' Room and Into the Night has several of the most memorable short stories I've read as of late. This collection of quirky and disarming stories is thought provoking and disturbing at times. The ones that touched me the most were the ones centered on eating disorders, infidelity and death. &quot;Grog,&quot; &quot;The Mushroom Girl,&quot; &quot;Flowers in the Dustbin, Poison in the Human Machine,&quot; and &quot;Accidental Love&quot; are my favorites. The aforementioned stories spoke to me. Are you in the bargain for a literary short story collection centered on women? I suggest you pick up this gem!	2004-04-27
691112:US	50774468	R2G7MUAG82B4IZ	0373250487	212913475	Rescuing Rose (Red Dress Ink)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Not Isabel Wolff's best, but better than most chick-lits...	What happens when an agony aunt's life is torn apart? Who does she go to for advice? Thirty-nine-year-old Rose loves to give advice for a living. In fact, she loves it so much that said career is the one responsible for the disintegration of her short marriage -- or at least that's what her husband says. Rose soon wishes that she, too, had her own agony aunt to help her with her crisis. But when she moves into a new home and her roommate is a sweet, handsome astronomy enthusiast ten years her junior, things turn rather interesting...<br /><br />Isabel Wolff uses her signature wit and relationship insights in this new installment. She's one of the best chick-lit authors out there. However, the novel should've been a bit shorter. Wolff has a tendency to create various subplots and situations that sometimes seem out of place. The story drones on for far too long. And the \\"twist\\" between Rose and her husband is too predictable and contrived to take into account. All in all, Rescuing Rose isn't Wolff's best effort -- not quite as good as The Trials of Tiffany Trott and Making Minty Malone -- but it's better than most of Red Dress Ink's books this year. I nevertheless recommend Rescuing Rose as a fun, no-fuss read.	2004-04-26
695694:US	50774468	R16XRFKUUA2RDZ	1843606194	537072378	Ties That Bind (Bound Hearts, Book 1)	Books	5	46	48	N	N	Another scorcher from Jaid Black!	Ties that Bind is one of the most smoldering erotic anthologies I've read as of late, and Jaid Black's Sins of the Father is the highlight of the book. Candy Morgan is James's nemesis. Her father had promised him a lucrative career and a place in the family, but then he discarded James without a moment's hesitation. Now Candy must surrender to James's dark desires and commands if she wants to keep her side of the business running. But little did she imagine that James had an unexpected agenda...<br />The erotic scenes in Father are insatiable beyond compare! The novella is full of Black's signature eroticism and mouthwatering descriptions. She is a great new voice in erotic fiction. I haven't been able to put down her books and I look forward to reading more of her stuff. Lora Leigh's Surrender, the other novella in Ties that Bind, is also a scorcher. These quickie reads will burn a hole in your sheets! I shall look into reading more of Ellora's Cave authors in the future. In the meantime, I recommend this book along with Jaid Black's The Possession.	2004-04-23
696049:US	50774468	R1LHN0Q4KMBY1A	0802140262	965622109	The Miracle: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another staggering effort from Mr. L'Heureux!	Having read and loved A Woman Run Mad, I couldn't wait to read another one of John L'Heureux's novels. The Miracle is the dark, thought-provoking tale of a charismatic, albeit somewhat arrogant priest and his trials and struggles as his chastity and faith take a turn toward disaster. Paul LeBlanc's life isn't the same after he is transferred from his South Boston parish to a small church in New Hampshire. When a teenage girl awakens after she had been pronounced dead from a drug overdose, Paul is convinced that the occurrence is a miracle. However, his life falls apart after he embarks on an affair with a woman and the teenage girl dies in an accident not long after the drug scare. There are some staggering, ironic twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The Miracle has the sort of disarming and dark language that I loved in A Woman Run Mad. John L'Heureux is a great author. I love his ironic language and disturbing stories. I look forward to reading more of his books. In the meantime, I highly recommend this gem...	2004-04-22
696706:US	50774468	R30RVAHE865LUX	0352334487	389183918	Velvet Glove (Black Lace)	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Another sexy read from Emma Holly!	I've become addicted to Emma Holly's erotic novels and I couldn't wait to read another one of her Black Lace offerings. Velvet Glove is a smoldering novel that centers on BDSM and other mouthwatering scenarios. Audrey is on the lookout for the perfect master, but things don't look too good when candidate number one, a influential millionaire, turns out to be a sadist and candidate number two, her old friend, is a big softy. But when she meets Patrick, a sexy barman and son of a famous politician, not only is the third candidate a charm, but she embarks upon a sexual odyssey that she hadn't envisaged. With sexy bondage scenes, man-woman-man threesomes and other scorching exploits, Audrey may have found the perfect dominant partner. But what's going to happen when she discovers that her sadistic ex-dom is stalking her? And will Patrick's misguided attempts to throw the stalker off affect his father's political career? There are various insatiable twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />This isn't the best Emma Holly novel I've read. But her trademark building of tension, smoldering scenes and excellent plot development and characterization aren't lost in this book. I especially love how she illustrates S&M in a more positive light. Ms. Holly is one of the best erotica authors of this era and I shall continue to read her books with gusto. I recommend Velvet Glove...	2004-04-22
700134:US	50774468	R2RU9QGU4PR77S	0425195260	870383513	One Dark Night (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Great erotic thriller from Jaid Black (4 1/2 stars)!	I loved Jaid Black's The Possession and couldn't wait to pick up another one of her smoldering books. I haven't been able to get copies of the books she wrote for Ellora's Cave, so I settled for her first mass market release. One Dark Night kept me turning the pages from beginning to end. It's full of the erotic scenes that I adored in The Possession. And this novel has a compelling story and memorable characters to boot. Dr. Nikki Adenike wants to make her submissive fantasies come true. So she sets out to search for the perfect dominant male on a D/s personals web site. But little did she know that her online Mr. Right is \\"Lucifer,\\" a sadistic serial killer with a penchant for powerful career women. She finds safety on the arms of Detective Thomas Cavanah, who awakens passions she's never allowed herself to envisage. There are some staggering twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />Ms. Black is still rather new at writing, so I agree with a previous reviewer's criticism regarding some loose ends in Black's writing -- Nikki's stupidity regarding her safety, various line repetitions, Thomas's strange possessiveness, etc. But said loose ends don't make the novel less appealing. I for one loved it. The erotic bondage scenes between Thomas and Nikki were hot, hot, HOT! And I thought the whole pistachio thing was very cute. I so look forward to reading more of Jaid Black's work, even if I have to read her stories on my computer screen.	2004-04-19
700747:US	50774468	R3TG15YUPW749W	1570065489	206074432	Zagat Survey: New York City Restaurants 2004	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent diners' guidebook!	This book has a permanent place on my bookshelf. I can see why New York enthusiasts swear by this guidebook. The book is arranged alphabetically, but diners can also locate restaurants divided by location, type of food, top ratings, most popular as well as by any special features. It also features the restaurants with the best New York Times reviews. Are you planning a trip to the Big Apple? I highly recommend this book for a fabulous meal in New York.	2004-04-19
701665:US	50774468	R3GXZQ15XI94L0	0352338474	644299408	Something About Workmen (Black Lace)	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Great fantasy situation fizzles out...	I'd heard great things about Alison Tyler before I decided to give one of her erotic novels a whirl. The premise of Something about Workmen fascinated me. The story of a successful Hollywood screenwriter having a rough, steamy affair with a gorgeous construction worker gave me the impression that I'd be reading a rather juicy erotic story. Well... there are some great scenes throughout the novel, especially the ones that center on Cat's illicit affair with the construction worker, especially since the protagonist is reluctant to leave her rich boyfriend, but the overall story and other erotic scenes are ho hum at best. I like erotic novels that enthrall me with a compelling story that mingles well with the erotica. This book bored me to tears. This is a disappointing Black Lace offering, especially after having read and adored The Ninety Days of Genevieve. I intend to read another of Alison Tyler's offerings to see if this novel's disappointment had been a fluke. I don't recommend this novel. However, people who aren't bothered with the lack of an interesting story would love this book if only for the steamy scenes with the protagonists...	2004-04-18
702373:US	50774468	R2SKXBVZ8ANBMH	0743410513	605962018	The Unburied	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Too disjointed for my taste...	The plot of The Unburied intrigued me so much that I started reading this book as soon as I bought it. At first, I thought the writing was quite imaginative. Charles Palliser has a rather vivid and compelling imagination. But as I continued to read I noticed that this novel lacked plot and characterization. There are so many dead ends and unimportant pieces of information that I felt lost. I don't always have problems with miscellaneous information, but it appears that the clues and so-called twists were thrown in for no reason other that to lengthen the book. At the end, I ended up closing the book with the intention of never opening it again. The writing is too disjointed to be enjoyed. Disappointing...	2004-04-18
706105:US	50774468	RFTCF0E2HMUSQ	0345436911	441036137	The Dress Lodger (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Beautiful and compelling historical novel!	Sheri Holman has given us a fascinating study of the weakness of the human heart with this fascinating novel. Set in cholera stricken England, The Dress Lodger is an interesting and engaging tale of Gustine, a young woman forced to be a &quot;dress lodger,&quot; who, in exchange for rent and the care of her frail, newborn child, wears an expensive dress and acts as an escort of sorts. She meets Henry Chiver, a doctor running from his past, and hopes that he may help her sick child. However, Chiver has his own agenda, first seeking dead bodies as his salvation, and then the live one of Gustine's son. There are various enthralling moments in this novel. The Dress Lodger is an excellent work of historical fiction filled with believable and heartbreaking characters. The story is wonderful and compelling -- full of twists and turns, minus the saccharine language that accompanies most historical novels. Highly recommended...	2004-04-14
707350:US	50774468	RB372E9M894SZ	0352330708	679806298	The Ninety Days of Genevieve (Black Lace Series)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	The BEST Black Lace book I've ever read!	This is by far the best Black Lace book I've read since Captivation! It proves that the heroine doesn't have to sleep with everything that moves to make the novel smolderingly and sinfully erotic. One of the few Black Lace books that center solely on the desires of the female and male protagonists, giving the book an unconventional romantic appeal, The Ninety Days of Genevieve is an insatiable story of uninhibited passions with a dose of BDSM, exhibitionism and voyeurism. Genevieve Loften knows that the signature of darkly handsome James Sinclair will put her on top of the career heap. But in order for him to be part of the advertising firm she works for, she has to submit to his desires for ninety days. Genevieve hadn't anticipated the unorthodox and insatiable sex games that the powerful James has concocted for her. There are various twists and delicious moments in this novel...<br /><br />The various fetishes in this book -- bondage leather clothes, high heels, exhibitionistic shows, etc. -- enthralled me from beginning to end. The best part is that the author didn't resort to tasteless scenes and cheap dialogue to address the same. The domination and submission in the novel is done in a sophisticated way that does not interfere with the eroticism. The motorcycle exploit is my favorite scene. James is my favorite character in the book. He was an enigma throughout the story. I fell in love with this character! This novel also has a compelling story that mingles well with the erotica. I marvel at how well written this novel is. Lucinda Carrington is a great author. It wasn't easy getting this book, but it was worth the effort! I cannot recommend this gem enough!	2004-04-14
710472:US	50774468	R1Y0OK1HXFP0OP	0060987529	558936324	Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A good retelling of Cinderella...	Cinderella, the real French story, not the sugarcoated Disney version, is my all-time favorite fairytale, and I couldn't wait to pick up Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister. This novel is told from one of the stepsister's point of view. The novel focuses on the circumstances that lead these three obscure characters to live with the beautiful girl that they hate and envy so much. From Margaret, Iris and Ruth, homeless and away from Britain, turning tricks in order to obtain a warm home in Holland to living with an eccentric artist, this fairytale paints a far more sympathetic picture of the evil trio. Of course, the story is dark and literary at times. Gregory Maguire does an excellent job in illustrating these characters in a different light. Also, I loved the fact that it was set during 17th-century Holland, which gives it the sort of historical elements that I love. This is a good, memorable retelling of the classic fairytale. Highly recommended...	2004-04-12
710546:US	50774468	R12SREINK5KWES	0373441789	440982858	Forget Prince Charming	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fun, cute read!	I was in the mood for something light and fun to read, so I picked up Forget Prince Charming. It satisfied my thirst for a no-fuss romantic comedy in more ways than one! Haley Watson has had it with gorgeous, charming men who turn out to be awful cheaters. So she's decided to forget Prince Charming and go for the frogs instead. But Rick, her gorgeous new neighbor, will give her some love lessons and make her realize that good and bad men come in all shapes and sizes. There are some fun and memorable moments in the novel. This is a fun, quick read to indulge in with gusto. Perfect for the beach! Highly recommended...	2004-04-12
712081:US	50774468	R2E56NVT7PPGEU	0352338970	750376818	Cooking up a Storm	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another hot, enthralling erotica from Emma Holly!	This novel is further proof of Emma Holly's talent. Cooking Up a Storm was one of Black Lace's all-time bestsellers and I couldn't wait to get my hand on a copy. I am so glad I came across this new trade paperback reprint. I like the fact that this erotica has a compelling story and intriguing characters. Abby Coates's Cape Cod restaurant, The Coates Inn, is about to go out of business. That is until Storm Dupre, a handsome and sensual chef, comes to the rescue. But he does far more than cook meals with recipes that seem to awaken the diners' libidos. He takes Abby into a sexual odyssey she'd never envisaged. She wants to experience as much intense passion as she can with as many people as possible. However, she has no idea that Storm's insatiable pleasures have a price -- ownership of The Coates Inn, to be exact. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />As said earlier, what I love about this novel is that it has a compelling plot and characters you grow to care about. Storm is my favorite character. His metamorphosis is far more palpable than Abby's. Abby's change from innocent flower to borderline nympho annoyed me at times. I hated her at the end. I couldn't help but notice that the changes the protagonists go through are quite ironic. I loved the scenes centered on Abby and Storm. Their erotic scenes are beautiful -- and I marveled at Storm's sexual confidence. I couldn't help but feel that he was too good for Abby. Even though this isn't a romance novel, I cared a lot about how this couple turned out. That's what happens when you read an erotic romance with good characterization and story development. Emma Holly never fails to surprise me. I've only read two of her Black Lace offerings and I cannot wait to pick up another one. I strongly recommend this to those with a penchant for smoldering erotica.	2004-04-10
712978:US	50774468	RFURX1BD51KEV	0767910303	858881598	The Epicure's Lament: A Novel	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Life according to Hugo Whittier...	Kate Christensen has grown a lot as a writer. Ever since her first novel, In the Drink, was wrongly categorized as \\"chick-lit,\\" her subsequent lead characters have been male. I loved In the Drink and Jeremy Thrane and couldn't wait for her next novel. The Epicure's Lament is a darkly funny novel about the philosophies of a forty-year-old cynic. After various misadventures involving runaways, drug dealing, living as a gigolo and leaving behind his wife and alleged daughter, all Hugo Whittier wants is a life of solitude. He's enjoyed a hermit's existence at Waverly -- an old, historical mansion overlooking the Hudson River -- where he intends to die of Buerger's disease, a condition caused by smoking. But things don't go as planned when his brother separates from his wife and moves in with him. To make matters worse, his estranged wife and daughter also move in. What transpires is a comic situation after another at the full house.<br /><br />I enjoyed the dark humor. Hugo is one flawed character! You'd love to hate him. He's the proverbial anti-hero. He has an interesting way of looking at life. His philosophies made me laugh out loud at times. Kate Christensen showed a great deal of promise with In the Drink -- and her novels have gotten darker, funnier and more literary. The Epicure's Lament is fine modern literature and I'm officially hooked on this author. I can't wait to pick up her next book.	2004-04-10
716178:US	50774468	R9NGSWEQOGWS2	0743477642	331941582	Bite	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Fun at times, but mediocre nonetheless (2 1/2 stars)...	I read this book some months ago but didn't write a review because I had nothing to say at the time. However, a few friends of mine have asked what I thought of it, so here goes. I thought this comic novel about two friends starting an original concept for a magazine was mediocre at best. The development of the plot is too slow and the secondary characters aren't well developed. The mishaps and disasters that occur at Tom's party are the highlight of the novel -- everything else revolves around the circumstances that lead to the development of Bite magazine and the misadventures that transpire when they work on the same. I think the novel is somewhat autobiographical, for the two main characters of the novel had thought of writing a novel together, not unlike the two authors of this novel (C.J. Tosh is a pseudonym). All I can say to my friends and other potential readers is that Bite has its fun moments, and said moments reminded me a lot of the show Will and Grace, but the overall book is nothing original or special.	2004-04-07
716305:US	50774468	R3HJNJ4VPFMHDJ	0352329351	448870565	The Gift of Shame (Black Lace)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A delightful gift!	I couldn't put this delectable little gem down! The Gift of Shame has a perfect blend of insatiable erotica, unconventional romance and smoldering BDSM. What I love about this novel is that it is sophisticated and beautiful. Helen had devoted six months of her life mourning her husband's death when Jeffrey comes along. No sooner does she get acquainted with the handsome stranger than he introduces her to dark, lurid games of domination and submission. The aforementioned games help her relieve some of the grief and guilt that haunt her. And the exploits that occur in a London apartment and during a Parisian excapade lead to some staggering and erotic twists...<br /><br />I love the scenes that center on Helen and Jeffrey. The scene between them while Helen is on the phone is my favorite. I also love the scene on the airplane. However, the story loses strength halfway through the book. I thought the scenes on the private Caribbean island were a bit boring. But the novel regains momentum after that. This is one of the best Black Lace books I've read. The novel is beautifully written -- Sarah Hope-Walker is a talented writer. This is a sophisticated novel of forbidden pleasures.  Highly recommended...	2004-04-07
716873:US	50774468	R245MLJPEK8HUF	0515135305	702796064	Catching Midnight	Books	2	10	13	N	N	How disappointing...	I haven't read paranormal fiction since Anne Rice's first installments of the vampire chronicles, but I couldn't resist picking up a book from one of my favorite erotica authors. I was disappointed with this effort. Catching Midnight is a slow-paced, unfulfilling book in more ways than one. Holly's trademark eroticism -- the padding out, exquisite sexual tension between the characters -- is notably missing. It just doesn't have the boldness of Menage, the smoldering erotic scenes of Personal Assets or the incredible building of tension of Beyond Innocence and Beyond Seduction. Ironically, I read on Holly's web site that she began her writing career with fantasy fiction. However, I think she has a real knack for erotica and she shouldn't give up on that. She's still one of my favorite authors though. I've purchased several of her books, including Hunting Midnight, which, of course, is the follow-up to this one. I was told that Hunting Midnight is much better. If you haven't read Emma Holly, don't start out with this book. Read her smoldering efforts published by Black Lace or her historical/erotic romance efforts from Jove.	2004-04-06
717470:US	50774468	R1W4UXDLS0DBOE	0972630015	284856859	Morbid Drive: A Comprehensive Study of Pure Evil, Dieting, and the Undead	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A great addition for comic book collectors!	I don't read comic books. I hadn't read a comic book until now. However, I promised the author that I'd give it a whirl. This is a very entertaining paranormal comic. The graphics are top notch (although I have no previous reference), the story is fun and kept me, a novice comic reader, interested from beginning to end. This would make a great addition to a comic book enthusiast's collection, which is why I'm sending it to my fifteen-year-old nephew. I'm sure he'll give Morbid Drive the word of mouth it deserves.	2004-04-06
718160:US	50774468	R3GB8EL18GXC7B	0156029049	761046301	Little Birds	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Hooked on Anais Nin!	Having read Delta of Venus, I couldn't wait to read another Anais Nin book. Little Birds is the follow-up to Venus. Again, Nin captures your intellect as well as your senses with her dark, lurid and erotic stories. \\"The Model\\" is my favorite vignette. Stories that center on painters of nude men and women and their models are always insatiable. This one, of course, is not an exception. I must point out, however, that this effort does not exceed Delta of Venus. The first collection is far more memorable than this one. Even so, Anais Nin explores female desires with unflinching clarity. Little Birds is a true masterpiece written by a woman for women. What beautiful effort! I shall read more of her work in the future...	2004-04-05
723547:US	50774468	R3E0IBW5V5WFBG	006056198X	832249848	Bleachy-Haired Honky Bitch: Tales from a Bad Neighborhood	Books	4	1	1	N	N	There goes the neighborhood!	I love this hilarious, engaging memoir. Hollis Gillespie (which in German means, &quot;hellish gargoyle&quot;) writes with unflinching honesty and undeniable wit. The memoir is a collection of old journal entries in which Hollis wrote about her family woes, career developments and adventures with her eccentric friends. I sort of expected this book to be a witty take on life, but what I hadn't expected was the dark and quirky humor. I loved it! Her mother's job building bombs for the government, the constant moving around and her strange friends -- namely Lary, the one obsessed with death and suicide -- made me laugh from beginning to end. This is one hilarious memoir! Highly recommended...	2004-04-01
723661:US	50774468	R2SC979WALCRT6	0385337639	738011644	Crow Lake (Today Show Book Club #7)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Wonderful, engaging read...	Mary Lawson's Crow Lake is a wonderful novel -- a work that will blow away all hype and expectations. The novel, which is narrated by Kate, a scientist in her late twenties, begins with the death of Kate's parents. What transpires is a beautiful and poignant story of how four siblings deal with life as orphans. Lawson delves into the depths of family relationships with wonderful clarity. One of the most unique things about this book is Kate's narrative style. We follow the story of what happened after her parents were killed, as that story somehow collides with her present story. She has been invited back to Crow Lake, but doesn't know how she'd handle things. Her predicaments are the consequences of the past. It fascinated and enthralled me. Mary Lawson has written a terrific, engaging read. Highly recommended...	2004-04-01
724515:US	50774468	R2JD5NZD1ZJPBN	0352333111	322258045	The Transformation (Black Lace)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Gorgeous, smoldering, riveting...	Natasha Rostova's Captivation is one of my all-time favorite Black Lace books and I couldn't wait to read another one of her succulent novels. The Transformation was not easy to obtain, but I'm sure glad I didn't give up until I found it! This is a book about Molly, Lydia and Casey. Each woman embarks upon a sexual odyssey in which she will never be the same. All of the sex scenes are delicious and smoldering, but the ones with Lydia and Nicholas are the juiciest in the book. I love how the author wrote these intertwined stories in the form of a modern fairytale. It was wonderfully creative and exceptionally well written. The Transformation isn't as memorable as Captivation, but it's one of the best BL offerings I've read thus far. Natasha Rostova is in the same rank as Emma Holly and Portia Da Costa. Black Lace should reprint this wonderful gem. I cannot recommend this novel enough. But good luck finding it!	2004-03-31
724530:US	50774468	RLEUJPEMOYKWJ	0972767266	357273007	If These Walls Could Talk: A Therapist Reveals  Stories of Change and How They will Work for You	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Very insightful book!	I thought this book was very informative. Dr. Habib has some interesting views on self-esteem and relationships -- and he is right on the money about almost everything. I thought the chapters on self-criticism, contentment versus happiness and the one where the author warns which type of men women should avoid were excellent and insightful. However, the ones that hit home the most were the ones that center on romantic relationships. Romantic Ideals that Hurt: The Bridges of Madison County spoke to me. I also loved the ones titled The Golden Fantasy and Affairs with Pretty Women. However, I disagree with some of the author's views on male and female sexuality. The author delved into the married woman's dwindling libido, but failed to do the same research on men. It is believed that men are more sexual than women, but there are a lot of men who are not, and the author did not broach this subject. I skipped some of the chapters that center on marriage and didn't read the ones on parenting at all, for the aforementioned subjects don't apply to me. As said earlier, I think this book is very insightful. I loved the case studies. This is a self-help book worth reading.	2004-03-31
728122:US	50774468	RMRHABDWM874H	0385336810	693014192	Can You Keep a Secret?	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Just as memorable as the Shopaholic series!	I have been reading some serious stuff and wanted to enjoy something light and fun. And what better way to do that than to read Sophie Kinsella's new novel? I was skeptical at first. I mean, could this novel be as good as the Shopaholic series? The answer is a resounding yes. Can You Keep a Secret? kept me turning the pages until the late hours of the night. Emma is hilarious! The situations that transpire after she discovers that the man she'd revealed all of her embarrassing secrets to during a turbulent flight is her company's top dog had me in hysterics! Emma is just as self-deprecating as Becky Bloomwood. She has the same fun tone -- that unmistakable Kinsella style. And I liked her takes on office politics and how the marketing industry is like. The only bad thing about the novel is Jemima. Could a character be any more annoying?!<br /><br />This has proven that Ms. Kinsella has talent that transcends the Shopaholic series. She has other stories and interesting characters to write about. But that does not mean that the reader has heard the last of Becky, for a new Shopaholic novel will be out later this year. Though it wouldn't have mattered to me whether or not it was a Shopaholic book -- I'd buy anything by this author. Sophie Kinsella has become one of my favorite chick-lit writers. I can't recommend this fun gem enough!	2004-03-29
729753:US	50774468	R1X5WCQJR0L7NA	0373250525	956753858	Starting From Square Two (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Very smart chick-lit!	I like women's fiction that's smart, insightful and thought-provoking as well as witty, sassy and fun. Starting from Square Two has all of those elements. It was refreshing to read about takes on the dating world from a young widow's point of view. It's been over a year since Gert's husband's fatal car accident, which is why her friends feel it's time Gert starts dating again. But what does Gert know about dating and men? After all, she got married right after college. Although it seems that her friends don't know much about dating and men either. They're still single, aren't they?<br /><br />I laughed and nodded in agreement at Caren Lissner's deep character study. Her takes on dating are right on the money. And she added wit and lightness to an otherwise serious subject matter. I loved Carrie Pilby, Lissner's first novel, and her second effort is even better! This is the best Red Dress Ink offering thus far this year. Highly recommended...	2004-03-27
731088:US	50774468	R35KUZBHCJ2REF	0743203968	785819131	The Body Artist: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Interesting, thought-provoking parable...	The Body Artist is an interesting, engaging rumination. I do, however, have one piece of advice: be sure you are in the mood to read this book. It's not your typical novel, because it appears to be flat and uneventful -- in other words, no plot to speak of. But it will make you think about the nature of identity and what makes us who we are. The Body Artist is really more of a parable than a novel. The two main characters -- Lauren, a &quot;body artist&quot; who turns her own body into nothingness and a strange man who had until recently lived secretly in her home and who has the gift of mimicking other people's voices, but with no voice of his own -- are interesting in their bizarre similarities. But nothing really happens to them. Even so, DeLillo writes with marvelous, beautiful prose. Read this if you are in the mood for something experimental, literary and thought provoking.	2004-03-26
731381:US	50774468	RIC25R48BP3ND	0352330198	974426673	The Amulet (Black Lace)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Beautiful, sensual erotica!	Black Lace redeems itself with this offering after the disappointment of various novels I had previously read. The aforementioned imprint should release historical or fanciful erotic novels more often, for I enjoy them far more than their contemporary counterparts. And this smoldering, sensual novel of Romans and Britons enthralled me from beginning to end. Catrina was adopted by the pagan Celts after a dangerous flood killed her family. Blessed with the ability to foresee danger with the help of a silver amulet, she becomes the priestess of the charlatan, sadistic leader of the tribe. When the tribe captures the beautiful Roman commander named Alexius, Catrina does whatever is possible to help the handsome stranger while the tribe prepares for the ceremony that will kill him. But when Alexius betrays her and escapes the tribe, taking her sacred amulet with him, she seeks revenge. However, things take an erotic twist when she arrives in the city of Eboracum, and neither she nor Alexius will ever be the same...<br /><br />The Amulet is full of mouth-watering sex scenes. The scenes with Catrina and Alexius were my favorites, but the rest were just as delicious. I hope Black Lace continues to release novels of this sort. Lisette Allen is a great author and I look forward to reading her other books. I couldn't recommend this little gem enough!	2004-03-26
731935:US	50774468	R27LEPQW4CE6XA	037570289X	685444613	A Widow for One Year: A Novel (Random House Large Print)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	My favorite John Irving novel!	A Widow for One Year has become my favorite John Irving novel. Many of his other works, while enjoyable, have put me off a little because the characters and plot are a bit over the top. This offering, while imaginative and entertaining, never gets to that stage. It's a big novel, spanning about forty years and has a satisfying, yet never hokey or corny ending. The characters, of course, are a bit quirky in their way, but said quirkiness is somehow more believable than in Irving's other novels. The story is a lot of fun and, because most of the characters are writers, allows Irving to explain and comment on the writing process. I sometimes felt he was answering his own critics while discussing the criticism of his character-writers. However, he has fun with the whole thing and never takes it too seriously, which is part of what makes this novel fun and enthralling. A Widow for One Year is a human story about loss and how far some of us would go for love. Highly recommended...	2004-03-26
737510:US	50774468	R2XCPHALCN5OVM	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	4	0	3	N	N	A wonderful, pleasant read...	Girl with a Pearl Earring is a wonderful and pleasant read. Not too challenging or thought-provoking, but an imaginative story that I think most people will enjoy. Tracy Chevalier has come up with an interesting concept. She takes an enigmatic Vermeer painting -- The Girl with a Pearl Earring -- and weaves an interesting and well-written story about it. Griet is a young woman whose family's financial luck has changed after an accident leaves her artisan father blind. She is hired as a teenage girl to work in Johannes Vermeer's household as a maid. But her own artistic gifts and sensibilities get the artist's attention. Griet soon begins to secretly assist him with his work. Griet ultimately models for the painter, and doing so creates conflict in her life...<br /><br />I found this an interesting read, perfect for a lukewarm spring day when you are searching for something substantial to read. I had a difficult time getting into this novel at first, but I soon warmed up to it. I love the historical references and Chevalier's lyrical writing style. I hope the film version has done this wonderful novel justice. I recommend The Girl with the Pearl Earring.	2004-03-21
737658:US	50774468	R1GU6NXOQELQCY	0515133086	310927993	Beyond Seduction	Books	5	65	67	N	N	A rich, mouthwatering scorcher historical/erotic romance!	Having read and loved Personal Assets, Menage and Beyond Innocence, Emma Holly has become my favorite erotic romance author. Her books are as exquisite and mouthwatering as chocolate with caramel. Though not as explicit as her Black Lace offerings, Beyond Seduction, a beautiful and romantic novel set in Victorian England, offers a scorcher of a novel full of sinful animalistic lust. And the best part is that it is solely centered on the protagonists. Merry Vance is a wild, free spirit. Marriage is the last thing on her mind. But when her manipulative mother, driven by blackmail, tries to force her into accepting her long-suffering suitor's marriage proposal, Merry takes matters into her own hands. In order to ruin her chances of marriage, she poses nude for Nicolas Craven -- London's most reputable painter and notorious womanizer. However, painting Merry is not the only thing on Nicolas's mind...<br /><br />This novel contains the most insatiable sex scenes recently written. And I thought I'd read smoldering scenes before! But the best part is what happens before Nicolas and Merry hit the sack. The scenes in which Nicolas seduces Merry are incredible. The building of tension made me tingle all over. And I loved the story. I love historical romances, but this one's the best I've read in a long time. I couldn't put this book down and savored the last pages like fine wine. Beyond Seduction has become my favorite Emma Holly novel. I so look forward to reading all of her books. In the meantime, I recommend this wonderful novel. It'll awaken your loins as well as your intellect. Your partner will be grateful once you're able to put this book down.	2004-03-21
738485:US	50774468	R1854P39SBSRZ8	0060928832	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Superb look into Western history!	From Dawn to Decadence is what you should have learned with your liberal arts education. It is a brilliant, entertaining, thought-provoking history of the last 500 years in the West. At times I felt like putting the book down, bowing down and saying, &quot;We are not worthy.&quot; Barzun is a brilliant man and only someone who has lived so long could have created this masterpiece. This is not a quick or fainthearted read. You won't agree with everything Barzun says, for he can be very opinionated (but not in an obnoxious way -- though I don't think he would want us to agree with all he says. Reading this book is like sharing the brilliance of a seasoned college professor. He wants you to think about history. I generally don't go for history books, I am much more of a fiction reader, but this was such a fabulous book. I would recommend it to any one with a penchant for history. From Dawn to Decadence is an enhancing, enriching read.	2004-03-20
738592:US	50774468	R3FKAACL0DDFOA	1562014013	65782745	Disciplining Jane	Books	1	4	6	N	N	The retelling of a classic that misses the mark!	Jane Eyre is one of my favorite classics and I thought that an erotic retelling of Charlotte Bronte's memorable heroine would be an interesting read. I agree with this book's preface about Jane Eyre having some algolagnic and sadomasochistic undertones throughout, but this retelling of Jane's rather interesting discipline at Lowood Boarding School misses the mark. I found it silly instead of erotic, wooden instead of smoldering. What disappointment! The unidentified author's imagination is nowhere near as overactive as Anne Rice's when she wrote the Sleeping Beauty series. I'll stick to the classic novel and its vague erotic implications -- whether they're real or imagined.	2004-03-20
743682:US	50774468	R3F7ZB871DKTBO	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Fascinating read!	I have always been a big fan of Barbara Kingsolver, but I wasn't thrilled with Prodigal Summer. However, this one blew me away. I can't believe I waited this long to read it! The story is very interesting, but it is the narration that makes this book special. Kingsolver tells the story through five different narrators with five distinctive voices and personalities. Sometimes the narration can transform what would otherwise be a dull scene into a hilarious story. The Poisonwood Bible is the story of the Price family -- a missionary, his wife and four daughters -- as they travel to Africa. Each family member reacts to the lifestyle change in various ways. Self-discovery is the theme in the novel. None of the main characters will be the same when the book is over.<br /><br />Barbara Kingslover does a wonderful job with the narration. It is difficult to write a novel with multiple points of view, but Kingslover makes it seem effortless. This novel enthralled me. I couldn't recommend The Poisonwood Bible enough.	2004-03-16
744663:US	50774468	R1GWKHWXKO3KI4	0345467566	62790053	When in Rome...	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Very entertaining!	This novel was such a fun reading experience. At first, I thought it was going to be one of those love triangle stories in which the heroine is torn between two men. Well, that is the novel's basic premise, but there is so much more! Georgie's ultimate fantasy has come true: Mike has come back into her life with his tail between his legs. Now she can let him how happy she is with David and show him what he's missed out on. Except that she still has feelings for him. And let's not forget the fact that he now owns a record company. He seems far more exciting than her homebody accountant boyfriend. And then Mike makes her ultimate dream come true by inviting her on a weekend holiday to Rome. But Mike's intentions are far more sinister than she'd thought. To make matters worse, David isn't as dull as she once thought he was. There are various interesting twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />I love this fast-paced, fun little gem. The descriptions and references to the film Roman Holiday made me want to purchase a ticket to Rome. It's one of the European cities I haven't visited and this book has reminded me that I should get away this summer. And I love the fact that this novel has a compelling, entertaining plot that isn't the usual \\"who am I going to choose?\\" drivel that's out there. My only complaint is that the heroine's naivete annoyed me at times. Sometimes I wish I could have entered the pages and point out the blatant situations. Other than that, When in Rome... is as wonderful as a delicious cup of cappuccino. Gemma Townley is a great new author. Awesome chick lit!  Highly recommended...	2004-03-16
744942:US	50774468	R1TEFNR7FNKYP1	0972437762	758525583	The Possession	Books	5	40	43	N	N	An enthralling sizzler!! Yum...	It wasn't easy finding this book. It wasn't available at bookshops and I wanted to get the paperback, not the CD-Rom version. Boy, am I glad that I didn't give up on it! The Possession is one of the sexiest, steamiest, well-written erotic romance novels out there! Jaid Black is right up Emma Holly's alley when it comes to writing risque, unconventional romance novels. Kris Torrence is an anthropologist who has had it with her uneventful life of academia. She wants to do something out of the ordinary for once in her life. And what could be less ordinary than traveling to a private gentleman's resort to fulfill her lifetime fantasy of experiencing sexual submission? She will leave her five cats behind and make the unconventional trip. She'll also be able to forget the rough and gorgeous Jack McKenna, her longtime nemesis. But she and Jake get more than they bargain for at the resort...<br /><br />The building of tension and subsequent sex scenes awoke all of my senses. This novel has the most smoldering erotic scenes I've ever read. And the best part is that Ms. Black does not sacrifice story development and characterization in favor of gratuitous sex scenes. In fact, there are no gratuitous sex scenes here -- there is a perfect blend of plot, erotica, romance and humor. And I love the fact that Jack McKenna isn't the typical perfect hero. He makes Kensington Brava's bad boys seem like sissies. I'm flabbergasted. This book was worth waiting for. I shall definitely read Jaid Black's other efforts with gusto!	2004-03-15
747379:US	50774468	R2BS84OMZ2BJ1R	0684856069	827786489	The Many Lives & Secret Sorrows of Josephine B.	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A lovely historical novel...	The Many Lives and Secret Sorrows of Josephine B. is an interesting and entertaining historical novel. Sandra Gulland has a wonderful and engaging gift for storytelling. It's told in diary form, starting when Josephine (then called Rose) was a precocious fourteen-year-old. The story of this compelling woman begins when a fortune teller predicts that Rose will be &quot;queen.&quot; She longs to leave her home in Haiti and travel to Paris. The opportunity soon presents itself and she begins an adventurous, remarkable life while at the same time enduring difficult times during the French revolution. Josephine is a survivor and her story is interesting and appealing. The language is beautiful and riveting. This novel is an excellent example of what makes historical fiction so irresistible to me. I'm a sucker for the same and I couldn't put this book down. Highly recommended...	2004-03-13
749068:US	50774468	R3OF2Z80Q0RJG	0352336587	383813788	Coming Up Roses (Black Lace)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Sexy, unconventional romance with some loose ends...	Black Lace's Coming up Roses is a good erotic novel with some loose ends. I'm going to start this review by pointing out the good things about this novel. I liked the original plot and dark humor. The story of two business rivals who try to outdo each other in erotic ways entertained me and made me laugh from beginning to end. I also loved the fact that the protagonists were landscape gardeners. The insights on the aforementioned profession made the novel all the more original. And, of course, I loved the insatiable sex scenes, especially the one in which Rosie gets tied up and ravished by the luscious Ben.<br /><br />What I didn't like about the novel is that the story is at times inconsistent. In the beginning, the reader learns that Rosie is a tad repressed. Then she embarks upon exploit after exploit like an old pro. Rosie going from somewhat inexperienced to borderline nympho is not only abrupt but downright unrealistic. Also, I wasn't crazy about the whole brothel thing. It did nothing for me. The male characters' fixation with breasts made me roll my eyes more times than I can remember. Rosie and Ben's hostility with each other annoyed me as well -- though I can't deny that their sex scenes were hot, hot, hot! Crystalle Valentino wrote a good, unconventional erotic/romance novel, but she should pace herself and watch out for repetitions next time. All in all, I recommend this novel because of its juice-flowing descriptions and unique plot.	2004-03-12
749443:US	50774468	R391F4BXY3RNUI	0618197338	504177010	The Best American Short Stories 2003	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Definitely got my attention, great collection!	Let's face it, superlatives sell. Who is going to buy a short story collection entitled: &quot;A Collection of Well Written Stories from a Bunch of Different People&quot;? Not too catchy, is it? So I admit that the title sparked my interest. That being said, this is a very good collection of stories. I will admit, some bored me to death, some I didn't care to read, but there are quite a bit of worthwhile reads than there are useless ones. Some of the stories blew me away -- particularly E.L. Doctorow's &quot;Baby Wilson.&quot; But there were some that I couldn't finish. But I'm glad I got to read this book. This collection introduced me to a number of writers I had never read before, some I hadn't read in a while, and some who I never miss out on reading. This collection, despite its few weak links, is strong and makes for enjoyable reading. I shall give the previous volumes a whirl.	2004-03-12
749494:US	50774468	RPR54VO7K1FXQ	0802433243	337642608	Only the Wind Remembers	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Beautiful, riveting, historical/spiritual tale!	This is one of the most beautiful books that center on spirituality that I've ever read. And it doesn't hurt that it is also a historical novel. I couldn't put it down. The subtle, yet lyrical language enthralled me from beginning to end. The year is 1911. The last Yahi Indian entered modern civilization for the first time. He is part of an anthropology museum exhibit, and he develops a friendship with its owners, especially with the troubled Allison. She and the Indian develop an unconventional friendship. He is compelled to tell her the story of Yuna and the Great Eagle. Allison hadn't anticipated that this strange tale would open up old wounds and lead her to self-discovery...<br /><br />I love the language, the insights on Indian culture and the historical and spiritual references. I also loved the symbolisms throughout the novel. It's reaffirmed my faith. The characterization is wonderful -- Allison, Thomas and Ishi are the most compelling characters in the novel. Although I think the unraveling of secrets and lies at the end has a soap opera feel, the overall novel is one the most riveting and literary efforts I've read thus far this year. This novel is as soothing as a cup of hot cocoa on a winter night. I couldn't recommend it enough.	2004-03-12
756194:US	50774468	R3MM5F1N5MF1EQ	0758205511	989613496	Bad Boys To Go (Watson Brothers)	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Mediocre (2 1/2 stars)...	This book is a big disappointment. Either Kensington Brava should get new authors or they should put a stop to the Bad Boy series while it's still lukewarm. Each story in Bad Boys to Go lacks a compelling and memorable plot. Bringing Up Baby didn't live up to Foster's reputation as one of the best romance writers of this era. This story was a chore to read. As was Nancy Warren's Going After Adam. There are quite a few erotic scenes, but no plausible story to back it up. Which brings me to Janelle Denison. There's no doubt that the sex scenes in her stories are few of the steamiest in the erotic romance genre, and I love the Wilde series. The Wilde One is the better story of the three in this book. Adrian Wilde, the youngest of the Wilde brothers, whose stories can be found in I Brake for Bad Boys and Wilde Thing, is known for being adventurous, daring, noncommittal and, of course, wild. After four months of avoiding Chayse Douglas's proposal of posing for a beefcake calendar, the pretty and tenacious photographer could well be Adrian's perfect match. As said earlier, this is the better novella of the three. However, I do have a word of advice for all three writers. I love erotica and I love romance, but I also love a good, interesting story. And that's exactly what's missing in this latest installment. If Brava continues to release Bad Boy books, then I hope that the future offerings are as good as I Love Bad Boys and I Brake for Bad Boys.	2004-03-07
756307:US	50774468	R28YJPVYHGVJEJ	0151008116	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Beautiful!	Yann Martel's Life of Pi is a wondrous, marvelous novel. There is much to wonder and marvel at in this wonderful book. The story is simple, yet complex at the same time and can be read on many levels. On the surface, this is the story of a young man who grows up in India and at sixteen, en route to Canada with his family, finds himself the sole survivor of a shipwreck, afloat on a lifeboat with a Bengal tiger. The story is divided into two sections. The first parts centers on the boy's life as a young zookeeper's son. As a boy, he decides to become a practicing Catholic, Muslim and Hindu, all at once. His ruminations on zoo keeping and religion lay the groundwork for his strength to want to survive on a lifeboat with a Bengal tiger. Beyond the story, however, is an examination of religion and of how to write about the religious experience. It is an examination on the strengths (and weaknesses) of religious belief. I had a difficult time getting into this novel at first, but the progression of the story compelled me to finish it. I'm glad I did. The novel ends with a philosophical bang, which I won't spoil for the readers. Martel impressed me with the wonderful and flooring ending. Life of Pi is not a typical novel. It is a unique, compelling, enchanting reading experience. I highly recommend it...	2004-03-07
757778:US	50774468	R24KRNDRC9A6O5	0743222628	774429257	The Best American Erotica 2004	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Great stories!	What I love about The Best American Erotica 2004 is that the stories have a great balance of plot, characterization and erotica. They're wonderful and literary -- something to stimulate the mind as well as the loins. I like the dark humor of &quot;Two Guys, a Girl, and a Porno Movie,&quot; the irony in &quot;The Disabled Loo,&quot; the starkness of &quot;The Cool Cat,&quot; and the fetish in &quot;The Girdle Boy&quot; (which is also featured in Best Fetish Erotica). I hadn't liked the previous installments as much as I liked this one. Susie Bright has chosen some memorable and interesting stories this time around. I recommend it to all erotica enthusiasts. This is a must-have anthology!	2004-03-05
758995:US	50774468	R1JLQRH8ID8LTU	0373250509	477314930	Fat Chance (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Interesting and ironic...	Fat Chance is the best Red Dress Ink offering this year. Well... that doesn't say much because I haven't been impressed with this year's RDI books thus far. But this novel's plot is rather interesting and compelling. Maggie O'Leary is America's anti-diet guru. Her column is a cause celebre amongst overweight readers nationwide. But when a gorgeous Hollywood star hires her as a consultant for his next film, Maggie forgets about everything she's been fighting over and decides to hit the treadmill. But she has got to look ravishing for sexy Mike Taylor. But is it worth jeopardizing her career? After all, being overweight is a job requirement...<br /><br />The scenes in which her peers and co-workers attempt to make Maggie eat and keep her big made me laugh. The irony wasn't lost on me, and that's what makes the novel's twists interesting to me. Deborah Blumenthal's insights on society's obsession with thinness are compelling and honest. She is a keen observer. My complaint about this novel is that the secondary characters aren't fully developed. I feel that Tex, Tamara and Mike lack depth and realism. And that is why I find the ending a tad contrived. Also, I didn't like the novel's structure. Sometimes the articles and factoids in the chapters make it seem more like a diet or lifestyle how-to book at times. All in all, this is a great book to read. To me, Fat Chance is the counterpoint of Jane Green's Jemima J. and a great companion to Jennifer Weiner's Good in Bed. Good read...	2004-03-04
762275:US	50774468	R3N7QMAM7LZBZA	0373250479	786340304	Slightly Settled	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Slightly Settled -- my sentiments exactly about RDI...	Before I begin, I'd like to give my takes on Red Dress Ink. This year's offerings have a \\"been there, done that\\" feel to them. Having read wonderful and memorable Red Dress Ink installments last year such as A Clean Slate, Losing It, Carrie Pilby, Diary of a Blues Goddess and My Life Uncovered (just to name a few), this year's books have thus far failed to impress me. I feel as though I'm reading the same book over and over again. Alas, the year has barely begun and I shall wait and see if things improve. To be on the safe side, however, I shall only pick up new RDI releases from my favorite authors (i.e., Erica Orloff, Melissa Senate, Lindsay Faith Rech and Lynda Curnyn) after I finish the RDI I'm currently reading called Fat Chance.<br /><br />Moving on to Slightly Settled. Slightly Settled, the sequel to Slightly Single, has its moments of wit and insight on being single. Despite her struggles in the first installment, which included losing weight and working on her relationship with the wayward Will, Tracey's life hasn't changed as much as she had thought. And so, further efforts to climb the corporate heap and find to true love in New York City are again in store for the frustrated heroine. The novel is a light, fun and entertaining chick-lit. Ms. Markham is a good writer. And readers who aren't bothered with the recycled plot will love this book. However, it just wasn't good enough for me.	2004-03-02
766097:US	50774468	RRBIDIMBLL3MH	0352330058	852077286	The Stallion (Black Lace)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Exquisite, smoldering erotica!	Having recently read a couple of bad (to put it mildly) Black Lace books, the aforementioned imprint redeems itself with The Stallion. This is an excellent novel that mixes smoldering erotica with a compelling plot. Penny Bennett is an ambitious equestrian and she'll gain the sponsorship of the largest equestrian sponsor at all cost, even if it means surrendering to the rather unconventional lifestyle of the Beaumont household. Nadine Beaumont is a no-holds-barred dominatrix who treats her investments like ponies. Not only is Penny willing to submit to Nadine to get what she wants, but she'll also seduce Alister Beaumont -- Nadine's gorgeous and sensual brother.<br />The sex scenes are insatiable and the development of the story is quite precise. The novel centers on BDSM and voyeurism. Georgina Brown writes erotica quite well. The Stallion isn't as memorable as The Captivation or The Tutor, but it shall appease erotica enthusiasts. I recommend it.	2004-02-28
766762:US	50774468	R3R503BZS9CEO6	0553580078	119744907	The Years of Rice and Salt	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great imaginative read!	The Years of Rice and Salt is a tremendous undertaking, and if Kim Robinson does not take it as far as it can go, so what? This is still a wonderful novel of alternative history. Covering a thousand years of such unconventional history is ambitious and makes the novel work. The story centers on a few souls (who conveniently always have names beginning with the same letter) wiped out by the plague in Europe. The souls are reborn and many times make the same mistakes from prior lives. Robinson certainly has his opinions on what works in our current civilization and extrapolates these ideas into his overactive imagination. This is an interesting, imaginative book that I found quite pleasurable to read. It can be a lot of fun if you don't take it too seriously. Highly recommended...	2004-02-28
771764:US	50774468	R2OBPMNOJDRPUK	0060555513	583963115	The Last Goodbye	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Powerful, entertaining thriller!	I don't like this sort of thriller because I cannot help but picture a big-budget Hollywood movie deal lurking in the background, but The Last Goodbye is a gripping, powerful, can't-put-it-down suspense novel. I hadn't expected to like it as much as I did. This book sucked me in and didn't let go until its flooring ending. Jack Hammond had a thriving career as a civil attorney. That is until he set eyes on a beautiful, desperate woman who sought his services regarding her boyfriend's drug case. The incident results fatal to both his heart and his career. Now that he's a bottom-tier criminal defender, fate does another dangerous game on him. Jack's friend Doug is found dead. The police dismiss it as suicide, but various inconsistencies arise as Jack refuses to let the case rest. What transpires is a complex, enthralling rollercoaster ride of hacking, espionage, medical conspiracies and brutal murders. To make matters worse, he falls for a beautiful and complex opera singer with a mysterious past. I don't want to get into details, for I don't want to spoil the plot, but I can sum up by saying that there are some interesting twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />What I love most about The Last Goodbye is the backdrop of Atlanta's underbelly. The topics of race, interracial romance, drugs, inner-city neighborhoods and crimes are insightful and realistic. The aforementioned backdrop and topics are my favorite aspects of the novel. I also love the fact that the story is ironic at times. Reed Arvin is a very talented writer. As said earlier, I often read this sort of book with a cynical eye, for I can't help but wonder who will star in the inevitable film version, but this novel floored me.  It's one of the best thrillers out there -- much better than The DaVinci Code and Paranoia. Highly recommended...	2004-02-24
772852:US	50774468	R3UMO9JSPTNF76	0515130990	612858686	Beyond Innocence	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Beyond insatiable erotic/historical romance!	I don't often read traditional romance novels, but I couldn't resist the fact that Emma Holly had penned this one. I am so glad I gave it a whirl! This is one of the most insatiable erotic/historical romance novels I've ever read. Florence Fairleigh has lost her father and financial security. She has to marry someone who could give her the financial and moral support that she now needs. So, she travels from Lancashire to London to improve her prospects of finding the same. As luck would have it, she finds the perfect candidate.  Edward Burbrooke seeks a wife for his brother Freddie -- for a marriage is the only thing that could save his brother from the scandals and rumors surrounding his sexual preference. But little had Edward envisaged the aching lust and soaring feelings the sweet, albeit sensual Florence has kindled in him.  Will he be able to resist temptation?<br /><br />I love the mounting tension between the protagonists, the delicious eroticism and the story's fluid motion. However, what I liked most about this novel is the setting -- Victorian England. I'm a sucker for historical novels and the romance and eroticism in this novel are the icing on the cake. Emma Holly has become one of my favorite erotic writers. I like the not-holds-barred erotica she writes for Black Lace, but she's proven that she has a knack for romance as well. I recommend this beautiful novel. Again, I'm glad I gave it a whirl.	2004-02-24
776202:US	50774468	R20JC00QZ4WKDW	0684873532	604085846	Selah's Bed: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beautiful, sensual read...	Selah's Bed is a sensual story about a tormented young photographer who uses sex as a weapon against her torrid past. Selah is a photographer of nude black men, a profession that awakens her darkest, most devious desires. Even though she is married to the love of her life, who also happens to be a minister, she is unable to relinquish her sexual impulses. Her feelings about her mother, grandparents and the pain of abandonment still haunt her. Will she be able to come to terms with her past and live a normal life?<br />I disagree with the reviewers that say that this novel is disjointed. Jenoyne Adams writes with beautiful, lyrical prose. She describes Selah's torment with insight and darkness. Selah's life is a complex puzzle that is put together as the novel progresses. I absolutely love this novel and I cannot recommend it enough...	2004-02-21
776249:US	50774468	R18D422TZYPBFP	0743411358	204129885	True to Form: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Heartwarming coming-of-age story!	Elizabeth Berg's True to Form is a heartwarming coming-of-age story about Katie Nash -- a precocious thirteen-year-old -- and the important lessons that she learns on the summer of 1961. Katie feels like a loser. Not only does she have a job looking after three brats, she also has to care for her elderly neighbor Mrs. Randolph. In order to get reacquainted with the past, she wins a trip to her hometown to see her best friend Cherylanne. However, Katie is about to face some harsh realities. She also learns the true value of friendship...<br />This novel is funny, heartwarming and memorable. Katie made me laugh on various occasions; she also touched me in so many levels. Having loved Never Change and Open House, I knew I'd love this offering. Ms. Berg hasn't disappointed me. I couldn't put this novel down. Berg penned to other books about Katie and I look forward to reading them. In the meantime, I strongly recommend this wonderful gem.	2004-02-21
777378:US	50774468	R2BJZA2072TZOQ	0385720726	830620243	You Are Not a Stranger Here: Stories	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Haunting, dark, thought-provoking stories!	My only complaint about Adam Haslett's collection of short stories, You Are Not a Stranger Here, is that I wish there were more of them. These stories make immensely thought-provoking reads. They suck you in and don't let go. What makes this collection riveting is that the stories are centered on various mental illnesses. My favorites are &quot;The Beginnings of Grief,&quot; &quot;Notes to My Biographer,&quot; and &quot;The Volunteer.&quot; The aforementioned stories disturbed me to the core. I couldn't put this book down. Are you in the bargain for dark, disturbing and truthful short stories? Pick up this wonderful gem!	2004-02-20
778079:US	50774468	RJ8AF34UT5E2M	0352334533	872320851	Doctor's Orders (Black Lace)	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Cheesy, boring, ridiculous...	I had neither the desire nor the inclination to finish up this book. The plot is cheesy, the story is boring and the sex scenes are cheap and useless. The story of a young doctor who discovers that the new private hospital she works for is also a place where people go to seek pleasure intrigued me at first. However, this book and its erotic scenes read like a tacky, low-budget porn film. The BDSM scenes are especially ridiculous. I like erotica that awakens my intellect as well as my senses. Deanna Ashford has disappointed me with this book. She did a great job with Wild Kingdom, but this one misses the mark in more ways than one. Black Lace has let me down again. I hope that the next Black Lace book I read will be something like Menage, Wild Kingdom, The Tutor or The Captivation.	2004-02-20
781328:US	50774468	R3UP5GGKWM3SWX	0758206267	653634081	The Wife Of Reilly	Books	4	25	33	N	N	At long last: an original chick-lit!	I've been disappointed with the run-of-the-mill novels that Kensington Strapless has thus far provided. To this day, Red Dress Ink, and sometimes Downtown Press, had been the only imprint that (sometimes) printed original chick-lit. That is until I read The Wife of Reilly. This novel turned out to be one fun surprise! The story is original and edgy, the characters are interesting and compelling, and the dialogue is sharp and crisp. Prudence Malone is the proverbial anti-heroine. Her actions appalled and entertained me at the same time. When she gets reacquainted with her long-lost love of her life, she agrees to marry him. But there's a catch: she's married to nice guy Reilly. So she sets out to find a new wife for Reilly. She wants to make things right for everyone involved. After all, &quot;Why dump a husband when you can recycle?&quot; That way she'll enjoy a guilt-free life with her new hubby. And everyone is happy -- right? Her misguided attempt to do what she believes is the right thing leads her to self-discovery. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br />I marvel at Jennifer Coburn's ability to create a dark, original and ironic chick-lit. Ms. Coburn is a great new author on the rise. And I'm glad that Kensington Strapless has released such a smart, witty, compelling and, more important, original gem. I shall give this novel the word of mouth it deserves. This book will certainly not end up in the recycling bin!	2004-02-17
782043:US	50774468	R2F4YVMLTHZJ0H	0060562080	141165820	Under the Duvet: Shoes, Reviews, Having the Blues, Builders, Babies, Families and Other Calamities	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Fun and insightful look into the author's life!	Under the Duvet is a fun, quick look into the life of Marian Keyes, one of my favorite chick-lit novelists. She shares her takes on shoes, yoga, writing, marriage and other tidbits with wit, insight and earnestness. However, there are some entries that appear to have been embellished or exaggerated for comic purposes. For instance, the entry about traveling to Los Angeles to discuss a potential movie deal reminds me a great deal of Margaret in Angels. Keyes, like Margaret, exaggerates about the L.A. lifestyle to the max. Also, her entries about the magazine industry are not unlike the ones in Sushi for Beginners. I understand that she's taken bits of her life and added them to her novels -- every author does that -- but the aforementioned entries have fictional elements. I feel that nonfiction should be 100% factual. Other than that, Under the Duvet is a great treat for die-hard Marian Keyes fans. You'll laugh and nod in agreement. This book is a great reminder of Keyes's talent. I await The Other Side of the Story, her next novel, with utmost anticipation.	2004-02-17
782193:US	50774468	R1WFG2HXQL01X0	0066209420	128292828	Limbo, and Other Places I Have Lived: Stories	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Incredible work of short fiction!	I know of people who don't like short fiction. They feel that short stories lack the emotional power of a fully developed novel. Not so with the stories in this collection. With Limbo, and Other Places I Have Lived, Lily Tuck gives us a quick and sometimes fleeting glimpse into the inner workings of various fascinating women. Tuck is right on the money about the excuses some women make to keep themselves from moving forward. All of the stories in this collection are powerful, insightful gems that give you the full picture. Ms. Tuck has the ability to let you see beyond the surface because each story has tremendous depth. I challenge short fiction skeptics to give this wonderful book a whirl.	2004-02-17
790171:US	50774468	R117ZKYU5QCRV4	0786709154	518997346	The Mammoth Book of Best New Erotica, Volume 1 (Mammoth Books)	Books	1	9	18	N	N	Best New Erotica?  I don't think so!	This is the worst collection of short-story erotica I've ever read. The scenes lack heat, the characters are wooden and the stories are pointless. I like erotica that awakens my senses -- this book is the equivalent of a cold shower. The only stories I found acceptable were Anya Ross's The Editor vs. The Author and Michael Hemmingson's Movements. The rest of the stories in this anthology belong in the Penthouse forum. I shall stick to reading old and literary erotica from the likes of Marquis de Sade. The only new erotica I want to read are the fun novels from the Black Lace series.	2004-02-11
790334:US	50774468	RXDXOZYN6ZBY2	0352332549	377685686	The Seven Year List (Black Lace Series)	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Disappointing...	The Seven-Year List left me wanting more -- and not in the good way. I thought the story of four high school friends who attend a seven-year high school reunion to see if they've reached their goals and sort out unfinished business would supply a story full of uninhibited passion. Instead, the plot is weak, the characters are one-dimensional and the sex scenes lack heat. The only part I found remotely sensual was the one in which Julia seduces a young musician during a photo shoot. I just couldn't get into this novel. To make matters worse, some of the scenes are degrading in ways that the author hadn't intended them to be. At least I don't think Ms. Zoe Le Verdier wanted her characters to come across as dumb, demeaning and superficial. This is the weakest Black Lace offering I've read thus far. Skip this book and read The Captivation by Natasha Rostova or Menage by Emma Holly instead.	2004-02-10
791477:US	50774468	R4ECAD9JANCQ2	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Lives up to the hype (3 1/2 stars)...	Adam Cassidy knew that embezzling money would ruin his career. But instead of ending up in prison, he goes from doing gopher work to having the proverbial corner office. He drives a fancy car, possesses an unlimited bank account and is able to cover his father's medical expenses. However, he's achieved said merits by submitting to blackmail and becoming a corporate spy. And things take a turn toward disarming...<br />I am not a fan of this sort of thriller, but I nevertheless enjoyed Paranoia. I like the fact that Adam is the cynical, apathetic type. The aforementioned character makes the novel interesting for me. I did not like the corporate jargon and the you'd-better-carry-plenty-of-KY-Jelly retorts that seem to come straight out of a blockbuster film starring Tom Cruise. I have no doubts that a successful film will be made out of this novel. Paranoia isn't food for the brain, but for sheer entertainment value it can't be beaten. Recommended...	2004-02-10
793376:US	50774468	RHCUR3OU2UEE7	0385474490	768938166	Voices of the X-iled	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Powerful and literary short-story collection!	This beautiful short story collection blew me away!  The writers' takes on Generation X have an extraordinary balance of wit, insight and notable literature. Tamara Jeffrie's &quot;Black Tea,&quot; David Foster Wallace's &quot;Girl with Curious Hair,&quot; and Amanda Filipacchi's &quot;Nude Men&quot; (a vignette taken from the novel with the same name -- Nude Men is one of my all-time favorite novels) have elements of magical realism in them. Although this book appears to be targeted toward Gen X readers, this is a timeless and ageless anthology that is to be savored like fine wine. I couldn't recommend this book enough...	2004-02-08
793444:US	50774468	R26PVIK09KISZ4	0373250495	526422149	Speechless (Red Dress Ink)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Fun effort (3 1/2 stars)...	Speechless is a fun, quick novel centered on office politics. Libby McIssac, a six-foot tall giantess and aspiring author, realizes that her new government position as the Minister of Culture's speechwriter consists more of gopher work than of actually writing speeches. To make matters worse, she's caught her thirteenth wedding bouquet and her love life is in a state of paralysis. Will she be able to handle Margo, her archrival and nemesis at the office? Will she choose the adorable Tim over her arrogant, albeit gorgeous, British colleague? And will she ever write a book?<br />This isn't the best Red Dress Ink offering, but it does offer a good dose of wit and insight on office politics. I was able to relate to some of the situations. I, too, have encountered my fair share of Margos throughout my career. Collins and Rideout's takes on Canadian politics are very informative. I also like the setting (Toronto) and quirky characters. Libby, though irritating at times, has a sarcastic tone that made me laugh in various occasions. All in all, this is a nice, quick read.	2004-02-08
794332:US	50774468	R3TID5SQVCB38P	0684804441	987000028	The Snows of Kilimanjaro and Other Stories	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Beautiful, riveting short fiction from Mr. Hemingway!	This collection of short fiction is a reminder of Ernest Hemingway's place as one of the best authors of all time. The Snows of Kilimanjaro is full of Hemingway's wonderful, clear and timeless language and prose. &quot;A Clean, Well-Lighted Place,&quot; &quot;A Day's Wait,&quot; and &quot;The Killers&quot; possess profound sadness and sentimentality. My favorite story is the semiautobiographical &quot;Fathers and Sons.&quot; Hemingway illustrates his feelings about his father's suicide with rich, albeit sharp, prose. The subject title is also a wonderful story. This isn't Hemingway's best work, not as powerful as The Sun Also Rises and A Farewell to Arms, but it's a memorable book nevertheless. His short stories have always touched me, and these aren't the exception.	2004-02-08
797709:US	50774468	R2N1R9VK6C5ATA	0399150838	142987744	So Many Books, So Little Time	Books	4	5	7	N	N	From one book lover to another...	...I have to say that this memoir spoke to me. I identified with the author's passion for books. She doesn't just offer insight on the books she reads during the course of a year, she lets us into her library -- a book lover's proverbial sanctuary -- in a deep, personal level. At times it felt as though Ms. Nelson and I were participating in a co-read. I loved her takes on the similarities and differences between Madame Bovary and Anna Karenina. She penned my thoughts on the aforementioned classics down to a tee. I nodded with agreement that, to her, books are &quot;secret lovers.&quot; And I, too, get heartburn when I have to loan one of my books. Of course, I also disagreed with some of Nelson's takes on certain books, but her opinions and insights, however disagreeable, were duly noted. This memoir is a rich and enlightening reading experience. I'd like to sit and discuss books with this person. From a book lover to another, I put my hat down...	2004-02-05
801096:US	50774468	R3UT45ZPH0847R	0060536683	987464885	The Not-So-Perfect Man	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Frankel's best yet!	The Not-So-Perfect Man is Valerie Frankel's latest romantic comedy. The novel centers on the love dynamics of three sisters. Frieda is a thirty-five-year-old widow who hasn't found a man that comes close to her late husband. That is until she meets Sam. The sex and chemistry are so strong that she's willing to overlook the fact that Sam is a struggling actor with no money. To make matters worse, he isn't a suitable father for her son. Big sister Ilene has the perfect candidate for Frieda. She is so involved with making Frieda happy that she fails to notice that her marriage is dwindling. All she does is criticize her husband's weight gain. Betty, the youngest sister, has weight issues of her own. As a result, her bitterness alienates men. What transpires is an earnest, fun and insightful romantic comedy with a great deal of heart and soul. The Not-So-Perfect Man is far more substantial than Smart vs. Pretty and The Accidental Virgin. Valerie Frankel has created a story with characters that are compelling and wonderful. The characters -- namely Betty, Ilene and Peter -- are flawed, and said flaws make them solid and real. You'll find yourself caring about these people and wishing them the best. Are you in the bargain for a droll, smart chick-lit? I urge you to give this wonderful novel a whirl.	2004-02-02
802216:US	50774468	R2O5U1WQLWOFRK	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A beautiful, compelling novel!	This novel blew me away, and I think that most people would react that way. However, don't read this book if it offends you when someone takes liberties with Biblical history. The Red Tent is the story of Dinah, Jacob's daughter. She narrates in a beautiful voice that is all at once lyrical and poetic. Her story, while heartbreaking, is also a celebration of what it is to be female. She begins telling us about what happened before she was born, how Jacob came to have four wives, how his sons were born. Her focus is on the wives and their tradition of abiding in the red tent during menses. While they are there, the woman bond and after she, the only surviving daughter of Jacob, is born, she spends much time there with her mothers, learning female traditions of midwifery. Her story is familiar, yet not the same as in the good book. Diamante's story is breathtakingly imaginative. Leah and her sisters come alive in this novel. While reading it, you are in the red tent. The characters are believable, the story compelling. We follow Dinah throughout her life and experiences. Her pain and her pleasures come alive. This novel comes alive from the first page and you won't be able to put it down. Highly recommended...	2004-02-02
803939:US	50774468	R3UL80J3JVJZY5	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Superb piece of work!	Geraldine Brooks' Year of Wonders is a superb novel. It's an intelligent, engaging, emotional read. Anna Firth is a survivor, in many ways. She survives the plague, which utterly decimates her village. When the plague arrives, she has already lived through various adversities. Her father abused her and her husband died in a mining accident, left her a widow with two young children at the age of eighteen. As disease rips through her village, Anna works with the minister's wife, trying to provide solace and comfort to the rest of the village. The plague is not the only killer in these times -- hatred, jealousy and prejudice have destroyed the lives of the townspeople. The unnerving experience makes Anna a stronger person. The aforementioned statement may sound trite, but said statement is the overall essence of this novel -- and it works. There are parts of the story that literally had me in tears. I cannot recommend Year of Wonders enough. It is a superb, beautiful and compelling read!	2004-01-31
804094:US	50774468	RVM4CP1SQDEQ3	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Definitely worth reading...	The Hobbit is one of those novels that I'd put off reading for a long time. I often had difficulty getting past the first few pages. This isn't my sort of read, for I've never been into this sort of fantasy-and-magic-realism-for-children genre. But then I couldn't put it down the second I decided to give it a whirl. The Hobbit is a well written, engaging, and oftentimes humorous work of fantasy. It is aimed at a youthful audience and I think it would be a marvelous next step for Harry Potter fanatics. That is if said fanatics hadn't read this classic gem beforehand. In any event, this novel is far better written than the aforementioned popular series. This book is a wonderful revelation and I recommend it. You won't be able to put it down once you get into it.	2004-01-31
804424:US	50774468	R3HI3V9X7909NR	0352329467	153977450	The Tutor (Black Lace)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Insatiable look into the world of uninhibited delights!	This novel's insatiable descriptions and beautiful language enthralled me from beginning to end. The Tutor is the delicious tale of a young woman's sexual odyssey into the unconventional world of uninhibited sensualists. At first, Rosie Howard is under the impression that she's started a new job as the private librarian for a rich couple. But no sooner does she settle in than she discovers her true task: she is to educate Julian and Celeste's nineteen-year-old cousin on the act of erotica. The bizarre surroundings disturb Rosie at first, but the unsettling and erotic existence is difficult to resist...<br />I love the subtle and beautiful language Portia Da Costa uses. I absorbed the delectable descriptions. Contemporary erotica is scarcely this insatiable. Also, I loved the subject of voyeurism throughout the novel. This is another winner from Black Lace. I shall look forward to reading more books from this talented author.	2004-01-31
807484:US	50774468	RF1W618JD9PI	0060938099	416657694	Enemy Women	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Compelling (3 1/2 stars)...	I didn't love this book, but the beautiful and subtle writing compelled me to turn the pages. The story of Adair Colley has a slow start. She is a young Missouri woman who is taken prisoner during the Civil War. While in prison, she is interrogated by Major William Neumann. Despite their differences, they fall in love. (There is no way to describe it without making it sound like some trite romance novel, is there?) They are separated and she travels the long journey home -- hoping to find her father, her sisters, her horse, her home, her life. Needless to say, it is a difficult journey. This novel is banal and contrived at times, but the writing is rather poetic and it does vividly portray the horror of the Civil War. I'm a sucker for historical novels, and the Civil War has always intrigued me. All in all, the story, despite its predictability, is compelling enough to read.	2004-01-28
807816:US	50774468	R2LNB8GWB8S9TU	0743464680	49858329	My Lurid Past	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fun, edgy read!	British chick lit tends to be edgier, sharper with satirical elements, whereas American chick lit is often lighter and more earnest. My Lurid Past is the former, and I couldn't put it down! Lauren Henderson writes about the pitfalls of today's single woman with irresistible irony. Juliet's wild one-night stands have gotten monotonous. A self-proclaimed commitmentphobic, she's begun to wonder if she'd ever get married. After all, her friend Gill seems much happier. But when Gill admits that she and her husband haven't done the deed since they married, Juliet tries to figure out if one could have a balance between living in the fast lane and having committed bliss. Perhaps she's better off joining her friend Mel in becoming a dominatrix at a fetish club...<br /><br />I enjoyed the dark humor and unique characters. Lauren Henderson has joined the chick lit genre with a bang. I loved the Sam Jones mystery series, but Henderson is up to a great start writing chick lit. This is a great Downtown Press offering. Highly recommended to all chick-lit fanatics...	2004-01-28
808292:US	50774468	R105J1GVLWY9H6	0758203594	207643662	Wilde Thing	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Great love scenes -- but what else is there?	I read this novel during my Christmas vacation and I remember asking myself the same question again and again: where is the plot in this novel? I think Janelle Denison's Wilde idea is good, but she needs more than just good sexual scenarios to make it work. Liz Adams hasn't heard from her troubled cousin for weeks and is worried that something's happened to her. In order to get to the bottom of things, she begins to investigate the phone sex company her cousin works for. Steve Wilde, the devastatingly sexy Private Investigator, will help her get the job done...<br /><br />An illicit phone sex company, a damsel in distress, a gorgeous PI -- you get the gist. The sex scenes are hot and keep the juices flowing, but I didn't get to know the characters well enough to care about them. The missing cousin comes across as an afterthought, an excuse to get these two together for some steamy, uninhibited, albeit banal (the use of caramel during sex, phone sex, light bondage, etc), sex scenes. I loved Something Wilde, one of the novellas in I Brake for Bad Boys, and thought that Ms. Denison had a good premise. I hope that the upcoming Wilde books have stronger plot and character development. For now, this one misses the mark...	2004-01-28
811035:US	50774468	R2GKR7KESZLA3J	0373250460	65942316	You Have to Kiss a Lot of Frogs	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Takes from a fellow frog kisser...	I was duly impressed with this novel. Karrie Kline's insights on her dating life are full of wit, intelligence and poignancy. Since she turned thirty, Karrie has searched for Mr. Right all over New York -- only to encounter a load of Mr. Wrongs. Now that she's forty-five, the struggling actress may have to come to terms with her singleton ways. But life has its surprises. Will she finally find her prince?<br />I marvel at Laurie Graff's wit. She's created an endearing heroine who tackles issues centered on her wayward father, her Jewish customs, and the fact that she does not want to &quot;get married and live a normal life in Queens,&quot; as her grandmother puts it. This is another great one from Red Dress Ink. A fellow frog kisser, I'd say this is one of the most relatable chick lits out there.	2004-01-26
813330:US	50774468	R2BWOOH7IMQYNI	0679745653	548414614	Breakfast at Tiffany's and Three Stories	Books	5	88	97	N	N	My all-time favorite American classic!	I re-read this book and was pleased to find that I wasn't wrong about it the other million times I read it. Truman Capote is one of my favorite authors and Breakfast at Tiffany's is my all-time favorite American classic. I don't read about Holly Golightly, I absorb this unique, eccentric character. The message Mr. Capote conveys in this novel is one of poignancy and charm. Holly, like her nameless cat, is a free spirit, a young woman whose quirks and unconventional lifestyle endear everyone, including the ambiguous narrator. This book overwhelms me with sadness every time I read it. Ms. Golightly's elusiveness touches me every time. I also love the film version of this novel. But the story gets lost somewhere amid the chemistry between Audrey Hepburn and George Peppard. Peppard plays the narrator, and his character loses the mystery and ambiguity that is evident in the book. And even though I love the film's ending, the novel's conclusion is unforgettable. There are various differences between the book and the film, but they're both classics in their unique way. If you've seen the movie but haven't read the book, I strongly suggest you pick it up. Truman Capote is a brilliant writer, and he outdid himself with this timeless gem.	2004-01-24
815634:US	50774468	R1Q5LD0EHYM13L	0425193713	95118327	Personal Assets	Books	5	72	77	N	N	Delicious and insatiable erotic romance!	I am officially hooked on Emma Holly! Having read Menage, a rather spicy Black Lace offering, I couldn't wait to get my hands on another book from this author. Personal Assets is one of the steamiest, insatiable and wonderful erotic romance novels ever written. Parisian boutique Meilleurs Amis (Best Friends) exudes elegance and eroticism. Beatrix trusts that her young and hot British stepfather Philip will look after her late mother's business. Bea has always loved Philip and she seizes the opportunity to seduce him. But in the midst of seduction, her best friend Lela falls for Simon, a powerful and good-looking businessman who threatens the future of Meilleurs Amis. Will carnal and heart desires get in the way of the aforementioned dilemma? There are various twists throughout the novel.<br /><br />The erotic scenes keep the juices flowing and your senses in full alert. I loved the scenes that centered on Bea and Philip. The sex scenes between Lela and Simon are also wonderful, but the sexual tension isn't as palpable. The man-woman-man menage a trois in Italy is my favorite scene. The romance in the novel is also wonderful. Emma Holly sure knows how to write erotic romance without the formulaic bells and whistles that accompany said genre. Her writing is sharp, the sex scenes downright explicit and the story is memorable. I shall read her other novels with gusto. Are you in the bargain for a book that contains pure animalistic passion? Pick this one up!	2004-01-22
816432:US	50774468	R2PZ8F2ZP8GEWP	0802135161	24358295	Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A gorgeous novel with autobiographical elements!	It didn't take me long to realize that Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit was really about this wonderful author. What kept this book from being a memoir was Winterson's signature poetic prose and magic realism.<br />Jeanette has always been a faithful Christian, but her way of worshipping the Lord is rather particular. Her family and the congregation have a hard time coming to terms with Jeanette's sexual preference and unique desires. What transpires is an unconventional and beautiful coming-of-age tale about a young woman standing for what she believes in.<br />As said earlier, this novel, though somewhat autobiographical, is full of Jeanette Winterson's poetic and philosophical prose, thought-provoking metaphors, magic realism and unflinching wit. This was her first novel and patting out of better things to come. I couldn't put this wonderful book down. Winterson's literary offerings are true treasures. Highly recommended...	2004-01-22
817538:US	50774468	R3W1LB9GGACI9T	0425190102	216335823	Hot Pink	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Frigid Pink...	I so did not feel this novel. Hot Pink fizzles out before the heat even begins. Character and story development are wooden, the dialogue is corny, the romance is absent and the so-called erotic scenes lack realism and depth. Chloe and Rocco are two of the most annoying protagonists ever written. It would've been interesting and steamy to read about the relationship between an eccentric, pink-haired graphic designer and her engaged lover, but the story falls short in so many levels. Rocco's relationship with his fiancee is ridiculous. I marveled at the aforementioned subplot's banality. This novel should've been titled Frigid Pink. Susan Johnson should stick to writing historical romance novels. I strongly suggest you skip this book.	2004-01-21
821389:US	50774468	RMJ2SXG7O7XVL	0373250444	472737574	Tallulahland	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Another fun effort from Lynn Messina (3 1/2 stars)!	I thought Lynn Messina's Fashionistas was a fun, quick read. Messina is back with Tallulahland. This is the story of a young woman whose life is in a standstill. She's inherited her parents' ability to design chic furniture, but has thus far settled for gopher work. She does it to spite her father. After all, he showed little respect for her mother's passing by getting involved with someone else just a few months after she died. However, things take an unexpected turn when Tallulah discovers that she owns land in North Carolina...<br />Tallulahland is a major improvement from Fashionistas. The reader actually gets to know Tallulah in a personal level -- something that was notably absent in Fashionistas, for the aforementioned novel centers on office politics and lacks character development. I loved Tallulahland's crisp dialogue, fun situations and great characters. Hannah is an outrageous and eccentric character that made the novel all the more fun. Red Dress Ink has released another entertaining novel. Highly recommended...	2004-01-18
821596:US	50774468	R3E7BK44OC8CG8	0804114986	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An engaging, compelling read!	Amy Tan gives us another glimpse into mother and daughter relationships in the Asian-American community in California. It would be nice to see this author venture into something new, but sticking with what she knows does not take away the enjoyment of Bonesetter's Daughter's tale of family struggles. Ruth is a modern woman who loves and, in no uncertain terms, loathes her mother. Her mother, too, has had problems with her own mother. The Bonesetter's Daughter focuses on these relationships and tells an interesting story -- one that kept me turning the pages. I enjoyed reading this novel. It's a quick, engaging read -- especially when Ruth's mother tells her side of the story. Her narration was wonderful and compelling. Amy Tan isn't breaking new ground here, but this novel is a must-read nevertheless. Highly recommended...	2004-01-18
825246:US	50774468	R13V0ISLKHVT6R	0670032158	138325430	My Lover's Lover	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A finely crafted psychological thriller!	My Lover's Lover is one engrossing erotic thriller! It enthralled me from beginning to end as it told the story of Lily and Marcus's bizarre love affair. Things start out promising between the couple. When Lily occupies the bedroom that was once Sinead's, Marcus's ex-girlfriend, strange things begin to happen. Lily is led to believe that Sinead is gone. However, her presence is palpable. There are some disarming twists as Sinead resurfaces...<br />This novel's writing is deceptively simple. The suspense and darkness are subtle, albeit tangible. The building of tension is finely crafted.  I disagree with most of the reviewers here. This is a fine piece of psychological thriller. Maggie O'Farrell is a talented British author and I look forward to reading her other books. Highly recommended...	2004-01-15
826008:US	50774468	R3AKK0ILE0YEQM	0375502238	955709915	Blessings	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A lovely story...	Anna Quindlen is an excellent writer. Blessings is a lovely and pleasant read. The story of a newborn baby left on the steps of the wealthiest home in a small town and how that baby changed the lives of the people said town is engrossing. The characters, while hiding a few surprises, are wonderful and real. The novel carries on with wording so subtle yet so beautiful that I ended up reading it in three sittings. The dialogue is well written and the story development is precise. It's just an overall lovely read. Enjoy!	2004-01-15
826840:US	50774468	R193JEBJJE6GN4	0352335491	820960410	Wild Kingdom (Black Lace)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Insatiable and fanciful erotica!	At first, I thought Wild Kingdom was a historical/erotic novel. However, the story and setting are fanciful, taken from Ms. Deanna Ashford's incredible imagination. This novel's enthralling story and smoldering erotic scenes are bold, profound and entertaining. Prince Tarn thought he'd escaped death at war against the Percheron army. That is until he discovers that his beloved Rianna has been kidnapped by the unscrupulous Baroness Niska Crissana. Niska intends to present Rianna as a gift to Ragnor -- the baroness's warrior brother. Tarn is out to rescue Rianna at all cost, even if he has to seek Sarin's help. Sarin is not only the ruler of Percheron, he is also the most sexually perverted man Tarn's ever encountered...<br /><br />The great thing about this novel is that the erotic scenes don't intervene with the story. The sex scenes are beautifully told. The table ceremony at Ragnor's kingdom is one of the most insatiable scenes ever written. The story is like Conan the Barbarian, only with delicious sex scenes. Wild Kingdom is a great novel and another winner from Black Lace. Deanna Ashford is a great storyteller. I recommend this to all erotica and Black Lace enthusiasts.	2004-01-14
832717:US	50774468	RT37145D7CCQB	0375707425	580961678	Embers	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Should have been a classic!	Embers is a terrific re-discovery and I for one am thankful that Knopf chose to translate and publish it. Embers is a slim novel filled with human emotion and pain. The novel begins with an old European aristocrat receiving a letter from a friend. The aristocrat then arranges to have said friend to his estate for dinner. It turns out that these two friends have not seen each other for forty-one years. Marai slowly unfolds the story of why and creates a compelling examination of guilt, anger, love and revenge. The aristocrat makes some rather disarming discoveries regarding his so-called friend. He talks on and on that evening, while the embers of the fire burn out, searching for answers to questions from his friend, questions that get to the heart of their relationship. Embers is an enthralling read. This amazing novel should have been amongst the classics. Highly recommended...	2004-01-10
834885:US	50774468	R31IMLVIH0V1J7	0373250452	144245888	Lost & Found (Red Dress Ink)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Fun, albeit middling, chick lit	Having read and loved Jane Sigaloff's Name and Address Withheld, I couldn't wait to pick up her second book. However, it isn't as good as the author's first effort. Sam Washington is a neurotic and sarcastic control freak. Her life becomes chaos when she leaves her diary in New York. Who will be kind enough to send the diary to London without reading it? After all, Sam has written things that could become a public scandal. As luck would have it, a handsome British-American called Ben Fisher kindly returns the diary. He claims to not have read it, but he seems to know a lot about Sam in such a short amount of time...<br />Lost and Found isn't up Sigaloff's first novel's par. Also, the writing is disjointed at times.  Nevertheless, it's a fun and engaging romantic comedy to indulge in. This Red Dress Ink offering is a fun, charming, albeit middling read.	2004-01-09
834920:US	50774468	R274AVYBN3BEXL	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Stunning, enthralling, riveting!	Atonement is a wonderful piece of fiction, one that enthralled me from beginning to end. The novel begins as a quaint, well-told tale about a few days at an English country estate in the 1930s. Young Briony has written a play and intends to stage it with her visiting cousins. She witnesses an interchange between her older sister, Cecilia, and Robbie, their housekeeper's son, telling a lie that destroys several lives. The years pass and Cecilia, Robbie and Briony attempt to move on from Cecilia's sin. The past continues to haunt them, even after Briony becomes a successful playwright...<br />The closing passages of the novel are some of the most powerful I have read. Atonement is a serious piece of fiction, not something to pick up if you are in search of something light. It may take a little patience to get into. The first part of the novel is quite slow (although I thought it was wonderful, something to be savored), but it gains momentum and becomes one of the most riveting and powerful novels I've read in a long time. I recommend this enthralling read from a mater storyteller.	2004-01-09
836616:US	50774468	R1TQ96R7BHOZ4C	0380731479	529493659	The Kiss	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A disturbing, compelling memoir!	Kathryn Harrison's The Kiss is quite an intense memoir. Kathryn Harrison's four-year-old incestuous affair with her father is disturbing and disarming. Despite the fact that she mentions all of the events that lead to her relationship with her father -- her loveless childhood, her struggles with eating disorders and depression -- Harrison does not expect her readers to pity her. Her memoir is honest and compelling. I applaud her ability to share her truths. I'm glad she told her startling story to the world. She is an amazing author -- one of the best authors of this era. I recommend this book to those who like books with unflinching honesty.	2004-01-07
840609:US	50774468	R2Z5UCOOGIC7JC	0060560118	952708270	The Nanny	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Light and fun (3 1/2 stars)!	The Nanny is the perfect light read. You'll enjoy Jo Green's struggles with the Fitzgeralds. She moves from the countryside to London to look after Zak, Cassie and Tallulah. But she ends up babysitting the parents as well. After all, Vanessa and Dick give a whole new meaning to the word dysfunctional. To make matters worse, Jo has a crush on Josh -- Dick's son from his previous marriage. She cannot ignore the fact that she has a boyfriend back home -- or could she? The Nanny is pure fun. Very entertaining. I recommend this cute, quick read.	2004-01-05
841900:US	50774468	R1S185UW3JQUXK	140003065X	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A fine piece of work!	There's a secondary character in A Fine Balance who surfaces several times in the novel to discuss the importance of keeping a fine balance between hope and despair. That's what all the characters in this novel must do to survive. The story revolves around Dina Dalal, a widow struggling to survive on her own in a nameless Indian city in 1975. Although relatively young, her eyesight is failing her from years as a tailor. She hires two untouchable tailors, Om and Ishvar, nephew and uncle, to help her with her work. After many mistakes and miscues, they form a bond stronger than any familial togetherness they may have experienced. The circumstances and lives of the characters are fascinating, insightful and, at times, depressing. Mistry's novel is enthralling and fascinating. The author manages to keep a fine balance between pathos and humor for an excellent reading experience. This is a fine piece of work.  Highly recommended...	2004-01-04
842052:US	50774468	R38Y7WEJKUKX37	067976674X	75275293	Selected Stories, 1968-1994	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Gorgeous, compelling and memorable!	Alice Munro gives us a quick and sometimes fleeting glimpse into the inner workings of the stories' characters and lives. This is one of the most literary short-story collections I've ever read. All of the stories in this collection are powerful and intense. Munro has the ability to add tremendous depth in a short story. It isn't easy to have precise characterization and story development in short stories, but Munro does a brilliant work in creating memorable characters and compelling tale in just a few pages. I can't recommend this wonderful collection enough.	2004-01-04
845925:US	50774468	R2MQFMI3INBU81	035233598X	160635854	Sin.Net (Black Lace)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Middling smut erotica (3 1/2 stars)...	I liked this book's premise. The story of a young English woman who shreds her inhibitions by way of assuming an online identity seemed provocative, not to mention interesting. Sin.net has its erotic moments, but it falls short in so many levels. Carrie, a thirty-year-old divorcee, has had it with her meekness and dullness. Her sister-in-law encourages her to meet men in adult chat rooms. Carrie hadn't anticipated the fact that something as harmless as online chatting would break all of her sexual inhibitions. She becomes Dominique -- a sexy, no-holds-barred dominatrix. The provocative chats with a young submissive male named Sam become a real-life liaison. She likes Sam, but she also likes Max -- the dominating, albeit sweet, American who won't take no for an answer. Carrie likes the best of both worlds. Which road should she take? Carrie embarks upon a sexual odyssey that is difficult to escape...<br /><br />There are lots of S&M and other fetishes in this book. I agree with the other reviewers -- the meek and insubstantial Carrie is nowhere to be found. I wouldn't have been able to tell the difference between the real woman and the online personality had the protagonist not mentioned the aforementioned descriptions. Alas, it is a mediocre read. Erotica is a difficult genre. Some of it is insatiable and literary and others are meant to be smut and light. This book falls into the latter category. I enjoy the former books, but I don't mind reading this sort of novel from time to time. All in all, an okay read if smuttiness is what you're looking for.	2004-01-01
846071:US	50774468	R24Q5FOQX8V6ZD	1400041112	884606262	How to Breathe Underwater: Stories	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Beautiful, haunting stories	These are all great stories. Julie Orringer's How to Breathe Underwater is a dark, beautiful and haunting collection of short stories. There are some rather horrific forms of tragedy and death in them. &quot;Pilgrims&quot; and &quot;Note to Sixth Grade Self&quot; disturbed me the most. But the women in these stories are fighters in so many levels. They simply deal with their lives in a unique way. I enjoyed reading this collection. I can't recommend this book enough.	2004-01-01
846746:US	50774468	RCFW07V7LPMIL	0767912233	745333509	Babyville: A Novel	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Moving with the times...	Most authors of the single-woman-looking-for-love-and-success-in-the-big-city genre are housewives from the suburbs. I find it interesting. I mean, why aren't they writing about the ball and chain? And the ones that do write about marriage use some sort of gimmick, like infidelity.<br />Jane Green is one of my favorite chick-lit writers. She is now married with children and has made the slow transition into writing about what she now knows. You only have to read the title of this novel to know what it's about.<br />The novel centers on the lives of three rather different women whose lives are intertwined by circumstances. Julia is a successful television producer in a relationship rut. She thinks that having a baby will salvage the relationship. She ignores the fact that her relationship with Mark has been doomed to fail from the beginning -- after all, he's not her type and they have nothing in common -- and becomes obsessed with getting pregnant. But things become all the more complicated for the couple...<br />Maeve, unlike Julia, cringes at the mere thought of having a baby. The feisty, no-nonsense redhead is focused on her career. When a one-night stand leaves her pregnant, Maeve finds herself reevaluating her priorities...<br />Samantha is Julia's best friend. Julia envies the fact that Samantha is the proud mother of a newborn. However, things aren't as blissful in Sam's life as they seem. Motherhood has changed her life in unexpected ways. Looking after her husband and child, she wonders if this is as good as it gets. She resents her single friends and wishes she had a bit of freedom. Is having an affair the answer to her problems?<br />Babyville does not have the edge and sparkle of Green's previous novels, but it is far more insightful and realistic. More important, Ms. Green has moved with the times and is writing about what she now knows, and I have to give her props for that. This is her best work since Jemima J.  Highly recommended...	2003-12-31
851153:US	50774468	R116LMXTWP6JNS	0373250428	586055800	Up & Out (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great second effort from Ariella Papa!	On the Verge was a fun read, and I'd looked forward to reading Ariella Papa's second effort. Up and Out made holiday travel less gruesome. I couldn't put this gem down.<br />Rebecca Cole's life isn't the same after she is fired from Explore! -- a television channel for kids. She also has to relinquish her cartoon creation called Esme. To make matters worse, she lives with her ex-boyfriend, is losing touch with her close friends, and her unemployment check isn't enough to cover her penchant for fancy and trendy restaurants.<br />As said earlier, this is one of the most entertaining novels I've read all year. This is chick-lit to the max. I love Papa's characters and situations. In her world, glasses are the ultimate chic accessory. And all those food references made my mouth water. Rebecca is quite the food buff. I'm surprised that the aforementioned heroine isn't morbidly obese! Up and Out is a great light read. Again, Red Dress Ink scores big with this gem. Highly recommended...	2003-12-28
858412:US	50774468	RKPIGF7ETNZAA	0352332344	258516481	The Captivation (Black Lace Series)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Gorgeous, riveting, CAPTIVATING historical/erotica!	This may sound unoriginal, but Natasha Rostova's (pseudonym) Captivation is truly... well, captivating. This beautiful and delectable erotic-cum-historical novel enthralled me from beginning to end. The riveting story and smoldering erotica left me longing for more, so to speak. The year is 1917, during the Russian Revolution, and Katya Leskova, a Russian princess, tries to escape to freedom. However, the Cossack army imprisons her after her royal identity is revealed. The soldiers haven't touched a woman in months and their desire is palpable. But Alexei, the tall, dark and sensual Cossack captain, isn't willing to share the beautiful, albeit insubordinate, princess. Dominant by nature, Alexei takes Katya to an erotic journey she'd never envisaged. Katya isn't quite easy to tame, and a struggle to prove power over each other ensues...<br /><br />This novel is beautifully written -- Ms. Rostova has a way with words. She never resorts to vulgar smuttiness or corny romanticism. There are a lot of erotic scenes in this novel -- sometimes with two or three scenes in one single chapter. However, they don't intervene with the engrossing tale and historical references. I enjoyed the subtle backdrop of domination and submission. The author favors mind games and control over the physical aspect of S&M -- something that both impressed and enthralled me. This is the best Black Lace offering I've read thus far. I shall look forward to reading Ms. Rostova's other books. I couldn't recommend this gorgeous, riveting and captivating gem enough!	2003-12-21
860392:US	50774468	R2OXEDLVX99JXZ	0375756566	316489894	Austerlitz (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A beautiful, albeit complex, story!	Austerlitz is not your typical novel. First of all, the narrator's identity is unknown. Alas, the narrator simply recounts the story of Jacques Austerlitz's exploits. Austerlitz himself does not fully know his own identity, and he wants to discover truths about himself, his family, his heritage, even his own name. He had always believed he was Welsh -- that is until he discovers that the people he'd believed to be his family had adopted him. He travels to Eastern Europe to learn about his past. Austerlitz is a fascinating novel with an interesting structure and approach. This is a rather complex novel -- you must read between the lines to get to the heart of the truth. This novel is absolutely beautiful and I highly recommend it.	2003-12-18
860463:US	50774468	R2VUTOAEA6UOEA	0312420366	119057404	The Debt to Pleasure: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Darkly delicious!	What do you get when you mix dark language, delicious food and smoldering erotica in one single novel? You get The Debt to Pleasure. This is one of the most delectable novels I've ever read. John Lanchester mixes a dark and sinister plot with beautiful and mouth-watering descriptions of exotic foods and disarming erotica. Tarquin Winot is one of the most sinister characters ever written. His exploits enthralled me. I couldn't put this book down. This cookbook-cum-erotica is brilliant from beginning to end. By far, one of the best books I've read this year. Highly recommended...	2003-12-18
861734:US	50774468	R3U0Z8OPBDSJ4K	0345401964	428400581	Exit to Eden	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Not as good as Sleeping Beauty, but still great!	I was told that Anne Rice's Exit to Eden was similar to The Sleeping Beauty series. While there are various similarities between the two offerings, the eroticism and BDSM scenes are far more subtle in this one. The novel centers on how the romance between Lisa and Elliot flourish amidst painful and confusing pasts. Lisa is one of the mistresses at The Club -- an exotic and erotic getaway for bondage enthusiasts. Sadomasochism has always been the center of her life. But then Elliot comes along. An insubordinate photojournalist, Elliot is always searching for the next thrill ride. He takes a two-year training program in The Club to vent out some of his submissive fantasies. But life in The Club is far more hardcore than he had anticipated. To make matters worse, he falls for his beautiful trainer...<br />Anne Rice has once again showcased the psychological implications of the human heart. She delves into the aforementioned implications in a deeper level this time around. My only complaint is that Exit to Eden isn't as taboo and sexually charged as The Sleeping Beauty series. This book is more bodice-ripper than smoldering erotica. It's brilliant nevertheless. Even though her erotic novels aren't in the same caliber as Story of O, they have a profound sensuality all their own. Highly recommended...	2003-12-17
866106:US	50774468	R3A5ZZXAQNHPYR	0375759778	530438268	Prague: A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Could have been better	There is a point in Prague where one of the characters, a newspaper columnist, begins to write something with a good premise. But no sooner does he reach his peak than he is hit with writer's block. He hopes to regain his writing ability, to no avail. And that is essentially what happens to this novel. The Prague's premise was captivating. The story of five North American ex-pats living in Budapest in the early nineties enthralled me. The characters are interesting, and the writing is wonderful and so evocative of that time and place. But then the novel loses its magic somewhere in the middle. At that juncture, the story is flaccid and the characters are wooden. There is a particular scene in which the author introduces a character in a very long sequence that bothers me. The introduction of said character should have been better. There are other inconsistencies in this novel. Finishing this novel was a chore. Alas, it is still worth reading, if only for its brilliant premise. Just don't believe the hype.	2003-12-13
866604:US	50774468	R3DRMQMBP3XGLQ	0373250436	292447391	My Life Uncovered (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Inside Hollywood indeed!	This novel mentions a show called Inside Hollywood. The aforementioned title fits this great book down to a tee. My Life Uncovered is a fun, witty and realistic tale about the life of a struggling screenwriter. Laura Taylor has written the American Screenplay. However, like most Hollywood screenwriters, she has difficulty selling her work. Her life takes a strange turn when she stumbles upon the adult film industry. With a provocative pseudonym and a mind full of fresh ideas, she becomes the most sought-after and respected screenwriter in said obscure film genre. She continues to struggle in Hollywood as her adult film career reaches legendary status. No sooner does she obtain the aforementioned fame than her two worlds collide.<br /><br />My Life Uncovered is full of ironic circumstances and hilarious twists. Ms. Isenberg's takes on Hollywood are insightful and earnest. The one thing I find troublesome about this novel is that it has too many characters. She does not mention all of the characters in the screenplay-like \\"Cast of Characters\\" listed in the book. Most of the secondary characters are agents, and I had difficulty remembering all of them. Other than that, this novel is a must-read.  Another winner from Red Dress Ink. Highly recommended...	2003-12-13
867645:US	50774468	R250WS40XE9BN5	0060959037	822422067	Prodigal Summer: A Novel	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A bit too preachy for my taste	Prodigal Summer is a very good novel that could have been even better had Barbara Kingsolver gotten off her soap box a bit. It tells three stories of people in a small county in Appalachia. The three stories ultimately become intertwined. The novel is extremely well-written; however, I believe her preaching is too extreme at times. The author's characters are all black and white -- no shades of grey. It is obvious which characters are &quot;right&quot; and &quot;wrong&quot; from the beginning. I only wish Kingsolver had let me figure things out instead of shoving the plot down my throat with such obvious characterizations. All characters come off as being almost stereotypical and much of the plotting is predicable. So why three stars? Kingsolver writes like a dream and Prodigal Summer is an enjoyable read. Read it with a grain of salt and you'll be fine.	2003-12-12
871083:US	50774468	RBZFNRWJFN7VO	0802139612	18624476	Dumped	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beautiful, lyrical and wise!	Nothing says &quot;hell hath no fury&quot; quite like this wonderful and literary collection of short stories. Dumped is a brokenhearted person's legacy. After all, the stories illustrate the pain, anguish and vengeful feelings that people experience after being chucked. They also address various ways in which romantic relationships deteriorate. But the aforementioned things are done with earnest humor and bittersweet language. The authors -- Saul Bellow, Alice Munro, Lorrie Moore, Dorothy Parker, Raymond Carver, etc -- are second to none. My favorite story is Roald Dahl's &quot;Lamb to Slaughter.&quot; Said story spoke to me. I recommend this wonderful effort to anyone who's ever been &quot;dumped.&quot; In other words, I recommend this to everyone.	2003-12-09
871331:US	50774468	R2TAG3LNMDF9HZ	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Had low expectations, but left me impressed...	I often avoid reading this sort of book. Nothing says blockbuster-film-waiting-to-happen like a John Grisham-like thriller. It won't surprise me if a film version of this novel is in the works. However, praises and hype surrounding Dan Brown's The Da Vinci Code are well deserved. This is an excellent, compelling, intelligent thriller -- one that grabs you and doesn't let go until its final page. Robert Langdon is called in for questioning regarding a violent murder at the Lourvre one night. The clues left by the victim, the museum's curator, send Langdon and the victim's granddaughter, Sophie, on a quest to solve both the murder and the various clues the curator has left. The story is smart and well-paced and it will keep you guessing. I also love all of the historical references to art. This is a memorable, thrilling read that lives up to its hype. Highly recommended...	2003-12-09
873671:US	50774468	R21W9DKBKTSEJQ	0758205694	794176312	Jingle Bell Rock	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Erotic and sizzling, but with some loose ends	Jingle Bell Rock is an erotic anthology with some rather exquisite, albeit short, novellas featuring today's popular romance novelists. The anthology contains all of the sensual ingredients that make erotic stories memorable. However, there are some loose ends. For instance, story development and characterization are notably missing. I understand that it is difficult to do the same with a fifty-page long story, but a good writer is able to convey a good story and compelling characters nonetheless. The Christmas angle is a mere afterthought -- I got the impression that the authors threw in the holiday backdrop for good measure. Having said that, the erotica in this book is excellent. Lori Foster's &quot;He Sees You When You're Sleeping&quot; and Janelle Denison's &quot;All She Wants for Christmas&quot; are my favorites. Nancy Warren's &quot;The Nutcracker Sweet&quot; adds a sliver of humor to the anthology. The aforementioned stories are the better structured ones in this book. All in all, despite the loose ends, Jingle Bell Rock is an essential guidebook to great sex ideas to do during the holidays (I know I'll be trying a few of those scenarios!). It's not up to the earlier bad boy books' par, but an entertaining read for the holidays nevertheless.	2003-12-07
874000:US	50774468	R2NKGZCHDCF52A	1591294037	90404297	Caught in the Rain	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Compelling and suspenseful read!	L.C. Martin was kind enough to send me a free copy of her book. I admit that I placed it somewhere in the heap of unread books in my study and forgot all about it. I stumbled upon it a few days ago and decided to give it a whirl. I'm so glad I did! Caught in the Rain is a compelling, suspenseful book about a woman's quest to rebuild her life and the obstacles she faces down the road to self-discovery.<br />Jessica Thomas has had enough of her abusive home, so she moves to L.A. and becomes an escort. However, her past isn't easy to leave behind, especially when she is reacquainted with her best friend Joe. A romantic relationship ensues, but Jessica isn't capable of escaping her new lifestyle. Joe has embarked on a job in politics and decides that Maxie, a former high school crush, is a safer bet for his career. But will Joe get over Jessica? And will they conquer all of the events that transpire? There are some interesting twists throughout the novel.<br />Caught in the Rain is a reading investment. The story development is precise and the characterization is excellent. I regret having taken this long to give this novel a whirl. I shall pass it along to friends and give it the word of mouth it deserves.	2003-12-07
875904:US	50774468	R2EIKV1HPT37KP	037325041X	590111222	The Solomon Sisters Wise Up (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Memorable second effort from Ms. Senate!	I can see why Red Dress Ink chose Melissa Senate's novel to help launch its imprint. See Jane Date was a cause celebre of the chick-lit imprint phenomenon, and Red Dress Ink went uphill from there. Now Ms. Senate is back with her second effort, The Solomon Sisters Wise Up. I am pleased to announce that there isn't a trace of sophomore slump in this memorable effort.<br />Sisters Sarah, Ally and Zoe are facing the most critical time of their lives. Sarah is pregnant by a man she's dated for two months, Ally has caught her husband cheating, and Zoe hasn't been able to cope with the fact that her father is engaged to her best friend. But the aforementioned dilemmas bring them closer together. Self-discovery and learning experiences are forthcoming...<br />I've summarized this novel in an incomplete manner, for there are more facets to this wonderful story. I've always loved novels about sisters (Rebecca Wells's Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood and Jennifer Weiner's In Her Shoes are two of my favorites), and this one is as funny and poignant as it gets. The humor and poignancy are earnest -- you cannot help but love this novel. RDI has scored big again. I highly recommend this memorable gem.	2003-12-05
879764:US	50774468	R19MF87EN0JFEC	0595264271	813792916	Now She's Gone	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Enticing, insatiable!	Kim Corum has penned another winner. Now She's Gone, like Breaking the Girl, mixes eroticism with subtle romance. The result is an insatiable and riveting novel.<br />Bruce wakes one morning and finds that his wife is gone. Saddened, he reads some journals she's left behind in which she describes various erotic exploits. However, the journals reveal much more than just the sexual adventures she ventured into with her past lovers...<br />As said earlier, this is Corum's best work since Breaking the Girl. I couldn't put this book down. The descriptions are exquisite and provocative, the language fiendish and uninhibited. I look forward to reading more of Corum's work. Her work is truly compelling.	2003-12-02
880622:US	50774468	RZ74EUNEM07G5	0373790899	44189409	By the Book (Harlequin Blaze, No 85)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Sizzling hot!	Nancy Warren's By the Book sizzles from cover to cover. When Shari Wilson discovers Luke Lawson, her hot neighbor, with a book called Sex for Total Morons: A How-To Guide, she cannot hide her disappointment. How could someone so gorgeous need a sex guidebook? But Luke is no inexperienced dud. It's all part of a master plan to seduce the beautiful and sensual Shari...<br />By the Book is as funny as it is steamy. There are some comic moments in the novel. This is a great installment from the Blaze series. The author does a good job developing the characters, storyline and sexual tension between the protagonists. I highly recommend this little gem...	2003-12-02
884191:US	50774468	R3HGUFWHQXL6BS	035233231X	339808331	Menage (Black Lace Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Compelling, fiendishly pornographic read	Kate, a bookstore owner from Philadelphia, has lived a normal life. That is until the day she finds her two male roommates in a compromising position -- so to speak. The men make a proposal that Kate cannot refuse. As they embark upon an enticing, erotic and provocative menage a trois, unwelcome emotions and confusions befall Kate. Does she have feelings for Joe -- the sweet, sensitive one -- or Sean -- the shamelessly uninhibited bad boy? And will someone come out hurt from the taboo arrangement?<br />Menage is the most erotic and enticing novel I've read since Laura Reese's Topping from Below. This isn't a book for the faint at heart. The descriptions are hardcore to the max. This has been my introduction to the Black Lace series. The aforementioned series has hooked me with this incredible installment and I shall give other books from said series a whirl. In the meantime, I highly recommend Menage to those with a penchant for erotic fiction.	2003-11-29
884314:US	50774468	R15UP7UJU4Q1A0	096774590X	516323369	Lofting	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Simply incredible!	Reading a book that is both erotic and literary is always a treat. Alma Marceau's Lofting is one of the most exquisite erotic novels ever written. As fiendishly graphic as it is beautifully philosophical, Lofting chronicles the unraveling of a woman's electrifying sexual desire. She has decided to surrender her body to her master, but little did she anticipate that she'd end up surrendering her heart...<br />Lofting is full of wonderful imagery and poetic undertones. To describe this novel as erotic is putting it mildly. It is an extraordinary piece of work, beautiful and lyrical. There are some humorous moments as well. Are you in the bargain for literary erotica? I suggest you pick up this incredible book.	2003-11-29
887936:US	50774468	R39G6CP7I8RO8Y	0060534621	330114902	The Movies of My Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beautiful, lyrical effort!	Beltran Soler, a seismologist from Chile, deconstructs his life and the struggles he went through with his family in the films he watched as a child. He describes the painful things his family endured in L.A., and how the aforementioned past played part to his obsession with earthquakes.<br />Alberto Fuguet has written a wonderful and lyrical account of a South American family. I've learned many things about Chile -- things I hadn't known about before. It is a wonderful country with an interesting history. Fuguet is known for his involvement with a literary movement called McOndo, a movement that announces the end of magical realism. He is a true literary voice and I look forward to reading his other projects.	2003-11-25
888884:US	50774468	R33ZQAB2UIG9P9	0373441770	320841043	Do-Over	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fun little gem!	Cara Adams's world has taken a spin toward disaster. Mark &quot;the Shark&quot; Morgan -- the man who made her law school years a living hell -- has joined the firm she has painstakingly tried to make partner for six years. To make matters worse, Mark, with his New York contacts and credentials, is a bigger shoo-in for the aforementioned position. What's the girl to do? Not fall in love with the Shark... right? Things would be so different if the gods would grant her a do-over...<br />This is another fun installment from Harlequin Flipside. It is a lighthearted, hip and witty romantic gem! I recommend this wonderful effort to those who love romantic comedies.	2003-11-25
891347:US	50774468	R35Z4MTIGV49S7	0970335555	555874448	You Shall Know Our Velocity	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Wonderful tour de force about grief!	You Shall Know Our Velocity is an excellent novel dealing with the grieving Will, the novel's narrator, and his best friend Hand experience after the tragic death of Jack, the third in their former threesome. The three had been friends since childhood and had always expected to be together, until Jack is suddenly killed in an accident. To deal with their grief, or maybe to escape from it, Hand and Will plan a trip around the world in one week to give away the $80,000 that Will has acquired almost by accident. The novel concerns both this trip and Will's story of his friendship with Jack. Their travels never go as intended, but self-discovery is forthcoming. Will's reflections on Jack's death are devastatingly touching. Dave Eggers is an excellent writer and the novel is, for the most part, a heartbreaking work of staggering genius. It will make you laugh and break your heart in the same paragraph many times. I couldn't put this novel down. Highly recommended...	2003-11-22
891476:US	50774468	R181LL41P3YSEX	0385509456	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A unique mystery!	This novel is incredible. The fact that the narrator is an autistic teenager intrigued me into giving this book a whirl. Christopher Boone is out walking in the middle of the night when he discovers that a dog on his street has been murdered with a pitchfork. Despite his father's warnings to mind his own business, Christopher is determined to solve the mystery and is equally determined to write it all down. His writings become quite a compelling serial. The novel isn't about the dog per se -- it's about Christopher and his dynamics. I confess that I don't know much about autism, but Christopher's voice is beautiful and compelling. He is quite a memorable character. Haddon's unique mystery is one that shall be passed along to all of my friends. Highly recommended...	2003-11-22
900274:US	50774468	R2O7IQAW2JFC9E	0452281296	559569265	In the Cut	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Dark and literary erotic thriller!	I knew I was in for a rather dark and lurid read when I picked up In the Cut. Susanna Moore takes the reader to a disturbing ride in which sex and obsession play a major role.<br />The female protagonist is a frustrated woman who tries to teach her students lessons about irony and other languages in literature. Her life takes a spin toward disarming when she witnesses an intimate moment between a man and a woman. The only things she was able to make out in the dark room were the man's tattoo and the woman's red hair. When the redhead is found murdered, the protagonist finds herself in the middle of a murder investigation that threatens her safety, especially when she embarks upon a sexual liaison with the mysterious Detective Malloy...<br />The story is dark, the building of tension slow, and the language is brutally honest and raunchy from beginning to end. Also, the clues and foreshadows -- namely the mention of irony -- weren't lost on me as the story reached its flooring climax. I cannot fathom the bad reviews here. This is one of the best crafted erotic thrillers ever written. I hope the film does this excellent novel justice. I highly recommend this impressive literary offering.	2003-11-15
902336:US	50774468	R2AWTB9U8GG7WC	0373250401	941755868	The Last Year Of Being Single (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Fun and poignant look at romantic and sexual relationships!	Sarah Giles chronicles her last year as a single woman. After five years of ups and downs, Paul proposes marriage. Sarah accepts. After all, Paul is lovely, affectionate and perfect. But why is she having an affair with an eccentric womanizer named John Wayne? She drives from one side of London to another to meet her oversexed lover. Things aren't as well in the home front as others think. And she doesn't know which road to take...<br />The Last Year of Being Single is one of those rare chick-lit novels that showcase flawless character study. The heroine delves into some rather profound questions regarding love and infidelity (is it just me, or do most recent Brit-chick novels center on infidelity?). Ms. Tucker's takes on relationships are insightful, ironic and poignant. The writing style is different and interesting, though disjointed at times. However, the storytelling is great.  The Last Year of Being Single is one of the best British novels released this year. RDI has scored big again. Highly recommended...	2003-11-13
905979:US	50774468	R1CUYINNOHASP5	0671742493	695039962	Delta Of Venus	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A delectable collection of erotic stories!	Delectable is the word that sprung to mind while I read Delta of Venus. The stories are erotic to the core, but they also contain a great deal of symbolism and darkness. Rape, exhibitionism, voyeurism and incest are a few of the disarming and disturbing subject matters addressed in this book. My favorite stories are &quot;Boarding School,&quot; &quot;Mallorca,&quot; &quot;Manuel,&quot; and &quot;The Hungarian Adventurer.&quot; These stories enthralled me from beginning to end. They were a delectable reading experience! I look forward to reading more of Anais Nin's work in the future.	2003-11-10
906269:US	50774468	R9RTXN8BCOTPK	0684841444	412193908	Because They Wanted to: Stories	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Thought-provoking piece of work!	Having read Bad Behavior, I couldn't wait to get my hands on Mary Gaitskill's newest collection of short stories. Because They Wanted To is everything I'd expected. The stories are beautiful and lyrical in a profound way. My favorite ones are &quot;Orchid,&quot; &quot;Because They Wanted To,&quot; &quot;Comfort,&quot; and &quot;Turgor.&quot; However, &quot;The Girl on the Plane&quot; is the one that spoke to me the most. The story of how a married man stumbles upon the woman he'd raped years ago was food for thought. I was duly impressed with Gaitskill's disarmingly perceptive takes on male and female relationships in Bad Behavior, and she has outdone herself with this effort. The characterization and story development are second to none in this book. Are you in the bargain for thought-provoking stories? I suggest you pick up this wonderful piece of modern literature.	2003-11-10
906687:US	50774468	R1P34K4UUJOPWB	0373441754	130604601	Staying Single	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sweet, romantic revenge!	Francie Morelli will have Julia Roberts make a run for her money. She has become the proverbial Runaway Bride -- and she has done it for the third time. But Mark Fielding won't let her get away with hurting his jilted stepbrother. He has a plan of seduction that will lure Francie to the altar... and then he will turn the tables on the heartless witch. However, things don't go as smoothly as he had planned...<br />Millie Criswell's Staying Single has all the right ingredients for a lighthearted romantic comedy -- humor, wit and, of course, tender romance. This book is quite the entertaining little gem -- another winner from Harlequin Flipside. I highly recommend this to all romance enthusiasts.	2003-11-10
906787:US	50774468	R1NEZBRMOP2GH0	0385418493	610658517	How the Irish Saved Civilization: The Untold Story of Ireland's Heroic Role From the Fall of Rome to the Rise of Medieval Europe (The Hinges of History)	Books	4	1	16	N	N	Hmmm, interesting theories!	How the Irish Saved Civilization postulates an interesting and charming theory that wouldn't be around today for us to ponder were it not for the Irish monks of the middle ages. Cahill has all of the facts that back up his rather interesting theories. His opinions about how the Irish had it together during the oppressive times are quite convincing. I would have believed his theories had I not already been educated on said subject. It is an entertaining read conveyed by an Irishman with the true gift of babble.	2003-11-10
914250:US	50774468	R2FDGFUZYF9D43	1551667274	88594040	But Inside I'm Screaming	Books	5	45	50	N	N	Dark, insightful and flooring	But Inside I'm Screaming enthralled me from beginning to end. I literally dropped everything to read this from cover to cover.<br />News anchorman Isabel Murphy has a nervous breakdown in front of millions of viewers. She arrives at Three Breezes -- a.k.a. the &quot;nut hut&quot; -- with the hope to regain some normalcy in her life. When her past begins to unravel, she wonders if she's ever lived a normal life.<br />This novel reminds me of Girl, Interrupted. There are various similarities between the two books, but this novel touched me in a profound way. The characters are vivid, the dialogue is crisp and the story is as intense as it is insightful. Isabel's battle with depression floored me. Her realistic, unflinching honesty touched me. Book club members would devour this! I am buying a copy to all my friends. I urge you to give this wonderful literary offering a whirl.	2003-11-04
914764:US	50774468	R3HZHVO1HWWKVB	0140270566	944107226	Inside the Seraglio: Private Lives of the Sultans in Istanbul	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A beautiful, colorful look into the lives of Ottoman Sultans	John Freely's Inside the Seraglio is an enjoyable, engaging book. This look into the lives of the sultans during the Ottoman's period of decline is insightful and thought provoking. I especially like the dialogue that is exchanged during the scenes in which the sultans spend time in The House of Felicity. The mixture of erotica and historical fiction is a literary delight in this book. I recommend Inside the Seraglio to those who love the combination of the aforementioned genres.	2003-11-04
917869:US	50774468	R34RLE7NDQ3TVX	0373441762	712183768	One True Love?	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great romantic comedy!	Having read some rather profound books lately, I decided to give a fun and light romantic comedy a whirl. One True Love? is the first offering from Harlequin Flipside, an imprint devoted to fun and witty romance novels. One True Love? delivers a droll, page-turning story of a woman looking for her one true love. No sooner does she appear to find Mr. Right than an old friend comes along and turns her life upside down...<br />The writing is simple, fun and lighthearted. The novel reads like a romantic comedy film. The book's plot is a cross between When Harry Met Sally and While You Were Sleeping. I almost imagined Meg Ryan or Sandra Bullock starring in the film version of this book. Are you in the bargain for a cute romantic comedy? Pick up this book! I shall look forward to reading Flipside's next offering.	2003-11-01
918144:US	50774468	R39W3P76M3ZCKU	0373835744	60286715	Invitations To Seduction: 3 Novels in 1	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Promising concept fizzles out	It's difficult to be captured by stories that seem to have been rushed. The whole Sexcapades thing was a promising concept, but the stories fail to deliver the amount of romance and eroticism that said concept required. All three novellas lack story development. The characters jump into the sack before the reader gets to know them. There's no building of sexual or romantic tension. Janelle Denison is one of my favorite erotic romance writers, but His Every Fantasy is an enormous disappointment. I couldn't finish Carly Phillips's Going All the Way. The aforementioned novella had more cliches than the average romance novel. Vicki Lewis Thompson's Illicit Dreams is passable, albeit insubstantial. All in all, Invitations to Seduction is a feeble effort. I'll stick to Kensington Brava anthologies from now on.	2003-11-01
919801:US	50774468	R2XCYPCF5ZXU0Q	0679723277	268699326	Bad Behavior	Books	4	3	4	N	N	It lives up to its name!	This collection of short stories lives up to its provocative title! The subjects in this unique anthology -- S&amp;M, drug abuse, obsessions, sexual harassment -- are quite brutal. The writing is dark, lurid and profound in so many levels. My favorite stories are &quot;An Affair, Edited,&quot; &quot;A Romantic Weekend,&quot; &quot;Secretary,&quot; and &quot;Something Nice.&quot; Some of the titles are meant to be ironic, of course. Each story has elements of S&amp;M, which, I admit, is what compelled me to read this book in the first place. Mary Gaitskill is a great writer and I can't fathom the negative reviews here. Are you in the bargain for a dark, thought-provoking, no-holds-barred anthology? I suggest you pick up Bad Behavior.	2003-10-30
919931:US	50774468	R2BYAEY49BEW4X	0679723277	268699326	Bad Behavior	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Lives up to its title!	This collection of short stories lives up to its provocative title! The subjects in this unique anthology -- S&M, drug abuse, obsessions, harassment -- are quite brutal. The writing is dark, lurid and profound in so many levels. My favorite stories are \\"An Affair, Edited,\\" \\"A Romantic Weekend,\\" \\"Secretary,\\" and \\"Something Nice.\\" Some of the titles are meant to be ironic, of course. Each story has elements of S&M, which, I admit, is what compelled me to read this book in the first place. Mary Gaitskill is a great writer and I can't fathom the negative reviews here. Are you in the bargain for a dark, thought-provoking, no-holds-barred anthology? I suggest you pick up Bad Behavior.	2003-10-30
920942:US	50774468	R3H9V7FDALK8B	1582432619	269585284	Collected Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A revelation!	Clare Boylan is quite an interesting author. Her warped, dark and twisted visions of love affairs, motherhood and broken hearts are mirrored in this unique collection of short stories. At times she almost verges on magical realism, for there are some bizarre moments in some of the stories, but I believe she is a genius when she ponders the intricacies and oddities of human relationships. My favorite stories are &quot;Affairs in Order,&quot; &quot;My Son the Hero,&quot; and &quot;The Stolen Child.&quot; Boylan is a true revelation. I recommend this book to those with a penchant for dark and profound stories.	2003-10-30
921093:US	50774468	R2F9JXOYIYUZG	0373250398	4380043	The Princess-in-Training Manual/Divas Don't Fake It	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Cute, quick read!	This two-books-in-one offering is great to read in one sitting. The concept is cute and the stories are entertaining. However, in the spirit of constructive criticism, I should point out some loose ends. I think Divas Don't Fake It should've been longer. It would've made quite an interesting novel if the characters and story had been further developed. The aforementioned novella is my favorite of the two -- for Orloff uses the same no-nonsense language she used in Spanish Disco. Xandra Kingston is a great character. We need more heroines of this sort. Although there are times in which Xandra's confidence is a bit too caricatured to be believable. The Princess-in-Training is also nice. It chronicles Princess Jacqueline de Soignee's overall fabulousness. However, I found the heroine's fashion talk and shopping expeditions a tad boring. She namedrops famous fashion designers from beginning to end. At times I felt as though I was reading a less amusing version of Confessions of a Shopaholic. The characters in both novellas are caricatures at best. I know these stories are satires, but I think that a little more realism wouldn't have hurt. All in all, not a bad reading experience. This isn't as good as Losing It, A Clean Slate or Diary of a Blues Goddess, but it is a fun, quick read nevertheless. I recommend it as a great complement to a deep bubble bath and a martini.	2003-10-29
921443:US	50774468	R17OF2NSGXTQSY	0743218728	533469308	Female Trouble: Stories	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Profound women's anthology!	Female Trouble is one of the most profound women's anthologies I've ever read. This collection of short stories has dark and profound subject matters. There are stories of infidelity, failed marriages, mother/daughter relationships and women's sexual prowess. Antonya Nelson is a rather talented writer with an obvious penchant for revealing women's emotions. The female protagonists are of various ages and economic backgrounds. There is something for every woman here. I can't recommend this wonderful book enough! Brava, Ms. Nelson, for revealing some rather profound truths with such unflinching honesty.	2003-10-29
925001:US	50774468	R15ZTAQ3HZBNSV	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Beautiful and engaging!	Jeffrey Eugenides's Middlesex is a terrific novel -- enthralling from beginning to end. It is the story of Cal and his/her struggles with sexual ambiguity. Although raised as a girl, Cal has lived a rather confused and alienated life. Is Cal a hermaphrodite, or is it something else? There are some interesting twists throughout the novel. Don't let the dark subject matter fool you. Middlesex is filled with wonderful, earnest humor. The language is beautiful and engaging. The story development is excellent and the dialogue is brilliant. You won't be able to put this book down. Highly recommended...	2003-10-27
925841:US	50774468	R3GQPSCQXOEXMX	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A beautiful, enthralling read	Bel Canto is a beautiful fable, a story of the powers of art and love over the powers of evil and hatred. This book is far from realistic, but that doesn't detract from its beauty. Roxane Coss is a gifted chanteuse who travels to a nameless South American country to sing at a Japanese businessman's birthday party. No one had imagined that terrorists would take over the event. But the terrorists' target -- the unidentified country's president -- isn't there. Some prisoners are freed, but various people remain, including the singer and the businessman. There are various disarming twists in the novel. This is a unique story of terror, political wars, love and art. The novel's language enthralled me from beginning to end. Despite its unrealistic plot, Bel Canto is a beautiful and magical read that endures.	2003-10-26
926480:US	50774468	RT5CMTH8E3I96	037325038X	730273463	A Clean Slate (Red Dress Ink)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Thought-provoking and poignant...	Red Dress Ink has ventured into darker, thought-provoking novels with serious subject matters. I find this new venture refreshing. Lindsay Faith Rech's Losing It floored me in a profound level, and Laura Caldwell's A Clean Slate has done the exact same thing.<br />Kelly McGraw's life is no longer the same. She suddenly has no recollection of events that occurred during the last five months. Strangely enough, those were the most difficult months of her life. Her boyfriend had dumped her on her birthday, she'd lost her corporate job, and a deep depression had befallen her. Kelly sees her loss of memory as a clean slate. Now she can pursue all the things she's always wanted. However, starting over isn't as simple as she had hoped...<br />As previously said, this is quite an impressing Red Dress Ink offering. This imprint offers books that are above the typical looking-for-love-in-the-big-city novels. A Clean Slate is a wonderful and poignant novel. Laura Caldwell is a talented writer and I look forward to her next project.	2003-10-25
927746:US	50774468	R5EP5VV0XD8OD	0142001805	89209679	The Eyre Affair: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A bibliophile's dream come true!	Jasper Fforde's The Eyre Affair is a must read for all bibliophiles out there. It is a wacky, genre-busting novel that takes place in a barely recognizable era. The year is 1985 England and the aforementioned setting is the excellent backdrop to the story. In this novel, Thursday Next, the wacky heroine, sets out to track down a vicious killer and manipulator of respected literature with furious determination. In the midst of searching said perpetrator, she encounters some rather interesting takes of Charlotte Bronte's Jane Eyre. There are some interesting twists throughout the novel.<br />The Eyre Affair is quite a wonderful novel. The writing is sharp, dialogue is crisp and the language is fun and quirky. There are some amusing stories regarding Thursday's time-traveling father. This is one of the funniest and most unique novels I've recently read. I suggest The Eyre Affair to those with a penchant for interesting and humorous literature.	2003-10-24
934077:US	50774468	R3PUO3A96T12FJ	0373791054	799730014	Brief Encounters: Put Your Guy On the Cover (Harlequin Blaze, 101)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Somewhat erotic, but mostly silly	Harlequin Blaze and Kensington Brava are the best lines for light erotic romance. I've embraced the Blaze series because it has thus far satisfied my appetite for the aforementioned genre. However, I am somewhat disappointed with Suzanne Forster's Brief Encounters. FBI agent Rob Gaines wants to catch the culprit who embezzled one million dollars in bank funds. To make matters worse, Swan McKenna, a gorgeous lingerie designer, is one of the suspects. Rob needs Swan's cooperation. But does he really have to model for Swan's male underwear line? He'd rather eat dirt! There are things that Rob hadn't anticipated -- Swan's frisky ways are one of them.<br /><br />There are some laugh-out-loud moments in the novel. The erotic scenes are also wonderful. However, I found Swan's fascination with Rob's manhood a bit silly. The bathroom scene was difficult to follow, not to mention unreal. This is the weakest Blaze book I've read thus far. I'm not giving up on Blaze, but I hope that the other books have elements of male and female sexual tension without the childish games illustrated in Forster's weak effort. It's a shame, for she's a talented writer...	2003-10-19
934391:US	50774468	R10JKHUIQ3O8CP	1562011774	465508843	The Odalisque	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Insatiable erotic/historical novel	I can't resist erotic and historical elements rolled into one novel. The Odalisque is as insatiable as it is fanciful. It's set during the Victorian age. Lady Jenny Langham hadn't anticipated the sort of fate that befalls her upon arrival to the city of Khartoum on the Nile. When she becomes the captive of Mahdi, her life goes from royalty to one of the most disarming forms of erotic slavery ever written. Pleasure and submission are two of the things that Lady Jenny has accepted with relish. Will she ever return to her old life? And, more to the point, will she want to?<br />This novel reminds me of Anne Rice's Sleeping Beauty series. Having loved the aforementioned series, reading The Odalisque was like discovering a treasure chest. I couldn't put it down. Are you in the bargain for an erotic/historical read? I highly recommend this novel.	2003-10-19
934474:US	50774468	R19AKY9Q8AEGXK	0395883245	456217383	A Book of Bees: And How to Keep Them	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Beautiful!	Unique, well-written -- poignant, humorous -- subtle, yet compelling. Hubble's comic timing and keen storytelling are second to none. This is one of the most wonderful gifts I've ever received. Read it! Give it to every person you know. It's unique and so very lovely. I am grateful to the person who recommended this gem. A Book of Bees is a wonderful revelation. Ostensibly about bee-keeping, but really about life.	2003-10-19
936605:US	50774468	R28BF87MXQSW8I	0316381209	370551246	The Anniversary: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A clever and chilling psychological thriller...	Steven Gage was executed for murdering a vast amount of women. Five years later, Callie Thayer, Steven's ex-lover, receives threatening letters and experiences strange occurrences. Callie hadn't expected the nightmare she now lives. Her daughter and boyfriend might be in danger. The perpetrator has made it clear that it is payback time. Is Steven Gage somehow responsible for said nightmare, or is there something far more sinister going on? There are some chilling and disturbing twists in this novel.<br />The Anniversary is quite a clever thriller. The building of tension is intense -- and the aforementioned tension kept me turning the pages until the wee hours of the night. Amy Gutman has created a wonderful novel full of suspense and thrill rides. I couldn't recommend this novel enough.	2003-10-17
937210:US	50774468	R17L2WLPB0BRTG	097271491X	687067095	Confessions of a Womanizer	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Thought-provoking chronicles of the male psyche!	Forget Men Behaving Badly! Confessions of a Womanizer offers an insightful look into the male psyche with dark, thought provoking entries. Stephen Chatman floored me with this exquisite and intelligent book. As a viction of heartbreak, there are aspects that I know all too well -- however, Chatman still managed to surprise me with some rather profound thoughts and views on relationships. As I read the entries, I realized that this is more to do with general men's behavior than simple chronicles of a notorious philander. This book is an excellent gift to all women who've wondered why the men of their dreams haven't called them. It's an excellent source! Highly recommended...	2003-10-17
937274:US	50774468	R177VZ0DG1CSI7	0758204930	455231915	Life A La Mode	Books	3	4	8	N	N	And the point to this novel is... ?	At the age of thirty, Holly Phillips's life is in a standstill. She's in a career rut, her ex-husband has begun to make surprise visits and her younger sister is engaged... for the seventh time! The relationship front is non-existent, to put it mildly. She has a relationship of sorts with a shy co-worker. Her life couldn't be more remote and it looks as though things aren't bound to improve...<br />And that is the basics of the novel. The heroine chronicles her adventures and struggles with friends, family and men. Story development is notably missing. There is no hook, no specific point to the novel. Have I missed something? The ending gave me the impression that the author had illustrated the heroine's inability to accept changes in her life. But was that the plot? Or was the story centered on her relationship with her father? Or was it centered on her relationship with her sister? Or her ex-husband? Or her timid co-worker? There were times in which I had no idea what the novel was really about.<br />However, Life a la Mode is not a bad book. It's quite readable and it managed to keep me interested until the end. It brings nothing new to the chick-lit genre though. All in all, despite the loose ends, I recommend Life a la Mode.	2003-10-17
941803:US	50774468	R3C73FHM15YYZB	0151006261	582044302	Under the Skin	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Dark and sinister!	Michel Faber sees darkness in nearly everything. The success of Under the Skin illustrates this fact. The writing (dark, stark, ambitious), the setting (Scotland) and the plot (a very determined woman looking for a few good men -- so to speak) enthralled me from beginning to end. This isn't just a &quot;psychosexual drama,&quot; as one critic implied. This is one of the darkest and most disarming novels out there. The language is rather strange, but that's what drew me to read it in the first place. I'm sure there will be comparisons to Faber's earlier work, but all of his novels have different goals. Under the Skin is sheer dark delight. Magical realism is thrown in for good measure. Faber shows us that thought-provoking and sinister literature is timeless.	2003-10-13
942195:US	50774468	R1BCVPBAXOX0FN	1582431000	25900341	Physics of Sunset	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Brilliant!	The chapter titles alone are worth the price of this book. I had the honor of attending one of Jane Vandenburgh's readings in NYC and she is a woman with an abiding talent as well as a passionate and strong sense of humor. As for the Physics of Sunset, it merits every bit of praise it has received in the media, and then some. I am about to track down everything this author has written so that I can sustain this feeling of having discovered a great new voice.	2003-10-13
943327:US	50774468	R1J8U0PAHX1A8L	0373250363	767485848	As Seen on TV	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Don't touch that dial!	I couldn't put this book down! Sarah Mlynowski is back with another gem. As Seen on TV will have you in hysterics from cover to cover. I like the author's intelligent takes on reality television. Even though this isn't the first novel that centers on the ubiquitous programs (Bachelorette Number One, Girls' Night Out, among others), As Seen on TV has a particular brand of insight all its own. Sunny Langstein moves from Miami to New York to live with her boyfriend. Unfortunately, her job search hasn't gone as well as she had hoped. She agrees to participate in Party Girls -- a reality TV version of Sex and the City -- with the hope that it'll improve her career prospects. However, the star treatments and free perks prove to be too much for Sunny's soaring ego, and soon she finds herself not wanting to be taken out of the spotlight.<br /><br />Sarah Mlynowski's wit shines in As Seen on TV. The dialogue is sharp, the book has the author's signature prose (a very neurotic character who asks a lot of questions) and the characterization is excellent. I particularly like Steve. It is refreshing to read a chick-lit novel with a protagonist who already has a boyfriend -- a sweet, considerate boyfriend at that. Also, the subplot involving Sunny's wayward and stoic father adds meaning to the story. And I love that the chapters are named after TV shows. A great effort from this talented author and another winner from Red Dress Ink! Highly recommended...	2003-10-12
943746:US	50774468	RXQM5QXAPGCG9	0679777423	734645991	Gut Symmetries	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Can't beat Winterson!	Jeanette Winterson is one of the most talented and versatile writers of this era. I have read and loved her excellent novels. Gut Symmetries, though filled with Winterson's signature poetic and metaphorical prose, is somewhat different from her other efforts. Physics and romance intertwine in this book. What are the similarities between the aforementioned subjects? Could love be measured in the law of physics? As said earlier, this book has the author's signature poetic prose -- and the same is illustrated in outstanding proportions.<br />I marvel at Ms. Winterson's beautiful writing and overactive imagination. Her masterful work has a unique brand of magic realism all its own. Gut Symmetries illustrates this. I highly recommend this gem to people with a penchant for literary, intelligent reads.	2003-10-12
949426:US	50774468	R2HU9BI9CXML43	0373250371	577939227	Losing It (Red Dress Ink)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A poignant, compelling read!	Red Dress Ink keeps getting better and better. Losing It is one of the most poignant and compelling novels the aforementioned publisher has ever released. The protagonist's plights spoke to me. Her emotions almost jumped out of the pages. I couldn't put the book down as a result.<br />At thirty-two, Diana's life is in a state of paralysis. She's overweight, works at a diner and the memories of her dead father haunt her. Her ninety-three-year-old neighbor is her saving grace - her best friend. She is also the person who will teach Diana the meaning of life...<br />There are some touching and flooring moments in the novel.<br />I give kudos to Red Dress Ink for releasing such a wonderful novel. The characters are vivid, the dialogue sharp and crisp and the story development is excellent. At first, I thought that Diana's &quot;epiphany&quot; was a bit abrupt, for the novel's tone in the beginning was rather dark, but the protagonist's subsequent plights gave it a realistic twist. I love this book! Read it and pass it along to women with a penchant for enlightening reads.	2003-10-07
949530:US	50774468	R1YVII839IQBMA	0446530727	895937790	How to Meet Cute Boys	Books	4	3	10	N	N	Pure fun!	How to Meet Cute Boys is one fun novel! I laughed out loud on so many occasions. The novel/magazine style is clever -- the protagonist is Filly magazine's \\"sexpert\\" -- and the graphics, articles and Cosmo-like quizzes are great treats. I also love the L.A. dating scene as the novel's backdrop. I could relate to Benjamina Franklin's plights. She makes the same relationship mistakes she warns her readers about. She is a tad neurotic, but isn't that the reason why we read these books in the first place? Isn't neurosis one of single women's signature traits? How to Meet Cute Boys isn't food for the intellect. It's a fun, quirky read to enjoy while taking a bubble bath and gulping on martinis.	2003-10-07
949605:US	50774468	RNSLS6IXBUHFS	1932420096	337076474	Playtime	Books	4	18	18	N	N	It's so good to be bad!	Kim Corum's Playtime is one of the steamiest erotic novels ever written. The novel about a woman's quest to shatter all sexual inhibitions satisfied me from beginning to end - so to speak. If you've ever wondered what it would be like to act on every deviant and taboo sexual desire then this is the book for you. Corum does an excellent job chronicling the life of the proverbial bad girl. Even though it doesn't exceed Corum's Breaking the Girl, Playtime is insatiable erotica nevertheless. Highly recommended to all erotic fiction enthusiasts...	2003-10-07
951135:US	50774468	R2YXOURUUOKS41	078686818X	301892189	Trading Up	Books	1	6	10	N	N	Who cares?	In the past, I have read Bushnell's column in New York Observer and roared with laughter and sometimes recognition. I also loved the book Sex and the City. Now she has gotten to write fiction and released Four Blondes and Trading Up. Trading Up is about Janie Wilcox -- one of the characters in Four Blondes -- and her exploits as a social climber. As I read this account of New York socialites and the people who love them I couldn't help but be appalled by the weak plot, unsympathetic characters and poor writing. Was Ms. Bushnell leaning toward satire with this book? I couldn't tell. And I couldn't care less about the lifestyles of the rich and shameless. This is unlike Bushnell's sharp and risque former sex column. With Sex and the City, she offered an empathic look at the tangled world in which real people triumph, frolic, and sometimes flail in the city. She did not supply the aforementioned plights with this novel. Disappointing...	2003-10-06
951455:US	50774468	R2VE77BAUWLIL7	0375421890	444416285	Against Love: A Polemic	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Polemic is the correct description!	Laura Kipnis's effort is one of those books that makes you nod in agreement and cringe for having agreed with the author's views in the first place. Against Love's controversial topics on romantic and sexual relationships overwhelmed me in various occasions. Kipnis's wit is priceless - her cynicism palpable. She's voiced all jarring views on sex, love and relationships with black humor and insight. I happen to agree with most of her views. I recommend this daring and polemic book to all relationship cynics.	2003-10-05
954261:US	50774468	RSYTEAF8B53G6	0345464982	572756486	Bad Girl: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Gripping romantic suspense!	Bad Girl is quite a gripping suspense novel. Chicago \\"Windy\\" Thomas accepts the offer to head the Las Vegas Police Department's forensics lab. A natural at the aforementioned task, she helps solve various cases at the drop of a hat. That is until she's encountered with one of the most sinister serial killers in recent years. The culprit - whom the press named the \\"Home Wrecker\\" - has killed various women and their children. Will Windy be able to solve the complicated case? And are she and her six-year-old daughter in danger? There are various twists and turns throughout the novel.<br />The dissecting of evidence takes over most of the novel. There were times in which I thought I was watching an episode of CSI. But the second half of the novel floored me till the end. The building of sexual tension between Windy and Ash gives the novel a nice romantic touch. I'm duly impressed with Michele Jaffe's work and I look forward to reading her other books in the future. I highly recommend Bad Girl.	2003-10-03
954466:US	50774468	R3KLDIELXSZIT4	0451209710	468627713	The Dewey Decimal System of Love	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Lacks substance and plot development	The Dewey Decimal System of Love has its moments of wit, insight and entertainment. The protagonist possesses the aforementioned qualities. Unfortunately, this novel failed to spark my interest. This is the story of Alison Sheffield, a celibate librarian who suspects that a beautiful woman plans to murder her husband. Alison's crush on said man wouldn't have anything to do with her suspicions, would it? So she becomes an amateur sleuth of sorts. And she does encounter some inconsistencies...<br />The novel lacks substance. The plot goes round and round in circles. There isn't enough story and character development. Also, I didn't like the blatant stereotypical look at librarians. I mean, not all librarians are frigid women who cover themselves from head to toe and wear huge glasses, right?  Granted, The Dewey Decimal System of Love isn't terrible. There are some amusing occurrences, for I mentioned that the protagonist possesses a special brand of wit. Unfortunately, said wit does not make up for the overall lack of substance in the novel.	2003-10-02
955070:US	50774468	R1L6828EBKNA20	1580050816	104890751	Unruly Appetites: Erotica	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Unruly erotica!	Unruly Appetites is one of the most tantalizing collections of erotic stories ever written. Hanne Blank's insatiable, provocative and explicit tales satisfied me from beginning to end - so to speak. I especially love the stories &quot;Claudia&quot; and &quot;The Princess and the Tiger.&quot; Her writing is subtle and lyrical, making the erotic stories all the more alluring. You should read this book with your partner. Ms. Blank is an astounding erotic writer and I look forward to reading her future projects with utmost anticipation. I also recommend The Sex Chronicles by Zane.	2003-10-02
958196:US	50774468	RKRYEQK8DML0Q	0373790996	808746664	Hot Zone (Harlequin Blaze No. 95)(Chicago Heat series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hotter than a cup of java!	A cup of java isn't quite as hot as this sizzling novel! Patricia Rosemoor introduces the reader to Helen Rhodes and Luke DeVries - coffeehouse rivals. Helen's cyber cafe has a cozy environment and devoted clientele. Nevertheless she's concerned about the grand opening of Hot Zone - a coffeehouse-slash-massage parlor. Attraction ensues between the competitors, and Luke reassures Helen that there's enough room for both establishments. That is until strange occurrences threaten Helen's business.<br />The building of tension between the protagonists is insatiable and the sex scenes are as sensual as they are erotic. From hereon in, I shall consider Harlequin's Blaze an excellent source for erotic fiction. I highly recommend Hot Zone. As said earlier, it's hotter than a cup of steaming java!	2003-09-29
958792:US	50774468	R2A5G0VLB2N1JH	078688861X	223037	Men and Other Mammals	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Fun and entertaining!	Jim Keeble is so talented that I won't deign to compare him to that other lad-lit writer. Men and Other Mammals tells the story of Scott Barron, a bestselling author and toast of London. His life couldn't be better - that is until his girlfriend leaves him and his third book doesn't reach the same success that his previous efforts had. To make matters worse, he's begun to envy his younger brother's life. Hasn't it always been the other way around? After all, Jes is a struggling writer with an average life. But Jes, unlike Scott, is happily married. Is love the one thing missing in Scott's life? There are some fun twists in the novel.<br />I know critics have put lad-lit writers through the Nick Hornby test. (Oops, I've said it!) But Keeble has wit, insight and self-deprecating humor all his own. I for one look forward to his next effort.	2003-09-29
958856:US	50774468	R9BEPQAR2IE8W	1400032644	916629740	The Diary of an American Au Pair: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Middling -- 2 1/2 stars	I had high hopes for this novel, but it failed to spark my interest. Originally published as Do Try to Speak as We Do, The Diary of an American Au Pair comes across as a guide to British terminology. Thus the former title is better suited for this novel. The novel is centered on the culture shock Melissa experiences when she moves from San Francisco to work as an au pair for an aristocratic family in Scotland. From then on, Melissa chronicles her misadventures with the Haig-Ereildouns family - most of which is centered on the cultural differences between Americans and the British. There are some amusing moments, but not enough to make it interesting.  I recommend The Nanny Diaries instead.	2003-09-29
958926:US	50774468	R3FCSJXC8K899R	0345446593	157680826	Sophie	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Disturbing and chilling!	Sophie is one of the chilliest, most disturbing novels I've recently read. The tension and suspension build to a disarming climax as siblings Matthew and Sophie tell their childhood stories. Matthew wants to understand Sophie's above-average intelligence. Sophie has a brilliant mind, and Matthew has worshipped her for it. That is until he is forced to see Sophie as she truly is: manipulative, controlling and sinister. There are various disturbing twists throughout the novel. The ending is flooring. This is one of the best psychological thrillers ever written. I shall look to Guy Burt's work in the future. Highly recommended...	2003-09-29
961607:US	50774468	R2ALKAY2FJ3IFP	0767915593	238389596	Straight Talking: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The introduction to Jane Green's wonderful work!	Straight Talking was Jane Green's vehicle to the publishing world. She, along with Helen Fielding and Marian Keyes, shaped the now popular chick-lit genre. This book was the promise of better things to come, and its US release was long overdue. I have never underestimated Jane Green's ability to write a fun, feisty novel. Her female protagonists and their quests to find Mr. Right have always entertained me. She has such great attention to detail. I loved Jemima J., Mr. Maybe and Bookends, but Straight Talking is the most open and honest book she's written thus far. Tasha is a great narrator. Her dry wit and unflinching honesty floored me. And I love the sharp dialogue between Tasha and her friends. I especially love the whole passion vs. friendship debate -- which one of the aforementioned aspects is vital in a relationship? And is it possible to have your cake and eat it too? This is chick lit for intelligent women. Buy Straight Talking for anyone with a brain and a sense of humor.	2003-09-26
961747:US	50774468	R375IL479NIV1H	0802134661	675880526	Blue Movie	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A dark and raunchy satire!	Terry Southern floored me with Candy, and I couldn't wait to read another one of his comic -- albeit raunchy -- satires. Blue Movie did not disappoint me. The story of an accomplished filmmaker's attempt at creating an adult movie with famous actors in it is dark, stark, smut, fun and entertaining. There are a lot of political aspects that might offend some people, but the point of the story is that it's satirical - i.e., truth without apology. I couldn't put this book down. This novel is as outrageous and sinister as Candy. Are you in the bargain for a satirical read? I suggest Blue Movie. Terry Southern is brilliant. I, for one, shall give his other novels a whirl.	2003-09-26
964874:US	50774468	R2TVY0WL6U87YT	1569472068	441389446	Gloria	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Intelligent, insightful!	This book enthralled me from beginning to end. The implications of women's need for independence and self-worth are insightful and amazing. Gloria has struggled her way through graduate school. However, her family feels she ought to marry a well-off man to guide her through life. Gloria is torn between doing what is required from a woman and seeking her own dreams and ambitions. She's always lived the typical woman's role when all along she's been intellectual and ambitious. Will she continue to relent to society's wishes? Again, this wonderful book enthralled me. I had it in my bookshelf for quite some time, and I can't believe it took me this long to give this gem a whirl. Highly recommended...	2003-09-24
965132:US	50774468	R23H2I1FJUNP4Q	0743418905	811714401	A Fractured Truth	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Suspenseful and sinister thriller!	A Fractured Truth is one of the most suspenseful novels I have recently read. The dark language and building of tension kept me turning the pages until the wee hours of the night. I couldn't put it down.  Grace Leshanky is convicted of murdering her husband. When she's released on parole, she has difficulty getting on with her life. As the story progresses, the reader gets a glimpse into Grace's life and the sort of marriage she and her husband had. What develops is a twisted story that takes the reader in a whole other direction. As said earlier, I couldn't put this book down. Are you in the bargain for an intelligent, sinister thriller? I recommended A Fractured Truth.	2003-09-23
965841:US	50774468	RVY2XHCT8IHJ0	0373691432	534984386	Fringe Benefits: Heat	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Temptation indeed!	What fun book! Fringe Benefits kept me turning the pages as the mounting of tension between Jane and Spencer grew in each chapter. Having experienced sexual harassment from her former boss, Jane decides to wear a wedding ring to keep men at bay. However, she hadn't anticipated the fact that her new boss is gorgeous. Will she give up her inhibitions and begin a steamy affair with her boss, or will she continue the charade? I recommend this little gem to all romance enthusiasts!	2003-09-23
969154:US	50774468	R792NJA7RGGGF	0060530421	293088446	The Lady, the Chef, and the Courtesan	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Mesmerizing!	I couldn't put this book down. This beautiful and mesmerizing account of South American rituals enthralled me from beginning to end. Pilar hadn't anticipated the legacy her late grandmother had left her. She received a collection of diaries her nana had penned that contained the delectable secrets that bewitch men. According to her grandmother, Pilar must be a lady in the living room, a chef in the kitchen, and a courtesan in the bedroom. The lyrical descriptions have a great deal of subtle -- albeit tantalizing -- eroticism. I marvel at South American literature -- it hasn't failed to enthrall me. Notwithstanding the fact that Ms. Marisol now lives in the states, she still captures her Venezuelan roots with piercing accuracy. I highly recommend this beautiful and literary gem.	2003-09-20
971713:US	50774468	R214BIMDOIAMM5	0373250266	402232833	Guilty Feet	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A quantum leap above the rest!	I bought Guilty Feet when it first came out but hadn't felt compelled to read it until now. I can't believe it took me this long to give it a whirl! This is a fun, fast-paced story of a young woman's misadventures with love and friendship. Having dumped her boyfriend, Jo decides to reinvent herself and assume a different identity on the Internet and have an e-mail relationship with him. It is in the midst of sporadic e-mail exchanges that she discovers various inconsistencies and deceit from people she thought were her friends. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br />The characters are vivid and compelling. Libby, a bunny-boiler waiting to happen, is the most entertaining one of all. Her deceitful ways kept me turning the pages. The writing is quick and sharp -- Kelly Harte is a great new author. Red Dress Ink has again scored big with this gem. Guilty Feet is a quantum leap above the rest. Highly recommended...	2003-09-18
972529:US	50774468	R1E1976R7UD0UP	076790284X	98620316	Bella Tuscany: The Sweet Life in Italy	Books	4	18	23	N	N	Exquisite!	Mayes is a treat. I loved this book as much as her previous Italy book; can't understand the attacks herein, but it doesn't matter. I love all of the Italian references. The imagery is so powerful that it almost felt as though I were in Italy. It enriched my reading experience by teaching me the finer parts of Mediterranean culture -- and Mayes has done the same in a unique and memorable way. This is a wonderful book and I highly recommend it to anyone without an ax slung over their shoulder.	2003-09-17
973029:US	50774468	R3VJCP0A7O7OEB	0373790937	146503789	Working It (Harlequin Blaze, 89)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Sexy, entertaining read	I'm currently writing a novel for Harlequin's Blaze catalogue, and so I've decided to familiarize myself with said catalogue by reading its installments. Cathy Yardley's Working It is a fun, romantic romp about a go-getter PR agent and her reluctant client. Jade Morrow wants to land a promotion, and the only way to achieve that is by helping Drew Robson's troubled company. However, Drew isn't keen with the aforementioned idea. Sexual tension rises during a road trip, and Jade gets more than she bargains for with Drew.<br />What I like about this romance line is that it is as feisty and provocative as it is fun and romantic. Perfect for sheer romantic escapism! Also, Cathy Yardley is a wonderful contemporary romance writer. I liked L.A. Woman, her Red Dress Ink offering, and I also like this one. And I love Blaze. I look forward to reading more books from this series.	2003-09-17
974064:US	50774468	R6599N4Q6VOSO	0425176657	626534170	Belinda	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Not as good as the Sleeping Beauty novels...	I was hoping that Anne Rice's Belinda would have the same tantalizing and thought-provoking brand of erotica as the Sleeping Beauty series.  However, I found this novel lacking in both depth and eroticism. The story of a forty-four-year-old artist and his obsession with a sensual sixteen-year-old runaway who moves into his home falls flat in various places. There are plenty of S&amp;M and mind-control scenes here, but they leave a lot to be desired -- so to speak. Anne Rice isn't known for intellectually stimulating literature, but her erotic novels have been quite memorable -- save for Belinda.	2003-09-16
974385:US	50774468	R209TM7BM1WL2J	1840680121	121347195	Philosophy in the Boudoir	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Hilarious, erotic and though-provoking!	I loved Marquis de Sade's Juliette and I looked forward to reading another one of his mind-blowing, thought-provoking erotica novels. Philosophy in the Bedroom has a rather warped, ironic humor when describing the bedroom exploits. Oddly enough, the erotic occurrences in the book do seem rather philosophical. For instance, I love the passage that says, &quot;Imagination is the spur of delights.&quot; This describes the novel's explicit exploits down to a tee. The dark humor is second to none. I can't believe I hadn't discovered Marquis de Sade before. I shall look forward to reading more of his memorable work.	2003-09-16
977749:US	50774468	R1E4JYS3LALL78	0345459806	603452592	The Sitter	Books	5	2	3	N	N	It gave me Goosebumps!	I was a big fan of the Goosebumps series when I was a teenager, and reading R. L. Stine's first adult thriller was a flooring, suspenseful experience.<br />Ellie Saks wants to get away from the dead-end jobs and stressful life of New York City. More to the point, she wants to get away from her ex-boyfriend's obsessive behavior.  So she moves to the Hamptons and accepts an offer to work as a nanny. Her life takes some disarming turns when she moves into the Harpers' beach house. The young couple's four-year-old son hasn't spoken in months, and Ellie witnesses his dark and sinister behavior. Throw in a ghost story, a tormented past, a murderous stalker and enough twists and turns that will keep you turning the pages into the wee hours and you've got quite a chilling novel in your hands.<br />Mr. Stine has outdone himself with this gem. I thought his horror stories for children and young adults were fun, but his novels for adults are intense. I picked up some young adult-like elements in his writing -- the twenty-five-year-old protagonist seems younger than her age at times -- but that is the only flaw I found in this book. A fine read. Highly recommended...	2003-09-13
977922:US	50774468	R2ERVLL9QMZ0HE	0373250347	263367761	Lucy's Launderette (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fun, quirky seriocomic novel!	Again, Red Dress Ink scores big with its latest installment. Lucy's Launderette is a unique, albeit quirky, seriocomic novel about a young woman who should've come of age long ago.<br />Lucy's life goes to pieces after her grandfather dies. All of her troubles -- an unstable brother who stalks her; a stoic, bonkbusting roommate; a non-existent love life -- increase tenfold. To make matters worse, she has to keep the promise she'd made to her grandfather about looking after his eccentric girlfriend and his launderette business. However, the aforementioned plights might just turn her life around...<br />Betsy Burke's language is rather unique and refreshing. The voice and dialogue are sharp and crisp, even dark at times. I must admit, however, that the novel's setting (Vancouver) and jazzy cover had sealed the deal before I even started the first chapter. I'm glad it turned out to be such fun, enhancing read. I await RDI installments with utmost anticipation. Highly recommended...	2003-09-13
982475:US	50774468	R1M5ZGGIIBLZNI	0758205937	642648314	Bad Boys Online	Books	5	6	6	N	N	My favorite Bad Boy book to date!	I've read the entire Bad Boy series thus far. The newest offering called Bad Boys Online is by far my favorite. Erin McCarthy, Lori Foster's protegee, penned all three novellas. McCarthy supplies an irresistible mix of erotica and humor. Her stories are as hilarious as they are insatiable. I'm flabbergasted. This is such a wonderful gem!<br />My favorite story is Hard Drive. After discovering that Kindra Hill has an online lover, Mack Stone makes an offer that Kindra cannot refuse. For one night, he wants to turn all of her online fantasies into reality. But does Kindra want it to be a one-time thing?<br />Press Any Key is a tantalizing story of two hostile colleagues who secretly desire one another. When their boss suggests online counseling, things take a rather interesting twist...<br />In User Friendly, Halley Connor's life goes to pieces when she discovers that her catering website has been hacked. However, Evan Barrett, the gorgeous computer guru and friend of Halley's, is there to sort it all out. But will Halley and Evan be able to resist the mutual secret attraction?<br />As said earlier, this is the best Bad Boy anthology ever written. I couldn't put it down. I hope that Ms. McCarthy will be featured in future Bad Boy anthologies.	2003-09-09
984974:US	50774468	R2345EQCBSRUOA	0385720033	604456040	The Whole Woman	Books	5	10	16	N	N	Germaine Greer is a genius!	I am so glad that Ms. Greer has once more emerged from wherever she keeps herself to grace us with her passion, wit and insight. The Female Eunuch is one of my all-time favorite books, and finding The Whole Woman was like discovering precious gems in a hidden treasure chest. This woman has more guts than the average truck driver, and I for one appreciate this. As a woman, I cannot imagine a culture in which she did not exist. Critics have broken their necks in the race to marginalize and minimize her work, but as Elwood P. Dowd said, &quot;That's just envy, my dear.&quot; This is an impressive legacy to all women, and I can't fathom the bad reviews here. Are you in the bargain for some food for thought? I suggest that you get this amazing book.	2003-09-07
985130:US	50774468	R2AEMUGKSO5QPG	0802139183	781803946	Personal Velocity	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Great satirical stories!	Personal Velocity is a dark, stark, insightful and satirical collection of short stories. All seven stories are terrific, but the ones with Greta, Louisa and Paula are, in my opinion, the most riveting and humorous ones in the book. Rebecca Miller has grasped the lives of today's single women down to a tee. She covers all the vital details of modern women -- career, relationships, sex -- with a unique brand of dark humor all her own. This isn't a lighthearted chick lit, but a literary piece of women's fiction. With sharp dialogue, unsentimental language and excellent prose, Miller has written quite a memorable satire. I couldn't recommend this book enough.	2003-09-07
986787:US	50774468	R2LL8SD6LUHIDX	1582880123	492075739	The Essential Plato	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Brilliant, as usual!	The chapter titles alone are worth the price of this book. I had the honor of attending one of Alain de Botton's readings in London and he's a writer with an abiding talent as well as a passionate and strong sense of humor. As for The Essential Plato, it merits every bit of praise it has received in the media, and then some. Alain de Botton -- much like he'd done with How Proust Can Change Your Life -- illustrates a witty, insightful and readable introduction to Plato. Without a doubt, it is a great gateway to Plato's work. Alain de Botton hasn't disappointed me. I am about to track down the remaining books he's written so that I can sustain this feeling of having discovered a memorable author.	2003-09-05
988638:US	50774468	R193EFDMMYMS81	0312140940	65783878	Wonder Boys: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The mark of great skill!	I've barely finished this book and I already feel like a swan diving off the roof; Mr. Chabon is that good. The story of an eccentric novelist whose life turns upside down in the midst of a writer's block is insightful, entertaining and thought provoking. The dark humor is second to none.  Granted, Grady Tripp isn't the most pleasant character ever read, but his off-kilter personality had me in stitches throughout the novel. I haven't seen the film yet but I hope Michael Chabon made pots of money off its release. What a skillful and brilliant novelist. You must read this book immediately.	2003-09-04
990593:US	50774468	R301SGVXW6PC2W	0743457609	301426977	Larger Than Life	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Darker than most chick lits...	In the past, I read Playing Away and roared with laughter and sometimes recognition. Adele Parks got the sexual and emotional aspects of infidelity down to a tee. Now she has returned with another novel that illustrates her wit and intelligence.<br />Larger Than Life - much like Playing Away - centers on infidelity. However, the theme is somewhat different from her first novel. This second effort has a darker subject matter.<br />After years of patience, Georgina has finally obtained full possession of Hugh, the love of her life. He's chosen her over his wife and children. Now she's able to take a step back, relax and be at ease. She no longer has to go to great lengths to be the glamazonian mistress she's always been. But things take a turn toward disaster when she finds out she's pregnant. Will Hugh stick around? Was the fantasy life she once lived with Hugh better than the reality she now endures? There are some interesting turns throughout the novel.<br />As previously said, Larger Than Life has a rather dark language. The problems Georgina encounters after making the transition from mistress to girlfriend are insightful and poignant. Adele Parks is a great chick-lit author and I look forward to more work from her in the future.	2003-09-02
990594:US	50774468	R296A252LMK4HC	0007141076	958226210	Unless: A Novel	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Wonderful piece of work!	Carol Shields is a magnificent writer who fully deserves every prize she has garnered, and many that have not been invented yet. Unless is as gripping and finely crafted as everything she has touched. Not an useless novel, but one that enhances your reading experience. I adore this author, and cannot comprehend the one stars here. I am hooked on Ms. Shields and I look forward to reading The Stone Diaries - for I've been told that the aforementioned novel is her best work thus far.	2003-09-02
993525:US	50774468	R1EYR8GJJ3BJ3X	0380814390	855303202	Lola Carlyle Reveals All	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Hmm, not her best effort...	Rachel Gibson's It Must Be Love and See Jane Score enthralled me from cover to cover. As a result, I bought all of her books. However, I am disappointed with Lola Carlyle Reveals All.<br />Having discovered some rather intimate photos of herself on the Internet, supermodel Lola Carlyle flees to the sunny Bahamas to escape scrutiny and scandal from the press. Little did she envisage that her yacht would be \\"commandeered\\" by a seemingly mad - albeit gorgeous - government employee named Max Zamora. Stuck in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, Lola and Max's animosity changes to intense attraction in quick succession. But will they be able to return to their respective lives?<br />There are various typos and grammatical errors in this book. Was Ms. Gibson on a crucial publishing deadline? Also, some of the scenes are too far-fetched to be believable. For instance, Max has loving thoughts of Lola while on a mission to escape to freedom from dangerous drug lords. And Max's government job isn't realistic. To make matters worse, the romance isn't as palpable as her other efforts. There just isn't enough building of tension between Max and Lola.<br />This isn't my favorite Gibson book, but she's nevertheless a wonderful contemporary romance writer and I look forward to giving Truly Madly Yours and Simply Irresistible a whirl.	2003-08-30
994251:US	50774468	R3GE4MKAM1J432	0688177743	280607679	Keeping Faith: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Engrossing masterpiece!	Jodi Picoult has written a masterpiece. One that not only keeps the reader enthralled but gets you thinking as well.<br /><br />Mariah White and her daughter Faith have been through a lot. However, it is when they return home early one afternoon and find Mariah's husband in the bedroom with another woman that things start to fall apart.<br />Mariah has had the aforementioned gruesome experience with her husband before, but Faith hadn't witnessed it until now. As her mother experiences another bout of depression, Faith finds an imaginary friend to help her through the tough times. While imaginary friends are not unique, Mariah's Guard seems to be someone rather unique. Shortly after the Guard comes to visit, Faith begins quoting the bible and is able to spontaneously heal people.<br />Things take a spin toward disaster when Faith falls ill. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br />Keeping the Faith is a beautiful and enthralling novel that will keep you turning the pages. I've been told that Ms. Picoult's novels are creative, engrossing and thought-provoking. Well, I loved this novel and I look forward to reading her other offerings.	2003-08-30
1001408:US	50774468	R2R6XLJIW928QT	0670032190	137879981	Love and Other Recreational Sports	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Sex and the City for the male set!	I know, I know. My review's subject isn't original, but I couldn't resist. John Dearie's novel is a fast-paced, fun and enlightening read. Relationships from a man's vantage point are done with a great deal of insight in this gem.<br />Having had his heart broken, Jack Rafferty wants nothing to do with relationships. He's decided to swear off women, but the aforementioned decision isn't facilitated when most of his male friends have taken the plunge into marriage. Also, the beautiful Sarah Mitchell weakens his conviction. Will Jack hold on to his promise to remain unattached? There are some fun twists in the novel.<br />As mentioned, Drearie's takes on relationships are quite insightful. The parts in which Jack reflects on his feelings for his ex-fiancee are done with intelligence and wit. This is a fun and quick Lad Lit to indulge in - Sex and the City for the male set. Highly recommended to both genders, though.	2003-08-24
1001431:US	50774468	R1BL9K0SUODXLB	0805073337	447498808	What Was She Thinking?: Notes on a Scandal: A Novel	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Dark tale of love, friendship and obsession	Craving something different, I picked up Zoe Heller's What Was She Thinking? with utmost anticipation. The synopsis had promised a dark, lurid tale of love, friendship and obsession. This is one of the most gripping novels I've read in quite some time.<br />Barbara Covett, a sixty-year-old schoolteacher and notorious spinster, has lived a rather monotonous existence. That is until she meets Sheba Hart. Sheba's slight eccentricities intrigue Barbara. A friendship ensues, but things take a disarming turn when Sheba confesses to having an affair with one of her fifteen-year-old students. A forty-two-year-old married woman, Sheba has a lot to lose if word gets out about the affair. Barbara becomes her confidante, but her intentions are rather sinister...<br />As mentioned earlier, What Was She Thinking? is an engrossing and gripping tale of love, friendship and obsession. The novel's structure and storytelling is rather different from the books I've read recently - and that's a good thing. I couldn't put this down. The darkness of the novel enthralled me from the first paragraph. Zoe Heller is a talented English author who has made her mark in contemporary literature. Her style is rather similar to Margot Livesey's, one of my favorite authors. Highly recommended...	2003-08-24
1001584:US	50774468	R16DO6CK72W3PL	0380771292	779993000	Black Thorn, White Rose	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not as good as the first effort	Having read Snow White, Blood Red, I couldn't wait to pick up the second volume of this magical series. Black Thorn, White Rose, while wonderful and disarming, wasn't up to the first book's par. However, there is a saving grace in this book. Jane Yolen's retelling of \\"Rumpelstiltskin\\" is quite brilliant - it does Nancy Kress's original story justice. I must say that the other retellings are rather weak. I haven't given up on this series, but I hope that the third volume is as good as Snow White, Blood Red.	2003-08-23
1009366:US	50774468	R10164CVU16YB2	0451210980	493226953	Bachelorette #1	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Chick lit number one!	Reality TV shows have become a household name among cable television. It doesn't surprise me that there are novels based on the aforementioned ubiquitous programs out there. At first, I thought Jennifer O'Connell's Bachelorette Number One was a satire on The Bachelor.  It isn't.  It's so much better than that!<br />Sarah Holmes is an undercover journalist for Femme magazine, doing an expose about The Stag - a show where desperate single women look for love and, inevitably, rejection on national television. Older, wiser and with much more perspective than the hopeful candidates on the show, Sarah sees it all with a cynical eye. As the show progresses, however, Sarah becomes competitive, wanting to snag the sexy bachelor before the others get a chance to charm him. The tables are turned and things don't turn out the way she'd anticipated. To make matters worse, Sarah has a loving husband and toddler child back home in the suburbs. Does she want to give up her marriage in favor of the romance and luxury The Stag provides? There are various fun twists and surprises throughout the novel.<br />The writing is sharp, the dialogue is crisp and the novel is fast-paced fun. I couldn't keep it down and found myself not wanting to let go of Sarah's fantasy world crashing with reality. Jennifer O'Connell has crafted a fun novel to read in one sitting. Are novels based on Reality TV programs increasing? Yes. Are they worth reading? Well, Bachelorette Number One is definitely worth giving a whirl. Highly recommended...	2003-08-16
1009786:US	50774468	R2ICJVX511JEKD	0316678104	155429542	Fortune's Rocks: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another wonderful one from Ms. Shreve	I have read various Anita Shreve's books and loved them all thus far. Fortune's Rocks is one of my favorites. In Fortune's Rocks, Shreve takes an unexpected spin toward historical fiction. Though this novel sets during the 1800's, the theme isn't different from her previous efforts. And that is not bad criticism. Once again, Anita pulled me in and mesmerized me with beautiful imagery and wonderful character development. This book isn't a quick snapshot into a character's life - it encompasses many years in the young central figure's life.<br />No sooner had I opened the book than I felt Olympia's wonderment, naivete, rapture and longing through Anita's words. This novel enthralled me. I began to despise, to pity and to long for certain characters the moment I read the first few passages.<br />I couldn't put this book down. You won't want to let go of it either. Ms. Shreve, I applaud this wonderful and unique effort.	2003-08-16
1016284:US	50774468	RKXB8Z9HM4E22	0679751521	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil: A Savannah Story	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Engrossing whodunit delight!	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil is just that. A snap shot into the lives of the wealthy and privileged of the South captured by the skilled author, John Berendt. I hated to see this book conclude. I was enamored with Savannah - such an interesting place - and the wild, wacky and wonderful people enriched me from cover to cover. The words and historical references enthralled me.<br />This is the story of wealthy, eccentric and lavish socialite Jim Williams. Jim is the toast of Savannah, to the dismay and envy of the residents. During one of his wild parties, the reader gets a glimpse into the underbelly of Jim's extravagant world. Then a shot is fired. Was it an accident or was it a murder? And how do certain quirky people - a transvestite, a vodoo priestess and UGA - fit into the picture? The twists and turns are riveting.<br />I am not a regular reader of this sort whodunit mystery, but Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil is an entertaining, engrossing read. I haven't seen the film based on this novel, but I hope that it does this wonderful work justice.	2003-08-10
1016338:US	50774468	RUHMFSMP8R233	0060955775	622943913	Veronika Decides to Die	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Beautiful and riveting!	This novel is beautiful and decadent in its purity. Paulo Coelho's writes with riveting prose and (apparent) simplicity. Veronika Decides to Die is a wonderful revelation.<br />Veronika suffers from malaise and decides that she'd be better off dead. After a failed suicide attempt, Veronika awakens in Villete, a reputable mental hospital. Her attempt to die had gone awry, however, what's revealed about her health in the hospital forces her to reevaluate her life. There are some disarming twists in the novel.<br />I savored the final few pages like fine wine. I couldn't put it down. Coelho's life lessons are dark and stark, yet beautiful and poignant. His writing is exquisite. I recommend Veronika Decides to Die to those who'd like a reminder of that precious wonder that is life.	2003-08-10
1016780:US	50774468	R34Q8SQH3PCX8V	0140264795	13447115	Rosie	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Another great one from Anne Lamott!	I can hardly believe what some of the reviewers have said of this wonderful book. Where is my elephant gun? Pay absolutely no attention to anyone who claims this isn't up to Lamott's par. Rosie is not just a brilliant read, it is a superlative re-read. She's created another riveting tale of family woes and the love that keeps them in order. However, this novel has a unique coming-of-age brand of its own. The telling of a mother's struggles with alcoholism is poignant and enthralling. I am so relieved I can now lend out my dog-eared second-hand copy and purchase a new one for my shelves. Fans of Lamott rejoice! Now all we need is a new effort from this brilliant author.	2003-08-10
1018806:US	50774468	R19RRAW3B6QRT3	0373250320	863049712	Diary of a Blues Goddess (Red Dress Ink, No 21)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful, best RDI book to date!	Spanish Disco is one my favorite Red Dress Ink books to date. I think Erica Orloff is a wonderful and creative writer. Her work isn't formulaic like most chick novels. Hers is a voice filled with wit, insight and humanity. And she's outdone herself with Diary of a Blues Goddess.<br />Set in New Orleans, Georgia Ray Miller, a multi-racial exotica, dreams of becoming the best blues singer of her time. However, she is stuck in a rut working as a wedding singer. But with the help of her grandmother and friends - an eccentric assortment of drag queens, protective band members, an old mentor and, believe it or not, ghosts that reside in Georgia's grandmother's old brothel - Georgia could well make her dream come true. But will heartbreak get in the way of her dream, or will it help convert her into the proverbial Blues Goddess? There are quite a few surprises throughout the novel.<br />I love the colorful characters in the story - especially Dominique, Tony, Red and Nan. The story development is excellent. New Orleans, with its quirks and unique history, makes a great backdrop. Diary of a Blues Goddess is far more creative and profound than RDI's previous installments. I marvel at the aforementioned publishing house's collection of impressive authors. Their books, with the exception of a few disappointments, too little to mention, give a whole new meaning to \\"Chick Lit.\\" I for one shall continue to purchase RDI books - especially if they're from Ms. Orloff.	2003-08-08
1020196:US	50774468	RAS79KBHK1E98	0375705171	330040046	Trans-Sister Radio	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A dark, lurid read	Chris A. Bohjalian has written a compelling, disturbing and heartwarming novel from an otherwise tricky subject matter.<br /><br />Trans-Sister Radio is a novel written in five parts - using four points of view with excerpts from a NPR radio interview. Set in Vermont, Dana Stevens, a college professor, meets and falls in love with Allie, a divorced mother and college student. The romance goes well - that is until Dana tells Allie that he's planning on having a sex change operation...<br />Trans-Sister Radio is a beautiful, unique, lurid and dark read. Chris A. Bohjalian took quite a chance with the subject matter - sex change operations, the dealings after the aforementioned change - and did a wonderful job with it. This novel enthralled me from beginning to end, and I look forward to reading more work from this talented author.	2003-08-07
1023305:US	50774468	REW4CZ99UDAXY	0688177816	362197980	Altar Ego: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Darkly hilarious to the core!	Altar Ego is one of the funniest chick novels ever written! Rebecca Steele is the perfect anti-heroine - dissatisfied, obnoxious, adulterous - and she stumbles upon trouble throughout the novel as she makes one ill-fated decision after another.<br />Having jilted her lawyer fiance at the altar, Rebecca makes the added mistake of having a sizzling liaison with a gorgeous rap star. No sooner does she embark upon the affair than she discovers that her boy toy is one of her boyfriend's exclusive clients. With the help of her eccentric friends, Rebecca tries to figure out a way to get out of the situation without hurting anyone. Will her boyfriend find out? Will Rebecca be able to resist the rap star's tenacious nature? Will she ever grow up? There are some fun twists in the novel.<br />I roared with laughter at Rebecca's relationship angst and ironic humor. Kathy Lette is a great comic author. Her writing style is sort of sloppy, which makes it all the more entertaining. I couldn't put this book down and I look forward to reading more from this talented Australian author.	2003-08-04
1024372:US	50774468	R126Q97JHFZY7P	060981009X	354655848	The Dictionary of Failed Relationships: 26 Tales of Love Gone Wrong	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A great antidote to a broken heart!	It has been a year since I broke up with my boyfriend and am still a resident in Heartbreak Hotel. I often read chick lit because the authors of the aforementioned genre - or at least the good ones - write heartbreak quite well. The Dictionary of Failed Relationships is a fun little gem that features every aspect of relationship traumas from A to Z. My favorites are \\"Regret,\\" by Jennifer Weiner, \\"Dagenham,\\" by Anna Maxtet, \\"Green,\\" by Susan Minot, \\"Justice,\\" by Kathy Lette, \\"X,\\" by Suzanne Finnamore, and \\"Zero,\\" by Erika Krouse.  Each one of these authors uses witty, insightful and sharp dialogue that will make you laugh and nod in agreement with the female protagonists. As previously mentioned, my lovelorn experiences made me pick up this book. This is a great antidote to a broken heart. I, for one, loved The Dictionary of Failed Relationships and I'd like to encourage Meredith Broussard (editor) to release another volume!	2003-08-04
1026328:US	50774468	R2SI1LQGW2FK7M	0060528036	582683345	The Book of Dead Birds: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Beautiful, mesmerizing read!	The Book of Dead Birds sucked me in and didn't let me go until I'd devoured it from cover to cover. This novel is like a rare gem in a treasure chest - unique, beautiful, mesmerizing. Gayle Brandeis is a definite new talented author.<br />Ava Sing Lo has had freak accidents involving the death of birds since she was a little girl. In order to find peace with herself and hoping to win her mother's approval, she moves from San Diego to Salton Sea to help alleviate the epidemic of dead birds in that area. What transpires is a lyrical, slow-paced tale of a young woman's journey to self-discovery. She, too, needs to alleviate herself. Her Korean mother's painful past has haunted her throughout the years. The unraveling of her mother's struggles is both disarming and poignant. There's a great deal of symbolism throughout the novel.<br />As mentioned earlier, The Book of Dead Birds enthralled me from beginning to end. It is a literary force to be reckoned with. Gayle Brandeis is a wonderful new voice that shall be heard for years to come. The book jacket states that this novel won the Barbara Kingsolver's Bellwether Prize for addressing various social problems. The aforementioned prize is well deserved. I highly recommend this brilliant and beautiful novel...	2003-08-02
1030887:US	50774468	R2EHZWGOO7G1JQ	0452284430	274666748	Three	Books	5	5	5	N	N	THREE is a definite charm!	Julie Hilden's Three is described as a \\"modern-day Story of O.\\" I will have to agree with the aforementioned comparison. This is one of the darkest stories of love, sex and obsession that I've read in quite a long time! When Maya discovers Ilan's infidelity, she makes the conscious decision to allow him to engage in all sorts of exploits with other women. However, there's a catch: Maya has to take part of said exploits. The threesomes are as tantalizing as they are disturbing, and Maya is reluctant to admit that she's relished the experiences. But then Ilan becomes intimidated with Maya's thriving journalistic career and the sexual games become dangerous - possibly fatal. The novel's disarming twists give a whole new meaning to the word \\"threesome.\\" The ending floored me.<br /><br />Three is a unique and sinister love story. The comparison with Story of O is well deserved. There are elements of S&M in this novel - and said elements are the undertones of the story. Also, the character development is excellent - Ilan and Maya are two of the most interesting characters ever written. This is a drop-everything-you're-doing-and-read-this-in-one-sitting novel. I savored the last pages with gusto because I hated to see it end. After all, erotic/psychological thrillers this good are scarcely written these days. Hilden is a great author and I look forward to reading her other books with utmost anticipation.	2003-07-29
1031196:US	50774468	R1HEPTTAQDVN7Q	0373250312	420766349	Slim Chance (Red Dress Ink (Numbered Paperback))	Books	2	15	19	N	N	Fat chance that I'll pick up this book again!	Every time I picked up this book, I found myself wanting to do something else. I even wanted to vacuum! What does that say about this book? It was such a chore to read that I actually wanted to engage in chores. Evelyn is one of the most irritating heroines I've ever read. Her constant whining and illogical arguments - whereby at work or with her friends and family - made me want to shake some sense into her. I found myself feeling sorry for Bruce as he endured her childish behavior. Why on earth did she insist on losing weight before the wedding when he had made it clear that he loved her the way she was? Ugh! I am aware of the fact that some women behave this way, but reading about Evelyn's erratic bursts paragraph after paragraph made me wonder, is this what we subject men to?<br />I wanted to like this book, but I gave up on it at the end. I give Slim Chance two stars because, notwithstanding the aforementioned complaints, Jackie Rose does have talent - she can write - she just has to find a middle ground between a frustrated, insecure engaged woman and an erratic, irrational, makes-you-want-to-pull-your-own-hair girl. And RDI was on such a good roll! I won't discourage others from reading Slim Chance, but I do hope that they have a better reading experience with it than I did.	2003-07-29
1031324:US	50774468	R2U0FF899SSSXY	0060009241	418168365	See Jane Score	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gibson scores big!	Ever since I read Rachel Gibson's It Must Be Love, I'd wanted to get my hands on another one of her books. Granted, I am not a big fan of these sort of cute romance novels, but Gibson's writing entertained me. I couldn't put See Jane Score down. This fast-paced, droll and sexy gem kept me turning the pages throughout the wee hours of the night. Though I'm not a hockey fan, I was able to appreciate the sport. Jane's attempts at endearing the Seattle Chinooks - namely one gorgeous Luc Martineau, the star goalie - are full of great comic timing. Though Jane and Luc appear to hate each other, the sexual tension between them is palpable. Jane sees Luc as standoffish, Luc sees Jane as a black and gray wearing prude. However, each protagonist has various surprises in store. See Jane Score practically read itself, and it left me wanting more from Rachel Gibson. I shall give her other cute romances a whirl. That goes without saying...	2003-07-29
1032318:US	50774468	R2AE8BW6YBH52	0971662320	28267923	Blue: The Color of Desire	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Beautiful, inventive and erotic!	Blue: The Color of Desire is one of the few novels that don't illustrate BDSM in a negative manner. The story is tantalizing - and the S&amp;M parts drip with sensual prose in their brutal facade. Blue is quite a wonderful protagonist. Her love for her master helps her endure the painful training process. At the end of each session, she is rewarded with affection and enormous pleasure. This novel - along with Breaking the Girl and The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty - is a favorite of mine. Erotica has become one of my favorite guilty pleasures, and I shall pull this wonderful book out of the shelf whenever I need a guide to inventive eroticism.	2003-07-28
1039463:US	50774468	R2MU06VGXO935F	0802130852	989074902	Juliette	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The mind of an evil genius!	Vicente Munoz Puelles's The Arch of Desire was an excellent referral to Marquis de Sade's work. This exquisitely dark novel about the workings of an evil genius's mind enthralled me. No sooner did I start reading this book than it consumed me until its final pages.<br />Various arresting matters are brought on in Juliette, and they all mix erotica with dark messages that somehow sound logical. Marquis de Sade states that doing evil leads to personal fulfillment. He relies upon the success of various political dictators and powerful people with no scruples to illustrate his opinion. Also, he assures the reader that acting upon the most taboo subjects - murder, atheism, incest, rape, hatred - will free you from all inhibitions. In other words, crime, not truth, shall set one free. He illustrates the aforementioned horrid details from a young woman's vantage point. Juliette is quite a character.<br /> Marquis de Sade was one of the best, albeit underrated, literary authors out there. His work is just as, if not more, controversial than Nietzsche, and he possessed the same sort of disarming genius. This novel's content is not to be agreed upon, but for sheer intellectual stimulation it can't be beaten. I look forward to reading more of his work, especially Justine - the counterpoint of Juliette - with utmost anticipation.	2003-07-22
1040803:US	50774468	R2X2DH6VHR7SGW	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A beautiful, enthralling read!	I couldn't put this book down. Although I'm resorting to cliches, this book practically read itself. In fact, I found myself scooting out of the office to read a passage or two. Based on the life of Anne, Mary and George Boleyn as well as the court of King Henry the VIII, The Other Boleyn Girl is a beautiful, enthralling read.<br /><br />Mary, Anne's younger sister, is the enchanting main character in this novel. Philippa Gregory does an incredible job bringing her to life and transporting the reader back to England in the 1500's. This fictional account of Mary's affair with King Henry is as enticing as it is romantic. The Other Boleyn Girl's telling of the most celebrated and notorious romances in England's history is well written and insightful - not to mention mesmerizing.<br />From life at the court to life in the fields, The Other Boleyn girl has it all: love, adventure and intrigue. This is by far one of the best books I have read this summer.	2003-07-21
1044689:US	50774468	R2YQFYP3B2HW9P	0758201982	86889553	Girls' Night Out	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Lame story with a recycled plot	Having loved Roz Bailey?s first novel, Party Girls, I picked up Girls? Night Out with utmost anticipation. However, to say that this novel is a poor imitation of every chick lit released since Bridget Jones?s Diary is putting it mildly. I like it when authors of the aforementioned genre add pizzazz and originality to an otherwise run-of-the-mill genre ? and Bailey fails to deliver just that. The novel reads like a women?s interest magazine, the dialogue is boring, the situations have a ?been there, done that? feel to them, and Maggie?s sexual exploits are unrealistic and just plain silly. And the Reality TV bit is thrown in to add something different to the rather recycled plot ? however, it fails to illustrate said originality. It?s a shame, for Bailey is a talented writer, as proven in Party Girls; she just has to find a more creative angle with her stories.	2003-07-18
1045470:US	50774468	R1S8BF031CUOH9	0375702369	415641755	The World and Other Places: Stories	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Beautiful collection of short stories!	Jeanette Winterson never fails to amaze me. Her stories -- an assortment of ambiguous genders and historical elements mixed with poetic and philosophical undertones and magical realism -- are true literary masterpieces. Having read The Passion, The Powerbook and Written on the Body, I thought I'd give one of her anthologies a whirl. The World and Other Places transcends Winterson's talents in gigantic proportions. My favorite stories are \\"Atlantic Crossing,\\" \\"The Poetics of Sex,\\" and \\"24-Hour Dog.\\" The aforementioned stories are what Winterson is about. She humanizes situations that are otherwise seen as taboo subjects -- and she does so with wonderful literary offerings. I couldn't recommend this gem enough...	2003-07-17
1045737:US	50774468	R3VLDKK1W0T6XW	0380807157	26838172	It Must Be Love	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fast-paced and light romance to indulge in!	Undercover cop Joe Shanahan suspects that Gabrielle Breedlove is somewhat involved in the robbery of an antique painting. When Gabrielle blows his cover, Joe is forced to pose as her boyfriend - for he is convinced that Gabrielle's colleague is the one responsible for the occurrence. A New Age enthusiast, Gabrielle senses sensuous auras underneath Joe's straight-laced and unfriendly facade. So, it must be love - or is it?<br /><br />This is a romantic tour de force to devour in one sitting. Rachel Gibson is above most of today's contemporary romance writers. This is a fast-paced and light romantic comedy to indulge in during the dog days of summer. Are you in the bargain for a light summer read? Pick up this wonderful book!	2003-07-17
1046132:US	50774468	R159C0YD13U95K	0972082115	845551770	Azucar! The Story of Sugar	Books	5	376	377	N	N	Mesmerizing tour de force!	This book is so beautifully written it is to be savored over time, like fine wine. It moved me deeply, delighted me in a literary sense, and was always a compelling joy to come home to. Alan Cambeira is a stellar writer; surely he could speak of the phone book and be just as mesmerising, but when the topic is the struggles of sugarcane business in the Dominican Republic, it is indeed a rare and wonderful feast. Brava to a sublime author and a worthy topic. This proves that Hispanic literature is one of the worthiest to read. I recommend it not just as a library piece, but also as a special gift for any friend with a soul...	2003-07-17
1050751:US	50774468	R38HYF38ZISW2Y	0312422288	851819007	Sellevision: A Novel	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A dark and clever farce!	No book has made me laugh so much since Terry Southern's Candy. Sellevision, like Candy, is a clever and disarming satire that borders toward a parody. This novel has the sort of lowbrow humor that will make you roar with laughter and loathe the characters and situations at the same time.<br />Sellevision is a more upscale version of QVC. The hosts are third-tier celebrities who would backstab their way to the top. During the course of the year, the channel and its hosts undergo various changes. Max, the sweet and handsome gay host of &quot;Toys for Tots,&quot; a children's segment, loses his job when he accidentally exposes himself during the aforementioned program. He hadn't anticipated the struggle to regain his career and reputation that he ends up enduring. On the other hand, Peggy Jean Smythe, one of the channel's most popular hosts, has the perfect life. That is until she receives sinister E-mails from an obsessed fan. The other hosts have skeletons in their dressing rooms as well. Will Leigh be able to end the courtship with her married boss? Will Bebe's shopaholism stand in the way of true love? Will Trish Mission finally become Sellevision's diva? Will Peggy Jean's husband be able to resist his desire for the beautiful - not to mention jailbait - babysitter? There are some hilarious twists throughout the novel.<br />As mentioned earlier, some of the goofball situations that occur in Sellevision are more of a parody about the ubiquitous home shopping networks that have become so popular over the years. This is one of the cleverest satirical novels out there. If you're in the bargain for a laugh-a-minute farce, I suggest that you give this dark comedy a whirl.	2003-07-13
1050804:US	50774468	R2GA3B5S2C3HYE	0595166253	545232205	My Life as a Girl, Book One	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wonderful and insightful tour de force!	I thought this book was wonderful. Leslie is a talented author that has a rare and insightful literary offering in this book. Life as a Girl is a beautiful revelation.<br />After a terrible back seat encounter with a high school senior, Leslie is sent to boarding school. Her parents are under the mistaken impression that Leslie's life will run smoothly at an all girls' facility. However, Leslie's experience in boarding school is anything but smooth. Her sexual identity develops in enormous proportions as she tries to come to terms with certain areas of her life. The aforementioned changes aren't easy to overcome in the nineteen-fifties, and Leslie's struggles with her sexual identity have just begun.<br />As mentioned earlier, Life as a Girl is a wonderful and insightful tour de force. Even though I don't share some of the author's thoughts on female sexuality, her takes on the aforementioned subject are thought provoking and - in a disarming manner - logical. I look forward to reading the second part of this five book series.	2003-07-13
1054027:US	50774468	R1J94WBHQLCUMB	0316168688	744408823	The Dogs of Babel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Disturbing, yet poignant	At first, I wasn't sure if I'd like this novel, for the subject matter seemed somewhat brusque and, as a dog lover, said brusqueness didn't sit well with me. However, The Dogs of Babel, though disturbing, is one of the best reading investments I've made throughout the year.<br />Paul returns home from work to find that Lexy, his wife, has had a fatal fall from their apple tree. Even though the police rules out the occurrence as an accident, Paul finds various inconsistencies that tell him that something more sinister happened. But the only witness is Lorelei, a female Rhodesian Ridgeback and Paul's saving grace. A linguistics professor, Paul is convinced that he can teach Lorelei how to talk. What transpires is a disarming story that floors the reader with its various twists...<br />The novel has a mixture of darkness and poignancy. Lexy is a rather complex character and her eccentricity spoke to me. However, I agree with some of the reviewers that complain about the lack of voice in the novel. Sometimes Paul's narration is wooden and lacks depth - making it difficult to empathize with his grief. Perhaps the novel should have been written in third person narrative. But other than that, The Dogs of Babel is one of the most original novels out there. Though the subject matter might somewhat strong for some people. A warning to dog lovers: there are some passages in this novel that are rather disturbing. Make sure you can handle it.	2003-07-10
1054861:US	50774468	R2E1HYYUWFNIGD	0802136486	741543681	Your Name Written on Water: An Erotic Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Insatiable erotica!	It appears that the Spaniards, like the French, are excellent at writing erotica that is both insatiable and literary. Vicente Munoz Puelle's The Arch of Desire introduced me to the aforementioned brand of erotica, and in turn helped me discover Your Name Written on Water. This beautiful novel centers on eroticism mixed with narcissism.<br />Sofia and Santiago have an affair that is as barbaric as it is passionate. As Santiago's S&amp;M-like lovemaking becomes all the brusquer for Sofia - to the point of causing a miscarriage - she decides that enough is enough. In her quest to find meaning in her life, she encounters Marina - a woman who is the identical vision of Sofia.  What transpires is a disarming tale of tangible passion with narcissistic undertones, especially when the two women create Clara - an imaginary synthesis of the two women. There are various twists throughout the novel.<br />Your Name Written on Water is an erotic tour de force that leaves the reader satisfied - so to speak. Irene Gonzalez Frei (pseudonym) has created a wonderful masterpiece. It doesn't surprise me that this novel became a bestseller in Spain. It's rare to find a novel that is both erotic and literary, and Frei's book quenched my thirst for such an unheard-of combination.	2003-07-10
1059099:US	50774468	RRMQR402NDZYX	0373250304	632312082	The Thin Pink Line	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Strange... yet fun	The Thin Pink Line is a fun, engaging, yet strange novel. The synopsis -- a twenty-nine-year-old who stages her pregnancy in order to secure a marriage proposal from her boyfriend -- is original, but there are various loose ends throughout the novel.<br />At first, all Jane Taylor wants is the special attention and gratification of being pregnant, not to mention a guaranteed marriage proposal from her boyfriend Trevor. But then things become rather complicated as the trimesters progress, and the charade takes over Jane's life -- especially when someone offers a book deal she can't refuse. But why doesn't she just stop the charade? I wasn't able to grasp the reasons for Jane's insistence on living a lie -- notwithstanding the gigantic book deal. The author fails to provide the aforementioned insight, and Jane's erratic behavior has no actual logic. But then again, perhaps her eccentricity implies that the scheme isn't supposed to be logical...<br />Despite those loose ends, The Thin Pink Line offers an original plot, sharp and crisp dialogue and wonderful characters. Also, Jane's desperate attempts to legitimize her pregnancy will have the reader roaring with laughter. Red Dress Ink has released a fresh approach to chick lit with this wonderful gem. Illogical and strange conduct aside, Jane Taylor is the proverbial neurotic heroine... And The Thin Pink Line is a must read!	2003-07-06
1059948:US	50774468	R2F330QWV4LSG9	1572700165	980380074	Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life (Audio Editions)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A reminder of her powerful words...	Once more, Lamott has applied a poultice for the soul with her words. She possesses the ability to make people laugh out loud, to incite a placid and mildly depressed reader to spew beef vindaloo over the pages of a book while discovering a hilarious passage from the pool of truth. This is an author who makes some of us queasy when one considers her first book, Hard Laughter, which was great and got great reviews and which was published at twenty-three, an age when most of us are trying to find a waitressing job in a fancy restaurant (at least I was). From then on she continued cutting her swath of Hell, with wonderful novels like Joe Jones and Rosie and All New People, which I've read three times. Ironically enough, this is a woman who has professed to know no cosmic reason why she should continue writing. If I, like all people created, am a part of God, and I've heard that I am, then I hereby decree that Lamott must continue to write books. Although she need not do it at breakneck speed, she must definitely do it. So there's your cosmic reason, Ms. Lamott. Additionally, any of you out there who consider yourselves Lamott fans but have not read the book or listened to the recording of Bird by Bird are not being completely honest... Read this wonderful book, and then listen to the recording, for Ms. Lamott's powerful messages resonate through her voice. I recommend you read all of her books. Read it all, preferably with a nice Indian takeout.	2003-07-06
1063525:US	50774468	R1T033QF74HOOE	1556524048	461509028	Forever Amber (Rediscovered Classics)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A beautiful revelation	I thought I'd read beautiful and memorable historical fiction in The Tea Rose, The Crimson Petal and the White, and Slammerkin. However, Forever Amber took my breath away. This beautiful novel centers on a rather courageous woman's struggles to get through one of the most difficult times a young woman could face...<br />Pregnant and poor in the mean streets of London, sixteen-year-old Amber St. Clare does whatever is possible to improve her situation. The era -- Restoration England -- doesn't facilitate things for Amber. But with her charm, wit and, more important, beauty, Amber becomes the mistress of Merry Monarch, Charles II -- i.e., one of the most powerful men of that time period. From then on, Amber has the most luxurious and erotic experiences of her life. Little had she known that this new life would lead to greater surprises...<br />The novel has the sort of beautiful language that is rare in historical fiction. Hers is a lyrical voice that drips with sensual prose. The historical references are as exquisite as they are insightful. I couldn't put this book down. And, as mentioned earlier, it exceeds the other historical novels released as of late. Forever Amber is one of the best literary revelations I've had all year!	2003-07-02
1064907:US	50774468	R2QK0LWYDQH42C	0972335803	504763803	Play as if Your Life Depends on It: Functional Exercise and Living for Homo Sapiens	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent new outlook to fitness!	I've always been quite active, but I have wanted to add pizzazz to my otherwise gruesome workout routine. Play as if Your Life Depends on It is an excellent guide that helps the reader integrate unconventional workout and play moves into our ordinary lives. Frank Forencich gives workout and exercise a whole new meaning by explaining how hunting and gathering is relevant to everyday physical activity. This book is as essential as it is insightful. I for one look forward to play as though my life depends on it!	2003-07-01
1064996:US	50774468	R1G3J7A6UXV6Y6	044661257X	84426835	If Looks Could Kill	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mystery Lite	I picked up Kate White's If Looks Could Kill during an impulse purchase at Kennedy Airport's bookshop. Glad I did! If Looks Could Kill is an entertaining -- albeit light -- mystery that kept me turning the pages throughout the gruesome six-hour flight to the UK.<br /><br />The novel introduces the reader to Bailey Weggins -- a single, thirty-something-year-old Manhattanite and true crime reporter for Gloss magazine. With an enjoyable career and new romantic prospect, Bailey's life couldn't better. That is until Cat Jones, the editor-in-chief at Gloss, makes the phone call that turns Bailey's life upside down...<br />At the risk of using a cliche, If Looks Could Kill is Bridget Jones and Nancy Drew rolled into one. White mixes whodunit suspense with single-girl-living-in-Manhattan exploits. The results make quite a chic mystery. This novel isn't meant to provoke one's intellect, but for sheer summer escapism it can't be beaten. I recommend this novel for an afternoon on the beach or for light entertainment during a rather long flight...	2003-07-01
1065581:US	50774468	ROFKFSFWFRW9R	1591299829	232623625	The Works of the Flesh: A Novel and Lesson about Love	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A  tour de force of erotic suspense!	Attorney Wyn Cash appears to have it all -- a successful career, a wonderful wife and a terrific lifestyle. So why does temptation get the best of him? Wyn falls for a young woman who's too good to be true. Unfortunately for him, she is. He hadn't envisaged that his weakness would lead toward disastrous events...<br />Works of Flesh's constellation of unique characters, wonderful suspense and compelling story are the marks of great skill. I love the way the unlikely characters are thrust together, and the development of this disarming tale is memorable. A truly superb thriller by an obvious talent. I shall give this great book the exposure it deserves. Highly recommended...	2003-07-01
1067938:US	50774468	R20MUATG7KGEJB	0316911488	778462508	You Know You Love Me: A Gossip Girl Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	I know I love Gossip Girl!	I thought Gossip Girl was a witty and clever satire about Upper East Side teens and their &quot;plights.&quot;  You Know You Love Me, the second part of the series, is the continuation of the betrayal, rivalry and poisonous gossip that occurred in the first installment.<br />The gang is preparing for the gruesome period of having to decide which college to apply for.  An overachiever with a poor-little-rich-girl complex, Blair wants to be accepted to Yale and is determined to lose her virginity to Nate before the end of senior year.  To her chagrin, Nate has other ideas.  To make matters worse, her mother decides to get married on Blair's birthday.  Will she be able to deal with all the pressure? Unsure about the course of her future, all Serena van der Woodsen wants is to have fun. But will she be forced to wise up when she discovers a young artist's devotion to her? There are some fun twists in this second installment. You Know You Love Me is sheer entertainment.  I can't recommend it enough.	2003-06-29
1068456:US	50774468	R1YLFXLIGTMTA7	0802139698	671648607	The Arch of Desire: An Erotic Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A &quot;delectable novel&quot; indeed!	The back cover describes Arch of Desire as a &quot;delectable novel.&quot; Delectable is the best way to describe this novel!  The Arch of Desire is a fictional account of the life of French artist Pierre Molinier and his uninhibited and taboo erotic exploits. What begins as an eleven-year-old boy who's curious about his mother's lingerie develops into a lifetime of forbidden desires such as incest, fetishes and uncontrollable urges.<br />Pierre's paintings have always intrigued me -- and Puelles has crafted a wonderful piece of erotica that is both historical and literary. This wonderful novel is one of the reasons why I love reading this obscure genre. Puelle's words enthralled me. His is a voice that drips with sensual prose. I cannot wait to read more from this gifted Spaniard author.	2003-06-29
1080112:US	50774468	R1DCHZS37REN3R	1401081274	957071418	A Year of Samantha	Books	4	5	5	N	N	For sheer summer escapism...	...look to B.D. Gardner's A Year of Samantha. This fast-paced modern romance centers on Cedric's adoration for Samantha -- a clothing store assistant manager and proverbial Don Juan in a skirt. Cedric does all that's possible to woo Samantha; however, she strings him along as she basks in a shower of male attention. But Samantha is forced to reevaluate her feelings, especially when she discovers the selfish act of her ruthlessly ambitious boss. There are various twists in the novel.<br />Gardner has created an endearing character in Cedric. The aforementioned hero has the sort of sensitivity that is seldom used in modern fiction. His infatuation with Samantha is quite realistic. Samantha, however, is illustrated in a more caricature manner -- the character development isn't as vivid as Cedric's. Still, I was able to relate to some of her plights.<br />A Year of Samantha is sheer summer escapism... The perfect companion for a lazy afternoon in a hammock overlooking the sunset. B.D. Gardner is a promising new author -- he just has to work on bringing his female protagonists to life. Highly recommended...	2003-06-21
1084903:US	50774468	RRKD08BSU8RS6	0373250290	227862728	Carrie Pilby (Red Dress Ink Novels)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Life according to Carrie Pilby	Carrie Pilby is an impressive first effort by a talented author. She has a sharp wit and an unerring ear for dialogue. I loved reading about the nineteen-year-old genius and her struggles to hold on to her principles, perceptions and beliefs in a world where it seems that everyone is either fixated on sex, pop culture references or hypocritical behavior. Just when she's given up on ever finding someone with her level of intelligence, her therapist comes up with a five-step plan that might just change her life...<br />It isn't difficult to see things from Carrie's point of view. I, too, at times feel as though I'm the only person left on this planet with any real perspective on life. I, too, look for the meaning of everything -- whereby looking up words in the dictionary or dwelling over unanswered questions -- so this book spoke to me. Even though I am not a prodigy, I was nevertheless able to relate to the protagonist. Those who are not afraid to acknowledge the pitfalls that pop culture dishes out will love this book. Kudos to RDI for having published this wonderful gem. I very much doubt that the aforementioned publisher saw Caren Lissner's gifts less than noteworthy. Her writing is full of poignancy and sheer humor. I for one look forward to her next effort with enthusiasm...	2003-06-17
1088249:US	50774468	R2ZOGQL1EMFKT5	0060520507	253092517	Sushi for Beginners: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	My favorite Marian Keyes novel!	Having read Marian Keyes's previous books, I knew I had to get my hands on this one. I was not disappointed. Once again, Keyes writes a wonderful novel that mixes a dark plot with sharp and witty situations.<br />Sushi for Beginners, like Last Chance Saloon, focuses on various characters in third person narrative. Set in Dublin, Lisa, an ambitious Londoner, has been given the task of launching a new fashion magazine for Irish women. After she somewhat recuperates from the initial culture shock, she meets some rather eccentric characters at work. She decides she dislikes Ashling, the sweet deputy editor, and develops a crush on Jack Devine, the Managing Director and notorious maverick. What develops is a tale of betrayal, deceit and heartbreak. One of these people is on the verge of a nervous breakdown... Who will it be?<br />The focal point of this novel is depression. Ashling suffers a bout of the aforementioned mental illness when Clodagh, her best friend, shows her true colors. Ashling's world captivated and spoke to me. What I love about Marian Keyes is that she mixes tender romance with a serious subject matter that readers could relate to. I love the wit in this novel -- much more subtle than her previous efforts. I also love all of the secondary characters -- namely Trix, Dylan and Jack Devine. As mentioned, Sushi for Beginners is my favorite Keyes novel. Highly recommended...	2003-06-14
1089119:US	50774468	RZY4J3SMBTWYK	0345451066	145318585	Sheet Music	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Suspenseful and provocative!	M.J. Rose gets better and better with every book. I loved Lip Service, In Fidelity and Flesh Tones -- and I knew that I'd love Sheet Music. Again, Rose mixes suspense and erotica in this beautiful and lyrical account of a young journalist who gets more than she bargains for when she tries to redeem herself after a scandal with one of her articles.<br />Justine Pagett flees from New York to Paris after the loss of her mother. Her grief doesn't allow her to see past what she wants. She returns to New York to research Sophie DeLyon, a distinguished composer. Little did she realize that she'd have to dig up more than she had anticipated after Sophie mysteriously disappears. There are various twists throughout the novel. The ending is flooring.<br />Sheet Music's language is sensual, beautiful, dark and stark. I love how the author describes food and music in an erotic manner. The aspects of erotica in this novel, as opposed to her first two novels, are more subtle -- used as an undertone this time. M.J. Rose is quite versatile. Sheet Music is one of the best suspense novels I've read all year. You won't find bloody scenes and gruesome details in this one, for this is a clever erotic/psychological thriller. Highly recommended...	2003-06-13
1094958:US	50774468	R3BIAI69SKIFZ0	0609810103	333720160	Diary of a Manhattan Call Girl: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Witty look into the life of a call girl...	For endurance, look to Tracy Quan. Hers is a voice that we will surely hear more from, as she catapults toward the writer of distinction she is and will be. This is a great novel that takes a realistic look into the life of Manhattan call girls. There is no plot development in this book, just a day to day take in Nancy Chan's life. The best part of this book is that it gives the reader a glimpse into the world of call girls without adding dark language or explicit scenes for shock value. Also, this novel isn't about Asian call girls, as one critic implied, but about the unconventional career choice of the protagonist and her cronies. Quan humanizes this \\"profession\\" without using the cliches that society place upon it. Quan's dialogue is crisp, funny and insightful, and I laughed out loud several times, seemingly from out of nowhere. I've heard that this novel is ninety percent autobiographical. In that case, I applaud Ms. Quan for baring the truths about one of the biggest taboo subjects out there.	2003-06-09
1095302:US	50774468	R35SVO2MTTHVQL	0525947345	806716529	A Friend of the Family	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Lisa Jewell -- I'm sold!	Lisa Jewell is the prime example of an author whose work has evolved through time. I loved Ralph's Party and Thirtysomething -- cute chick novels -- but her writing took some impressive proportions with One-Hit Wonder, and she has outdone herself with A Friend of the Family. Jewell is no chick-lit clone, she is a talented British writer who's here for the long haul.<br />A Friend of the Family centers on the London family and the brothers Tony, Sean and Ned. Each has some serious issues to tackle and have no idea how to go about it. That is until an eccentric houseguest takes an abrupt turn into their lives...<br />This is a great novel -- think Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood, but from a male's viewpoint. Jewell writes male characters quite well, and the best part is that she doesn't resort to tired cliches to illustrate their personalities. Also, I love the way Jewell tackles the subject of sibling rivalry with such insight, wit and poignancy. This is a feel-good, you-won't-be-able-to-put-it-down novel... perfect for a cozy afternoon on the beach. Lisa Jewell is one of the best female British writers out there and I look forward to reading more work from this great author in the future.	2003-06-09
1099420:US	50774468	R36OAUYXL7427S	0446531588	703746704	Derailed	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Entertaining thriller...	James Siegel has created a novel with shock value as its vantage point -- and I mean that in a good way. This fast-paced, engrossing and gripping thriller will have you turning the pages onto the late hours of the night.<br /><br />Charles Schine lives quite an ordinary, if perfunctory, life. However, things haven't been going so well as of late. His white-collar position as creative director at an advertising agency never fails to stress him out, his daughter's childhood illness has him in a state of turmoil, and his marriage has fizzled out. But in a twist of fate he meets a beautiful stranger on a late morning train ride to Manhattan. Little had he known that meeting said woman would change the course of his life in ways he'd never envisaged...<br />There are some rather gruesome scenes in this novel. At first I thought some of the scenes were an attempt to shock the reader, but as the story progressed I realized that those scenes were essential, for they emphasize the ongoing terror the protagonist encounters throughout the novel. The narrative is excellent and the characterization is precise. I take one point off because the dialogue is resonant to that of a suspenseful film at times. Sometimes I got the impression that Mr. Siegel leaned the novel toward notable film script material. Other than that, Derailed is one of the most entertaining and gripping thrillers I've read in quite a while. Highly recommended...	2003-06-05
1102896:US	50774468	R2DHIM1SYEEJWU	0060096675	958304531	Behaving Like Adults: A Novel	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Anna Maxtet delivers another winner!	Getting Over It is one of my favorite chick lits of all time. Even though I was not impressed with her second novel, Running in Heels, Anna Maxtet is one of my favorite authors of the aforementioned genre. She, aside from Marian Keyes and Jillian Medoff, is the only modern romance writer who mixes dark issues with lighthearted humor. And she has outdone herself with Behaving Like Adults.<br />In Adults, Maxtet introduces us to Holly, a twenty-nine-year-old woman whose dating agency, Girl Meets Boy, is a growing success. However, her personal life isn't as impressive as her thriving career. Nick, her fiance, refuses to grow up, and so she decides to put an end to their courtship. Little had she imagined that her professional and personal life would take rapid turns toward disaster after she embarks upon a date with someone from her agency...<br />In typical Maxtet tradition, there are as many laugh out loud moments in this novel as there are poignant ones. Maxtet tackles some rather serious situations with a great deal of insight and wit. I also love the eccentric characters -- Claudia, Rachel and Nige are my favorite ones! And what about Maxtet's unique writing style? Hers is the sort of language that sounds conversational without really trying. I know that I'm resorting to some tiresome cliches here, but I couldn't put this book down and I hated to see it end. A definite page-turner! I so look forward to reading another novel from this talented British writer. Behaving Like Adults is a great reading investment. Enjoy!	2003-06-02
1104372:US	50774468	R1YKYAR4RK4PR5	0385336179	902335429	Shopaholic Ties the Knot (Shopaholic, No 3)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Our favorite shopaholic gets hitched!	The Shopaholic series is one of my favorites. Sophie Kinsella has created a hilarious and neurotic character in Rebecca Bloomwood. I couldn't wait to read Shopaholic Ties the Knot, hoping to read more shopping misadventures from Ms. Bloomwood.<br />When Luke proposes, Becky couldn't believe her luck. After all, getting married is the perfect opportunity to go shopping and, more to the point, sign up for various wedding registries. However, things take a rapid spin toward potential disaster. Becky's mother wants the wedding to take place in England, whereas Luke's mother wants the wedding to be held in New York. Should Becky have a traditional English wedding or an upscale extravaganza in New York City's Plaza Hotel? With Becky's signature self-deprecating humor, she tries to disentangle herself from quite a dilemma. There are some fun twists in the novel.<br />As previously mentioned, the Shopaholic books are all memorable. Even though the third installment is more focused on the wedding dilemma than on Becky's uncontrollable shopping addiction, the novel is hilarious nevertheless. I hope Ms. Kinsella writes another one. I'll read each and every Bloomwood adventure that's published!	2003-06-01
1108977:US	50774468	R10VSH4RC38O79	0446531510	765311385	Land of the Living (French, Nicci)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Powerful thriller -- another winner from Nicci French!	I couldn't wait to pick up Nicci French's new thriller -- and I wasn't let down. Land of the Living is French's best work since Beneath the Skin.<br />In Land of the Living, French introduces the reader to Abbie Devereaux -- a young woman held captive. Bound from top to bottom in the dark, she is only able to hear her kidnapper's sinister voice. To make matters worse, she has no recollection of the time in which she had been accosted. She is able to escape from her attacker's grasp, but her nightmare has just begun...<br /><br />Will she be able to adjust to life after the aforementioned experience? Will be able to get her memory back? Will she be able to find her attacker? There are various twists in this powerful thriller. The climax is flooring.<br />Nicci French's descriptions of the terror the protagonist goes through are precise. I was able to feel the heroine's fear and hopelessness. I couldn't put this book down and was savoring the pages like an exquisite bottle of wine. Are you in the bargain for a gripping, intelligent thriller? I recommend this fine novel.	2003-05-28
1113848:US	50774468	R3CZ8CLMGGB4WW	1573228184	553362454	The Cigarette Girl: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Chick lit with an attitude!	Do not mistake The Cigarette Girl with the typical chick lit. This is one of the boldest, edgiest and sexiest chick novels out there. And the best part is that the Hollywood film scene is the backdrop of this novel!<br />The Cigarette Girl centers on twenty-eight-year-old freelance screenwriter Elizabeth West and her quest to find Mr. Maybe. The problem is that she has an unapologetic penchant for Hollywood bad boys. With the help of her friends, she sets out to find a relationship that's perfect for her. Is it possible to have a steamy and caring relationship with a bad boy? Could she have her cake and eat it too? There are some fun twists in the novel.<br />Carol Wolper takes a rather dark approach to romantic comedy. The protagonist is a straight shooter and a perfect example of how an intelligent woman consciously makes foolish choices. But the best part about Elizabeth is that she tells the truth without apology. Thus, she is a great modern heroine. I also love the author's insights on L.A. life. Her take on the aforementioned city is realistic and clever. Are you in the bargain for chick lit with a dose of attitude? Pick up The Cigarette Girl. A perfect summer read...	2003-05-23
1114731:US	50774468	R2K2ANRM85XVRG	0451207955	828688477	Serpent's Dance	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Masterful and suspenseful erotic thriller!	The synopsis of Serpent's Dance -- Larry Brook's third thriller -- sort of reminded me of Topping from Below. However, this novel has a brand of suspense and terror all its own.<br />Bernadette Kane couldn't come to terms with her sister's death. She doesn't believe that her sister committed suicide, and she's convinced that Wesley Edwards is somehow responsible for what happened. Her plan is to get to the bottom of things, even if it involves playing Wesley's games of domination and submission. But she hadn't envisaged that her investigation would lead to further surprises...<br />I am duly impressed with this novel. Brooks's take on the psychological implications of S&M games is as insightful as it is disturbing. As previously mentioned, this novel reminds me of Laura Reese's Topping from Below, but this novel isn't the aforementioned thriller's copycat. The suspense and building of tension kept me turning the pages. Serpent's Dance is even better than Darkness Bound -- Larry Brooks's first novel. I couldn't recommend this book enough...	2003-05-22
1119903:US	50774468	RJXTC7OGI65BX	038550926X	167500313	The Devil Wears Prada: A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Not impressed	I picked up The Devil Wears Prada with a great deal of anticipation. Unfortunately, I was not impressed with the content of this novel. First of all, I found various inconsistencies in Weisberger's writing. The course of the story took some abrupt turns from one chapter to the next. Also, despite the fact that the author developed a rather believable character in Miranda, the development of secondary characters was missing. I had difficulty remembering who was who most of the time. I give the The Devil Wears Prada three stars because, structural errors aside, Weisberger grasped the protagonist's frustrations as she endured menial labor with unflinching accuracy. Having once worked as a personal assistant for a faux celebrity not unlike Miranda Priestly, I know the aforementioned frustrations quite well. All and all, The Devil Wears Prada is a mediocre read. I wouldn't discourage others from reading it, but I hope to have offered some insight on what to expect from this book...	2003-05-18
1124037:US	50774468	RVAYM7OJR4VNL	1569472130	845663568	Unquiet Night	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A bone-chilling thriller!	The Unquiet Night has bone-chilling thriller written all over it! I couldn't put it down -- the haunting scenes made me curious about what would happen next. What I first considered to a desperate attempt at reading something different and obscure turned into one of the best reading investments I've made in quite a long time.<br />Set in Australia, Carlon tells the story of Martin Deeford -- a lonely and deranged man who seeks the company of someone who can understand him. He sees Rose as his saving grace, but his disarming attempt at having a faithful listener ends in murder. Martin thinks that the murder will never be traced back to him -- but little does he know that the nightmare has just begun...<br /><br />Patricia Calon writes with a penchant for mind-boggling suspense. Hers is a talent that shouldn't be taken lightly. Her writing is quite similar to Penelope Evans's (The Last Girl and Freezing). I shall spread the word about this wonderful yet underrated piece of work. Good thrillers are scarce these days, and we must embrace hidden treasures such as this one...	2003-05-14
1124170:US	50774468	RTOR2BQBK4NL4	0452283027	129980014	Farm Fatale: A Comedy of Country Manors	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Sex and the... Country?	Having enjoyed the previous Wendy Holden novels, I decided to try the one I was most reluctant to read: Farm Fatale. The synopsis did not spark my interest at first, but then I decided to give it a whirl and... Let's say that I am glad I did.<br /><br />Farm Fatale is full of Holden's signature wit and satire. The story centers on a couple's struggle with the unprecedented events that take place after they move into the country. Life in the countryside just isn't as peaceful or as harmonious as they'd envisaged -- especially when Samantha, a ruthless and superficial socialite, becomes their neighbor. What follows is one misadventure after another. There are some fun twists in the novel.<br />I have detected various similarities in Holden's novels. First, her antagonists are ambitious and one-dimensional socialites who'd do anything to be in the center of attention. Also, Holden's heroines share the same relationship problem (I won't tell what that problem is, for it would spoil the plot). However, I think Holden is one of the best chick lit writers out there. Her satirical style is clever and fun.<br />Farm Fatale is a novel that should be read from beginning to end. It is a cross between Sex and the City and Funny Farm. Highly recommended...	2003-05-14
1125115:US	50774468	R148I6D3PI71HB	0865472807	188387401	Hard Laughter: A Novel	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Poignant...	Reading one of Anne Lamott's novels is like taking a refreshing cool bath on the hottest day of the year; it quenches the soul. Additionally, her wonderfully gritty voice resonates from the pages. The story of a family's struggle to keep the happiness going through the most poignant and disarming moments of their lives is insightful, touching and memorable. Hilarious and poignant as ever, Lamott again illustrates how her characters make everything difficult seem worth undertaking. All in all, a wonderful and illuminating read...	2003-05-14
1126886:US	50774468	R56BANA3XLZON	0373250282	742407428	Engaging Men	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Engaging novel...	Having read Lynda Curnyn's Confessions of an Ex-Girlfriend, I had looked forward to reading her second novel. Engaging Men is one of the best RDI's offerings thus far.<br />This romantic comedy centers on Angie DiFranco's desire to cope with the heartbreaking fact that most of her ex-boyfriends plunged into marriage immediately after they'd broken up with her. Was she somehow responsible for this? In order to tarnish the cycle, Angie, with the help of her friends, sets up a game plan to secure a marriage proposal from Kirk, her current beau. However, the aforementioned proves difficult, especially when Angie begins to question her relationship with Kirk...<br />There are some fun twists in the novel.<br />As mentioned earlier, this is one of RDI's best installments thus far. Curnyn's characters are endearing and the situations the protagonist faces are realistic. I also love how the author describes New York City with such passion and conviction. The aforementioned city is the perfect backdrop for the story. Despite some loose ends (some of the characters vanish without so much as a postmortem), this is a great novel to read in one sitting. Highly recommended...	2003-05-12
1127282:US	50774468	R2SGU1XN24S15H	1583224793	953429448	Blake's Therapy: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Reality TV for the insane...	A book hadn't disturbed me so much since Nude Men. Dorfman captures the lunacy of the depressed mind with the insight of a prophet. His vantage point is one of unhampered voyeurist... Blake's therapist, which happens to be the unidentified narrator, feels that his patient might benefit from a rather unique treatment in which Blake witnesses the turbulent life of one of his female subordinates through a hidden camera. He has been given the power to dictate the woman's future. There are so many disarming scenes in this novel -- it's like Reality TV for the insane. Even if you've never watched the ubiquitous programs that prowl the cable system, you will be uncontrollably bewildered by this story, for it questions morality and raises various questions regarding today's success-driven society. I read it in two sittings. Do not eat or drink while reading this book -- you don't want to spray coffee over your copy of what may be, to date, the purely and unapoligetically thought-provoking book of the new millenium...	2003-05-12
1133437:US	50774468	R1SA1XL42NN2MN	0786707208	136897108	Shadow Child: An Apprenticeship in Love and Loss	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Beautiful and poignant!	A friend of mine told me to read this book, and I couldn't thank her enough. This book touched me deeply in so many ways, and I feel it was an act of courage to finally express the unthinkable loss of a child. I especially liked the way the author captured the sense of being shocked at the loss of control that accompanies birth (and motherhood). I recommend this book to any woman who has considered moving past loss into a second or third chance at the greatest experience: motherhood: with all of its terrors and confusions and poignant heart splitting moments of unbearable love and vunerability. As someone who has considered having a child, Shadow Child has opened some harsh realities about the trauma and pain of losing one's child. Kudos to this author for transformming what could have been a destructive and bitter experience into hope and a kind of triumph...	2003-05-06
1133644:US	50774468	R1HZYN4CQXSTT6	0385336772	623152480	Diary of a Mad Mom-to-Be	Books	5	8	8	N	N	She's ba-ack!	Amy Thomas is back! This time she has taken it upon herself to obsess about her pregnancy. She goes through one misadventure after another as she realizes that her birth date's looming and she hasn't achieved the tasks at hand on her 63-item To Do List. To make matters worse, she's lost her job, owns a rather small apartment and her husband finds it difficult to deal with her neurotic manner. She begins to wonder whether having a child was a good idea after all...<br />This novel is hilarious! Amy's one of the most neurotic characters ever written. Just when I thought she couldn't be more insubordinate in Diary of a Mad Bride, her obsessive behavior reaches outrageous and laugh out loud proportions in the second novel. Laura Wolf is a great writer, not unlike Sophie Kinsella -- author of Confessions of a Shopaholic. Their writing styles are quite similar.<br />Diary of a Mad Mom-to-Be is a great summer reading investment. Highly recommended...	2003-05-06
1140846:US	50774468	R20TDZ1QWC65VA	0758204280	950486991	Bad Boys On Board (Watson Brothers)	Books	4	25	30	N	N	More bad boys!	I can't get enough of the bad boy series! Each anthology is full of wonderful and erotic surprises. Lori Foster's stories have been my favorites in all of the installments -- and this one's no exception.<br /><br />In My House, My Rules, Foster tells the story of Ariel and Sam with a new brand of male naughty behavior all its own. This is rather unlike her previous stories, which all involved friends making a bet. Sam is one of the most insubordinate bad boys Foster's written thus far. I didn't want the story to end and left me begging for more -- so to speak.<br /><br />Donna Kauffman's Going Down? is a not-holds-barred erotic romp about two people getting stuck in an elevator. What transpires is one of the steamiest stories ever written in the series. I read it in one sitting.<br /><br />However, the anthology takes a rapid spin toward disappointment with Nancy Warren's A Fast Ride. Warren's writing isn't as provocative and engrossing as Foster's and Kauffman's, and the story development is rather slow. I wish Janelle Denison had been included in this series -- she's one of the best writers of this genre.<br />Are you in the bargain for sheer erotic escapism? Pick up Bad Boys on Board, but also be sure to pick up the others from this outstanding series.	2003-04-29
1142046:US	50774468	R1KVW2SMEIIP7Z	0380718758	120549291	Snow White, Blood Red	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Dark and quirky fairytales for adults!	Ever since I read Anne Rice's Sleeping Beauty novels, I have craved more adult fairytales. And it can't get better than this! Each story in Snow White, Blood Red -- the first part of the Snow White series -- has a dark and gothic undertone in it. And I marvel at the fact that the elements taken from Snow White are twisted and disarming -- thus, making this one of the most literary anthologies ever written. My favorite story is Patricia McKillip's &quot;The Snow Queen&quot; -- the brand of magical realism in the story is exquisite. Snow White, Blood Red is an excellent reading investment and I look forward to reading the other installments from this unique series.	2003-04-29
1149196:US	50774468	R2DZEOKUBJECHQ	0743463544	630509155	The Man I Should Have Married	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A fun read!	Beach season has almost begun -- thus, there are various books that you might want to take with you on vacation. The Man I Should Have Married is one of them.<br />After her husband leaves her for another woman, Kennedy feels that a fun and feisty single life is long overdue. She is determined to regain the independence she had before settling with life in suburbia. A meaningless fling with Declan -- her former boss and friend, not to mention object of her desire -- might do the trick. But she hadn't envisaged the fact that there's more to her attraction to Declan than meets the eye. To make matters worse, her teenage daughter has become insubordinate and seeks love and attention from her wayward father. There are various twists in the novel.<br />The Man I Should Have Married is a fun novel to read on the beach. The realistic situations within the story are above most of today's women's fiction. Thus, I recommend it most highly...	2003-04-22
1149850:US	50774468	R3DPW4KY5AEKXD	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of the most beautiful novels I've ever read!	This novel is a true work of art. Memoirs of a Geisha drips with one of the most exquisite languages ever written. Arthur S. Golden's take on the Geisha culture before the Second World War is insightful and thought provoking. I couldn't put this book down. It had me from the opening of the first chapter! Various critics have complained that the author uses cliche descriptions to illustrate the Japanese government -- I couldn't disagree more! I was able to discover many things I hadn't known about the aforementioned government. This is one of the most intelligent novels I've read. And I urge everyone to give this wonderful and literary work a whirl.	2003-04-22
1152740:US	50774468	R29FOPRIDAXSW7	0312291469	745991063	Infidelity for First-Time Fathers	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Misses the mark	Mark Barrowcliffe has created the perfect anti-hero: a cheating man who faces the ultimate dilemma: two women -- his fiancee and his mistress -- are pregnant at the same time. What will Stewart do? Infidelity for First-Time Fathers is a dark and ironic novel about a man's struggle to do the right thing. However, this novel has missed the mark. The theme isn't the problem -- though I am sure that readers, especially the female ones, might find the plot somewhat problematic -- the problem is that the male protagonist seeks sympathy in the appalling situation. I was expecting a dark, tell-like-it-is tale of an unfaithful man. Instead, I found the aforementioned character childish and whiny. However, all is not lost in the story. Cat Grey, for example, is an original and fresh character. She isn't the stereotypical \\"other woman,\\" which I find refreshing. Other than that, the novel fails to deliver the dark situations that I had expected. A true disappointment...	2003-04-19
1152775:US	50774468	R3ANO0D0OWAGH6	0316910333	680713352	Gossip Girl #1: A Novel (Gossip Girl Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Young, rich and spoiled in NYC!	This feisty novel's realistic situations make it a great read. Gossip Girl is about teenagers from the Upper East Side and their world of jealousy, competition and the fine line between friendship and rivalry. The novel focuses on academic achiever Blair and her gorgeous and scandalous friend Serena. Having returned to Constance Billard School after two years in boarding school, Serena hopes to rekindle her friendship with Blair. However, with the help of a gossip web site, Blair questions her friendship with Serena after she discovers various secrets...<br />Gossip Girl's characters are all vibrant and interesting because each illustrates the lifestyle in which upper class teens live under. Their lives are the padding out of how they become superficial socialites in their adult lives. The novel's language is satirical and fun to read. This is without a doubt \\"Sex and the City for the younger set,\\" as one of the critics had said. However, everyone -- regardless of age -- could enjoy Gossip Girl. I look forward to reading the other parts of this promising series.	2003-04-19
1153558:US	50774468	R7LTFB2A1HDZ1	0312291469	745991063	Infidelity for First-Time Fathers	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Misses the mark	Mark Barrowcliffe has created the perfect anti-hero: a cheating man who faces the ultimate dilemma: two women -- his fiancee and his mistress -- are pregnant at the same time. What will Stewart do? Infidelity for First-Time Fathers is a dark and ironic novel about a man's struggle to do the right thing. However, this novel has missed the mark. The theme isn't the problem -- though I am sure that readers, especially the female ones, might find the plot somewhat problematic -- the problem is that the male protagonist seeks sympathy in the appalling situation. I was expecting a dark, tell-like-it-is tale of an unfaithful man. Instead, I found the aforementioned character childish and whiny. However, all is not lost in the story. Cat Grey, for example, is an original and fresh character. She isn't the ... typical \\"other woman,\\" which I find refreshing. Other than that, the novel fails to deliver the dark situations that I had expected. A true disappointment...	2003-04-19
1156164:US	50774468	R1GVR3W9B4597U	0140256407	607614484	The Magic Toyshop	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A tour de force!	Angela Carter has never failed to impress me. Her imagination knows no limits -- and she illustrates the same whenever she explores the realm of magical realism in her novels. The Magic Toyshop has gothic and mystical undertones that are perfect for the turbulent world of the young characters in the book. Melanie is quite a compelling character. Her struggles have unmistakable fairytale-like quality (Cinderella and Sleeping Beauty spring to mind). The aforementioned elements give the novel a rather unique brand of magical realism. This novel is beautiful, decadent and engrossing. It is difficult to describe the content of Carter's novel without spoiling some vital piece of information, so I won't recount further -- all I can do is share the joy of having read such literary work and recommend it most highly.	2003-04-16
1156606:US	50774468	R2DT8530CVXR9W	0452281458	267176978	Beauty's Release: A Novel (Sleeping Beauty Trilogy)	Books	5	18	24	N	N	Tantalizing conclusion to a memorable erotic trilogy!	Having just finished Beauty's Release, the final volume of Anne Rice's exquisite erotic trilogy, a feeling of loss has descended upon me. I won't read more of Beauty's introduction to the dark and taboo world of domination and submission. And, more importantly, I won't be able to get lost in Rice's insightful and thought provoking implications of the human heart and desire. Alas, I shall settle with rereading the trilogy some time in the future.<br /><br />In Beauty's Release, Beauty, along with Princes Tristan and Laurent, is faced with the unnerving fact that she has to adjust to life as captive of an Eastern Sultan. Having admitted that she's never felt love for her superiors, she hasn't envisaged the fact that the new and strange palace might just show her the meaning of selfless love and devotion...<br />The ending reminds the reader that this is a fairytale -- a rather interesting fairytale, but one nevertheless. The twists and turns in the novel make it far from predictable. Rice's fanciful and unique writing shines as the story reaches its climax.<br />As mentioned earlier, I will miss Beauty's journey into the incomprehensible and uninhibited world of forbidden carnal desire. Anne Rice awakens your psyche and passion with this wonderful piece of work. I recommend this to readers with an open mind.	2003-04-16
1157656:US	50774468	R3JS2GRXAY9QJV	0802137695	501610049	Elizabeth: The Life of Elizabeth Taylor	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Luminous Liz!	I was mesmerised by this book. Of course, one often takes biographies with a grain of salt, but I was most impressed with the way that Taylor handled her career like a man -- how she was able to go on despite the pressures of her situation. The love story between Burton and Taylor shines through, and I think I understand a little more about love, even though theirs was a tumultuous one. She is a role model for people in the performing arts who turn their attention toward great and needy causes, and I respect her immensely. Also, the photographs in this book illustrate the fact that Liz was -- and still is -- the most luminous raven-haired beauty in Hollywood. Long may she rule as the last star of Hollywood.	2003-04-15
1159533:US	50774468	R2HSATJ2WV5CRQ	0670032069	937074292	Revenge of the Middle-Aged Woman	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Revenge is definitely sweet!	Having stumbled upon this novel at a bookstore, I hadn't anticipated liking it as much as I had. Revenge of the Middle-Aged Woman is a smart, witty and engrossing Brit lit from cover to cover.<br />Rose Lloyd is a successful and happily married forty-eight-year-old mother-slash-career woman. Her life couldn't be better -- that is until her ordered world takes a U-turn to disaster. Her marriage and career shatter before her eyes. To make matters worse, she feels that her options have run short at this stage of her life. However, Rose hadn't anticipated the interesting things that transpire when she embarks upon a journey to self-discovery...<br />Elizabeth Buchan's coming-of-middle-age novel is one of the funniest and cleverest out there. It is a treasure that I had the pleasure of discovering in one of my bookstore excursions. I encourage smart women everywhere -- regardless of age -- to read this fine gem. You won't regret it!	2003-04-14
1163125:US	50774468	R296KWTCOLRK36	0375727884	552341911	Rapture	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Beautiful and provocative novella	This is a rather interesting novella. The entire story is set during a rendezvous at the heroine's apartment. During the throes of passion, Kay and Benjamin remember the circumstances that brought them together. Kay is hopeful -- albeit skeptical -- that Benjamin will leave his fiancee of eleven years and move in with her. However, Benjamin is confused and torn between the two women. Kay and Benjamin inwardly analyze their feelings for one another during what could be their final sexual encounter. Will Benjamin sort out his feelings, or does he want his cake and eat it too? There are some interesting revelations throughout the novel.<br />Rapture shines with its sensual prose and brimming intelligence. Susan Minot does a splendid job in exploring the feelings the two protagonists are going through. She writes with a great deal of insight and prose. The erotic scene is the perfect backdrop for the story. I enjoyed reading this provocative novella and look forward to reading more of her work in the future.	2003-04-10
1164567:US	50774468	R1XW42YFVWVXOZ	0064472272	46574095	Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging: Confessions of Georgia Nicolson (Confessions of Georgia Nicolson, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hilarious!	Are you in the bargain for a laugh-out-loud read? Pick up Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging! This quick and fun Brit teen lit will tickle your funny bone until its final page. The clever misadventures that Georgia and friends venture into are hilarious. The author has some great insights on teen crushes. She hits the nail in the head with the different emotions that Georgia goes through with Robbie -- a.k.a., the Sex God. Louise Rennison is as insightful as she is witty. Again, I recommend that you pick up this gem. I look forward to reading the continuation of the Georgia Nicolson series.	2003-04-09
1164657:US	50774468	R58MH1TMV0EW9	0684865386	875879761	Namedropper: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Engrossing and edgy read!	Again, a female British author has created a massively compelling and highly amusing tale of the world of celebrities, socialites and fashionistas. Emma Forrest's work reminds me of Wendy Holden's. However, this novel centers on a young woman's quest to Hollywood stardom. Her insights on the film industry are engrossing and compelling. Forrest is a great writer who isn't afraid to acknowledge certain values that popular culture dishes out, and turn it delightfully on its head. She is a consummate storyteller and her ear for humor is outstanding. I do hope that Ms. Forrest releases new material. I for one look forward to her next effort with enthusiasm...	2003-04-09
1166535:US	50774468	R1EVWLEZ2EMKNP	0452281679	512189556	Simply Divine	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Simply wonderful!	Having read Gossip Hound, I wanted to get my hands on Wendy Holden's debut novel. Simply Divine is a modern fairy tale with Holden's signature style of wicked romance and satire.<br /><br />Jane is a young journalist who's been given the challenging job of ghostwriting the adventures and exploits of faux celebrity and fashionista Champagne D'Vyne. Which means that her dream of taking creative control of a glossy magazine has just as well shattered. To make matters worse, she couldn't make her personal life more pathetic if she'd tried. She is in a dead-end relationship with the unpleasant Nick while desiring her gorgeous upstairs neighbor. Will she be able to upgrade her career? Will she find a suitable mate? And, more importantly, will she survive the outrageous excursions with the insubordinate Champagne D'Vyne? There are some fun twists in the novel.<br />Simply Divine is a rather entertaining and enlightening novel. Holden's take on the glamorous world of socialites and fashionistas is witty and insightful. Hers is the brand of ironic humor that I look for in women's fiction. The characterization in her novels is just wonderful. I flinched every time Champagne D'Vyne made an appearance. I was able to get better acquainted with the aforementioned character in Gossip Hound. She has the sort of deluded arrogance that would make Madonna seem humble in comparison. All of the characters in the novel are entertaining and compelling. Are you in the bargain for original chick lit? I couldn't recommend Wendy Holden's work enough. She's one of the best British writers to come out since Helen Fielding. Enjoy!	2003-04-08
1169304:US	50774468	R2RNRPG8B7Q0CV	1573222267	611119313	Blue Shoe	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Anne Lamott does it again!	Lamott has once again translated potential heartbreak into a spiritual experience that defies the mere flesh. There is so much to love about this book. She hits the nail in the head when Mattie analyzes her parents' marriage. Did she follow her mother's pattern when she married her philandering husband? It's hard not to connect with a book that touches on familial love and reality during crisis in a way that captivates all who have watched a loved one, or parent, suffer the cruel and senseless blows of a failed relationship. Her signature poignancy cannot be missed.<br />As always, I find her styling and characters superb in their authenticity -- she once again demonstrates an unerring voice for dialogue and transmits emotion into a funny, moving account. Even though this isn't as memorable as Traveling Mercies and Crooked Little Heart, Anne Lamott hasn't lost her keen observations and ability to convey the same. If you liked any of her previous books, I guarantee this will not be a disappointment...	2003-04-05
1169459:US	50774468	R2NHBSZMZ1AI32	155166951X	482599347	What The Lady Wants	Books	4	16	18	N	N	It certainly gave me what I wanted!	What fun read! Jennifer Crusie delivers another winner with What the Lady Wants! This is a great romantic mystery that cannot be missed.<br />Mitch Peabody is a private detective who's working on the largest case of his career. Mae Sullivan -- femme fatale extraordinaire -- wants to find her rich uncle's murderer. Now Mitch has to investigate Mae's powerful and dangerous family. The case isn't a simple one, and Mitch is reluctant to probe further, but Mae's glossy good looks and tenacious nature don't facilitate things. There are some fun twists in the novel.<br /><br />What the Lady Wants is one of the most entertaining quick reads I've had in quite a while. This isn't exactly mentally stimulating, but it is sheer escapism and enjoyment. Perfect for the beach. Are you planning a vacation this summer? Take this sexy romp with you!	2003-04-05
1170301:US	50774468	R2D6QDGSXU53S2	0156007479	216165989	Slammerkin	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Compelling piece of historical fiction	Mary Saunders was a servant in the 1700s who had garnered historical knowledge for having murdered her mistress. In Slammerkin, Emma Donoghue takes this piece of history to a whole other level. Slammerkin chronicles Mary's life as a prostitute. Hoping to have a life of wealth and grandeur, Mary believes that selling her body will give her the aforementioned status. However, her exploits lead to great tragedy...<br />Emma Donoghue's Slammerkin is a compelling and memorable piece of historical fiction. Novels that center prostitution during obscure times have always intrigued me. And this novel is certainly intriguing. The language is quite dark and sparse and the characterization is precise. Also, the descriptions of London's underground world are exquisite -- for the author doesn't romanticize the city. The author is consistent and insightful. However, I wasn't impressed with some aspects of Donoghue's writing. For instance, various sexual scenes are there for shock value more than anything else. I feel that the story could have done well without them. Other than that, Slammerkin is a fine piece of literature that is highly recommended.	2003-04-04
1173236:US	50774468	RUAP6K13GEESE	0743225082	250905833	Man and Boy: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enlightening read	I think it is unfair that Tony Parsons is compared to Nick Hornby. After all, Parsons has a great literary voice and appeal all its own. He's proven the aforementioned abilities with Man and Boy.<br />Harry couldn't make his life more perfect if he'd tried. He has a gorgeous wife, an adorable son and a fast-paced career as a TV producer. But a one-night stand changes the course of his ordered life. After his wife sets out to pursue her dreams, Harry struggles to raise his child on his own. Will he be able to be a mother and father to Pat? And will Harry able to find love again? There are some poignant and memorable twists in the novel.<br />Man and Boy is a heartfelt and compelling story of the bond between father and son. Parsons writes with a great deal of soul. The story development is excellent, and the characters -- Gina, Cyd, Pat, Marty, Eamon, Harry's parents -- are memorable. The novel is readable from beginning to end. So, Tony Parson has got nothing on Nick Hornby -- for he stands on his own in Lad Lit with this gem.	2003-04-02
1174930:US	50774468	R3JAXUWKJWZDEU	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Buzzes to a great pitch!	This wonderful story set in the South during the sixties buzzes to a great pitch when fourteen-year-old Owen, fed up with her father's abuse and neglect, sets out to find answers to her mother's dark and poignant death. All she possesses is the image of a Black Madonna -- a gift from her mother. What transpires is a beautiful coming-of-age story that captures the reader's heart.<br />I love this book. The characters are extraordinarily vivid -- timeless and alive -- especially the beekeeping sisters. Also, the backdrop of the South is insightful and exquisite. Southern fiction has scarcely been this good! This is a tale by a master storyteller, without the tiresome formula that accompanies most of today's popular fiction. I didn't want this book to end, and savored the final few pages. I consider myself quite fortunate to have discovered it, and will read everything else by this skilled author...	2003-03-31
1177234:US	50774468	RFRC9ARMWFBYD	0452281431	533637295	Beauty's Punishment: A Novel (Sleeping Beauty Trilogy)	Books	5	44	59	N	N	Great sequel!	Beauty's Punishment is the continuation of The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty, Anne Rice's erotic retelling of the popular fairy tale. In the second installment, Beauty is punished for having rebelled against the Prince. She, along with Prince Tristan, an insubordinate slave and object of Beauty's desire, is auctioned, captivated and subjected to the most erotic, tantalizing and cruel games of domination and submission. Again, Anne Rice does an excellent job in illustrating the psychological implications of the human desire. She also does a splendid job in taking the course of the story to unexpected turns...<br />There are various differences between The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty and its sequel. In Beauty's Punishment, the language is less fanciful and more explicit. Also, Prince Tristan is the focal character in this book -- thus, making Beauty seem as though she were a secondary character at times. And I noticed that the erotic scenes are far steamier this time. The changes are brilliant, for it makes the story meatier -- so to speak.<br />I am duly impressed with Ms. Rice's ecstatic imagination and excellent prose. This is erotica at its literary best! I can't wait to know what happens to Beauty and Tristan in the conclusion of this (so far) memorable trilogy!	2003-03-29
1179919:US	50774468	R3NSU862L8A59K	0802138845	761128536	Crawling at Night: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A dark and lurid read!	Dark and lurid novels have always enhanced my reading experience, and the beautiful descriptions and passionate prose in Crawling at Night floored me from beginning to end.<br />Set in Manhattan, Crawling at Night is the story of Ito and Mariane -- a tormented sushi chef and the woman of his dreams. Painful pasts, loneliness and the cruel anonymity of the city nights bind these two together -- and the result is a powerful and literary tale of love and loss.<br />The characterization is flawless... Nani Power has created two protagonists that touch the reader's soul. Also, Manhattan is the perfect backdrop for this book, for it illustrates the darkness and piercing loneliness the characters endure. This is one of the best dark reads I've had all year. Nani Power is a wonderful new voice in fiction and I look forward to reading more of her work in the future.	2003-03-27
1182054:US	50774468	RDL94F271I4LA	0452283930	233311184	Gossip Hound	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Wendy Holden does it again!	Wendy Holden has a rather unique voice in women's fiction. Her novels have the sort of distinctive wit and cleverness that set them apart from most of today's single-woman-in-the-city books. Having read Bad Heir Day, I had looked forward to reading another one of Holden's fantastic novels. Gossip Hound is one of the most entertaining novels I've read all year.<br />Grace Armiger handles the PR services at Hatto &amp; Hatto, a publishing house that's notoriously known for its WORSTselling authors. She questions her professional ethics after she spends the night with one of her clients. Her life couldn't be less glamorous and more complicated if she'd tried. However, her luck changes when an A-list entertainer enters her life. What she doesn't know is that Belinda Black, a ruthlessly ambitious tabloid journalist, is out to get the scoop that will catapult her career to epic proportions -- even if it means hurting others in the process. There are some fun twists throughout the novel.<br />Gossip Hound is filled with Holden's signature wit and prose. Also, since all of her books have a backdrop of socialites and fashionistas, Gossip Hound is no exception. Grace and Henry are my favorite characters. And I hated Belinda Black's ruthless ambition and deluded arrogance -- the perfect antagonist. I love women's fiction of this sort, and Gossip Hound is one of satirical and distinctive humor. I couldn't recommend it enough. Enjoy!	2003-03-25
1184315:US	50774468	R2HGI6H4P1A271	0688177867	127493012	The Book Borrower: A Novel	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Beautiful narrative-within-narrative novel	Mattison has created a wonderful novel about the friendship of two magnificent women. There is so much to love about this book, especially the narrative-within-narrative plot. I find the styling and characters superb in their authenticity; the author has demonstrated an unerring voice for dialogue that transmits emotion into a funny, moving account. The Book Borrower is a wonderful reading experience. It's difficult to believe this is Ms. Mattison's first novel, and the rave reviews she received for this brave effort are well deserved. If you like narrative fiction, I guarantee this will not be a disappointment, but rather a joyous discovery...	2003-03-23
1186802:US	50774468	R8WKBVT95BADS	0060938412	693230137	The Accidental Virgin: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The accidental hit!	The Accidental Virgin is one of the few chick novels that actually stand out. Frankel's story and dialogue are sharp and crisp. What makes this novel even more likeable is that the situation the heroine faces is quite original.<br />Having devoted all of her time to thongs.com, an Internet company that sells women's lingerie, Stacy Temple realizes that she hasn't done the deed in almost a year. To her horror, she is told that she will be revirginized if she doesn't shatter her dry spell. So, all she has to do is find someone who's willing to sort her problem out. However, the aforementioned quest isn't as easy as she had hoped...<br />The twists in the novel are refreshing and intriguing. Also, Frankel's comic timing is precise. I laughed on various occasions. The Accidental Virgin isn't the typical single-girl-looking-for-love-in-the-big-city chick lit -- it is a tour de force with clever misadventures and wicked humor.	2003-03-20
1186838:US	50774468	R2TNNWOVIDVCFS	0316781266	704361388	The Last Time They Met: A Novel	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Anita Shreve is brilliant!	I am surprised to see that so many people aren't satisified with this novel, so I must write and vent my support of Ms. Shreve. She is a talented writer and I adore The Last Time They Met. It is a beautiful and poignant love story that touched me very much, for I could relate to the protagonists. In fact, this novel moved me so much that I went out and immediately bought all her other books and am saving them like treats for later. Feh to her critics. Well done.	2003-03-20
1188034:US	50774468	RGNWE4DLZ0PNJ	0812967240	491726583	It's My F---ing Birthday: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Hilarious and real!	Merrill Markoe's It's My F---ing Birthday is one of the most hilarious novels I've read all year. The heroine chronicles her birthdays in a laugh-out-loud manner as she puts up with her eccentric parents, useless dates and bad advice from her friends. Also, as though her life couldn't get worse, her ex-boyfriend sends her ambiguous floral arrangements on every birthday. Is he still in love with her, or is it simply a nice gesture on his part? As the narrator reaches forty, she wonders if she'll ever find love. The situations and emotions she goes through ring true. I was able to empathize with her plights.<br />I love Markoe's sharp wit and precise comic timing in this wonderful and memorable debut. I hadn't expected much from this book at first, but it has turned out to be one of the best reading investments I've made all year. I urge Ms. Markoe to write another witty novel.	2003-03-19
1188755:US	50774468	RY3YBKYIHB11E	015100692X	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Superb!	Michel Faber is a magnificent writer who fully deserves a prize for this magnificent piece of work. The Crimson Petal and the White is a gripping and finely crafted tale of a prostitute during the late 1800s London. The characterization and story development are magnificent. The political undertones in the novel -- the sexual situations among Victorians -- have caused a great deal of controversy. There's no doubt that the Victorians would be shocked and repulsed with this novel, which is why the Crimson is so brilliant. Not a shallow read, but one that endures. I adore this author, and cannot fathom the one star reviews here. I would have given it six stars or one hundred, but five will suffice.	2003-03-19
1195586:US	50774468	R3PH3JSM5Q7RGM	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	5	2	3	N	N	How to be a Con Man 101	I thought this inside look into the life of a former con man was entertaining and outrageous. Disguised as a Pan Am pilot, Frank W. Abagnale -- a.k.a., Frank Williams, Frank Adams and Robert Conrad -- conned, forged and duped his way to the position as one of the most notorious scam artists in the country. And the amazing part is that he had achieved the aforementioned status before his twenty-first birthday! Abagnale retells his criminal excursions with sharp wit, precise details and unmistakable arrogance. I assume that all scam artists feel a sense of superiority knowing that they have duped the FBI, and Abagnale is no exception. This is a fun and quick read that should not be missed. I look forward to watching the film version of this gem...	2003-03-13
1195823:US	50774468	RO0JHGY0JFQDZ	1573225789	991280088	The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A hauntingly beautiful memoir	I adored this book. I read it over a year ago and still remember its impact. I am neither Black nor Jewish yet this did not impede my pleasure at reading a finely crafted, moving and honest account of a family. The author's voice is authentic and bracing in its intelligence. A compelling and brave book -- and an important one. I read it again when I had finished, to catch the nuances I had doubtless missed the first greedy go-round. A gift, of course. He has a gift.	2003-03-13
1199944:US	50774468	R2H5Q06PPFGETY	0312420447	137039515	Homework: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Haunting and complex psychological thriller!	Having read Criminals, The Missing World and Eva Moves the Furniture, I have finally gotten my hands on Margot Livesey's first novel. Homework is a haunting and complex novel about a clever and manipulative little girl who does everything in her power to tear her father and his girlfriend apart. What first appears as a jealous daughter's quest to get rid of her stepmother transpires into a psychological and disarming tale of the girl's malicious and conniving attempts to obtain sole possession of her father. Again, Livesey has proven that she is one of the cleverest authors of this time. The disturbing and haunting images that she concocts through her writing stimulate the reader's mind long after having finished the novel. I recommend all of Livesey's books most highly.	2003-03-10
1200211:US	50774468	R2M6LU5JN47WHU	0375709207	685375264	Slow Emergencies: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A beautiful tale of a woman's quest for self-fulfillment	For many years, Lin has had to sacrifice her dream of having a successful career as a choreographer in favor of being a wife and mother. But when Lin is offered a job as a dance instructor in Mexico City, she abandons her husband and children and pursuits her dream. However, guilt courses through her body when she encounters abandoned children in the mean streets of Mexico. Will she leave it all behind and continue to pursue her career, or will the ties of motherhood bind her back with her children? The author of Mark of the Angel delivers another haunting and beautiful tale of love and sacrifice in Slow Emergencies. Her writing is poised and elegant, yet dark and disarming. The building of tension and emotion threaten to jump out of the pages as the flooring conclusion approaches. Nancy Huston hasn't let me down. I look forward to reading more of her work in the future.	2003-03-10
1202371:US	50774468	R6JT73OF069AK	0373250258	943704298	Fashionistas (Red Dress Ink)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Funny quick read with some loose ends	Lynn Messina's takes on the fashion magazine industry are witty, clever and insightful. I love Vig's cynical look into the work dynamic at Fashionista magazine -- a publication not unlike In Style magazine. Vig agrees to help three fellow associate editors bring down the magazine's egomaniac editor-in-chief. And that's when the fun begins...<br />The writing is sharp and clever, but there are some loose ends throughout the book. For instance, Alex Keller, Vig's object of desire, isn't properly developed. There is no mounting of tension between them -- this subplot is so minuscule that it shouldn't have been there in the first place. It appears that the relationship bit is thrown in there for good measure. The story centers on office politics and, aside from a few drinking excursions with her best friend, there isn't much insight on Vig's personal life. Other than that, Fashionistas is a delightful reading experience. You don't read this for mental stimulation, but for sheer enjoyment it can't be beaten. Fashionistas is fun, feisty and easy to read -- just like a glossy magazine.	2003-03-08
1205179:US	50774468	R1WNVG7OL28YBD	0802134297	722282634	Candy	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Clever and disarming satire!	This is one of the cleverest satires I have read in a long time. In this wickedly funny and provocative novel, Candy chronicles her pursuit of normalcy when she abandons her eccentric family. What follows is a hilarious twist after another as Candy encounters doctors, sexual analysts, yoga gurus and relatives. The sexual implications and content in this novel (too explicit to describe) are thought provoking, funny and disturbing at the same time. It is no surprise that Candy was banned from various countries. Terry Southern writes with irony and unsentimental prose -- a force to be reckoned with. Are you in the bargain for a satirical and dark read? Pick up Candy!	2003-03-05
1205376:US	50774468	R1Y1MFHOYI2Z76	0452281423	146685771	The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty: A Novel (Sleeping Beauty Trilogy)	Books	5	14	19	N	N	Great first part of the trilogy!	I hadn't expected to enjoy this novel as much as I had -- after all, Anne Rice is notoriously known for her vampire novels, and I'd never tried her erotic novels. However, I was told that the Sleeping Beauty trilogy is one of the most haunting and tantalizing erotic trilogies out there. And it is! Anne Rice's retelling of the classic fairy tale is a disarming one of domination and submission. Beauty is forced to show the Prince her gratitude for having woken her from a century's sleep by surrendering to his sexual desires. Adapting to his enslavement proves difficult for Beauty. Will she be able to be tamed? The implications brought on in this novel are provocative and compelling. I look forward to reading the other two parts of what appears to be a memorable erotic trilogy.	2003-03-05
1213110:US	50774468	R2SPX29GPBGQYI	0440212359	891553486	London Transports	Books	4	5	5	N	N	And the next stop is...	Maeve Binchy delivers an impressive collection of short stories with London Transports. Each story is based on a particular area in London -- Notting Hill Gate, Holland Park, King's Cross, etc. -- and the stories, from a compulsive shoplifter to a woman's affair with a married man, are poignant, lucid and memorable. Having read Quentins, I was compelled to read another Binchy book. I'm glad I did...	2003-02-27
1213452:US	50774468	R2OBIDE4NYV4VD	037325024X	723714698	Out of the Blue (Red Dress Ink (Numbered Paperback))	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Another great one from Isabel Wolff!	Fan of Isabel Wolff? Then get ready to read another great one from the author of The Trials of Tiffany Trott and Making Minty Malone!<br />Faith Martin, AM-UK!'s weather girl, is having a thunderous time. Her husband might be having an affair, and it is up to her to get to the bottom of things. As her suspicions mound and things begin to take some unexpected turns, Faith has opened up to some interesting possibilities...<br />Out of the Blue is filled with Wolff's signature poignancy and humor. The emotions that the protagonist goes through are quite realistic. I love the characters, especially Lily, Sophie and Peter. Wolff has outdone herself with this new gem. Red Dress Ink made a wise decision in signing up this talented author. I look forward to reading more of her work.	2003-02-27
1224063:US	50774468	R2P62IXCX1BG5A	0312300395	694655854	The Good Patient: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dark and disturbing -- hooked me from its first page!	I was duly impressed with Kristin Waterfield Duisberg's The Good Patient. The dark, compelling and disturbing tale of Darien captured me from the very beginning. The mounting suspense as Dr. Lindholm, Darien's psychiatrist, unravels the reasons that have triggered the protagonist's compulsive and self-destructive behavior is haunting and poignant. The Good Patient is a harrowing and thought-provoking novel that should be savored like fine wine. A wonderful read...	2003-02-18
1226824:US	50774468	R1I76CDPU6YL0H	0385491808	148593745	Crooked Little Heart: A Novel	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Could Lamott BE any more gifted?!	I re-read this book recently and was pleased to find that I wasn't wrong about it the first time: it's wonderful, just as satisfying as any of the others, although I am partial to each new book as it arrives, like a gorgeous newborn. I didn't read Crooked Little Heart, I absorbed it. I fell in love with Rae and Lank -- their love story is one of the most poignant ones I have ever read. I know they will end up together. I just know it. I am dying to know more about Rae, actually. Will James ever learn to dress? Will any of us? Keep it up, Anne.	2003-02-15
1226888:US	50774468	R24LRB9SHRA506	0440214041	859359548	The Pelican Brief	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Not bad, Mr. Grisham!	On one of my many British excursions, I faced one dilemma: a six-hour flight and nothing to read. Desperate, I set out to find something to keep me amused during the aforementioned hours -- and I stumbled upon John Grisham's The Pelican Brief. I admit that I am not a Grisham fan, for I've always thought his books are too commercial and trite, but I am rather impressed with this one. It is quite an entertaining thriller.<br />After having witnessed a murder, Darby Shaw seeks the help of an ambitious reporter. After putting all the pieces together, Shaw discovers that she had been the intended mark. What follows is Grisham's signature twists and thrill rides. The Pelican Brief entertained me throughout the gruesome flight. I enjoyed it. From hereon in, I shall give Grisham the benefit of the doubt...	2003-02-15
1227090:US	50774468	R39E1SYDXR4Y3V	1575668696	311816689	All Through The Night	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Hats down to Lori Foster!	I could always count on Lori Foster to satisfy my cravings for erotic romance. Satisfy Me, the first part of a trilogy, is one of the hottest novellas she's ever written! Asia and Cameron spice up the pages until its final chapter. I look forward to reading more of Foster's work.<br />As for the stories in this trilogy -- Stranger in the Bed by Suzanne Forster, No Mercy by Thea Devine, and Something Wild by Shannon McKenna -- are quite weak and slow-paced. Their stories belonged in a traditional romance anthology.<br />I recommend that you read Lori Foster's Satisfy Me. I also recommend that you pick up I Love Bad Boys and I Brake for Bad Boys if you want to read the other two parts of the trilogy. Foster's work is divine and I consider her to be one of the most memorable erotic romance writers of this era.	2003-02-15
1227149:US	50774468	R10M4OEPCX9RP9	0385315546	252218970	Drinking: A Love Story	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Honest and finely crafted!	I honor Ms. Knapp for exposing her life in such a way that illuminates the denial and distortion that accompanies this disease. I thought it was extremely well written and unsparing prose. I recommend this book to anyone who has battled with this overpowering addiction. Knapp has real talent, and I hope she remembers that when she reads some of the praise that she's received.	2003-02-15
1229839:US	50774468	R26IZRR23ZO675	0452283795	297494014	Wanderlust	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Torn feelings about this one	Budget travel columnist Kate Boggart exchanges e-mails with her loved ones as she travels around the world. Amidst her exotic excursions, she is torn between two men -- her gorgeous wild-life adventurer husband, Jack, and an adorable British journalist named Maxwell. What's a girl to do? She feels that having her cake and eating it too is the most sensible thing to do. But what will happen when Jack and Maxwell find out?<br />I am torn over whether or not I like this novel. I like the wicked humor and naughty approach to romance, but the characters' \\"coincidences\\" (visiting the same country, staying in the same hotel without knowing, etc.) is too far-fetched. Also, Kate is a bit irritating. She treats her best friend like a maid and her behavior toward the male protagonists is appalling. As I read the novel, I wondered: why are these men so smitten with such a self-absorbed woman? Jack and Maxwell are a bit too perfect at times -- not unlike the gorgeous, muscular heroes in traditional romance novels.<br />Having said that, I would like to point out that I like the ongoing independent-woman-who-does-not-need-a-man-in-order-to-be-happy mentality the heroine possesses. However, independence and selfishness aren't interchangeable. Unfortunately, the author seems to think so...<br />Wanderlust has some rather fun and entertaining elements -- the novel written in e-mail format, the information on various cities and countries, etc. -- which is why I give it three stars...	2003-02-13
1229944:US	50774468	R3QDCJS2FHXKW9	0452283825	635890063	Baggage	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great suspense from a new author!	Baggage is a suspenseful and complex novel about a woman who thought she had escaped her painful past. Lina Pritchett has finally found the normalcy she's always craved. She's an elementary school teacher in a small Australian town, has a loving husband and an adorable adopted ten-year-old son. However, her ordered world shatters when she reunites with an old friend -- a friend who had left her for dead years ago. What is Lina hiding? And will she be able to escape her past again? To make matters worse, she is pregnant. There are various twists in the novel.<br />Emily Barr is a great new voice in fiction. Baggage is readable from cover to cover. I devoured it in two days. I look forward to reading Backpack, her first novel.	2003-02-13
1229963:US	50774468	R1I7ZILRZ1B4FL	0060989238	966190047	Hunger Point: A Novel	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Jillian Medoff does it again!	I was duly impressed with Jillian Medoff's Good Girls Gone Bad, and so I didn't hesitate to pick up this book. Hunger Point is a poignant novel about a young woman's struggles with the unraveling of her family.<br />Frannie Hunter, unable to sustain a job and an apartment of her own, moves back with her parents. As she tries to get her life in order, she witnesses her sister's battle with Anorexia, her mother's two-timing behavior, and her father's career woes. As a former anorexic, I can relate to the hardships the protagonist and the other characters go through.<br />The subject matters that Medoff addresses in Hunger Point -- eating disorders, depression, grief, etc. -- are mixed with poignancy and humor. Medoff is as witty as she is insightful. I laughed out loud in many occasions. Her work is similar to Anna Maxtet's; however, Jillian Medoff has a particular brand of comic timing and keen storytelling all her own. She is one of the best new authors out there and I look forward to reading more of her work in the future.	2003-02-13
1232038:US	50774468	R23YJE1T3IAAJJ	0679751343	457276000	Angels & Insects: Two Novellas	Books	5	3	3	N	N	For a beautiful, lucid read...	...look to A.S. Byatt. Hers is a voice that carries you until the book's final pages. Having read Possession, Byatt has catapulted herself toward the writer of distinction that she truly is. I love Morpho Eugenia -- the words carried me. And even though The Conjugal Angel isn't as impressive as the first novella, the sensuous and lucid language is a work of art nevertheless. I have got to spread the word on this exceptional book! I hadn't expected the writing to move me so much. What more could I say other than the fact that this is an excellent piece of literature. Ms. Byatt, I applaud this marvelous effort...	2003-02-11
1232054:US	50774468	R2GS5H08EG00UB	0312984995	899664242	Cocktails for Three	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Fun, feisty read!	Cocktails for Three is a fun and feisty novel about three Londoners at critical points in their lives. They get together at their favorite bar after a difficult day at The Londoner -- a fashion magazine where they all work -- to discuss their latest exploits through cocktails. Each one of them is facing a dilemma.<br />Candice is a successful writer, but her stabilized career becomes threatened when she stumbles upon Heather, an old friend from high school...<br />Maggie is a married woman awaiting the arrival of her first child. She is quite content with her position as editor for The Londoner, which is why she is torn between continuing her career and giving it all up to become a full-time wife and mother...<br />Roxanne is beautiful, glamorous and free-spirited. However, she is stuck in a relationship that's going nowhere, for the man in question is married with children...<br />Cocktails for Three is a wickedly funny read that could satisfy all Chick Lit enthusiasts. Despite its banal and recycled plot, the novel's sharp dialogue, believable characterization and excellent prose make the novel a definite must read...	2003-02-11
1232453:US	50774468	R24ARJIYLWHX6V	0971011907	283637719	Zapped: A True Story of Divine Intervention	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A heavenly read!	Zapped is one of the most inspirational books I have ever read! Marianne Thompson tells us the story of how she had prayed for Mr. Right to come along and, as if sent right from heaven, she meets the man of her dreams. Throughout the book, Thompson describes the inexplicable occurrences that take place after she makes the aforementioned plea. She tells her story with a great deal of wit and insight. Despite Thompson's intelligence, the dialogue could use some improvement. Other than that, Zapped is a wonderful and endearing book. It has elements of divine power, but not offensively so, which means that everyone, including skeptics, could enjoy this gem. A great read...	2003-02-11
1235805:US	50774468	RYO8GUNZ4N237	0865474125	88739451	Palm-of-the-Hand Stories	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Beautiful collection of short stories!	House of the Sleeping Beauties is one of my favorite anthologies, and I couldn't wait to get my hands on another book from this brilliant author. The stories in Palm of the Hand are full of poetic and philosophical undertones and magical realism. My favorite one is &quot;Bamboo-Leaf Boats,&quot; a poignant tale about a woman who grieves the loss of her fiance. The pain the protagonist goes through moved me. The other stories are beautiful as well. I suggest you read this wonderful book...	2003-02-08
1236384:US	50774468	RA7ZOWUED0XNM	0525946403	1503803	The Trouble with Catherine	Books	3	4	6	N	N	The trouble with this novel...	...is that the heroine is one-dimensional and irritating. Catherine thought that she was happy with her single life, but she begins to contemplate putting an end to her freedom when she loses her friends to marriage. Her boyfriend appears to be perfect -- handsome, successful, thoughtful -- which is why she cannot understand why his behavior has changed. Is her fiance Mr. Wrong, or is she really ready for marriage?<br />The dialogue is sharp and the characters are fun, but I couldn't swallow Catherine. There's something about the protagonist that troubles me...	2003-02-08
1238284:US	50774468	R2G97J6885UP4F	0802137318	199273184	A Woman Run Mad	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Thought-provoking psychological thriller!	I am duly impressed with this novel. John L'Heureux has crafted a rather disturbing and compelling psychological thriller. In fact, it is one of the best thrillers I have read in quite a long time.<br />In an attempt to achieve peace in an otherwise turbulent marriage, J.J. Quinn sets out to find the perfect gift for his wife. However, in his quest to find said gift, he stumbles upon a beautiful and mysterious shoplifter. Intrigued, Quinn integrates himself into the shoplifter's life -- though he has no knowledge of the enigmatic woman's sinister past. A blocked novelist, Quinn believes he's finally found his inspiration through the ecstatic passion that Sarah Slade bestows upon him, but he gets more than he's bargained for...<br />The building of tension and suspense reaches a flooring climax.<br />The padding out of the story is intriguing and clever and the dialogue is sharp and full of wit. The characters are well developed, especially Angelo (Sarah's brother-in-law) and Claire (Quinn's wife). L'Heureux has written an intelligent and haunting tale of eroticism and obsession. A Woman Run Mad should be read from cover to read. Thus, I recommend it most highly.	2003-02-06
1238988:US	50774468	R1YI1T7OHN8YIY	034544227X	607274871	Just Friends	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Just Great!	Just when you've given up on single-woman-from-New-York novels, you read a book that's so intelligent and witty that it redeems the entire genre. Just Friends is a tale of two New York friends who struggle with love's greatest pitfalls. I love the friendship between Freya and Jack, and I love the sharp dialogue and keen wit between the aforementioned protagonists. This novel has reaffirmed my faith in \\"Chick Lit,\\" and I look forward to reading more work from this author...	2003-02-06
1243107:US	50774468	R1MA4YGLFJO3MS	0385496095	860500413	Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Should be in every hotel room nightstand!	Many's the time when I was on the road on writing assignments -- depressed, exhausted, eating Kettle Crisps from the minibar because I didn't know how else to fill the boredom. I for one wish there were a copy of this delightful book in each hotel room, right next to the Gideon Bible. Except people would steal them... perhaps there should be a chain attached, like on phone books.<br />Traveling Mercies is warm, hilarious, self deprecating and life affirming; it reminds us with finely crafted prose why we are here on this planet. There are one or two \\"reviewers\\" who have been lobbing vicious hand grenades at Ms. Lamott's sites, but no matter, for this book is clearly a winner -- just wonderful. Another bestseller from one of America's most cherished authors. Lammot RULES, and so does Traveling Mercies -- which I have given as a gift to everyone I know with a heart.	2003-02-02
1243186:US	50774468	R2I5KD1TL1VF7O	0767901592	958247132	Eat Me	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A taste of forbidden fruit!	Eat Me isn't your typical women's erotica -- it is a novel full of intelligent dialogue and sharp wit. The novel's about four friends from Sydney -- Phillipa, Helen, Julia and Chantal -- who get together to dish out juicy details of their latest romantic exploits. The stories are rather explicit and sensuous. However, will they continue to open up about their fantasies and exquisite tales when Phillipa tells them that she's writing an erotic novel?<br />Eat Me is like the forbidden fruit -- impossible to resist. This is one of the most original novels I have read in a long time. The vignettes within the novel are provocative and steamy. Jaivin is a wonderful writer of said genre and I look forward to reading more of her work...	2003-02-02
1243726:US	50774468	R3PV5PE7N7KXUA	0743225422	357229344	The Shipping News: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Absolutely wonderful!	I can't praise this book highly enough. It stunned me in the same way that Rabbit, Run did the first time I read it. I don't know how E. Annie Proulx did it, but thank God she did. I also listened to the audio cassette version (unabridged) and it truly illustrates her gifts. I haven't seen the film version of this book, but, as I often say about films based on novels, I hope it does this wonderful gem justice. Excellent read...	2003-02-02
1244057:US	50774468	RTM2Q3DSHFAV4	0743230191	60823248	The Falling Nun: And Other Stories	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A constellation of clever short stories!	Ever read a collection of short stories whose female theme (office politics, dating, get-togethers with friends) is mixed with dark and gothic undertones (witchcraft, self-destruction, twisted religious themes)? In The Falling Nun, Pamela Rafael Berkman touches on some rather disturbing subjects in women's quest to find love, success and happiness. As a result, she conveys a profound message in the aforementioned struggles. My favorite stories are &quot;Gold Glitter,&quot; &quot;Snakes,&quot; Playing Crucifixion,&quot; and &quot;Merry Christmas, Charlie Brown.&quot; If you're in the bargain for a literary and thought provoking collection of short stories, then I suggest you pick up The Falling Nun.	2003-02-02
1248972:US	50774468	R3TSJV6FP07K3V	0375706917	4435858	For Common Things: Irony, Trust and Commitment in America Today	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Stick and stones may break some bones...	...but words are what Purdy excels at. Yet he is not limited to his extraordinarily deft touch with language. His concepts in For Common Things reach beyond the kind of psychobabble that usually passes for wisdom in this Spandex society -- agree with him or not, he is a thinker, someone Mark Twain would have gotten drunk with. I myself would like to raise a glass to this intelligent and incredibly gutsy young author. I found his book thought provoking, astonishing, and challenging -- never boring or superficial. He has one trait which distinguishes, and doubtless made his ascent possible: authenticity. Many will break their necks in their hasty attempt to degrade and minimize his work; for those like him, that is the price of being admitted to the pantheon of respected authors. Do not hesitate for an instant.	2003-01-29
1249155:US	50774468	R2GLQCZCBZVTKE	0758204175	313229825	I Brake for Bad Boys	Books	4	12	18	N	N	I Brake for Foster and Denison!	I Love Bad Boys is one of my favorite erotic anthologies . . . and I couldn't wait to read its follow-up, I Brake for Bad Boys. Lori Foster and Jannelle Denison haven't disappointed me. Their stories are quite provocative, romantic and witty.<br />Foster's Drive Me Wild is about Erica Lee -- a strong and assertive woman who couldn't be happier with her unattached life. Or is she happy? Her life takes some unexpected turns when she meets Ian Conrad . . .<br />Denison's Something Wilde is about Jill Richardson -- a woman who never mixes business with pleasure. However, her ordered life turns upside down in ecstatic proportions when she receives an offer she can't refuse . . .<br />I wasn't very keen with the third story -- Shannon McKenna's Touch Me. It wasn't as exciting as the first two stories. Thus, it is why I have given the book four stars instead of five.<br />I Brake for Bad Boys is one of the best erotic anthologies out there. I look forward to reading more stories from these talented authors . . .	2003-01-28
1249740:US	50774468	RI791LFXDQTIK	0743457463	907675299	Irish Girls About Town	Books	5	27	29	N	N	A gem!	What brilliant idea to have Ireland's most gifted female writers put together in a gem of a book! Irish Girls About Town is every chick lit enthusiast's dream come true. My favorite stories are the ones from Marian Keyes, Maeve Binchy and Cathy Kelly. However, newcomer Marisa Mackle's \\"Girls' Weekend\\" is the best one out of the bunch. I was so impressed with her sharp wit that I purchased her debut novel, Mr. Right for the Night. This book is a true gem and I couldn't recommend it enough!	2003-01-28
1250817:US	50774468	REJRC2PE6H5VW	0393312178	498659206	City of Coughing and Dead Radiators: Poems	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Brilliant pieces of urban poetry!	I love romantic and majestic poems, which is why I hadn't anticipated liking this particular collection of poetry, for it deals with urban political themes. However, City of Coughing and Dead Radiators is a true masterpiece. Martin Espada has put together a collection of poems that deal with the harsh realities of being raised in the &quot;ghetto,&quot; with an ironic twist. I love &quot;Cockroaches of Liberation&quot; -- truly one of the best pieces of poetry ever written. With unflinching honesty and elegant prose, Espada has created an ingenious piece of work. I am duly impressed with this book...	2003-01-27
1251232:US	50774468	R3K5NR6XPPYEB5	038533656X	729756336	Apocalipstick	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Great chick lit!	Having read Spin Cycle and Neurotica, I couldn't wait to read another one of Margolis's irresistible chick lits. Apocalipstick has all of the ingredients that make books of the aforementioned genre a must read: romance, wit, [] career situations, etc.<br />Rebecca Fine never seems to get her life in order. After all, she works as a temporary beauty columnist when her real ambition is to become an investigative reporter, her love life is in the dumps (add insult to injury, her grandmother never fails to point out same), and her sixty-year-old father is engaged to a much younger woman -- in fact, he's engaged to \\"Lipstick,\\" Rebecca's high school bully. However, things start to look up for Rebecca when she meets the gorgeous Max Stoddart and receives the scoop on an anti-wrinkle cream. But is Max Mr. Right or Mr. Babe Magnet? Will her career ever improve? Will she be able to get rid of Lipstick? There are some fun and rather unexpected twists in the novel.<br />As mentioned earlier, Apocalipstick has all of the ingredients to become a success. The brilliant part about this novel is that the story isn't quite as predictable as the traditional chick lit. There are some juicy surprises along the way. Margolis has cooked up an entertaining reading experience. I recommend that you read this gem...	2003-01-27
1251566:US	50774468	R21F53ISYF0NH2	158243218X	980591373	A Girl, in Parts: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Underrated piece of work!	I cannot believe that this book hasn't gotten the attention that it deserves. A Girl, In Parts is one of the most impressive debuts I've ever read. Jasmine Paul uses (apparently) simple language when she chronicles Dottie's growing pains. The realistic situations Dottie encounters -- sibling rivalry, hatred toward parents, crushes, experimentation -- as she grows from a precocious nine-year-old to an insecure adolescent are beautiful and poignant. I savored the final pages of this novel like fine wine -- I hated to see it end. I cannot recommend this novel enough. Book clubs would marvel at the excellent prose and sharp dialogue. A Girl, In Parts deserves a spot in every reader's library...	2003-01-27
1254163:US	50774468	RXIHKMXIAP4PP	0449911659	437546793	Rabbit, Run	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Go, Rabbit, go!	Literature can't get better than this. John Updike is one of my favorite authors and Rabbit, Run is one of my favorite novels of all time. The first page is the most mesmerizing I've ever encountered, it snakes a hand gently around your throat and squeezes. When you come to, you have not only finished this book and its marvelous sequels, each deliciously darker than the last, you have devoured Couples, The Coup, The Centaur, Marry Me, The Witches of Eastwick, S., A Month of Sundays, In The Beauty of the Lillies, and everything else this man has written. You don't just read an Updike novel, you join a cult.<br />Harry Angstrom is delicious -- so deeply flawed, a black diamond. He is sexist but not unusually so -- he perfectly reflects our culture. And yet I don't consider Updike a man's writer, for women, too, could relate to his beautifully crafted work. I can't recommend this book enough. Read it!	2003-01-24
1254856:US	50774468	RP6WMOGDA02U5	0679744479	324072310	Written on the Body	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Beautiful -- another work of art from Winterson!	Jeanette Winterson's novels read like an epic poem. The beautiful prose and poetic undertones mean that reading between the lines is called for. I loved The Passion and The Powerbook, and now I adore Written on the Body.<br />In Written, Winterson chronicles the sexual escapades between the unidentified narrator and a complex married woman. The protagonist's ambiguous gender is disturbing and thought provoking. Is Winterson trying to convey a message by doing this? Is the narrator's gender academic in the story? Is having the reader, whether male or female, relate to the story important to the author? Again, reading between the lines is rather important.<br />I love novels that are thought provoking and literary. Winterson hasn't let me down. I duly recommend this beautiful novel.	2003-01-24
1259147:US	50774468	RHU5ZJ495B06S	0345448235	517020362	What About the Love Part?	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A good departure from traditional chick lit!	I think this book is more like a novel than a collection of short stories, but the poignant and touching memoirs of Abby moved me. The words carried me. Her struggles to overcome the life as a single mother are a departure from the traditional chick lit. Rosenfeld is proficient at creating characters that endears the reader with her unique sense of dry humor and sharp dialogue. I see no reason not to heartily recommend this book to everyone who wants to go beyond the single-woman-looking-for-love-in-the-big-city drivel. I am an avid reader of the aforementioned genre, but it's great to stumble upon a book with a plot that sets it apart from the rest. I can't recommend this book enough...	2003-01-21
1259600:US	50774468	R3BPZVNXJH81Z5	1892723093	684989244	Literotica: the very best of Literotica.com	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Steamy erotica!	...Literotica is one of the steamiest erotic anthologies I have ever read. Its no-holds-barred approach to uninhibited sex is what I enjoy the most. My favorite stories are \\"Still Life with Teeth,\\" \\"Lunch with Rita,\\" \\"Amber,\\" and \\"Indigo.\\" These stories are guaranteed to leave you wanting more -- so to speak. Thus, I suggest that you pick up this gem.	2003-01-20
1260617:US	50774468	R1Y5B7DCH4FVTI	0060930934	609366713	Wasted : A Memoir of Anorexia and Bulimia	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Gripping and honest memoir	I admire this author's willingness to bare her truths, no matter how stark, and her unflinching honesty. I found myself nodding in agreement at our society's obsession with weight and it is easy to see how so many young girls buy into the idea that weight is everything. As a former victim of Anorexia, I was able to relate to Marya's struggle with the potentially fatal eating disorder. I read it in two sittings and was duly impressed. Great memoir...	2003-01-20
1261048:US	50774468	R2M65G6V9KPTPK	0684865742	223960215	'Tis: A Memoir	Books	5	2	2	N	N	'Tis a wonderful read!	TIS is like discovering the work of an old master in your own basement... you continue to be startled. What courage it took this man to not just survive, but to become a beloved teacher, given the harsh circumstances of his birth. He is proof of the strength of the spirit, throughout his struggles he perseveres and keeps his exuberant sense of humor. While deeply moved, I laughed out loud repeatedly, and was impressed with his mastery of language and character. It's hard to believe he remembers word for word conversations from so long ago, especially after so many &quot;pints.&quot;<br />This is not a memoir, it is communion. McCourt is a national treasure and his humility is rare and exquisite. I cannot imagine a better book about coming to America, within 'Tis he has given thousands a precious gift -- a kind of voice. Perhaps he has even returned the dignity of many forgotten individuals. Additionally, I am sure, placed before this great fame he so richly deserves. Thank you, Mr. McCourt, for sharing with such undeniable wisdom and wry wit your beautiful story.	2003-01-19
1261643:US	50774468	R3D0V5OJRGQKIK	0758203330	347465636	Thoughts While Having Sex	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A sexy and intelligent romp!	I stumbled upon this novel on one of my many trips to the bookstore. The story of Jennifer Ward, a 25-year-old who writes for Off Broadway plays, is rather interesting. She is one of the most neurotic characters I have recently read -- the character's overactive imagination sort of reminds me of Ally McBeal. Also, this is one of the few novels that addresses Off-Broadway plays without the bohemian undertones that one would expect from obscure productions. Jennifer has some rather interesting takes on sex, and the backdrop of her sister's suicide is an imperative factor in the development of the story.<br />Thoughts While Having Sex is great new gem from a talented new voice in women's fiction. I am so glad I decided to give it a whirl.	2003-01-19
1269948:US	50774468	R3490ECN25WTQ0	0312306423	416986369	Time After Time	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Cute!	I thought this novel was cute. Set in London, Cass Thompson prepares for her fifteenth high school reunion and for the inevitable trip to Downtown Memory Lane. Even though she thought she was content with her career at an art museum and her relationship with a football-crazed boyfriend, Cass is forced to reassess her feelings and priorities, especially when she is faced with the prospect of reuniting with an old crush...<br />Time After Time is a cute and light read that will have you reminisce the times in which young love had begun. I liked the references to the eighties and the chapters named after songs from the aforementioned decade. This isn't the most literary work out there, but it makes for a fun and breezy read. Enjoy.	2003-01-12
1269986:US	50774468	R20JUUFTMNK67S	0373250231	580425552	Spanish Disco (Red Dress Ink (Numbered Paperback))	Books	4	8	8	N	N	As close as RDI's ever gotten to an &quot;anti-heroine&quot;	People who've read three or more installments from Red Dress Ink know that the heroines in said novels are twenty or thirty-something-year-old career women looking for love over cocktails at trendy bars. However, Spanish Disco, RDI's newest chick lit, has a rather unique protagonist -- well, unique for RDI's standards.<br /><br />Thirty-three-year-old Cassie Hayes is a successful book editor whose life couldn't be messier if she'd tried. After all, she lives on her own, has no fellow-drinking gal pals to mess about with, and, despite the fact that a mysterious English writer is besotted with her, she has no interest in pursuing a relationship with anyone. But when an eccentric Pulitzer Prize-winning author gives her an offer she can't refuse, her life begins to take some unexpected turns...<br />Erica Orloff does an excellent job in bringing Cassie to life. I was able to relate to Cassie's gripping and realistic situations. Cassie is as close as RDI's ever gotten to an &quot;anti-heroine,&quot; for the protagonist's complex personality has a slightly darker edge.<br />I am duly impressed with the novels that Red Dress Ink has released in the last few months. There's no doubt that this publishing house is venturing into some more literary work. I recommend this fine little gem. RDI enthusiasts won't be disappointed with this one...	2003-01-12
1275011:US	50774468	R1T1LVDMK5BC9C	038082101X	694565872	Daughter of Fortune: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	What took me so long?	I haven't read an Isabel Allende novel since I was a little girl. Upon hearing the release of Daughter of Fortune, I promised myself I'd give it a whirl. Well... I finally did. I can't believe I took so long to read this gem! I ended up savoring each word like a delicate pastry. What a gift Allende has -- she makes it appear easy. I mean, how could she make the supposedly subtle language seem so... effortless? Miss Rose, Eliza, and all the characters sprang to life without pretense. Some people have complained of its so-called slow-paced plot, but this book should not be rushed. Allende has topped House of the Spirits (which happens to be my favorite Allende novel), and that is no easy task. I shall never hesitate to read an Isabel Allende masterpiece again...	2003-01-08
1275429:US	50774468	R38INDIGWGJSFC	1575669013	130993160	Falling For Mr. Wrong	Books	1	1	1	N	N	I hadn't expected much from this novel...	...but I am still disappointed with it. I mean, who wants to waste time reading a bomb? Not only is Falling for Mr. Wrong unoriginal, the heroine spends the majority of the novel complaining about having helped her ex-husband become a successful film producer. This chick lit falls into the run-of-the-mill variety -- thus, I suggest you skip it.	2003-01-08
1276846:US	50774468	R29T60B2M5QKYD	0066212693	111299110	Good Girls Gone Bad	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Darkly hilarious!	What a clever read! Medoff leads the reader toward one direction and then the course of the story changes dramatically. Good Girls Gone Bad is a dark comedy that is to be relished from cover to cover!<br />Janey Fabre suspects that she isn't quite normal. After all, she's stalked her ex-boyfriend for two years and is tormented with a painful past. But when she joins a support group that consists of female patients, she is comforted with the fact that there are far more neurotic New York women out there. The women in the group are all middle-aged single women. There's Suzanna -- a.k.a., the Dream Weaver -- a woman in love with her dog; Laura, a one-night stand enthusiast; Bethany, a forty-year-old divorcee who now lives with her mother. And there are the neurotics-bordering-to-insanity -- like Ivy, a sexy southerner who thinks that getting plastic surgery is like brushing her teeth; Valentine, an attractive overweight woman who overeats when she's anxious; and Natasha, who is preoccupied with contamination and diseases. Each of one of these ladies supplies laugh-out-loud situations.<br />Despite the dark language in the novel, Good Girls Gone Bad is a tale of friendship and sisterhood. The women, namely the protagonist, face events that change their lives. I loved this novel and I look forward to reading more books by this talented author.	2003-01-07
1277434:US	50774468	R36471DI9YX0Y0	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Innocence lost	I have read a fair amount of novels about young girls who seduce adult men -- Nude Men, Innocents, to name two -- but none of them has been as dark, sensuous and perverse as Lolita.<br /><br />The novel that inspired the aforementioned bestsellers, Nabokov's 1955 classic caused a great deal of controversy the time in which it was released. The book's sinister and erotic language was rather out of its time. Humbert, the protagonist, is a very tormented man. He falls for a beautiful teenage girl who reminds him of an adolescent romance with a young woman he never saw again. What follows is one of the most decadent and beautiful stories I have ever read in literature.<br />As previously mentioned, the darkness and controversial subject matter catapulted Lolita as one of the most memorable pieces of literature of all time. Lolita has also inspired various writers to write about this obscured and taboo genre. But, alas, there hasn't been a novel that has been able to surpass this one...	2003-01-07
1277481:US	50774468	R2VBKMB1ZTR8BM	1573441465	767488366	Best Fetish Erotica (Best Erotica Series)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	So-so erotica anthology	I have always been intrigued with the topic of fetishes. As a writer who's researching said topic, I want to get my hands on the most literary and erotic fetish books out there. I thought I'd found it in Best Fetish Erotica, but, unfortunately, this book leaves a lot to be desired.<br />Most of the fetishes in various stories are rather amusing, but the erotic part is nowhere to be found. However, there are some well-written tales of lustful fetishes, like \\"Love Me Tender,\\" \\"The Naked City,\\" and \\"Office Hours.\\"<br />The overall book is a disappointment though. I shall continue my quest to find intelligent erotic anthologies that stick to the subject in hand.	2003-01-07
1286810:US	50774468	R3TR4EVX3C6PVM	0802133347	182408519	Lady Chatterley's Lover (Word Cloud Classics)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	The best erotic romance I've ever read!	This novel's explicit sexual descriptions caused a great deal of controversy when it was first published in 1928. However, now that the literary world has embraced erotica, Lady Chatterley's Lover is now considered classic.<br />D.H. Lawrence describes the sexual exploits between an unhappily married woman and her lover with beautiful prose and poetic undertones. The bold descriptions of the forbidden romance between the protagonists left me longing for more -- so to speak. The novel is mixture of romance and erotica, and said story has inspired authors to venture into this once obscure genre in literature.<br />Are you an erotica enthusiast? Then I suggest you read the novel that started it all. Lady Chatterley's Lover is one of the best literary experiences I've ever had!	2002-12-31
1287063:US	50774468	R2RAN4ZQIC3P3O	0156011980	300018757	The Columnist	Books	3	0	2	N	N	A story of ruthless ambition!	In this highly political tale of climbing the career heap, Brandon Sladder wants to become the most successful journalist of his time -- even if he has to backstab his way to the top. But his selfish ways don't end there. Sladder tells the story of his illicit affairs, substance abuse, and various wives. Years after having retired, he leaves his outrageous legacy in an attempt to come clean.<br />Frank has created the perfect anti-hero, but his preoccupation with office politics shadows Sladder's exploits. Also, the secondary characters don't play an important role in the overall story. Despite the aforementioned flaws, The Columnist is an interesting and dark novel that deserves to be read. I suggest you give it a whirl.	2002-12-31
1287308:US	50774468	R1FUFTGGSRB5BY	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hilarious, insightful, real -- what more can I say?	This has got to be one of the funniest books I've ever read. David Sedaris's essays are full of insight and wit. His comic timing is precise when he describes his childhood, his family and his eccentric friends. I have been told that the audio version of this book intensifies the humor and that I ought to give it a whirl. If the audiocassette is as funny as the book, then I look forward to listening to it.	2002-12-31
1289476:US	50774468	R2EGZ0WY30627Z	0786707615	488494190	Midnight Butterfly	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Sensuous erotica!	When I read erotic novels, I often let the lyrical and sensuous language take me to ecstatic proportions. Midnight Butterfly is one of said novels.<br />When Ellen Howard, a thirty-year-old aspiring artist, flies to New York City to work on her craft, she hadn't imagined that the journey she'd take would be one of steamy and uninhibited passion.  Shy and insecure, Ellen is reluctant to enter a world she'd never fathomed.  However, the aforementioned world opens doors to great possibilities...<br />Sensuous and imaginative, Midnight Butterfly will awake your senses as well as your mind. I highly recommend it.	2002-12-29
1293699:US	50774468	R2YEWMR40N8H78	0743205049	71635038	Cat's Meow: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fun and satirical novel about a New York fashionista!	This is one fun novel! Melissa de la Cruz is right on the mark with the protagonist -- a New York fashionista-cum-socialite who's lost all of her money. What shall Cat McAllister do? Selling her collection of Gucci shoes and handbags is out of the question, so she decides to woo an aristocratic millionaire by adopting a Chinese baby and attending every social event in the city. However, she gets more than she bargains for...<br />The language is one of socialites-are-actually-this-shallow-and-one-dimensional satire. Despite its far-fetched ending, Cat's Meow is one of the most entertaining and droll novels I have read all year. If you're curious about the world of fashion and glamour, I suggest you pick up this little gem!	2002-12-26
1294466:US	50774468	R2E0L8EORLML8L	0060931345	262958955	Celeste Ascending: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Mesmerizingly beautiful language!	I hadn't expected to enjoy this novel as much as I had. The language is vibrant, splendid and mesmerizing -- readable from cover to cover! I loved Celeste's journey to self-discovery. Having reminisced and analyzed the romance with the only man she ever loved, Celeste, after years of self-denial and loneliness, finally decides to turn her life around. Kaylie Jones does this with elegant prose and poetic undertones. New York is the perfect backdrop to the story. I am duly impressed with this novel and I look forward to reading more of Jones's work in the future.	2002-12-24
1294526:US	50774468	R3A7RVUIJOYC6L	0684870355	111234739	Stacking in Rivertown	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Disturbing erotic/psychological thriller!	Stacking in Rivertown is one of the most disturbing erotic-cum-psychological thrillers I have read since Topping from Below. The dark language and sinister undertones in this novel grasped me until its final page.<br />Beth has never been able to fully enjoy the success of her novel and her husband's adoration. She hasn't been able to bury the past that's haunted her for years. Beth knows that the man who had subjected her to the most abominable sexual acts -- she had been forced to play painful sadomasochistic games for wealthy clients -- awaits her return to said underworld. Also, she has blocked out the painful memory of having witnessed a fellow prostitute's brutal murder. In a desperate attempt at survival, Beth stages her suicide and assumes a different identity. But how long will she be able to live a lie? Will her pimp track her down? The climax will floor you.<br />The sinister language is one of the most impressive parts of the novel. Barbara Bell kept me speculating Beth's fate. However, the book sort of loses track of the story when the protagonist falls for a famous pop star. Other than that, Stacking in Rivertown is a hauntingly erotic novel that will keep you turning the pages.	2002-12-24
1300040:US	50774468	R3M9Z0UTRKM3XJ	0375414053	271266648	I Don't Know How She Does It: The Life of Kate Reddy, Working Mother	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Brilliant!	I Don't Know How She Does It is a compelling and poignant novel about Kate Reddy, a working mother who struggles to balance her professional and domestic responsibilities. Kate loves her husband and two children, but she also has a demanding career as a fund manager for a large trading firm. Luckily, she has the benefit of a very caring husband by her side. Unfortunately, he has felt neglected and his patience is running out. Is taking the traditional role of housewife and quitting her high-maintenance job the politically correct thing to do? The feminist references aren't lost on me, and Pearson addresses said issues brilliantly.<br />This book ought to be devoured from cover to cover. Buy this book for every woman you know. This is the sort of book that everyone could relate to...	2002-12-18
1300181:US	50774468	R24YALN8RZU7XW	0743442849	880046587	Addicted: A Novel	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Addicted to Zane!	I loved Zane's Sex Chronicles books, which is why I'd looked forward to reading one of her novels. And she did not disappoint me! Addicted is one of the cleverest erotic thrillers I have ever read!<br />Zoe Reynard has it all: a successful career, a loving husband and three wonderful children. But something threatens Zoe's ordered life -- her overpowering sex addiction. With the help of her therapist, Zoe analyzes her childhood and the slow progression to the addiction that's driven her to be unfaithful to her husband. What if her husband finds out? Will she ever live a normal life, or will her dangerous liaisons ruin her life? The ending will floor you.<br />Zane has created a cluster of memorable characters and interesting subplots. She describes the heroine's growing pains with vibrant clarity. Her writing -- though the slang words and overuse of exclamation marks were a little distracting -- is sharp, witty and insightful. Zane hasn't disappointed me and I look forward to reading more of her work.	2002-12-18
1303838:US	50774468	RTC8XJE961TY3	0066214149	371256495	No Borders: A Journalist's Search for Home	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Absolutely inspiring!	Having read The Other Face of America, I had to get my hands on Jorge Ramos's memoir. He has inspired me to pursue a career in journalism, which is why I have followed his career for years. In No Borders, Ramos gives the reader an inside look into the life of a young Hispanic male seeking the American Dream. He moved to the U.S. from Mexico at the age of twenty-five, with very little experience in the journalistic field. Twenty-years later, he is a seven-time Emmy Award winning anchorman for Univision. From his tale of how he became one of the most successful reporters to recaps of his biggest news assignments, No Borders is an inspiring memoir about a man who stopped at nothing to get to where he is today...	2002-12-15
1304559:US	50774468	R26RLGYUQ5PPT	0871319349	896450946	The Good Girl's Guide to Bad Girl Sex: An Indispensable Resource to Pleasure and Seduction	Books	4	41	44	N	N	Something every "Good Girl" should own!	You have a good job, you dress nicely -- you even visit your parents once a week. However, you still have a naughty girl within that is dying to come out of her shell. The Good Girl's Guide to Bad Girl Sex is a great introduction to help even the most timid woman shatter her inhibitions. From discovering the sex toys you never thought you had (like the silk scarf that can be used to tie him to the bed) to learn how to use verbal stimulation in and out of bed, this wonderful and insightful guidebook will make you feel good about being bad. This is one of the best reading investments I've made all year!	2002-12-15
1306750:US	50774468	R1PFO94DSP0LWF	0688158013	951558564	On the Loose: Big-City Days And Nights Of Three Single Women	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Interesting look into the lives of three single women	I thought the structure of this book was challenging and entertaining -- I suppose for some it was like trying to connect the dots on a semi difficult puzzle, for the three women Roth researched were so similar that I often had difficulty remembering who was whom. However, I just let the fascinating and glamorous life these three successful thirty-something single women carry me. Roth was proficient at illustrating the everyday lives of Jen, Casey and Anne and their pitfalls with men, careers and cocktail parties. Reading the rock-hard wisdom and wicked wit in their dialogue was food for thought. Melissa Roth's research was excellent and I applaud this fabulous effort...	2002-12-12
1307365:US	50774468	RHR5MMZ5BT34G	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Enjoyable from cover to cover!	If you intend to read a book in a hot and steamy bubble bath with a martini or cosmopolitan this week, make it this one. I hated to see it end. I wanted to turn back time, but of course all attempts to do this failed... Alas, I shall just have to read another one of Wells's books and hope that it's just as good as this one. I have not seen the film based on this novel, but I hope that it's done the novel justice. Various people couldn't believe I hadn't read this book before -- indeed, what took me so long to pick it up and read it? Ms. Wells is a true original. I highly recommend this gem.	2002-12-12
1308021:US	50774468	R2E7U9AM1P157D	0345443284	471049102	While I Was Gone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Beautiful read from a masterful writer!	I was entranced with this fine novel until its last page. Sue Miller's writing reminds of Anne Tyler, Jane Hamilton and Jane Smiley. She never disappoints -- the story is frighteningly real, seemingly ordinary but enigmatic, with multi-layered characters and a plot that moves along like a brook. I shall continue to read books from this brilliant and masterful writer...	2002-12-12
1309616:US	50774468	R1N33JF8IOWD3Z	0312193068	977774249	Nice: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A naughty and NICE dark comedy!	Ever thought -- however briefly -- that murder might be the only way out of a relationship? Grace, the anti-heroine of this dark and quirky novel, seems to think that her only alternative is to murder her bothersome boyfriends. After all, she couldn't possibly deal with rejecting them and -- as a consequence -- hurting their feelings! But what will happen to Grace when she falls for a professional assassin? This romance is a recipe for disaster -- or is it?<br />Nice is a dark comedy that ought to be devoured in a single sitting. I recommend this gem to anyone who might be in the bargain for an original read...	2002-12-10
1310844:US	50774468	R3P8JZ71QM7XX0	0373250223	925139388	Name & Address Withheld	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Wickedly funny and intelligent -- RDI's best book to date!	I have read most of Red Dress Ink's books and roared with laughter and sometimes recognition, for smart and single women are RDI's target readership. However, despite the fact that I have enjoyed RDI's books, I couldn't help but notice that said novels are a bit too lighthearted and predictable -- that is until I got my hands on Name and Address Withheld.<br /><br />This latest installment touches on the delicate and complex issue of infidelity -- and it's done with wicked humor and intelligence. Lizzie Ford is London's hottest agony aunt -- a \\"sexpert\\" in a glossy women's magazine and radio chat show. Her life takes a quantum leap forward when she meets the man of her dreams. But little does Lizzie know that her Prince Charming -- otherwise known as Matt -- is stuck in an unhappy marriage with an ambitious woman named Rachel. To make matters worse, Rachel has sought out Lizzie's help -- unaware of the fact that Lizzie is Matt's mistress. Now Lizzie is torn between love and professional ethics. What will happen to Lizzie? Should she follow her heart and pursue her happiness, or should she help Matt and Rachel rekindle their marriage? There are some twists and fun surprises throughout the novel.<br />Jane Sigaloff addresses the controversial issue of wives and mistresses with brilliance and insight. This is by far Red Dress Ink's best book to date. Buy Name and Address Withheld for every woman you know with a brain and a sense of humor. I await this talented British author's next work with anticipation...	2002-12-10
1316255:US	50774468	R3JATVNA1717PQ	0312284683	347731978	Faking It	Books	4	1	2	N	N	For a fun, light read...	...look to Jennifer Cruise. Hers is a voice that sparks up the reader's interest in an instant. Her dialogue is crisp, funny and insightful. I loved Fast Women and I love this one! The fine mess the protagonist gets herself into when she decides to assume the identity of a famous artist's daughter in order to maintain her family's art gallery is one of suspense, romance and thrill rides. I shall continue to look to this author for a fine reading experience. Ms. Cruise, I applaud this marvelous effort...	2002-12-05
1316987:US	50774468	R1XMX1U0WKCU1T	0345301110	714881528	Story of O	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A beautiful and lurid tale of pleasure and pain	I have developed an interest in BDSM novels and I was told that I ought to read Story of O, for it is the stick that other novels of this sort are measured. I had to give it a whirl. Story of O is a beautiful and lurid tale about the fine line between pleasure and pain. O feels extreme pleasure from the pain that her master inflicts onto her. O is aware that she can walk out of the situation if she wants to, but the domination/submission that she practices gives her a freedom from choice -- unlike her everyday life. I love the irony in the story. Story of O develops into a strange but erotic romance between the protagonists. This book blew me away. Fan of BDSM? Pick up Story of O. My friend was right -- this novel is the stick that which other erotic novels are measured!	2002-12-05
1322314:US	50774468	R8XLCZ8X89WYP	0743457013	833914830	Gettin' Buck Wild: Sex Chronicles II	Books	5	37	42	N	N	Guaranteed to leave you breathless!	Having read and enjoyed The Sex Chronicles, I had to get my hands on the sequel. Zane's imagination goes into overdrive with stories that are guaranteed to leave you begging for more -- so to speak. The stories vary from sensuous and romantic to wild and kinky, but they all have a similar theme: a woman shattering her inhibitions by venturing into her wildest sexual fantasies. I marvel at this author's ecstatic and inventive writing. I couldn't put this book down. Are you in the bargain for a very saucy read? Get Buck Wild and pick up this book! :-)	2002-11-30
1322787:US	50774468	R3GVNBZ0UJDSOZ	0440509238	201081948	Spin Cycle	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A sexy romp!	Rachel Katz has quite a dilemma: she's having an affair. What if her fiance finds out? She's in a perfect, albeit boring, relationship with a dentist. But Rachel can't explain what's driven her to cheat on her fiance, for she truly loves him. Her conscience is somewhere between pleasure and guilt -- and said confusion turns her ordered life into chaos...<br />Ms. Margolis has created a massively compelling and highly amusing tale of love's greatest pitfalls. This novel is hilarious! I challenge even the naysayers of chick lit to get through this gem without laughing out loud. Sue Margolis is a great storyteller and her ear for humor never falters. Looking for a romantic and sexy comedy? Pick up Spin Cycle!	2002-11-30
1322888:US	50774468	R5B9YDRNPDZQM	0679439382	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	2	14	15	N	N	This book is amazingly ... disappointing!	The hype surrounding this book drove me to give it a whirl. After all, it guaranteed a suspenseful and literary experience that few modern mysteries supply. Also, the backdrop of the story -- the South -- intrigued me. However, this book disappointed me. The Little Friend has failed to provide the insight and cleverness that I had expected.<br /><br />The most frustrating part of this novel is how incredibly slow-paced it is. After an impressive and disturbing opening -- the sketching in, the padding out, of young Robin Cleve Dufresnes's brutal murder -- the story goes into a gruesomely long recount of the life of each family member after the horrible occurrence. A postmortem was vital, but I wish it hadn't taken over almost the entire novel.<br />There are some good elements in this book. For instance, the characters are quite interesting and vivid -- especially Harriet. I also like the dark and gothic language the author uses. Unfortunately, said elements weren't enough to spark my interest. I couldn't wait to finish this book, and that is NOT a good thing.	2002-11-30
1322971:US	50774468	R2HQUVO8M7CVO9	0595240577	416268201	Breaking the Girl: a novel	Books	5	79	90	N	N	I submit to this book!	Breaking the Girl is one of the most intense and decadent books I have ever read! The story of a couple whose kinky games of domination and submission take over their lives is one of eroticism and suspense. I love how believable the characters are. I also love the fact that the book is set in New Orleans -- a city that's always fascinated me. I have become intrigued by this brand of erotica -- BDSM -- and this book is as good as it gets...	2002-11-30
1329638:US	50774468	R2ZNU6HHR5YVF9	0802139272	457262656	Innocents	Books	5	32	36	N	N	Deliciously dark and clever!	I have often wondered what goes through the mind of a pedophile. Having read Innocents, I have gotten a glimpse into the mind of the aforementioned person -- from a sixteen-year-old girl's point of view. The nameless young character describes her thirty-four-year-old schoolteacher's desire for her. He is drawn to her naivete and innocence -- what he doesn't know is that she's manipulating him. Thus, making this one of the most twisted psychological novels out there.<br />The subject matter is deliciously dark and disturbing. The novel questions morality and innocence by making said notions seem abstract. This is one of the cleverest reads I have had in a long time.	2002-11-23
1329702:US	50774468	R2GMIDCZ93M4VV	0525946829	616631756	Quentins	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Lovely work by a skilled author	This is my first Maeve Binchy read and it won't be the last. The characters in Quentins are extraordinarily vivid, especially Ella. Her struggles with the married man who cons her parents and breaks her heart are touching and real. Also, the short stories within the novel -- various tales that define the history and legacy of a Dublin restaurant called Quentins -- are compelling and poignant.<br />This is a tale by a master storyteller. Even though I have not read Binchy's previous efforts, I identified with her writing and language. I consider myself quite fortunate to have ventured into this novel, and will read everything else by this skilled author...	2002-11-23
1330135:US	50774468	R3DWISHEWGU0WN	0679763430	574643989	The Camera My Mother Gave Me	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Funny and thought provoking!	Having read Girl, Interrupted, Susanna Kaysen's gripping and comic memoir, I didn't hesitate to pick up this book. The Camera My Mother Gave Me is a thought-provoking and witty memoir about Kaysen's encounters with various doctors -- gynecologists, vulvologists, internists, alternative health physicians -- in a quest to find out what is wrong with her vagina. Her vagina suffers from a mysterious illness that doctors have not been able to identify -- thus, said illness interferes with her relationship with her boyfriend. Should she insist on getting to the bottom of things, or should she learn to live with her unidentified condition?<br />Funny, intelligent and compelling, The Camera My Mother Gave Me is a short memoir that ought to be read from cover to cover. I recommend it most highly.	2002-11-23
1340158:US	50774468	RZLZ803RLAVSX	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Everything that has been said about this novel is true!	What could I say about this wonderful novel that hasn't already been said? This gem has a constellation of great characters -- the lack of pretense, a compelling story and a deceptively simple style that is the mark of great skill. I loved the way these remarkable women thrust together, and the development of a girl's lonely struggle with foster care is poignant and riveting. A truly superb story by an obvious master storyteller. All the good things that have been said about this novel are true. I have not seen the film that's based on this novel, but I hope that the script and the actors do the story justice. I highly recommended White Oleander -- it's a life-enhancing novel.	2002-11-14
1340721:US	50774468	R1LMPSNYHNV22Z	0452283388	403661192	Someone Like You	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Simply wonderful	There's a new crop of Irish authors gaining international success -- and Cathy Kelly is one of them. Kelly's literary debut in the US, Someone Like You, is an endearing story that centers in the lives of three rather different women.<br />Hannah: a career-oriented, gym-obsessed beauty with a penchant for unreliable men.<br />Emma: a happily married woman who hopes to have a baby. The doormat of a self-centered sister and a manipulative father, Emma's relationship with the aforementioned family members worsens when her mother suddenly becomes ill...<br />Leonie: a middle-aged divorced mother of three children whose ordered life shatters when her ex-husband announces his pending nuptials.<br />Having met on vacation in Egypt, these women stick together through the rough patches in their lives. Their togetherness makes for a poignant and endearing read. Cathy Kelly is a great literary voice that will capture readers' hearts. I recommend this wonderful novel.	2002-11-14
1345430:US	50774468	R22W9LRCJ95284	074346270X	762963312	The Sex Chronicles	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Zane breaks the rules!	The short stories in The Sex Chronicles fall into three categories: Wild, Wilder and Off Da Damn Hook! And it is no wonder that the book is separated into the aforementioned categories -- Zane's imagination goes beyond ecstatic in this great piece of work. This book also breaks the old belief that women aren't aggressive enough. It also tarnishes the disapproval that society place upon sexually uninhibited women. Zane's purpose isn't to promote promiscuity; she simply shares her insights and ideas on spicing up one's level of intimacy in original and sensuous ways. The stories vary from romantic to roughly explicit, so you might want to read it with your partner in mind. I look forward to reading more material from this talented author.	2002-11-10
1345548:US	50774468	R1ZTGOIVODN3O8	0758201966	66062052	Party Girls	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great Chick Lit!	Having read nothing but dark and poignant books lately, I decided to indulge in my favorite guilty pleasure: a chick lit. And what a great chick novel Party Girls is too! Reading about three thirty-something Manhattanites' struggles with love, careers, cocktail bars and real estate was quite enjoyable. Roz Bailey has created characters so believable that I hoped things worked out for them at the end. Sex and the City has got nothing on this gem! Are you in the bargain for great chick lit? Pick up Party Girls.	2002-11-10
1345626:US	50774468	R3C1BDI4TG3C3J	0060185147	737127896	Courting Trouble	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Predictable and formulaic	A suspenseful and original mystery/thriller is always a great find. A predictable and formulaic novel of the aforementioned genre is a complete waste of time and money. Courting Trouble is the ladder.<br />When her friend is found murdered, Anne Murphy realizes that her mysterious past has come back to haunt her. Someone's out to get her, which is why she has to maintain a low profile. But how could she do that when she's working on a highly publicized case?<br />The overall story development is slow and misguided at times. Also, as previously mentioned, the novel follows a rather predictable formula. However, I will not rule this author's work out entirely. Perhaps in the future she will write a thriller that will set it apart from the rest...	2002-11-10
1352941:US	50774468	R2BGNWGKZNVU13	0060094850	92625729	The Torn Skirt	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Brutally honest chronicles of a teenage runaway!	I have read various book of this sort -- a coming-of-age story of a teenager who learns the facts of life the hard way. However, Rebecca Godfrey's The Torn Skirt is written with a fresh approach to brutal honesty. The novel's language is beautiful and sinister at the same time.<br />After her father abandons her, Sara's journey is one of struggle and heartbreak. Her loss of innocence is gruesome and disturbing -- especially when she encounters various teenage prostitutes...<br />Few authors have dared to enter this uncharted territory in fiction. However, this book is so beautifully written it is to be savored over time, like an exceptional wine. One must open one's eyes and see that the real world -- especially when seen through the eyes of a child -- isn't sugarcoated. And that is why I love this sort of literature.	2002-11-03
1353350:US	50774468	R2A1MIQWZG00YN	0316096199	784206304	Lucky	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Sebold bares her soul!	Having read Alice Sebold's debut novel, The Lovely Bones, I felt compelled to read her memoir. Glad I did. Lucky is one of the most thought provoking and poignant memoirs I have ever read. I admire this author's willingness to bare her soul and share the pain of having been a victim of a brutal rape to the world. I am deeply moved by how this woman's life changed after such a grueling experience. Her strength and bravery are truly admirable. I read this memoir in two sittings. I recommend everyone to read this wonderful book.	2002-11-03
1362355:US	50774468	R2N0QZVZC6PTTF	0743223306	701397757	More, Now, Again: A Memoir of Addiction	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Gripping and honest	In Prozac Nation, Elizabeth Wurtzel delved into her struggles with severe depression, and now she's released another memoir -- this time about her drug addiction. If you're looking for general references and insights on drug addiction, you won't find it in More, Now, Again. Wurtzel bares her soul by sharing her struggles with brutal honesty. She tells it like it is without sugarcoating the events, and I admire her bravery.	2002-10-26
1364374:US	50774468	R3UWTI3NH7AG9U	0312272758	528597475	Panic Snap: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Provocative and gripping -- great second effort from Reese!	Laura Reese's debut effort, Topping from Below, has become one of my favorite novels. Its dark, sinister and controversial world enticed me. I couldn't wait to read Panic Snap.<br />A victim of a mysterious accident that led to amnesia, Carly Tyler tries to put together the pieces of the puzzle that is her past, but she gets more than she bargains for.<br />Despite some similarities to Below, Panic Snap follows Reese's tradition of illustrating the taboo subject of hardcore S&M with a plot that twists all the way to the end. I didn't want this book to end -- and was savoring the final few pages. This is a tale by a master storyteller, without the bells and whistles that accompany most mystery/thrillers. I look forward to reading this skilled and gifted author's next project.	2002-10-25
1367132:US	50774468	R2QCJEUWDXVJR2	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	5	1	4	N	N	A true piece of work!	Many people don't know how difficult it is to make people laugh out loud. The fact that Mr. Eggars is able to do so on a regular basis throughout this distinctive and original work is not to be taken lightly. I don't know why he is (only occasionally) being derided for his \\"clever\\" phrases and seemingly easy jokes on the true and genuine hardships of his own somewhat (to some) sordid and \\"un-American\\" journey through life -- but I for one would like to applaud his ability to make mildly depressed people sit up out of their cynicism thrones and chuckle, not to mention FEEL. He is far ahead of his time in his willingness and skill in transforming a memoir into a cohesive and heartfelt piece of undeniable literature. I absolutely love this boook and I recommend it to everyone who is ready for the next step in consciousness.	2002-10-22
1368017:US	50774468	R1EKRQX8PE7HBS	055337396X	755920734	The Fine Art Of Erotic Talk: How To Entice, Excite, And Enchant Your Lover With Words	Books	4	40	44	N	N	Tell it like it is!	I admire this author's willingness to explore the taboo subject of dirty talk, no matter how embarrassing and finicky it may seem to some people. I found myself nodding in agreement at society's timid approach to verbal stimulation during intimacy. The Fine Art of Erotic Talk is a great beginner's guidebook on how to express yourself verbally in bed. I was duly impressed with this book.	2002-10-22
1371368:US	50774468	R2C48DDZLXNLGU	0553802674	474355895	No Good Deed	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Gripping and suspensful thriller!	No Good Deed is a suspenseful and tantalizing thriller that kept me on the verge of my seat until its very end. A newcomer in the world of literature, Scott captures the essence of a true detective thriller with the brilliance of a more seasoned author.<br />A Scottish undercover officer for the Glasgow police, Orla McLeod fails to solve a case. As a result, her cover is blown and her partner gets killed. But a nine-year-old may be Orla's savior -- for the child is the only one who knows the identity of the criminal in question. However, solving the crime by having the child speak up proves difficult. There are some rather interesting twists throughout the novel.<br />Manda Scott is a great new voice in the thriller/mystery genre. Her writing is sharp, insightful and gripping. No Good Deed is a reading investment. I highly recommend this brilliant and suspenseful thriller!	2002-10-19
1374519:US	50774468	R10S7JVEFLQRXE	0425186431	841720088	Tart Noir	Books	3	6	11	N	N	The feminists' legacy?	Tart Noir is a crime anthology starring tough and sexy women who get away with crime. I thought I'd find a clever collection of short crime stories with strong female characters. I was deeply disappointed. The authors explored the tartness in their characters, but I was more interested in what the book had promised: noir stories with a feminist touch. Isn't the title supposed to be ironic? Apparently, it isn't. Alas, there are some nice short stories to indulge in. The ones written by Jessica Adams, Lisa Cody, Lisa Jewell and Jenny Colgan are worth reading. Overall, however, this book and its editors (Stella Duffy and Lauren Henderson) leave a lot to be desired.	2002-10-16
1374678:US	50774468	R350YADVJF9G1	0312144350	186146521	Topping from Below: A Novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Mind-blowingly explicit erotic thriller!	Topping from Below is one of the most explicit erotic thrillers I have read in a long time! Its powerful, no-holds-barred approach to eroticism pulls you into the dark and sinister world of hardcore S&M.<br /><br />When her younger sister is found murdered, Nora Tibbs becomes obsessed with wanting to expose the man she believes is her sister's killer. Nora wants to experience the same things her sister had experienced by surrendering to the suspect's tough and illicit sexual commands. However, the sleuthing journey she decides to embark upon is one of deception, surprises and manipulation. Nora soon finds that collecting evidence is more difficult than she had anticipated, especially when the suspect mightn't be the murderer after all...<br />The novel's climax will blow you away.<br />Exquisitely dark, fiendishly graphic and powerfully gripping, Topping from Below is the best reading investment I've made all year. I recommend this novel to all fans of erotic thrillers.	2002-10-16
1374702:US	50774468	R2WP3JC22H6F5T	0060096195	825975444	The Boy Next Door	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Reasons why you'd want to read this novel:	* It is completely written in e-mail format -- thus, making it an original read.<br />* It has a little bit of everything -- romance, humor, mystery, New York lifestyle, flaky supermodels, etc.<br />* It has insightful elements of chick lit.<br />* It is an overall witty, romantic romp.<br />Written by Meggin Cabot, the author of The Princess Diaries, The Boy Next Door is one of the most endearing and funny novels I have read in quite a while. I devoured it in one sitting. I couldn't recommend this gem enough!	2002-10-16
1381276:US	50774468	R3SGFEZ8X1NRR6	0962962856	733813655	101 Grrreat Quickies	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Disappointing	Having read Laura Corn's The Great American Sex Diet, I thought I'd read another excellent guidebook written by this insightful therapist. However, 101 Grrreat Quickies is a major disappointment. The \\"quickies\\" Corn refers to in the book -- eating food out of each other, doing the deed in front of a mirror, etc. -- are banal and uninventive. I expected to get advice I hadn't already known -- otherwise, I wouldn't bother to read this sort of book. Looking for a great sex guidebook? Skip this one and read Corn's The Great American Sex Diet instead.	2002-10-10
1381776:US	50774468	R2OX5QW795G7ND	8881184702	890698332	Shoes: Objects of Art and Seduction	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I miss sample sales!	Like most fashionistas, I have a thing for shoes. I wanted a book on the aforementioned subject, and I found Shoes by Paola Buratto Caovilla. Caovilla illustrates the shoes created by great designers -- Manholo Blanik, Gucci, Prada, etc. -- while supplying insightful information on how to design shoes. This is one of the best coffee table books I have ever purchased. Now, if only I could find a sample sale...	2002-10-10
1382402:US	50774468	R16C8D1BR1OJNS	0066212782	117120373	The Great American Sex Diet: Where the Only Thing You Nibble On... Is Your Partner!	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Brilliant!	I am always on the lookout for good books that help enhance my level of intimacy, and Laura Corn's The Great American Sex Diet is the best sex guidebook I have ever read! Sex therapist Laura Corn has cooked up the perfect ingredients to intensify couples' intimacy in twenty-eight days. Thus, making this book one of the most insightful and fulfilling reads I've ever had! I urge couples to pick up this great book!	2002-10-09
1385258:US	50774468	R3I8K78UHKMIU2	0809224763	616569705	The Go-Girl Guide : Surviving Your 20s with Savvy, Soul, and Style	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The twenty-something woman's bible!	Most self-help books of this nature are written for women in their thirties and beyond -- it is almost impossible to find an interesting self-help book for women in their twenties. And so, finding The Go-Girl Guide: Surviving Your 20s with Savvy, Soul, and Style was like finding treasure. The author, Julia Bourland, supplies fun, witty and insightful information on relationships, careers, social lifestyles, etc. Bourland has created the twenty-something woman's bible! It has everything I have looked for in a guidebook!	2002-10-07
1385533:US	50774468	R26HWPYBFXZ1ZA	0066211662	821071553	The Bitch in the House: 26 Women Tell the Truth About Sex, Solitude, Work, Motherhood, and Marriage	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Brilliant and insightful!	The Bitch in the House is a collection of essays written by some of today's brightest female writers. The authors of these essays are of various ages, economic and marital status. It is a book about women venting their frustrations in various aspects of their lives. The stories are brilliant and insightful -- especially the ones that focus on marriage and motherhood. I especially enjoyed reading &quot;Getting the Milk for Free,&quot; by Veronica Chambers; &quot;Moving In. Moving Out. Moving On,&quot; by Sarah Miller; and &quot;Killing the Puritan Within,&quot; by Kate Christensen.	2002-10-07
1390240:US	50774468	R30ZH4B4535G1R	0743418190	418870210	In Her Shoes: A Novel	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Jennifer Weiner has done it again!	Having read Good In Bed, I couldn't wait to read Jennifer Weiner's second novel. I wondered if it would be as good as her debut effort. The answer is a resounding YES!<br />In Her Shoes is a story about two sisters who have nothing in common, save for their size feet. Rose Feller is a successful Princeton-educated attorney who loves food and romance novels. Her younger sister, Maggie Feller, is a drop-dead gorgeous fashionista whose only ambition is to become a big Hollywood star. But instead of crashing cast parties with A-list celebrities, Maggie is often unemployed and in trouble -- and Rose has to constantly bail her out.<br />When a family secret and a wayward grandmother resurface, these two women are forced to reassess their lives and learn what it's like to be in the other person's shoes. There are some interesting twists in the novel.<br />Jennifer Weiner has again delved into human relationships with refreshing clarity and wit to boot. In Her Shoes is not quite as gripping as Good In Bed, but it is wonderful and poignant nonetheless. Weiner, like Marian Keyes and Anna Maxtet, touches on real issues that affect today's woman. Her novels are above today's run-of-the-mill, must-find-a-potential-husband-before-I-turn-thirty chick lit. And so I urge you to pick up this gem!	2002-10-02
1390953:US	50774468	R2I04NQ0RT9K2E	0758201435	707271819	Living Single	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Sex and the Bostonians	Living Single is a novel about four thirty-something single women looking for love in the big city. They exchange witty dialogue over cocktails at trendy bars. Sound familiar? Well, this novel is a carbon copy of TV's Sex and the City -- only that this book is set in Boston.<br />I am not attacking Holly Chamberlin for having written a novel that's uncanny to the popular series. On the contrary! The novel's insights on single life are quite accurate -- especially the way the heroine's illicit affair with a married colleague progresses throughout the novel. Chamberlin has hit the nail in the head with the taboo topic of infidelity.<br />This novel has enough wit and insight to outweigh its lack of originality. I know that chick lit enthusiasts (like myself) will enjoy it. So sit back, relax and set out to read this novel with gusto!	2002-10-02
1394465:US	50774468	R35CBSIL2U89NN	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The profound words of Marquez!	This is one of the best pieces of literature ever written. In my opinion, Marquez's work is right up the alley of D. Foster Wallace and Gustave Flaubert. In One Hundred Years of Solitude, Gabriel Garcia Marquez tells the story of the Buendia family -- a family who has struggled the sometimes mundane and unjust world they live in for many generations. The descriptions are lurid and gruesome -- the suicide details, battles with insomnia, etc. -- a story told without reservations. However, One Hundred Years of Solitude is also a poignant and touching novel about the memorable Buendia family. This is a true and profound piece of literature written by a brilliant writer. This gem should be read more than once.	2002-09-28
1394936:US	50774468	RBHD9MYZZD8OY	0971598118	760562009	T'ongil : the thirst for love	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Beautiful!	The best things come in obscure packages, and finding a great book is like finding treasure. That is how I feel about T'ongil.<br />T'ongil -- which means togetherness -- is an original and poignant story of a Korean prostitute and a Native American man who come together under strange circumstances. They have pasts that torment them -- said torment draws them to each other and helps them embark on a strange and lucid romance. There are various metaphors in this novel, which makes it quite an interesting literary experience. However, the language is sometimes vague and reading between the lines is called for.<br />I hadn't expected to read such a wonderful gem. This novel is recommended to anyone who might be in the bargain for a unique and profound read.	2002-09-28
1401991:US	50774468	RXQ9ZFDDWDOXX	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A heartwarming and compelling read!	There is a great deal of hype surrounding this book. Having written a memoir that received rave reviews, Alice Sebold's debut novel was released with a bang. Regardless of the commercial hoopla, The Lovely Bones is a compelling and heartwarming story about death, love and grief.<br />The victim of a brutal rape and murder, Susie Salmon watches as her family disintegrates with grief, her close friends attempt to find answers, and her murderer moves on to other victims. She narrates these events from heaven. Witnessing the pain her loved ones go through, Susie finds it difficult to let go of the living. Will her friends and family ever get over her death? Will Susie be able to rest in peace? Will her attacker receive the proper punishment for his crime? There are some interesting and moving twists in this novel.<br />I have to say that I'm disappointed with the victimizer's outcome. I also don't like the fact that the writing is a bit sugarcoated at times. But those are two of the few blemishes in the novel.<br />The Lovely Bones is a wonderful and compelling read. However, the novel's enormous success has provoked some negative feedback from various readers. I have to admit that I gave up on its commercialism, but I can see what all the fuss is about. Sebold has written a beautiful novel with clear and lucid language. I love it, so I have got to give credit where credit is due.	2002-09-21
1405118:US	50774468	R2J488PCDO6O3O	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A tormented woman's legacy	The Bell Jar is a poignant autobiographical novel about a young woman's road to irreversible insanity. The novel takes place in the sixties -- a time in which depression hadn't been delved into as much as it is now. While her mental condition worsened, Plath escaped her bizarre life by writing poetry. She'd also written this book. Even though she'd lost her battle with depression, Plath left this wonderful book as her legacy. The Bell Jar is poignant, twisted, surreal and, more importantly, insightful. By far, one of the best books I've read all year. I highly recommend it.	2002-09-18
1405671:US	50774468	R3SVLAPCXFG1HU	0452281784	128488664	Bad Heir Day	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Clever satire!	I have heard a lot of praise for Wendy Holden's work. In fact, it has been said that her novels are clever satires of the ever-growing genre of chick literature. And so, I decided to give Holden a whirl and picked up Bad Heir Day. Glad I did. Holden describes the &quot;fabulous&quot; world of socialites and fashionistas with fast-paced wit and intelligence. But it is also a charming romantic comedy -- a Cinderella story with an ironic twist.<br />However, there are areas that I think are a little over the edge. For instance, the overuse of Italics. They distracted me. Also, the dialogue is repetitive at times. But as far as I'm concerned, those blemishes won't keep you from enjoying this gem. So, if you're in the bargain for a satirical read, I suggest you read this clever little gem!	2002-09-18
1407991:US	50774468	R3KOKWLYSBLNW5	014200006X	811548692	Lying: A Metaphorical Memoir	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Thought-provoking and disturbing!	Having read Prozac Diary, I thought I'd read Lauren Slater's Lying: A Metaphorical Memoir. This is a book about a pathological liar. How far away is fantasy from reality? Is there a fine line between delusion and insanity? It made me realize that there are a lot of people out there that suffer from this complex mental illness. You never know whether or not Slater is telling the truth, which makes this magnificent book one of the most disarming and thought provoking memoirs I have read in a long time!	2002-09-15
1408106:US	50774468	RSN5IBHWZOWZO	0722538421	957575034	How to Have Him Begging for More	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Self-help for laughs	Before she penned Getting Over It and Running In Heels, Anna Maxtet wrote How to Have Him Begging for More. With a touch of ironic humor, Maxtet gives us a guide to turning your man into a love slave. Sensuous garments, dirty talk and tantric sex are among the things one must do to keep him wanting more. Maxtet's humor makes it a bit difficult to take this book seriously. However, it is much more entertaining than most books of this nature. I call it self-help for laughs, and I recommend that you read it!	2002-09-15
1408210:US	50774468	R3J1PVYTG06C69	1567995314	40000910	Audrey Hepburn: A Life in Pictures	Books	5	12	15	N	N	A portrait of the woman who identified style and beauty!	Whenever I think of style, beauty and grace, I think of Audrey Hepburn. Even after her death, she is still the epitome of glamour and sophistication. In this book you get a brief bio complete with some beautiful photographs of the legendary actress. There are photographs of some of her best films -- Roman Holiday, Breakfast at Tiffany's, etc. -- and intimate portraits with her family. This is a great collector's item that every Audrey Hepburn fan should own.	2002-09-15
1411473:US	50774468	R37Y91HIXNTCMP	0140263942	754692227	Prozac Diary	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Eye-opening and disturbing!	After suffering from severe depression for over a decade, Lauren Slater begins to take Prozac. In this disturbing and dark memoir, Lauren chronicles her life as it begins to take some unexpected turns. Without the feelings of worthlessness to shelter and protect her, Lauren is exposed to the harsh realities surrounding her as she embarks on a journey to self-discovery.<br />This is one of the most poignant memoirs I have read in a long time. I loved Prozac Nation by Elizabeth Wurtzel, but I think Slater's views on depression are more insightful and realistic. It illustrates the complex factors of this illness in an eye-opening way. This book should be read from cover to cover. I highly recommend it!	2002-09-12
1411621:US	50774468	R3KBCUX7SE1ZSH	0679783571	564676745	The Broke Diaries: The Completely True and Hilarious Misadventures of a Good Girl Gone Broke	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Warning: this book may cause sudden bursts of laughter!	This is one of the funniest books I have ever read! The Broke Diaries is right on the... um, money when it comes to being a broke college student. In order to keep her mind off her empty pockets, Angela Nissel chronicles her penniless life on the Internet. And her outrageous and hilarious anecdotes land her a book deal. This memoir is refreshingly lighthearted and witty. I devoured it in one sitting. I recommend this book to those who don't mind sudden bursts of laughter, for this book will tickle your funny bone until its last page!	2002-09-12
1414045:US	50774468	R3DTFIW3EN3703	006621257X	325262476	Girl Anatomy: A Novel	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Problems with the book's &quot;anatomy&quot;	Girl Anatomy is a modern story about a hopeless romantic young woman seeking love in Los Angeles. Having heard about her best friend's pending nuptials, Lilly begins to analyze her past relationships.<br />Despite some witty moments, Girl Anatomy is one of the sloppiest novels I have ever read. I couldn't determine whether the narration was present or past tense -- it goes back and forth. Also, I had a difficult time liking a twenty-four-year-old heroine who addresses men as &quot;boys.&quot; I sometimes wondered if the novel was about a teenager disguised as an adult.<br />Girl Anatomy has various elements of chick lit: the relationships, parties and witty dialogue between the characters. And the story itself is rather sweet. However, I wish the writing had been more coherent.	2002-09-09
1415088:US	50774468	R1KGBUTAJV1MXM	0373250193	686455358	Loose Screws (Red Dress Ink)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Chick Lite	Red Dress Ink is a publishing house dedicated to novels about today's single woman, which is why I have read all of its books thus far. However, RDI is also known for its light approach to romantic comedies -- i.e., no literary extravaganzas -- that have a \\"been there, done that\\" feel to it. Case in point: Loose Screws by Karen Templeton.<br />New Yorker Ginger Petrocelli is on a losing streak. She's lost her fiance, her job and her sardine can of an apartment. But with the help of her eccentric mother, her Italian grandmother and a sexy police officer, Ginger reassesses her feelings and priorities.<br />Loose Screws has quite a modern heroine -- the conversational style the narrator possesses makes you feel as though Ginger is your friend. I also love the neurotic characters in the novel, like Ginger's friend, Terrie. The best part of this novel is the language -- very modern and realistic.<br />Loose Screws has Red Dress Ink written all over it. It is a tale of a modern woman finding love, career and a defining sense of self in the city. It has wit and intelligent insights on dating in the new millenium. But the novel's synopsis is somewhat recycled and predictable (but there are quite a few surprising twists within the story, especially at the end). All in all, enjoy this new novel for what it is -- one of the many witty chick lits out there.	2002-09-09
1419302:US	50774468	R29KVXMIDD6EU0	0802116388	101982806	Goodbye Tsugumi	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Another great one from the master storyteller!	I have read all of Banana Yoshimoto's novels. She is a rare talent and a master storyteller. I'd looked forward to reading another one of her gems, and I couldn't wait to read Goodbye Tsugumi.<br />This is the story of Maria, a young woman who has always resented her cousin, Tsugumi. Tsugumi has an unidentified disease and she will die young, which is why her family satisfies her every need -- thus turning Tsugumi into a rude and selfish person. But Maria discovers that there's more about her cousin than meets the eye. There are some great developments in the novel.<br />Yoshimoto, like in her previous novels, uses magical realism in a quite subtle way. I wish I could read her novels in Japanese, for I'd love to read the novels in Yoshimoto's language. I enjoyed reading Goodbye Tusugumi and I highly recommend it.	2002-09-04
1422279:US	50774468	R638DJ7GSM7U	0385484011	556397817	Bitch: In Praise of Difficult Women	Books	2	6	12	N	N	Lacks attitude	Having read Wurtzel's witty and insightful memoir, Prozac Nation, I looked forward to reading another one of her books. I thought I'd get a kick out of reading a book about America's most notorious women, but it lacks Wurtzel's sardonic humor and clever insights that made the aforementioned memoir such a delightful read. This book is a disappointment, to say the least. I expected more from this talented writer.	2002-09-02
1428006:US	50774468	R2W32GR01J0EFT	0670030880	258456332	Women About Town	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Intelligent novel about professional women in NYC	This smart and witty novel hits the nail in the head when it comes to New York women's preoccupation with having a successful career. Iris Biddle and Lana Burton have one thing in common: ambition. The two Manhattanites are too caught up in their careers to make room for relationships. Especially Iris who, having experienced a painful divorce, is neither desperate nor inclined to find Soul Mate Number Two. And climbing the corporate ladder is the only thing in Lana's agenda. A theater critic that lands a job in Vanity Fair, she might as well say goodbye to love.<br />Women About Town is an intelligent novel about the pitfalls of being a career woman in Manhattan. New York is the perfect backdrop for this novel. This is certainly an excellent read and I highly recommend it.	2002-08-27
1428411:US	50774468	R11QVT53LBM2Q6	0786866691	682273122	Latina Beauty	Books	5	5	8	N	N	The Latina's guide to beauty!	As a Latina, I take pride in my light/olive skin and I often find it difficult to find products that suit me. Latina Beauty has been quite helpful. It understands that Latin women come in various shades -- case in point: Jennifer Lopez, Salma Hayek, Christina Aguilerra, Penelope Cruz, etc. -- and how vital it is to make your skin look radiant and beautiful. It is a guide to wearing the appropriate make-up shades and following the correct beauty regime. I recommend this great book to Latin women everywhere!	2002-08-27
1430553:US	50774468	R3J7QUV46WSMGO	0811833615	918437968	The Bad Girl's Guide to the Party Life	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The bad girl's bible!	I love this book. It thought me that I can have my cake and eat it too! Tuttle shows how to create a party in which you are the star. It also illustrates some great bad girl tricks to use in everyday life. And there are delicious recipes for cocktail drinks. Without a doubt, this is every bad girl's bible. Picking this gem up and giving it a whirl is advisable!	2002-08-24
1430860:US	50774468	R2GPT5BW665QFC	0380820447	399660588	For Better, for Worse: A Novel	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Good, not great	For Better, For Worse is a romantic comedy about Josie, a Londoner who flies to New York City to attend her American cousin's wedding. Having separated from her cheating husband, she senses that her cousin isn't certain that she is marrying the right man. It is Josie's job to stop her cousin from making the worst mistake of her life. But is she judging her cousin's situation based on her own failed marriage? And is she ready for romance -- especially when an adorable rock journalist tries to sweep her off her feet?<br />There are some witty moments in this novel, but not enough to make it interesting. And the novel is longer than necessary. Carole Matthews's writing style reminds of Clare Naylor's, but it lacks Naylor's signature comic timing and wit. This is a good book to read on the beach, however, it is far from memorable. If you decide to give this book a whirl, enjoy it for what it's worth, but do not expect a blockbuster read in this one.	2002-08-24
1431336:US	50774468	R1FVAWXYHOTYEA	1930252986	79132223	Puppet Child	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A disturbing and suspenseful tale of injustice!	Puppet Child is a novel filled with suspense from beginning to end. It is about a woman's desperate attempts to protect her daughter: that she would flout her will, defy the law, chance the loss of her daughter simply to ensure her daughter's safety. (Safe from what or whom, you ask? That would be a spoiler.) Talia Carner delves into the dark and corrupt legal system and leaves the reader turning the pages. There are taboo subjects in this gem. This is Carner's first novel, and I do hope that she continues to write suspenseful tales like this one. I shall give this book the word of mouth it deserves. I highly recommend it.	2002-08-24
1441426:US	50774468	RVAACUSC5GOWB	0743422988	153282297	Come Up and See Me Sometime: Stories	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A funny and thought-provoking collection of short stories!	Having noticed that Erika Kraus uses passages from Mae West for her collection of short stories, I knew I had to buy this book. I love the stories! Kraus introduces the reader to thirteen women whose stories are poignant, funny and thought-provoking. The stories are rather profound -- reading between the lines and finding hidden messages are called for. There are various elements of magical realism in some of the stories. I loved \\"Drugs and You,\\" \\"Mercy,\\" \\"No Universe,\\" and, my personal favorite, \\"Husbands.\\" Darkly funny and thought-provoking, Come Up and See Me Sometime is one of the best collection of short stories I have read in quite some time. If you love Mae West's dark humor, then you will certainly enjoy this book.	2002-08-14
1441480:US	50774468	R3732QZKUQW5Q7	0758201346	875254247	I Love Bad Boys	Books	4	18	20	N	N	A Mind-Blowing Anthology!	I hadn't tried these romance anthologies until now. Glad I did! This is one of the most mind-blowingly great reads I have had all summer. Romance and erotica are a match made in heaven!<br />I Love Bad Boys has three stories. Lori Foster's \\"Indulge Me\\" is my favorite one. It was a pleasure -- so to speak -- to indulge in the story of shy-girl-breaking-out-her-shell Becky and her fantasy to experience bondage with George Westin, her boss and long-time crush, come true. The scenes are provocative to the max. I also enjoyed the two other stories, \\"Naughty By Night,\\" by Janelle Denison and \\"...And When They Were Bad,\\" by Donna Kauffman. But, unlike \\"Indulge Me,\\" these stories have chapters that are completely devoted to intimate scenes. As a fan of erotica, I love to read books of this sort, but reading chapters with only intimate scenes in them is like reading a thriller with nothing but murder scenes in chapters. There's just too much sex! I would have liked to know more about the characters. But, alas, the stories are still great and romantic. I also love the fact that the book's so-called \\"Bad Boys\\" aren't bad at all, save for the bedroom.<br />I look forward to reading more of these romance/erotica anthologies in the future. The stories are sensuous and romantic at the same time. I highly recommend this gem!	2002-08-14
1446882:US	50774468	R24RXXFXOGVSTO	0373250185	672445191	Strapless: Australia or Bust: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A great modern romance to indulge in!	Having read all of the books Red Drink Ink has published thus far, Strapless is the one that is closest to being a standard romance novel. While the other RDI novels concentrate more on dating in the big city while climbing the coorporate ladder, Strapless is a classic romance novel disguised as contemporary chick lit.<br />Working for Whunderthings, a Victoria's Secret-like lingerie shop, New Yorker Darcey Elizabeth Daxter has been given the opportunity of a lifetime: she is now in charge of opening the store in Australia. Having had her heart broken in New York, she has nothing but work on her mind. But no sooner does she arrive in Australia than she meets Dylan -- a gorgeous Aussie sheep farmer. He is sexy, incredible in bed, and totally wrong for her. While Darcey's career is the main focus in her life, Dylan's dream is to have a housewife to have babies with. Should Darcey give up her career and life in the city, or should she follow her heart?<br />While there are various aspects of Bridget Jones-type of modern chick literature in this novel, the description and overall style of writing screams contemporary romance a la Danielle Steel. Still, this is a novel worth reading, and another great read from Red Dress Ink. I recommend it.	2002-08-09
1447141:US	50774468	RB66428L8241J	0767909739	250267211	My Legendary Girlfriend	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Witty, thought-provoking and poignant!	I loved Mr. Commitment, the first novel from British author Mike Gayle that was published in the US, and I didn't think twice when I picked up My Legendary Girlfriend. I couldn't put it down! Mr. Gayle's insights on relationships are right on the mark!<br />Will, the self-deprecating and cynical hero, has reached his 26th birthday -- also known as the three-year anniversary of the day his girlfriend, Aggi, dumped him. Will hasn't gotten over his ex, and none of the women he's met have measured up to his Legendary Girlfriend. But during the course of four days Will learns that love and relationships flourish in different ways.<br />I love this novel. There are passages in the book that I have highlighted. It is a witty, thought-provoking and poignant novel! Looking for a great book to read? Pick up My Legendary Girlfriend!	2002-08-09
1452390:US	50774468	R28EQL8A6I1QT	157322930X	389877689	High Maintenance	Books	3	13	18	N	N	This book is too &quot;High Maintenance&quot; for me!	I wanted to like this novel -- really, I did! But I couldn't muster the energy to enjoy it. Even though I love reading satires -- especially if they are based in New York -- this one did not spark up my interest.<br />I had a hard time believing a lot of the things the heroine, Liv, was able to achieve in a relatively short amount of time. Having separated from her husband, Liv missed the apartment they'd shared more than the marriage itself. So she set out to becoming a real estate agent to check out the available New York apartments and lofts with gusto. Liv was able to find a so-so apartment in Greenwish Village, become a real estate agent and land three clients in quick succession. Having lived in New York, no one's life runs so smoothly, especially with Liv's apparent low resources. However, High Maintenance is not an entire waste of a book. I liked the eccentric characters -- they were very New York! And there were some rather witty remarks and interesting passages as well.<br />All and all, High Maintenance is not one of my favorite books. But it isn't terrible either. You may like it or you may not. After all, just because I didn't like it doesn't mean that others won't...	2002-08-04
1461112:US	50774468	RKPKJ1EM4V5Y8	0312285140	427308535	Flip-Flopped: A Novel	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A summer must-read!	A friend of mine recommended Flip-Flopped. Apparently, Jill Smolinski's writing style is similar to Marian Keyes's and Jennifer Weiner's. Having read the aforementioned authors' novels, I picked up Flip-Flopped. Glad I did. Filled with dry, sarcastic humor, Keenley is one of the funniest heroines I have read in a while.<br />Set in Hawaii, Keeley is under a lot of stress. Her husband, Kam, has left her for a hula dancer. He intends to move to Figi with her and, to Keeley's dismay, take his and Keeley's son with him, which is why he stops at nothing to get full custody of the child. To make matters worse, she is stuck in a professional rut. As a scientist, she wishes to study the progress of a volcano that threatens to burst at any given day, but she is in charge of the finance department instead. The only good thing going in her life is Ian, an adorable British art agent. But does she have time for romance? And, more importantly, is she over Kam? There are some interesting twists in the novel.<br />I love the characters. Morna, Keeley's eccentric divorce lawyer, is the most hilarious character in the novel. I also liked Regatta and Keeley's workmates. Character development was done brilliantly.<br />I have to agree with my friend. Smolinski's writing is similar to Marian Keyes's and Jennifer Weiner's. In fact, for all Marian Keyes fans, this novel reminds me of Watermelon. However, Smolinski is a great author in her own right. I hope that she continues to write for a living. I recommend this gem.	2002-07-27
1471824:US	50774468	R2YFIPWRTEQRQ0	034545104X	826289387	Flesh Tones	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	M.J. Rose's best novel to date!	During the past two or so years, author M.J. Rose has released three novels in quick succession -- Lip Service, In Fidelity and her new one, Flesh Tones -- and she hasn't disappointed me with her sensuous and clever thriller/romance novels. In my opinion, Flesh Tones is her best novel.<br />Genny Haviland is being trialed for the murder of her lover, Slade Gabriel -- a mysterious painter and client of Genny's father's gallery. Genny and Slade Gabriel reunite after twenty years apart -- Genny had had a spellbinding affair with much-older Slade Gabriel when she was seventeen. During the trial, the jury must answer the following questions: Did Genny murder the man she has loved for decades? Or are there more sinister reasons looming in the background? This novel will keep you turning the pages.<br />Dark, sexy, romantic and thrilling, Flesh Tones should be devoured by every romance/mystery enthusiast. I highly recommend it.	2002-07-17
1472442:US	50774468	RAA0LFEUSQ3EA	0373250177	776542418	On The Verge (Red Dress Ink (Numbered Paperback))	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Factoids of the Generation X!	Twenty-three-year-old New Jersey native Eve Vitali is often on the verge of something: losing her job, losing her friends, losing romantic relationships, losing her sanity. Yet, she's managed to keep a rather nice lifestyle by getting together with glamazon friend Tabitha and naive New Englander Roseanne for a night on the town at trendy Manhattan bars and glamorous parties. And despite her lack of enthusiasm in her job as personal assistant at Bicycle Boy, a magazine for male cyclists, she keeps the faith by dreaming of the day in which she will launch a magazine specifically for post-college women who haven't got their lives in order. In a nutshell, On the Verge is a refreshing novel about the Generation X. Most novels of this genre focus on women in their late twenties or early thirties, but this one is clever and brave enough to have a witty and fun heroine in her early twenties. There are some unexpected and fun twists in this novel.<br />However, there are certain areas in which I think that Ariella Papa could improve in her writing. For instance, there are several grammatical errors -- namely the mispunctuations -- that made the book a bit distracting to read at times. Also, she should have changed scenes by using page breaks more often. The scene changes from one paragraph to the next confused me at times. But these are structural erros only and Papa is a talented author who can certainly write a great story. I have read the entire line of Red Dress Ink books thus far, and On the Verge is one of the best that they have published. I recommend it!	2002-07-17
1481453:US	50774468	R1JNUL4D80S5N2	0345435168	878470234	Open House: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A compelling and poignant read	Having read Never Change, Elizabeth Berg's latest novel, I knew I wanted to read one of her earlier stuff. I picked up Open House hoping that it would be as great as Never Change. And it was!<br />Berg tells us the story of a 42-year-old mother who tries to come to terms with her divorce. She misses the comfortable and stable life she had with her husband, and the changes that occur after he leaves -- helping her son deal with the situation, help keep the house by renting rooms to strangers, relying on an employment agency to make ends meet -- make her want to have her husband around even more. But with the help of her friends, namely the adorable King, she sees that her life is far from over. There are some quite compelling and poignant moments in the novel.<br />I love Berg's ability to create realistic characters -- characterization is one of the most important parts in fiction, and she does it flawlessly. Her writing is quite subtle, which made me feel as though the heroine was my best friend.<br />Compelling and poignant, Open House is an inspiring novel that everyone, regardless of age, should read. I shall look forward to reading her other novels. Elizabeth Berg is a true and rare talent in contemporary fiction.	2002-07-09
1482299:US	50774468	R27IAVRGCEGFFJ	1562012177	162381407	The Ravishing of Lesley	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Ravishing erotica!	I have read various erotica novels that have left me satisfied -- so to speak. The Ravishing of Lesley is both erotic and profound. After she abandons her husband and children, Lesley makes a journey to a beautiful villa in England, where she sets out to vent her deepest sexual desires with gusto. The sexual descriptions in this book are quite explicit -- the most important element of a good erotica. Also, there's a great deal of profound meaning in this novel. Are you a big fan of erotica? Then I suggest you read The Ravishing of Lesley.	2002-07-09
1487876:US	50774468	R191E6J7RP5CO5	0380818973	90628415	Asking for Trouble: A Novel	Books	2	3	6	N	N	A chore to read	I beg to differ with the majority of reviewers here. I found this novel to be a chore to read. Unoriginal plot, witless dialogue, boring characters, predictable outcome -- I can name several more flaws that made this book such a bore. There are some cute moments in the story, but not enough to make it interesting. The heroine often wondered if hiring an escort to pass as an ex-boyfriend of hers at her sister's wedding made her desperate. I think we all know the answer to that! I do not want to discourage others from reading this book -- after all, just because I found it boring doesn't mean others will...	2002-07-04
1488105:US	50774468	R1PBCDF1EA1AH4	0312288115	370098606	Confessions of a Sociopathic Social Climber: The Katya Livingston Chronicles	Books	5	3	7	N	N	The reigning diva of anti-heroines!	I loved reading this book! Katya Livingstone is an anti-heroine that you would love to hate. She chronicles her life on a day to day basis in a tabloid newspaper. She is so deluded and cruel! The readers laugh and marvel at her wit as Katya backstabs her way into Hollywood -- where a low-budget movie about her life will be filmed. There are various memorable moments. I especially liked the language the author used. I suspect that most of Katya's experiences were either lies or exaggerations of the actual experiences -- the author did this brilliantly.<br />The only flaw I found in this gem was that Lang's writing style was similar to Helen Fielding's in Bridget Jones's Diary. This, of course, led to comparisons to the aforementioned novel. There was no need to copy Fielding's style -- whether or not it was intentional. Other than that, this is one of the best dark comedies I have read this year and I highly recommend it!	2002-07-04
1494479:US	50774468	R3HIFGSHWXXZMZ	0767907809	834442453	Bookends: A Novel	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Jane Green's best work	I have read all of Jane Green's novels and have loved them all. However, I've always thought that the theme in her novels were a bit weak and lightly researched, that is until I read Bookends.<br />Bookends concentrates on a group of people who have been friends since college -- Cath, the narrator; Portia, the glamazon one of the clique; Josh, the adorable and romantic one; and Si, a live-for-the-moment homosexual. The story focuses on how the lives of these people progress after Portia disintegrates from the group and how her sudden reappearance affects them.<br />I think this is Jane Green's best work. She has delved into the characters by turning them into people everyone could relate to. However, I think the novel would have been better if Green had written it in third person -- the characters would have been better developed individually that way. Also, this novel is rather similar to Marian Keyes's Last Chance Saloon -- except that Last Chance Saloon is far better written than this one.<br />Green's writing has improved through time, and I know that her work could only get better. Her novels are lighthearted and endearing and I recommend them, especially this one!	2002-06-28
1494745:US	50774468	RFRMBXTGDTYMC	0060083298	429568377	Dominant Blonde, The	Books	5	17	20	N	N	It exceeded my expectations!	I admit it: I judge a book by its cover. When I saw The Dominant Blonde on the shelf, I thought that the book was going to be as good as its weak cover, but a stranger at the bookstore told me that it was great and that I ought to buy it. So I did. Best move I could have made!<br />Lydia was out on a romantic vacation with Abe, her current beau. When her boyfriend drowns during a diving excursion, she thinks she'll never find someone again, for men see her blonde hair and assume that she is stupid. But when she finds out that Abe has embezzled $3 million from her father, she seeks the help of a sexy Irish scuba instructor -- and gets more than she bargains for.<br />The Dominant Blonde is an engrossing and sensuous read. By far, one of the best romantic mysteries I have read in quite a long time. Don't be fooled by its silly cover, read this gem! You won't regret it!	2002-06-28
1500425:US	50774468	R1B8YOA9KG28EB	1573225126	662106244	Prozac Nation	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Excellent observations of the depressive mind!	Prozac Nation is an honest memoir about depression among youths in America. It is told with a great deal of poignancy, but it also has a sardonic edge. Having experienced depression during my teens, this book hit home. The descriptions of how the mind of a person with depression works is rather disturbing -- and Wurtzel does an excellent job in delving into the every aspect of the mental illenss. I recommend this fascinating book most highly!	2002-06-23
1502639:US	50774468	R3BTUUAB57EJ82	0525946535	26324951	One-Hit Wonder	Books	5	4	6	N	N	One-Hit Wonder is a hit!	Lisa Jewell is one of the best British chick lit writers out there. I thought her previous books, Ralph's Party and Thirtynothing, were great, but she's outdone herself with One-Hit Wonder!<br />Ana Wills has always romanticized the life of her half-sister, Bee Bearhorn, a pop star who had a #1 hit record in the eighties. But then Bee appears dead in her London apartment. Now Ana must find the cause of her sister's mysterious death.<br />This is chick lit mixed with a bit of mystery, which makes this novel even more enjoyable to read. One-Hit Wonder should be on every chick lit fans' list of summer must-reads! I urge to read it.	2002-06-21
1512469:US	50774468	R3BINZJCCTMJ2K	0060008024	568824372	Angels	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not quite as good as her previous books, but still great!	I have read all of Marian Keyes's books, and I was looking forward to reading Angels, especially since the main character is one of the Walsh sisters -- characters from Watermelon and Rachel's Holiday.<br />Margaret is considered the &quot;good one&quot; in the family. She is not as witty as Claire and not as edgy as Rachel. She has been married for quite a while and her life seemed perfect. That is until she finds out that her husband's cheated on her. In order to distance herself from her husband, she flies to L.A. to stay with a struggling screenwriter. And Keyes's signature style of delving into a dirty past begins until it leads to a pleasantly surprising ending.<br />Unfortunately, Angels isn't quite as funny as Keyes's previous novels. The author concentrates on the L.A. lifestyle for most of the novel. Still, it's got a dark issue that is used in a comic and lighthearted way. Keyes hasn't let me down. She is my favorite chick lit writer. Keep writing, Keyes, the faster the better!	2002-06-11
1512556:US	50774468	R1B8ZPHYTV6DZL	0373250169	255773259	L. A. Woman (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The 20-something's guide to L.A.!	This book was fun to read. It has quite a precise and clear look at 20-something-year-old women who live in L.A. Martika was the best character; she made the care-free L.A. lifestyle seem effortless, especially when she tried to turn Sarah -- a confused and tamed 25-year-old who'd just arrived to L.A. -- into someone like her.<br />All of the characters were great, however, I wish the author had delved into Judith's marriage a little more. Other than that, the novel is perfect. Another winner from Red Dress Ink. I highly recommend it.	2002-06-11
1541761:US	50774468	R25BX60BFRVBSW	037541388X	405179317	Her	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Paranoia's galore!	I think Laura Zigman is one of the most gifted chick lit writers of this era. I loved Animal Husbandry and Dating Big Bird because I thought she brought something new to a genre full of Bridget Jones-wannabes. I looked forward to reading Zigman's third novel, Her. In Zigman's case, third time isn't a charm.<br />It's not that I didn't like the book -- after all, I thought it full of Zigman's signature wit -- I was just annoyed with the heroine, Elise. Threatened by her fianc&eacute;s friendship with his gorgeous ex-girlfriend, Elise embarks on a search to find whether or not there is something sinister about the ex-girlfriend's insistence on being part of Donald's life. Though the heroine addressed the fact that she'd become extremely paranoid, I still felt as though I wanted to strangle her at times. Well, I guess I shouldn't judge her too badly considering I have had some bouts of paranoia myself...<br />Her is still worth reading. Laura Zigman's fun approach to romantic comedy is money well spent.	2002-05-16
1541805:US	50774468	R2V2PZ61DUZHN3	0345453387	975082316	Dog Handling	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Sexy and funny -- Naylor's best novel yet!	I have read and loved Clare Naylor's previous novels, Love: A User's Guide and Catching Alice and I couldn't wait to read Dog Handling. I was not disappointed -- Dog Handling is Naylor's best romantic comedy to date. Liv is one of the best heroines of this genre and the story -- treat a man like a dog and he'll be eating out of your hand -- keeps you turning the pages, especially when the petty game backfires and she gets more than she bargains for. There are some fun twists during the story that will keep you guessing. I recommend this fun novel to all chick lit enthusiasts.	2002-05-16
1560494:US	50774468	R1U3UJ95LAWXYL	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Readable from beginning to end!	There was so much hype surrounding this book that I finally decided to give it a whirl. I am glad I did. McLaughin and Kraus introduce us to the world of Park Avenue and the parenting skills (or lack thereof) of the people who live there with wit and poignancy.<br />In order to earn a living while attending NYU, Nanny decides to care for the child of Mr. and Mrs. X -- a wealthy Upper East Side family. She soon discovers that she isn't just helping raise the child, she's the one raising the child! In her busy schedule of shopping and relaxing in spas, Mrs. X never deigns to spend quality (not even quantity) time with her adorable child who adores her. And need I mention wayward Mr. X? Nanny gets more work than she bargains for with little respect or appreciation in the long run. She also witnesses how other socialites treat their child-care helpers. (Very badly.)<br />Poignant, compelling, funny and readable from beginning to end, The Nanny Diaries lives up to its high praise. You will laugh, you'll be touched and you will definitely want to slap Mrs. X on several occasions! Great read!	2002-04-30
1570192:US	50774468	R1RPRB1RV2RTEX	1401033148	448346249	Inexquisite Eye	Books	5	16	17	N	N	An exquisite book!	I couldn't keep this book down! At times I felt that Elissa was me. Her character spoke to me in a profound way. I could relate to her fear of giving her heart to the man who adored her because she was afraid of betrayal and getting hurt. I could also relate to the fact that she detested office politics and was dissatisfied with her career -- though her problem was that she was not content with the profession she had chosen. And need I mention her close-knit family, especially her overprotective father? This novel spoke to me.<br />People have said that this book resembles Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice. The writing does have a Pride and Prejudice feel, but it also reminds me of other classics, like Madame Bovary and Anna Karenina. It has the feel of a classic with modern-day characters. And that makes this gem truly unique.	2002-04-22
1578035:US	50774468	R2N49FZ3O5RVKA	0312269234	990948943	Feeling Sorry for Celia: A Novel	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Possibly the BEST book I've read all year!	I picked up Feeling Sorry for Celia because the plot seemed interesting and was also curious about reading a book from an Australian author. I marvel at this little gem! Written in the form of letters, 15-year-old Elizabeth Clarry tries to figure out what to do with her troubled best friend Celia while struggling with the growing pains of adolescence via imaginary letters from the &quot;Association of Teenagers&quot; and &quot;Cold Hard Truth Association&quot; -- which are hilarious -- while connecting well with a pen-pal named Christina and dealing with her eccentric mother who leaves little notes in the kitchen and putting up with a wayward Dad who suddenly wants to be more involved in her life.<br />I laughed from beginning to end. The neurotic characters and sometimes poignant situations made it even more fun to read. This novel about an endearing young adult could be enjoyed by any age group. It is no wonder it became the #1 Bestseller in Australia! Possibly one of, if not the best novel I've read all year! I so recommend it!	2002-04-16
1589792:US	50774468	RZPWPIRNUK7C1	0373250150	485798933	Confessions of an Ex-Girlfriend	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Some truths about the &quot;Ex&quot; factor!	There's the old saying (and song) that goes breaking up is hard to do. Well, after her boyfriend, Derrick, moves to L.A. to pursue a career as a screenwriter, Emma Carter has no other choice but to accept that the relationship is over. She finds it difficult to cope with her newfound single status and eating pints of ice cream and complain about her job at a bridal magazine are the icing on the cake. To make matters worse, her mother is about to get married for the fourth time, her friend Jade is having a liaison with a 22-year-old Italian stud, and her other friend Alyssa is lusting after her dog's veterinarian, despite being attached to a wonderful man. So Emma makes a few confessions that every woman should know about when the time comes when you become an ex-girlfriend. There are some fun moments and few surprises. However, it has nothing new to offer in the chick lit genre. I recommend this book, but I should also advice you to not expect an extravaganza. Just enjoy the ex-girlfriend antics and marvel at the similarities -- since every woman has been the ex-girlfriend at some point in her life -- that you may have with the self-deprecating heroine.	2002-04-07
1593053:US	50774468	R3JNKA9V06OXB8	0375760628	447916207	Slave to Fashion: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A darker and cleverer Bridget Jones!	This novel has the essential chick lit elements -- young woman seeking love and career success in London -- but the story has a darker edge and cleverer appeal than the other Bridget Jones knock-offs!<br />Katie fits more into the &quot;anti-heroine&quot; category.  She lets us into the very shallow and sad world of the fashion industry with a great deal of irony. The heroine herself seems to find this glamorous, yet gloomy world as part of everyday life. Her life, however, is together. She has a great apartment and a fiancee, who happens to be her boss's son. A fling tumbles her perfect world apart, and she must do whatever possible to redeem herself and her reputation.<br />With a darker approach to humor than most books of this genre, Slave to Fashion is one clever chick lit! I recommend it most highly.	2002-04-04
1593178:US	50774468	RBETLVY7TY3GN	0446530719	26455858	Satisfaction: The Art of the Female Orgasm	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Nothing I didn't already know!	I thought Kim Cattral -- along with her husband -- would write an interesting book about reaching sexual pleasure in more unique and unknown ways. However, I was deeply disappointed with the information given in this book, which does not have anything I did not already know.<br />I don't buy into the whole actress being like the character in Sex and the City bit -- I know better than that -- but I somehow expected cleverer sex advice from this talented actress.<br />There are some good elements in this book, but very few to spend $...$$ on. However, only you could decide if it's worth a shot!	2002-04-04
1600771:US	50774468	R3U37VLIN2Y4K1	0373250142	877785637	Dating Without Novocaine (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Full of surprises!	During the first few chapters I said to myself, \\"Oh, no! Not another novel about a desperate single woman!\\" The tale of a reluctant singleton well on its way to a predictable ending. But even I could be wrong once in a while. This novel has the essentials of taking the reader to one direction and then lets us know that there is a moral to the story after all. There were various hilarious moments -- like the hyperactive cop and the incident at the adult store, etc. -- that made me laugh out loud several times. This is not what you may call an original chick lit. After all, it has the Bridget Jones-esque get-togethers with friends to discuss relationships (or lack thereof) over drinks and the serial dating a la The Trials of Tiffany Trott -- but those are the essential elements that make a chick lit fun to read. I highly recommend it.	2002-03-29
1601584:US	50774468	R18IUTZX5MRO0R	0802117066	890021926	The Zygote Chronicles	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Another winner from this talented author!	I loved reading Otherwise Engaged. Its wit, intelligence and sometimes dark but precise comic timing made it one of my favorite contemporary novels. I have long awaited a second effort from her, and was pleased to read The Zygote Chronicles.<br />As a writer, I know all about the autobiographical elements used in fiction -- and I also agree that this could easily be mistaken for a memoir -- but even if there were no embellishments, Finnamore used the prose, wit and unique language she used in her previous effort (which I suspect had autobiographical elements as well). The heroine's observations and different stages of her pregnancy are hilarious, touching and poignant -- something every mother-to-be or wannabe mom should read. I hope to read more books from this author in the future.	2002-03-29
1622394:US	50774468	R30NII2KN6OD1J	0375505148	177795746	Girls' Poker Night	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Witty anecdotes from a neurotic New York columnist!	This book was so much fun to read. I picked up the book because it was about a neurotic journalist from New York City -- and I can relate to that -- but I got so much more than I bargained for! Wit doesn't even begin to describe this gem!<br />The cynical and neurotic Ruby Capote leaves her eccentric boyfriend behind and moves from Boston to NYC, where a new job as a comic columnist awaits. Capote chronicles her life in a witty way -- touching on subjects such as female bonding, love, her rather strange co-workers, her childhood traumas with her father, and Michael, the object of her desire who also happens to be her boss.<br />Davis wrote a novel about a real woman -- few heroines have had the sincerity Capote has. It illustrates love and relationships in a clearer (and hilarious) light. And I love the parts in which she plays poker with her girlfriends! They all have their own brand of cynicism and quirk. A true chick novel! I so recommend it!	2002-03-12
1626245:US	50774468	R3BP5NB1JGN9SY	9700512207	170327153	La otra cara de Amrica (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A brilliant book by a brilliant Hispanic news anchor!	Jorge Ramos, the well respected news anchorman for Univision, the Spanish-speaking channel in the United States, has written an excellent book about his thorough research on immigration -- including well thought out views on the Elian case -- throughout his long career as a journalist. He uses a no-holds-barred approach to his writing and sends the message across without sugar-coating the events -- like a true newsman.<br />I look up to brilliant journalists to improve or critique my own career, and I have been watching Ramos as a presenter for the world evening news on Univision since I was a little girl. I looked forward to reading this book and I am glad I did. La Otra Cara de America (The Other Side of America) should have been translated in English so it could have been appreciated by everyone in this country. I highly recommend it.	2002-03-09
1626821:US	50774468	RDGR65PB6EUWL	0375411798	715003990	Me Times Three	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Dark romantic comedy -- not your typical chick novel!	What I liked most about Me Times Three is that it has more cleverness and precise comic timing than the standard chick novels like Bridget Jones's Diary. It is a dark comedy with a touch of nostalgia -- New York City circa 1985, Sandra Berlin, editor for Jolie!, a women's magazine, discovers that her high school sweetheart turned fiance is engaged to two other women. What's even more strange is that he repeated the same scenarios with all of these women, including places, events, even coming up with the same name for a dog. As she tries to get over Bucky's betrayal she is confronted by the harsh news that her adorable gay friend Paul has AIDS. Some interesting twists occur throughout the story.<br />The novel shows a more realistic view on relationships. Also, it is right on the money on how AIDS victims were perceived by society during those times.<br />This is one of the best chick novels I have read this year. It is really a cut above the rest. Me Times Three should be devoured in one or two sittings. I urge you to read it!	2002-03-09
1644698:US	50774468	R32KDBGSFWKFPQ	0393045900	471318889	Inner Hunger: A Young Woman's Struggle Through Anorexia and Bulimia	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Same old analysis on the eating disorders	As someone who suffered from eating disorders during her teens, I often read books and memoirs on Anorexia and Bulimia. I like to read about other people's experiences with the disorders and how their stories differ from, or resemble, mine. However, Inner Hunger offered nothing new to the complex world of eating disorders.<br />Apostolides researched the illness and illustrated the behavioral patterns of Anorexia by making thorough research and writing about her own experience. Fine. But everything that was said in this book was nothing new to me, I'm afraid. I know most of the things discussed in this book from having read other books or memoirs. However, if you are new to the subjects of Anorexia and Bulimia and you are looking for precise information on said disorders, then this is the book to look for. All and all, it can't be denied that her research was well done.	2002-02-22
1645559:US	50774468	RY2KBPD57D9NU	0892967307	672731324	The Red Room	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Nicci French has done it again!	I have read and loved all of French's books -- I particularly loved Killing Me Softly and Beneath the Skin -- and I couldn't wait to read The Red Room, although I have to admit that I am disappointed with the fact that this book doesn't delve into the subject of obsession, like her previous novels. Well, I guess the writer had to try something new.<br />Dr. Kit Quinn is a crime psychologist who has been given the task of helping the police investigate the murder of a homeless girl. The assigned detectives believe that a creepy fisherman named Michael Doll is responsible for said murder, but Kit is convinced that it isn't a simple open and shut case and begins to fish out the truth by connecting crimes that the detectives see as irrelevent to the crime in question. There are various twists in the novel, and in most cases the development of the story may confuse the reader (or at least it confused me), but -- like the vast majority of novels in this genre -- everything falls into place at the end. The novel contains a memorable foreshadow. This books is everything a good mystery/thriller should be.<br />I have to admit that this novel isn't as suspenseful or sensuous as French's previous efforts, but it is a great read nevertheless. In the bargain for a clever thriller? Read The Red Room. In fact, I recommend all books from this great English writer.	2002-02-22
1654812:US	50774468	R3S80FU2VS6FWO	0743406451	445617977	In Fidelity	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A page-turning erotic suspense!	I thought that M. J. Rose's first novel, Lip Service, was one of the most clever thriller/erotica novels I have read. It was well developed and had excellent character and story development. Needless to say that her second novel, In Fidelity, is just as, if not more, suspenseful and erotic as her first novel.<br />Dr. Jordan Sloan's world shatters all over again when her father's murderer is released on parole. The key witness to his murder trial, she fears that he'll seek revenge -- though everyone, including her daughter, seems to think that she is just being paranoid. A psychotherapist, she tries to help her patients' problems while trying to figure the psyche of murderers and coming to terms with her about to be ex-husband's infidelity. Jordan is bound to suffer several more betrayals -- which leads to a spellbounding conclusion.<br />Suspenseful, erotic and, yes, romantic, In Fidelity should be devoured in one sitting! I highly recommend it!	2002-02-14
1658854:US	50774468	RPBML93TOIGIE	0743204093	218714422	Augusta, Gone: A True Story	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Growing pains for both child AND parent!	Readers could relate to this poignant and heartwrenching memoir. After all, you are either a son/daughter or a parent. Although I am not a parent yet, I was, as most teenagers are, a troubled child -- not to the degree of Augusta, but troubled nevertheless. This memoir is told by a very determined and strong mother who watched as her daughter plummeted into a life of drugs, alcohol and reckless sex and wondered how she had failed as a parent and what could be done to save her daughter. Parents could easily be disturbed with a book of this nature -- after all, it is so much easier to ignore all the red flags and pretend that the child in question is just going through some normal growing pains -- because no one would like to see his or her child become a menace to society. And, worst of all, would that mean that their parenting skills weren't good enough? It is important to acknowledge what the parent has done wrong and do whatever possible to be there for the child. And that is what Martha did. Hats down for writing such an intelligent and insightful memoir. There should be more books of this kind out there!	2002-02-11
1659769:US	50774468	R8UZTGQGR1M12	0385335881	796714451	Shopaholic Takes Manhattan	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Won't this girl ever learn!?	I loved Confessions of a Shopaholic! I identified with Rebecca Bloomwood's uncontrollable urge to hit the shops and spend, spend, spend! (Although I am glad to say that I am nowhere near as bad as she is.) It was hilarious, ironic and fun to read and I couldn't wait to read Shopaholic Takes Manhattan -- the sequel to Confessions. However, the second effort lacks some of the fun approach the first novel had. It focuses more on her unhealthy shopping addiction.<br />In the sequel, Rebecca tags along with her workaholic husband to New York City -- a.k.a. the shopping capital of the world (and don't I know it)! No sooner does she arrive in Manhattan than she hits Sak's, Barney's, Bloomingdale's, and every sample sale on the island. After all, she was new to the city and dollars don't really count because they don't even look like real money -- that was her hilarious excuse to shop.<br />The narrator comes across as naive and a little too obsessed with shopping on this one to the point that reason, and even sanity, is no longer used by her. But I take it that that was intentional -- I mean, she does have a problem, doesn't she? She's addicted to shopping. I like the fact that she is forced to face the harsh reality of her reckless spending and makes her realize that it has taken over her life. But it also leads to self-discovery.<br />Shopaholic Takes Manhattan isn't as -- how shall I describe it? -- breezy as the original, it delves into a more serious issue of addiction, but that is what was needed to be used in order to make a great conclusion. She still gets into trouble by buying expensive beauty products just to get a free lipstick -- which means that it's just as hilarious as the first one. I highly recommend it!	2002-02-10
1660236:US	50774468	R3DKRW1CTN01PT	0385502761	841891973	Look at Me	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Beauty is in the eye of the beholder!	I didn't know what to expect when I picked up this novel. I found the book jacket description to be interesting, and so I decided to give it a whirl. I am so glad I picked it up! Jennifer Egan is an amazing writer whose language is perfect and lyrical.<br />An Illinois-based woman who made the big-time as a New York supermodel, Charlotte's world shatters when an accident disfigures her famous face. Having had reconstructive surgery, people in her past -- one person in particular -- comes along to take her on a trip to the past, a past she's tried to leave behind as much as possible. She is forced to see just how her appearance has taken her over life and overall identity -- especially when sells a new identity of herself to the Internet. Egan skillfully illustrates the trappings of pop culture and the shallow world of modeling.<br />With beautiful prose and eye for detail, Look at Me is a novel that illustrates the world's obsession with beauty -- or lack thereof. I recommend this novel most highly.	2002-02-10
1663059:US	50774468	R10I29D35LAHBH	0373250134	559572782	Slightly Single (Red Dress Ink paperback}	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Chick novel -- what more can I say?	I have defined \\"chick novel\\" on previous reviews. Chick novels are novels about women in either their twenties or thirties with unsatisfying jobs looking for Mr. Right -- or at least for Mr. He-would-do-because-of-the-whole-biological-clock-thing -- in cities such as New York, Boston and, in most cases, London. This novel falls into said category.<br />Tracey is a twenty-four-year-old New Yorker who has a weight problem and has a menial job at an advertising agency. Desperate for reassurance from her otherwise aloof boyfriend, Tracey becomes clingy and needy -- that is until he leaves with a group of actors to pursue a career in theater without so much as giving Tracey a phone number to reach him. During the course of the nine months that he intends to be away, Tracey tries to reinvent and improve herself in readiness to her boyfriend's arrival and approval -- but, for Tracey, things start to take a different route that leads to self-discovery.<br />This novel is fun and more realistic than most chick novels I've read. Nevertheless, it brings nothing new to the quite large volume of chick novels out there. Unlike Helen Fielding and Marian Keyes, Markham's single-gal anecdotes don't stand out. However, this is still a fantastic and fun little gem (that's published by Red Dress Ink -- which I have already read several books from, obviously a new publishing house for modern romance enthusiasts) and that is why I am giving it four starts. Definitely worth reading!	2002-02-07
1663404:US	50774468	R3GR3RHBJQ34NT	0811823857	362665430	The Beauty Workbook: A Commonsense Approach to Skin Care, Makeup, Hair, and Nails	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Beauty advice for beginners!	Applying make-up, using proper skin care products, how to manage your hair, the importance of manicures and pedicures -- when does it end?! It seems that women have a price ($$) to pay in order to be beautiful. The effort I take in plucking eyebrows, scheduling manicures and pedicures, shaving legs and getting bikini waxes, not to mention the loot I spend in cosmetics and skin care products makes me wish I were a man at times. (Okay, I would never want to be a man, but wouldn't it be nice to just take a shower and shave?) At times, we don't even do these routines correctly. We either use the wrong products, and, if we do use them correctly, we become beauty victims. Which is why I like The Beauty Workbook.<br />This great book gives you insight on how to have better care of your skin and how to look radiant at all times. It instructs on what products to use according to your skin type and how to apply make-up properly. Also, the overall look and approach to the book makes it a hip investment and you'd want to carry it around with you.<br />So, if you're a beginner or think that you already know how to take care of your skin -- hey, I thought I did -- I strongly recommend this book. Because we're all there when it comes to wanting to look our absolute best!	2002-02-07
1690099:US	50774468	R1A26L6DSHWEE0	0385335830	41523586	Diary of a Mad Bride	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hire a wedding planner instead!!!	This novel was an enjoyment to read. The heroine chronicles her days as a bride-to-be and her struggles to create the (almost) perfect wedding.<br />Amy thought she was content with her single status. Constantly told that she wasn't the &quot;marrying kind,&quot; she came to terms with that fact and thought that she was perfectly happy with the relationship with her boyfriend Stephen. That is until he popped the question. In the course of a year, she made all of her wedding plans -- and watched how almost everything fell apart. She became the &quot;mad bride-to-be&quot; that she thought she'd never become. There were some very amusing moments in this novel.<br />I had no idea that planning a wedding could take so much of your time and effort. In addition to supplying me with some laughs, it made me realize what I have to do on the day I become engaged: hire a wedding planner!!!	2002-01-17
1690713:US	50774468	R1FJZN6M3VQHCB	0684870630	257172598	Kiss It Goodbye: A Novel	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Nothing impressive about this one	I should have known this novel wouldn't be to my liking. After all, I did not particularly enjoy Wessel's two previous efforts. I was told that, when it comes to this author, third time's a charm -- that this novel shows some growth and improvement. What I got was the typical detective blabber that makes novels of this kind trite and, believe it or not, predictable. I'd skip this one if I were you.	2002-01-17
1697456:US	50774468	R2GC7UF0F5BE52	0446526614	313333061	Talking to Addison	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Pales in comparison to her first effort	Having read Amanda's Wedding, I became a big fan of Jenny Colgan. She has the humor, irony and quirky approach that has become the trademark style of great contemporary British authors. However, I was slightly disappointed with Talking to Addison, her sophomore effort. It lacks the humor and original comic timing of Amanda's Wedding.<br />Holly, an out of work florist, is stuck sharing a flat with some rather eccentric people. Josh, the boy-next-door who wants everyone to get along; Kate, the neurotic and self-absorbed career woman; and Addison, the gorgeous geek whose life revolves around the Internet. Addison becomes Holly's object of desire, and she does whatever is in her power to get his attention away from his computer and online girlfriend and unto her. There are some amusing moments in this novel -- there are some twists at the end as well.<br />Even though it is not as original and witty as her first novel, Talking to Addison is still worth reading, if only for Colgan's ironic humor.	2002-01-11
1722003:US	50774468	RL6PLSU8A8F3Q	0373250126	471365971	Milkrun	Books	5	2	4	N	N	One of the funniest chick novels ever written!	As a twenty-something female, I am quite proud of Sarah Mlynowski. She has proven that women in their twenties aren't dimwits. Her comic timing is so precise and her characters are so vivid and witty that each chapter made me laugh out loud on so many occasions! (I even laughed out loud on the subway to work!)<br />Jackie's boyfriend, Jeremy, breaks the news that he wants out of the relationship in an e-mail. Brokenhearted, she decides to enter the dating scene with a bang! With the company of her neurotic friends Natalie and Sam, she hits the Boston club scene in search of Mr. Right -- or several Mr. Rights -- but her dates were anything but. The best part of the novel is the one-liners. I especially love the chapter in which she exchanges e-mails with her friends about a new guy who may or may not become her ideal.<br />The only disappointment in this novel is when it approaches the ending. Her character becomes less funny and more neurotic. Also, almost every paragraph consists of questions. It irritated me after a while.<br />Other than that, Milkrun is perfection! Are you in the bargain for a hilarious chick novel? Pick up Milkrun, especially if you're in your early or mid twenties. You'll be proud of this talented new author, I assure you!	2001-12-24
1729834:US	50774468	R26LIDUQIBQWVM	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Droll and light effort from John Grisham!	I was so used to reading books from Grisham about government conspiracies and enormous court cases -- not to mention the titles that begin with &quot;The&quot; -- that it hadn't occurred to me that Skipping Christmas would be the light and heart-warming comedy that it is.<br />Having waved good-bye to their daughter at the airport the day after Thanksgiving, Luther and Nora Krank have a great idea: why not skip the hustle of shopping, cooking and decorating this year and go on a cruise instead? And so, the Kranks decide to boycott Christmas altogether -- to the dismay of their neighbors, who now see Luther as Scrooge. A hilarious tale of how the Kranks try to avoid the cheerfulness and holiday excitement of their annoying neighbors begins.<br />We've all wished we could skip Christmas -- after all, who wouldn't trade the hustle and reckless spending over a nice soothing Caribbean cruise? I know I certainly would! Who knows? I'll probably trade Christmas in favor of a nice vacation next year! And I don't have to worry about the neighbors interfering!:-)<br />Read this gem! You'll be impressed with John Grisham's comedic effort. He ought to write these more often.	2001-12-17
1765475:US	50774468	R17USO0I8YYYG7	1582430608	912849051	Why Did I Ever: A Novel	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Unique language!	In literature, unique language is a wonderful thing. I love to read books that have a language that speaks volumes, but in an original and moving way.<br />In Mary Robinson's Why Did I Ever, Money Breton, the heroine, chronicles her quirks and troubles that face her. Her children are in trouble, she may lose her job as a screenwriter, the IRS is bugging her, she has begun to make conversations with herself, and has started to travel to various cities in the South. All is done with quite an unique brand of dark humor. Also, there are lots of page brakes. Each page brake consists of a few sentences, perhaps one or two paragraphs -- she mostly shares whatever comes out of her head with the reader. You may find it strange at first, but it'll suck you in at the end.<br />I found this work to be humorous, poetic and a bit sinister. Robison is one of the best writers of our time. I strongly recommend this title!	2001-11-19
1772538:US	50774468	RN0UTV4EFYZN3	0813527422	957636861	Twin Towers: The Life of New York City's World Trade Center	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A tribute to the Twin Towers!	I don't think I could ever get over the events of September 11. I lived in Manhattan for a long time, and it seems unbelievable to me that the Twin Towers no longer exist. The Manhattan Skyline is naked.<br />I bought this book to educate myself on the amount of work that went on to create the world's most impressive towers. The interview with the architectures was quite impressive. This book also explains how the Twin Towers became one of the most lucrative and important assets to the economy. However, I was also looking forward to some illustrations of the towers, which, I'm afraid, there aren't much of those in this book.<br />These towers and the lives lost in them shall be remembered for a very long time. Purchashing various books on them is like paying a tribute to them.	2001-11-13
1773094:US	50774468	R35DO4U3Q516GJ	0375709541	665172480	London (Citymap Guide)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Your best companion to your vacation to London!	This book was quite helpful when I traveled to London for the first time a year ago. The maps and illustrations were clear and easy to follow. It showed the usual tourist attractions, but it also educated me on the least popular areas. It was especially great for when I went on my shopping expedition!<br />Lucky for me, I have a friend who lives in London and my boyfriend lives in Manchester -- which made my decision to move to the UK much easier.<br />But if you're out on your own, London Citymap Guide is the best companion to your vacation. Buy this book!!	2001-11-13
1778629:US	50774468	R23SZF8G45Q46J	0373250118	46887746	See Jane Date (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	28	30	N	N	Chick novel written all over it!	I shall be the first to admit that I hadn't anticipated an original novel in this one. After all, I must've read hundreds of single-in-the-twenties/thirties-living-in-NYC/London chick novels! I also shall be the first to admit that I happen to love said novels. So I shall spare the potential reader of this book from comments like &quot;unoriginal&quot; or &quot;Bridget Jones wannabe.&quot; (Okay, fine! That was my first impression when I started reading this novel.) However, See Jane Date turned out to be one fun book!<br />Jane Gregg is an underappreciated assistant editor at a Publishing House who chain-smokes and has had it with her chronic single status (Sound familiar?). She also endures having to edit the pretentious memoir of the Nicole Kidman look-alike named Natasha, the woman Jane's always envied. To make matters worse, she will be the bridesmaid at her cousin's wedding. Add insult to injury, the wedding will be held at the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan. Having led everyone to believe that she's got a fabulous boyfriend, Jane embarks on a hilarious and at times poignant journey to find a boyfriend for the wedding by way of blind dates. Jane becomes a serial dater.<br />I am pleased to announce that there are some twists and turns that lead to a surprising ending.<br />This novel was slow at first. The plot seemed too familiar and I almost gave up on it. I am glad that I continued to read it. It's got wit and warmth and vibrant characters. However, I was annoyed with the fact that almost every character in the novel resembled a celebrity.<br />Yes, See Jane Date is a typical chick novel. It is a cross between Bridget Jones's Diary and The Trials of Tiffany Trott and TV's Sex and the City and Ally McBeal. I know I said I wouldn't compare it to other reads, but I just couldn't resist! :-)	2001-11-08
1779682:US	50774468	R2UH2TEIBKX8WQ	1564586499	471463857	Anne Hooper's Kama Sutra	Books	5	21	22	N	N	It was worth every penny!	I didn't have great expectations when I picked up this book. I just thought it would be fun to try new sexual techniques and positions. This book was an investment! I enjoyed the glossy illustrations and easy guide to a spicier sex life. I have taken ideas out of this book to be more adventurous in bed and please my boyfriend in more original ways. He thinks I have a vibrant imagination. Well, this book is partially responsible. Thanks Ann Hooper!	2001-11-08
1783934:US	50774468	R2EQKX9JJQOABB	0805068015	998738670	Eva Moves the Furniture: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Margot Livesey does it again!	I marvel at this masterpiece. Having read Criminals and The Missing World, I knew Livesey wouldn't let me down! With her signature language and eye for quirky detail, Livesey writes another winner!<br />Eva loses her mother at the tender age of six. She is under the care of her father and aunt. However, there are two mysterious companions who are there for her whenever she needs them. These companions could not be seen by others, and so the question is: are these two people real or imaginary? Those encounters haunt Eva throughout her life.<br />Compelling, dark, poignant and disturbing, Margot Livesey hasn't failed to surprise me with the conclusion of her novels. She has the ability to identify evil in the most subtle ways. Again, this is a winner. This Scottish novelist's books should be on everyone's collection!	2001-11-05
1783972:US	50774468	R1WXWYF33FSKGZ	073886112X	443414812	The Other Side of Thirty: Musings of a Modern Day Bachelor Gal	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The book every single woman [at any age] should read!	I have a vast interest in women's literature of this sort. &quot;Chick novels&quot; are novels with similar characteristics: single women in their twenties or thirties with semi-successful careers and unsatisfactory love lives. These novels chronical the heroines' efforts in finding a suitable mate. It doesn't take a genius to figure out that the reason these heroines find men with such tenacity has much more to do with the fear of ending up alone than anything else. Compared to men's fiction -- which focuses more on their bachelor status or love for sports -- it doesn't escape my attention that women, whether in real life or in novels, need men to validate their lives.<br />Hence why I love this novel. Thakor delved into these issues. Furthermore, I was delighted to read that Ani isn't ashamed to acknowledge herself as professionally successful and is unwilling to lose her power over a man. There are various feminist issues in this book, all of which are meant to empower women and remind them that there is such a thing as having one's own idenity while in a relationship.<br />Ani shouldn't be ashamed of wanting someone to love. After all, who wants to be lonesome? Wanting someone to share your life with is nothing to be embarrassed about. Having someone doesn't have to validate your life, but it is still nice to have someone.<br />This is a great book. Every single (or attached, or married) woman should own it! I highly recommend it.	2001-11-05
1789810:US	50774468	R3NZHMFY57YKTB	0786867906	841280964	Strip City: A Stripper's Farewell Journey Across America	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A behind-the-scenes look at the life of a stripper!	Burana, a journalist from New York, decides to say good-bye to her single girl days by doing a one-year journey across America as a stripper. She had given up stripping ten years ago, but now that she's about to become the wife of a sweet redneck from the Midwest.<br />Fun and poignant anecdotes about Burana's adventures in stripping on every state are given in each chapter. She illustrates what the life of a stripper really consists of. Also, the preconceived notion that strippers are bimbos will (almost) vanish.<br />Are you in the bargain for an intelligent, poignant and original memoir? Read Strip City! You'll love it!	2001-10-31
1791070:US	50774468	R1AO9IUE0UAVCO	080213632X	712630283	A Storm and Other Erotica	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Literary Erotica!	I have become a fan of French Erotica. Having read various books of this kind before, I have come to appreciate the literary and lyrical language of this genre.<br />The Storm is a profound and surreal novella about a young widow's attempt to hold on to her husband. She makes daily visits to his grave and writes him love letters. She begins to fulfill the sexual fantasies her husband shared with her before he died of Cancer. The sexual descriptions are obscene and disturbing and not quite, well, erotic. Mind you, it is one of the most interesting love stories I have ever read.<br />A lot of people have a preconceived notion about erotica: literary pornography. The purpose of these books is not to turn the reader on, but to allow the reader to enter the realm of the profound and deviant world of sexual fantasies. Give it a whirl!	2001-10-30
1832231:US	50774468	R2AJOM1QKN54DF	0743411323	184600193	Never Change	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A beautiful and poignant read!	I hadn't given Elizabeth Berg a try until now. Needless to say that I will read her previous novels after having read this gem. Never Change is one of the most beautiful and poignant novels I have read in quite a while.<br />At 51, Myra Lipinsky seems satisfied with her life. After all, she adores her job as a visiting nurse, she has a dog named Frank and she's in control of her life. Still, she knows there's something missing in her heart. She's never married and her loneliness emerges at times. But when she becomes Chip Reardon's nurse -- the guy she always had a crush on in high school, now suffering from a life-threatening form of Brain Cancer -- her life isn't the same.<br />With beautiful language, prose and eccentric characters (some of Myra's patients are a riot), Never Change is a novel that should be devoured in one sitting. I urge you to pick up this book!	2001-09-22
1832358:US	50774468	R2W04P3U6URXM2	1893956024	753140617	The Ex-Files: New Stories About Old Flames	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Witty collection of short stories!	I loved the witty short stories in this book. They show a more thorough and less sentimental look at past relationships. Some stories were better than others, but one thing is certain: you will see yourself in more than just one of the stories. If you enjoy reading about relationships as much as I do, you'd love this!	2001-09-22
1854304:US	50774468	RDSMPC67H1AYZ	0767908015	118840501	Jeremy Thrane	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An overall satisfactory read!	Ever since I read In the Drink, I have become a fan of Kate Christensen. In the Drink was filled with the kind of dark humor that I enjoy in fiction. I also enjoyed her realistic view of New York City. She didn't romanticize the city -- she showed it for what it was. It was a very clever satire. So I was eager to pick up her second novel.<br />Jeremy Thrane is the tale of a gay man in his mid-thirties who's had a secret affair with a famous film star named Ted for ten years. Ted is married to a famous movie actress. Both his wife and the media are unaware of his homosexuality. The novel takes some humorous, poignant and sometimes unexpected turns.<br />The novel is well written, however, there are some things that were left floating in the story. For instance, Ted seldom appears in the novel. Character and story development were needed throughout the novel. Christensen needed to delve into and explore some of the secondary characters.<br />All and all, it was a satisfactory read. It is not as dark and sinister as In the Drink, but it's nevertheless a great read. Kate has a way with words, and I recommend her lyrical and witty novels most highly.	2001-09-01
1859548:US	50774468	R1H40LTSG52G3M	0312261594	724183614	Female Intelligence	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Doesn't add up to expectations	The book jacket, as well as various critics, promised a droll and ironic look at the female psyche in Female Intelligence. However, this book is neither droll nor ironic enough to make it interesting. The tale of Dr. Lynn Wylan, a psychologist who specializes in male and female relationships, and her lack of clue on how to handle her own relationship crisis when she discovers her husband's infidelity reminds me of a Delia Ephron or Olivia Goldsmith novel. I am not a fan of Ephron and Goldsmith, but that's beside the point. The novel lacks the wit and voice that would have otherwise kept me interested. When it comes to women's fiction, I'd rather stick with the single-in-your-twenties/thirties-living-in-London/New York novels written by the likes of Helen Fielding and Laura Zigman.	2001-08-28
1859622:US	50774468	RD05RQV7TTXXP	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Music and literature: a winning concept!	Wow! High Fidelity is one of the funniest novels I have ever read! A friend of mine recommended this book, after having been surprised when I told her I've never read it. I couldn't put it down! I love the musical backdrop in the novel. I even listened to some of the songs that were mentioned in it, songs I haven't heard in a long time! The book talks about relationships from a male standpoint and I felt as though I was reading a Helen Fielding novel -- though I know this is an unfair comparison, for Hornby has been around longer than Fielding. I will definitely look for more work from this great author. I highly recommend this single-male-living-in-London gem!	2001-08-28
1860176:US	50774468	R2YE5IN2HVZQP2	0156010887	380719465	The Blue Bedspread	Books	2	3	5	N	N	I have certainly read better!	Raj Kamal Jha's debut novel has been compared to Raymond Carver's work. First of all, I happen to think that The Blue Bedspread isn't worthy of such comparison. The writing is bland, the characters are boring, the story isn't particularly shocking -- which surprises me, for the serious issues in this novel, such as abuse, betrayal and incest, could make even the most experienced reader cringe -- and the surprise ending isn't so, well, surprising. In the end, I feel as though I have wasted hours on a book that should have been kept on the store's shelf. ... Whatever you do, skip this one!	2001-08-28
1885028:US	50774468	REZL44THHB3X1	0688180728	543757976	Last Chance Saloon: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	N	She's done it again!	Marian Keyes has done it again with Last Chance Saloon! This thoroughly intelligent novel about four Londoners seeking love, success and a defining sense of self at the age of thirty -- otherwise known as the Last Chance Saloon -- is poignant and hilarious.<br />The book introduces Tara, a compulsive overeater stuck in a horrible relationship with the unpleasant Thomas. She feels that a cheapskate, manipulative man is better than no man at all. The reader is also introduced to Katherine, an anal retentive who would rather spend the nights alone with the remote control than risk falling in love and -- inevitably -- getting her heart broken. Then there's Fintan, a sweet homosexual who is faced with a horrible illness. And who can forget the dreadfully vain Lorcan Larkin? Each of these characters is faced with life-altering events that will help them see life in a different way.<br />The character development in this book is incredible. You will definitely see yourself in at least one of the characters. I know I certainly did! I marvel at Keyes's ability to create the kind of neurotic characters that would make you laugh till the last page. Jane Green's book called Bookends is vaguely similar to this one, but Last Chance Saloon is better developed. I strongly urge you to get this book!	2001-08-09
1917991:US	50774468	R1KX8FCB8OQLP8	0812931912	424197675	AOL.com	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Something every AOLer should read!	I have been on AOL for quite some time. Not because I am new to the Internet -- I have a vast knowledge on the Internet -- but because I enjoy the sense of community and integrated software that the online service provides. However, I have always been fascinated about what sort of marketing strategy AOL uses in order to remain so popular -- as well as learning about the not so positive areas of the online service.<br />Swisher supplies us with a very informative book about downfalls and pitfalls of this service. She illustrates the problems the creators went through within their company with other employees. It shows us the various mistakes the software has had over the years. Of course, it focuses on the competition (Bill Gates and MSN comes to mind) and AOL's most powerful source: Steve Case. It also illustrates the more obvious issues, like AOL's intense sexually-natured chat rooms and criminal activity among the members. It also discusses AOL's recent merger with Time Warner.<br />I urge AOLers to give this great book a whirl. I am glad I picked it up. Who knows, it may teach you a thing or two about becoming a software giant.	2001-07-15
1918689:US	50774468	R2Q03LECU58AQI	1582341575	656709380	P.S.	Books	4	4	4	N	N	It really does give a new meaning to deja vu!	I had fun with this novel. It is a rather unique romance that gives you a new meaning to deja vu. Louise has just run into her childhood love. But it can't be. He died 20 years ago in a car wreck. Actually, it is a whole other person -- or is he? Everything seems to match, including date of birth and other characteristics. The heroine takes us in a witty and sensuous journey in which she tries to figure out who this mysterious person is.<br />I loved the characterization and witty dialogue. This is the first Helen Schulman novel I have read, and, believe me, it won't be the last. I highly recommend this title.	2001-07-15
1944627:US	50774468	R3RR8MEZ7ST8BG	0312252617	272135612	Fast Women	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A well-written thriller!	I hadn't read a Jennifer Cruise novel until now. I have been told that her writing is unique and she has great attention to detail. Having read Fast Women, her new novel, I have to agree with those who recommended her books.<br />Nell takes a new job as office manager at a rather old-fashioned firm. Gale, her boss, doesn't take the fact that Nell wants to redo his office surroudings lightly. However, things change in a drastic way when Nell and Gale begin a steamy affair -- an affair that takes some twisted turns when murders and mysteries begin to arise.<br />Well written and entertaining, Fast Women is a reading investment. I am pleased with her work, and so I will try her earlier work.	2001-06-26
1944702:US	50774468	R1BFBM1USDCYYL	1569471886	80230928	First Fruits	Books	5	2	2	N	N	It chills your blood!	Penelope Evans is one of the most original writers I have ever encountered. Her novels are weird and thought provoking. Having read The Last Girl and Freezing, her previous efforts, I couldn't have expected anything different from Fresh Fruits. Like the previous novels, the main character in this book, this time a girl, unlike her previous efforts, is evil. The author takes us on a journey inside the quirky mind of this young girl and the torture she inflicts on others and herself. The writing has the same unique language that the previous novels had -- a language that is far more vivid than one could hope for. I recommend this chilling and original novel from a very talented British writer.	2001-06-26
1966380:US	50774468	R3PPLHGUV21SZQ	0767905199	527463952	Mr. Maybe	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of my favorite romantic comedies!	Jane Green knows how to write a romantic book with witty characters and page-turning dialogue. Mr. Maybe's heroine, Libby, is looking for a suitable husband. She has two candidates: Nick and Ed. She has an enquiring mind: will she prefer Nick -- handsome, funny, smart, and financially challenged -- or Ed -- an investment banker with loads of cash, but unattractive and needy? It sounds as though Libby is a self-centered gold digger, but you'd have to read the novel in order to grasp the big picture. The heroine is similar to a lot of women that I have encountered in real life. The writing is sharp and full of British wit. I highly recommend it. In fact, I highly recommend all of Jane Green's novels.	2001-06-09
1976593:US	50774468	R2N2GIAKTA768A	0060393211	551668212	Running in Heels: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Below expectations	Having read Getting Over It, I couldn't wait to read another Anna Maxtet novel. Getting Over It was one of the funniest novels I have ever read -- however, Running In Heels is a disappointment. It lacks the wit and cleverness that her first effort had.<br />Natalie has lost her best friend, Babs, to marriage. Who is going to be there for her for now on? Who is she going to complain about her mother and brother to? Who is she going to complain about her dull boyfriend to? Selfish Natalie whines her way into this book. Four-hundred pages of self-pity is not my idea of a pleasant read.<br />Are you in the bargain for a droll and poignant read? Skip this one! Get Anna Maxtet's hilarious first effort, Getting Over It. Unlike Marian Keyes and Jane Green, Anna Maxtet's second effort does not show her growth as a writer.	2001-06-01
1992346:US	50774468	R2I8CU3MEIUXXU	0743418166	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Droll, Intelligent and Poignant!	I had some reservations when I picked up this book. Like most people, I thought it was a Bridget Jones-esque novel written by a Helen Fielding wannabe. Was I wrong! This is one of the funniest books I have ever read! Before you ask, yes, it is a book about a single woman with a weight problem finding true love. Sounds familiar, doesn't it? Having read Bridget Jones's Diary and Jemima J., I thought it'd be another copycat. Weiner does an excellent job describing her overweight heroine. It gives, in my opinion, a more realistic view of how it's like to be big. I was able to have a better understanding of how large women think and feel without the petty prejudice that it's placed upon them. Also, the Philadelphia-based Cannie is far wittier than Bridget Jones! Her dry and sarcastic humor made me laugh out lound on various occasions. Cannie sort of reminds me of two contemporary heroines I like: Anna Graham from Amanda Filipacchi's Vapor and Tash from Jane Green's Straight Talking. Thinking of getting a droll and moving novel? Do not hesitate! Read Good In Bed. You will laugh your socks off!	2001-05-20
2015024:US	50774468	R2K6TIF21M412V	0871138158	706565889	The Hiding Place	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A captivating novel!	There hasn't been a novel of this sort that doesn't move me or haunt me to my very soul! The Hiding Place, the story of Mary, Frankie and their six daughters, is intense and captivating.<br />A Maltese family living in Wales, they struggle through life just to survive. Frankie loses his family business to gambling, Mary is forced to sell her body in order to feed her children, and Dolores, the youngest of the girls, tells us a disturbing and haunting tale of her infancy -- as well as tell us the secrets that haunts each sister.<br />This is a beautifully told novel that should be read between the lines. The narration alone is worth the read. I recommend it most highly!	2001-05-01
2027210:US	50774468	R30Q1WMN4OHKVT	0142000213	859011890	Bridget Jones's Guide to Life	Books	4	14	18	N	N	The single life according to Bridget!	This little booklet was so much fun to read! It is filled with Fielding's ironic humor and signature style. Bridget has created her own little self-help book. Here, you will learn how to cook, eat, weigh yourself and even how to be your friends' therapist. It is all done with an ironic twist!<br />Every Helen Fielding fan should get a copy of this book. Granted, I feel it should have been longer -- but Fielding's humor is well worth it. Get it!	2001-04-20
2037232:US	50774468	R208Z357PZB0ED	0385486588	626985972	Abide With Me: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another great one from E. Lynn Harris!	Ever since E Lynn Harris wrote Just As I Am he has kept readers wanting to know more about the characters Raymond Tyler, Nicole Springer and John &quot;Basil&quot; Henderson. He has done it again with Abide with Me. He concludes the saga with a bang!<br />  Raymond Tyler has received the promotion of a lifetime. The young lawyer will become a judge. Will that be possible despite his sexual preference? His world collides when Raymond -- despite having a meaningful relationship with Trent -- runs into his old lover Basil and his ex-girlfriend Nicole. We read a story of betrayal and a lot of drama.<br />  Despite the fact that the plot leans toward soap opera-ish, it is still a great treat from Mr. Harris. I highly recommend this entertaining novel.	2001-04-11
2037369:US	50774468	R70NCDTXARWBT	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Loads of endless fun!	This would make a shopaholic so proud! It is right on the money (so to speak) about how the mind of a shopaholic works. Rebecca Bloomwood can't afford her seemingly glamorous lifestyle. She lives in an apartment in one of London's trendiest areas, is a successful financial journalist in which she gives advice to readers on how to handle their money (ironic, huh?), and has a wardrobe full of clothes and a vanity full of make-up. Her life, however, is not a bed of roses! There are many hilarious moments in this novel -- especially when Rebecca gets her VISA bill over the limit and overdrafts her bank account.<br />This is a book that every shop lover should read. As a fellow shopaholic, I am able to appreciate this fun and ironic tale of a woman who doesn't how know when to stop spending. A must read!	2001-04-11
2047344:US	50774468	R1TOZIQAZFFVAR	0871137542	529957238	The Pleasing Hour	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beautiful and Lyrical!	Why on earth would anyone be interested in reading a book about a woman who moves to Paris and becomes an au pair? Well, The Pleasing Hour is one of the most lyrical and well-put novels I have read. It follows the story of a young American nanny in Paris and her anecdotes about the eccentric Tivot family.<br />I especially love the culture and backdrop of Europe in the story. I especially love the chapters of Spain. Learning about different cultures and settings is what makes literature of this kind so appealing. I have always been fascinated with Europe and this book satisfied my thirst for knowledge. Also, the story is both endearing and poignant. I highly recommend it.	2001-04-02
2063034:US	50774468	R9YE2MXB4BTRO	0802135447	422340786	The Love Machine (Jacqueline Susann)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A gem!	Robin Stone has become one of my favorite anti-heroes! In this gem Jacqueline Susann novel, we are introduced to the life of a TV mogul's rise to fame. The characters that surround him are equally fabulous. Susann introduces the reader into the world of the rich and the lonely with a bang! She has influenced the work of lots of authors -- Candace Bushnell comes to mind -- but her work remains untouchable. I recommend this great novel!	2001-03-19
2068599:US	50774468	R1BNYBB3SYXWM9	0670894508	256403279	Cause Celeb	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Great first effort from Helen Fielding!	Helen Fielding is best known for writing Bridget Jones's Diary -- the often imitated but never duplicated novel. I can't believe it took me this long to read her first effort! Set in England and Africa, we are introduced to Rosie: a sweet but self-deprecating (what did you expect? This is Helen Fielding!) heroine whose crush on a celebrity brought her to Africa. Needless to say the trip to Africa isn't as glamorous as anticipated. There are flashbacks of when she falls for the celeb in London. The scenes are hilarious!<br />This isn't Bridget Jones, but Cause Celeb has enough fun and charm to satisfy readers. I have become a fan of British humor, and this book has plenty of it!	2001-03-15
2074529:US	50774468	RN8DT4EUV7U4R	0446526479	831796799	Amanda's Wedding	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Love it, love it, love it!!!	Could this book be any funnier? I couldn't stop laughing at the hilarious dialogue and clever one-liners. Jenny Colgan has become part of my list of favorite British writers ... and that says a lot about this gem of a book!<br />Amanda used to be one of Mel's best friends -- till she became a major money-grubbing snob. To make matters worse, Amanda has become engaged to Fraser, Mel's old crush. Things take a hilarious turn when Mel, Mel's obnoxious best friend Fran and Fraser's brother Angus get together to sabotage the wedding. The novel goes uphill from there. I especially love the twist at the end.<br />Are you in the bargain for a hilarious romantic comedy from an up-and-coming author? Read Amanda's Wedding. You'll laugh your pants off!	2001-03-09
2075002:US	50774468	R3DHEG8K88K7HB	0452282128	540342564	Thirtynothing	Books	4	4	4	N	N	From a twenty-something reviewer	Great book! I couldn't keep it down. I loved the situation that Nadine and Dig got themselves into. Dig turned thirty. He wasn't pleased. He was especially unhappy with the fact that the women he seemed to attract were teenagers. Nadine was a successful photographer who had a hard time committing to a nice man. Her free-spirited personality got in the way. Dig and Nadine made a pact: to find a substantial relationship and -- this is the tricky part -- hold on to it. So Dig rekindles his relationship with his high school girlfriend and Nadine runs into her college boyfriend. The novel got better and better. I thoroughly enjoyed Ralph's Party, Jewell's first novel. Thirty Nothing, however, is much better. Even though Lisa Jewell isn't quite as gifted as Marian Keyes and Helen Fielding, she is still able to write fun stories. I highly recommend it.	2001-03-09
2083865:US	50774468	R3GP67ETJEGFJE	0375411119	408763793	The PowerBook	Books	4	13	14	N	N	At your own risk!	I have always admired Jeanette Winterson. The Passion is one of my favorite novels. I had been anticipating the release of this new novel, for it focuses on cyberspace.<br />Ali, an e-mail writer, has prepared a game for you. You can enter the realm of virtual reality and go everywhere you want and do anything you want to do. However, you also risk discovering things about yourself that you may not have wanted. Like all Winterson's previous novels, it has a surreal approach to romance. Also, there is the ambiguity of sexual preference and/or identity. Still, the risk is worth taking. This is a fabulous novel. The magical realism is there! Winterson has never let me down! Read it, at your own risk!	2001-03-02
2083924:US	50774468	RLBAN2SK3JH7W	0312206003	988438878	The Trophy Wife	Books	2	7	8	N	N	I have certainly read better thrillers	Someone recommended me this novel. It seemed promising at first, and I have to admit that it has some clever moments, but it has missed the mark. The mystery isn't, well, mysterious, for I was able to figure out the outcome sooner than I would have wanted to. The story of a banking executive whose wife has been kidnapped for a ransom of $100 thousand moments before he had intended to leave her for a younger-looking model seems like the perfect plot for a Hollywood film starring Harrison Ford. However, it made for a mediocre read. Need I mention the typos and grammatical errors in this book? I am glad to see that other readers duly noted the structural errors in the book. Are you in the market for a clever thriller? Read Nicci French's Beneath the Skin.	2001-03-02
2084198:US	50774468	R10WIVSNO9N78F	0060929383	490087791	More Tales of the City	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A great follow-up to the classic satire!	The tenants at 28 Barbary Lane are back! This time they take their adventures abroad. Each character goes through one dilemma after another, making the novel as hilarious as the original! Who could forget Mona, Mary Ann, Michael and the unforgettable landlady, Anna Madrigal?<br />Tales of the City is a satire of homosexuality in San Francisco during the Seventies -- yes, the books were written during that era -- and you read such old slang words like &quot;Far out!&quot; You appreciate the fact that this book was written during the times when beards, afros and the slang word &quot;far out&quot; were considered, well, far out:-) Maupin has great attention to detail and an ear for witty dialogue. I look forward to reading the rest of the Tales of the City series.	2001-03-02
2090312:US	50774468	R2WOFQ2J9RP23G	0140077030	383742226	Nights at the Circus	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Imagination has no limits!	&quot;This world of imagination is infinite and eternal, whereas the world of generation, or vegetation, is finite and temporal. The true vine of eternity, the human imagination.&quot; -- William Blake<br />That quote describes Angela Carter's work. Nights at the Circus couldn't have possibly been better. You enter the realm of various characters whose descriptions are eclectic and vague at the same time. Angela truly captures the essence of magical realism in this book.<br />How to describe the narrators of this book? There is no easy way to go about it. The characters are surreal and at times cartoonish. Even so, the strangeness and vagueness draw you in anyway. I can't help but compare Amanda Filipacchi -- of Vapor and Nude Men fame -- and Banana Yoshimoto -- Kitchen and NP fame -- to Angela Carter. The best quality of these authors is that they use their imagination to the fullest!<br />Have you noticed my vagueness when describing this book? That is because you have to read it in order to grasp the meaning of this fabulous literary experience. Let your imagination go wild and enjoy!	2001-02-25
2092974:US	50774468	R2PYZ0YAM00692	0670896764	838594392	A Day Late and a Dollar Short	Books	5	7	7	N	N	It was about time!	I love Terry McMillan! I have read Disappearing Acts, Waiting to Exhale and How Stella Got Her Groove Back. However, A Day Late and a Dollar Short, her new novel, is my favorite! McMillan is known for her great characterization -- the narrators' voices literally come out of the pages! She takes this to the next level with this new novel.<br />McMillan takes us on a journey in the lives of the Price family. Viola's struggle to keep her four children in order. Of course, they are all adults, but she can't help but worry. There's Paris, a divorcee who is always helping others. There's also Charlotte, the one with the teenage daughter from hell. And who can forget Lewis? He can never stay out of jail. I was introduced to each character as though I was having an actual conversation with them.<br />I cannot recommend this great novel enough. Terry McMillan is not just a great voice for African American women, but for women in general. I don't think I have to mention the legacy that Waiting to Exhale has left us! It was about time you wrote a new novel, Terry!	2001-02-22
2093817:US	50774468	R1X5FEUUZI6FT4	0747257833	257234845	Perfect Timing	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A fun and bubbly read!	What are the odds that you would meet the man of your life at your bachelorette party? That, of course, would mean that the man you're about to marry isn't the one, wouldn't it? That's what happens to Poppy Dunbar. On the night that she says goodbye to her single life, she meets a charming doctor. She is smitten. It is love at first sight. There is one problem: she will be married the next day. What is she to do?<br />This British romance is a quick and enjoyable read. Keep in mind that this isn't meant to be a thought provoking and literal novel, but one that hopeless romantics could enjoy. I highly recommend it.	2001-02-22
2105893:US	50774468	R1UM7JNDZ5VWB4	0380978539	68502016	Dear Stranger, Dearest Friend: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A wonderful novel about friendship!	This book moved me like few books have moved me before! The story of two women whose friendship blossoms by way of the Internet is thought provoking and touching. Susan and Lara couldn't be more different. They, however, have a strong thing in common: Breast Cancer. Having found a lump on one of her breasts, Lara seeks help in an online Breast Cancer forum. That is where she meets BC survivor, Susan. A unique friendship has begun and a wonderful story develops.<br />The ending is extremely touching without being too sentimental and the e-mail correspondences are poignant and funny at the same time. You can never be too young to read a novel about Breast Cancer and the struggles women and their families go through. I recommend this beautiful novel most highly!	2001-02-12
2106426:US	50774468	R35NM42LJP0NBD	0879518073	106962622	Bleeding London	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A dark delight!	Bleeding London is one of the quirkiest, darkest and funniest novels I have ever read! (That says a lot, for I have read thousands of novels.) It focuses on various characters whose experiences in London are both sinister and funny. Mick, Judy and Stuart are quite different, but are somehow brought together in strange ways. They all have a different take on London -- Londoners feeling foreign in their natural habitat while out-of-towners see it as an exciting and daring challenge.<br />Nicholson does a great job with the description of a big city. As a New York City native, I am able to identify with the story line and the dark message the author is sending. The backdrop of London is different from all of the other British novels I have read -- it shows a more realistic view of the city.<br />Thought provoking and darkly funny, Bleeding London should be read by those who enjoy a unique literary experience.	2001-02-12
2118903:US	50774468	R18X0UNF4T4N2G	0385334931	237199137	Sometimes I Dream in Italian	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Impressive collection of stories from Ciresi!	Having read and enjoyed Pink Slip, I wanted to read another Rita Ciresi novel or book. This is a poignant collection of short stories that are very enjoyable to read. Angel and Lina are two sisters dealing with Italian parents in America. Born in America, they want names, lifestyles and identities that their American counterparts have. It is both amusing and touching what the girls go through in order to fit in. Coming from a Latino family, I could definitely relate to what Angel and Lina go through.<br />Though not as enjoyable as Pink Slip, Sometimes I Dream In Italian is a book that should be devoured. I highly recommend it!	2001-02-01
2119055:US	50774468	R1X39AIDGCWFPW	0312199783	442886627	French Toast: An American in Paris Celebrates the Maddening Mysteries of the French	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Le Livre Exquise!	Harriet had a difficult time adjusting to life in Paris, France. She tells us the cultural differences an American must expect if planned to move into this country. I thoroughly enjoyed her takes on food, cafes, French women and how the French in general feel about Americans. I, too, would love to live in France one day (if only!), and so this book could prepare you to enter the realm of what it's like to be a &quot;foreigner.&quot; This is an exquisite book! Great fun!	2001-02-01
2119553:US	50774468	R1M11AWQ7MSCCB	0385501005	499767451	Mr. Commitment	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Commited to Mr. Gayle!	I enjoyed reading this light romantic comedy about a typical male who can't commit. Having read novels about men who can't commit from a woman's perspective -- Animal Husbandry, Bridget Jones's Diary -- it was nice to read a man's point of view. Duffy is a delightful and sweet hero. Why on earth was he so endearing? Aren't commitment-phobes supposed to be cold-hearted men with no souls? That is exactly why I enjoyed this novel! The hero has great human qualities that make you forget that he's allergic to marriage. I love the part in which he seems as though full possession of the remote control is a main priority in his life. I recommend this cute book from a great male British author!	2001-02-01
2129429:US	50774468	R223N9ZYIX6X6E	0452281636	68466902	Ralph's Party:  A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Lots of fun!	This is a cute and fun novel about the lives of various Londoners who live in the same apartment complex. The reader is first introduced to three roommates -- Jem, Ralph and Smith. There is a fun twist when the characters in the book fall for one another. Ralph has fallen in love with Jem, whereas Jem might have fallen in love with Smith. But Smith has a secret crush on his neighbor, Cheri. Cheri, however, has set her eyes on a married man who lives in the same building. Things take a hilarious turn when Ralph hosts a party.<br />This book is meant to be read for fun. The book is entertaining and the characters are likeable. You will definitely relate to the characters of this book if you have ever had neurotic roommates!	2001-01-23
2130200:US	50774468	RFBBY9B9QKXQ9	0375709215	794097154	The Mark of the Angel: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Beautiful!	What beautiful and unique writing! Nancy Huston is a great French-Canadian writer whose work I will be looking forward to reading in the future. The Mark of the Angel is a stunning novel set in Paris during the 1950's. The historic feel of the novel -- after World War 2, during the Algerian war -- is extremely accurate! The story of a daughter of a Nazi having an affair with a Jewish Communist is thought provoking and intense. There are various political views illustrated in this novel.<br />Huston's writing style makes this beautiful work of art seem like silk. The narrative style is very unique. A tale of adultery, this novel sort of reminds me of The Scarlet Letter, but with strong political views and great historical feel. I highly recommend this book!	2001-01-23
2134840:US	50774468	R2MR4K4ALFZXCK	0380796090	962133592	Watermelon	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This novel is a hoot!	Having read all of Marian Keyes's novels -- including Sushi for Beginners and No Dress Rehearsal -- I just had to read her very first novel. This is one of the funniest novels I have ever read! Marian Keyes has excellent comic timing. I do believe that she is the best author of this genre -- Helen Fielding, Anna Maxtet, Jane Green, Isabel Wolff and India Knight are the runners-up.<br />Poor Claire tells us the story of how her husband dumped her on the night their baby was born. Depressed, she moved from London to Dublin to live with her eccentric family. The parents and two sisters are hilarious! I was able to know them when I read Rachel's Holiday, so I am glad that I was able to get better acquainted with such hilarious characters. Enduring her neurotic family and raising a child on her own, Claire is able to get over her husband. Or is that really the case? She meets a charming younger man. But will she ever get over her husband? And will this man sweep her off her feet? There are some memorable and droll moments in this novel.<br />So, are you in the market for a romantic comedy that has irony and poignancy? Look no further. Watermelon should be devoured till the last page!	2001-01-19
2135298:US	50774468	R3FOK5ENW78LMC	0553212737	569473707	Emma (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Jane Austen at her funniest!	I have always loved this droll piece of literature! Jane Austen created a charming and hilarious heroine in Emma. The comic timing and great characterization proves that Austen was -- and still is -- the most sought-after and influential author ever! (Just look at the work of Helen Fielding, Marian Keyes and other female authors of this era.)<br />Emma is a force to be reckoned with. She takes it upon herself to play the role of Cupid. She chooses her candidates according to social status, age, charm, etc. The irony, of course, is that Emma doesn't have a lover of her own. What happens when one of her conquests as Cupid goes terribly wrong? And will Emma find her own knight of shining armor? This is one of the funniest situations in the book.<br />If you love Jane Austen, and if you haven't read this novel, please do!	2001-01-18
2135330:US	50774468	R3AFD4Y8UNY2G8	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An American Classic!	This is one of my all-time favorite books! John Steinbeck had created a wonderful and haunting story about various Western farmers. Loneliness is the major theme in this novel. Steinbeck captures the true essence of what it's like to be sad and unfulfilled. And the friendship between George and Lennie is both funny and poignant. It was especially touching when George decides that he can no longer protect Lennie from the horrible things that he hadn't intended to do. Who can resist a novel with such strong message and symbolism? This is one of the best pieces of literature ever -- a true American classic!	2001-01-18
2135724:US	50774468	R19946EHPDY2HY	0718143051	372254916	The Safe House	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A very clever psychological thriller!	Whenever I'm in the mood for a good mystery-slash-psychological thriller, Nicci French comes to mind. Having read Killing Me Softly and Beneath the Skin, I had to read her other books. I marvel at this incredibly well crafted piece of work. French leaves you in a state of intense turmoil until the last page. The last words in the book are thought provoking and chilling to the core!<br />Sam, a doctor whose level of expertise is in Post-Traumatic Stress Syndrome, is faced with the choice of allowing the victim of a savage attack that left her parents dead stay at her house. Apparently, the young woman will be safe there. Or will she? The book will keep you turning the pages until its surprising conclusion. This novel blew me away! I recommend it most highly.	2001-01-18
2136780:US	50774468	R2U919J76SY3G	0375705228	893031195	Italian Fever: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sexy and gothic!	Having read Love: Short Stories, I couldn't imagine better writing from Valerie Martin. Boy, was I wrong! Italian Fever is one of the best pieces of modern literature I have ever read! The novel is a mixture of romance, mystery and gothic magic realism.<br />In Italian Fever, Lucy Stark is the assistant of an untalented author. But after the author dies in an accident, Stark goes to Italy to sort out some of her former boss's problems. Having experienced culture, beauty and art in Italy, Stark finds it difficult not to be mesmerized with the place. She, however, gets more than what she bargains for.<br />What I love most about this novel is Martin's description of Rome. It felt as though I was there, experiencing the art and culture in the story. This is literature at its finest! I can't recommend this novel enough!	2001-01-17
2137333:US	50774468	R34QLM8T3FTYA8	1555971652	155725196	The Horse Has Six Legs: An Anthology of Serbian Poetry	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beautiful collection of poetry!	There isn't a better collection of poetry with magical realism than this one! I marvel at Charles Simic's ability to translate such complicated and beautiful poetry. I love all of the poems in this book, especially Desanka Maksimovic's &quot;Bloody Fable,&quot; Vasko Popa's &quot;Proud Error,&quot; and &quot;There Smoke, Sooty Smoke,&quot; from a collection of Women's Songs. Do you love poetry with surreal and dark messages? Then I suggest that you get this incredible book!	2001-01-17
2147937:US	50774468	R2D5OMNSU8ALJQ	1569471967	777525000	Freezing	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Bone-chillingly twisted and quirky!	Having read The Last Girl, I couldn't wait to read another Penelope Evans book. She has a unique style of writing and her quirky and creepy characters send chills down your spine. This book is even more compelling and strange than The Last Girl!<br />In Freezing, Stuart Park is a 28-year-old photographer at a London morgue. When he's not working, he spends his days in front of his computer playing a heroic character in a game. He also makes sure that his nosy and eccentric father doesn't go near his bedroom. His &quot;life,&quot; however, changes the moment he sets eyes on one of the corpses at the morgue -- a beautiful and unidentified drowning victim. There are many strange twists and turns in the story as he tries to find out who she was and why she died.<br />This haunting psychological thriller is not for the faint at heart. But if you love a well-written, quirky and clever thriller, then I strongly suggest that you read it.	2001-01-08
2166538:US	50774468	R3CB8SMEJR96OI	0385319037	863089890	Animal Husbandry	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Metaphorical cow theory for the recently dumped!	As someone who has endured more heartbreak than she cares to admit, I thought Animal Husbandry was a breath of fresh air. It couldn't have possibly been more accurate! Even though there was a little male bashing in this book, I still felt as though I could have been Jane Goodall.<br />People find various ways to cope with being dumped, Jane decided to research male behavior by way of zoology. With the Old-Cow-New-Cow theory, she had been able to use male animal behavior as a metaphor for male human behavior. But was it really a metaphor, or do men have the same exact instincts as male animals? I agree that the book generalized men at times, but it was still a fun and clever read. I recommend this book to recently dumped females.	2000-12-23
2178455:US	50774468	RL1WHCH1BYQ16	0684867532	736882669	Run Catch Kiss: A Gratifying Novel	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Should have written a memoir instead	As a writer, I know all about authors using isolated events or aspects of their lives fictitiously in novels. But Amy Sohn's Run Catch Kiss has missed the mark between fiction and memoir. It becomes certain that she took events straight out of her life and put them in the contents of this book -- or rather, wrote an autobiography disguised as a novel, period.<br />The novel itself is trite and insubstantial. But what I could expect from a story about a wannabe-actress-turned-sex columnist? I don't think that a heroine who writes about her sexual escapades in a newspaper column is my kind of read. I borrowed this book from a friend. I now wish I hadn't.	2000-12-12
2178664:US	50774468	R1RCOG94P6V40Y	0312874863	878335329	@Expectations	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Virtual Reality?	What was I expecting from this book? To be honest, I expected a modern romance about two people falling in love in cyberspace. It turns out that @expectations isn't what I, well, expected. This irresistibly dark novel explores the strange and vague world of chat rooms. In this virtual world, people fall in love, betray each other, destroy lives, reinvent themselves. Which makes me wonder: isn't the term &quot;virtual reality&quot; contradictory?<br />Kit Reed illustrates just how surreal life on the Internet can be. Reed introduces Jenny, a wife and stepmother whose life becomes unbearable. In order to please her husband-to-be, Jenny moves from New York City to a suburban area in South Carolina. Depressed, she finds comfort in an online community known as StElene. Jenny, the unsatisfied wife, becomes Zan, a virtual princess who finds her knight in shining armor. No sooner does she enter this world than she meets Reverdy. They embark on a relationship that becomes more meaningful than her marriage. Soon Jenny and Zan's lives collide. Will she able to tell the difference between fantasy and reality?<br />This is one of the most original novels that I have ever read. I marvel at Reed's attention to detail. @expectations is not a sugarcoated love story. It is thought provoking and intense. You will certainly think twice about romance in cyberspace.	2000-12-12
2185223:US	50774468	R2ONGWWWCV9JTP	0451409450	553807381	Darkness Bound	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Dark to the core!	This is suspense like I hadn't read before! There were so many elements of sexual fetishes and S&amp;M that I often blushed while reading it. Did Dillon really know what he's getting himself into with the Dark Lady? The reader enters a realm of unhibited sex, deception, and deadly games. As I've mentioned earlier, this an incredible, suspenseful and provocative read! I highly recommend it.	2000-12-06
2185730:US	50774468	R1LYBHQDNX58EY	0425176053	449481739	Come Together	Books	5	0	2	N	N	He said/She said	There are few books that are written with both the male and female point of view. Well, at least not a book as honest as this one. It was interesting to read about a man like Jack. Is he a typical male? He certainly seemed to be. And I could definitely relate to poor Amy. Were there mixed signals in their relationship? There certainly were. There were so many realistic views on dating in a big city that I felt as though the book was written about my life. Single life isn't easy, is it? A lot of people would agree with me on this one. Men and women should definitely read this entertaining and touching novel!	2000-12-06
2193812:US	50774468	RW0HNNG7KS3HB	0786866586	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	4	28	33	N	N	Quite impressive	Well, I ventured out and read Steve Martin's novella. I am very impressed. This is a beautiful and poignant story that captures the more profound part of human relationships.<br />The novella introduces Mirabelle, otherwise known as the &quot;shopgirl.&quot; She is a 28-year-old salesgirl at a department store in LA whose passion for art and off-kilter personality makes her irresistible to men. No sooner does another bout of depression begin than she meets Ray Porter -- a rich and important businessman almost twice her age. Inevitably, they embark on a relationship based on mixed messages. What does Ray really feel about Mirabelle? Is Mirabelle in love with Ray, or does she love his paternal protection? There is a Freudian undertone in the story -- except that the novella captures the matters of the heart and soul.<br />The language is very unique. Steve Martin mixes beauty and poignancy with humor and irony. As I've mentioned, I am very impressed with his writing. He is a gifted comedian and a wonderful storyteller. I highly recommend this book.	2000-11-29
2196632:US	50774468	R114B3QGFO12I	0452263492	921712930	Sula	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Powerful and gripping!	Having read The Bluest Eye, I felt compelled to read another Toni Morrison book. People have mentioned Morrison's powerful poetic undertones in Sula -- I couldn't wait to read it. This is one of the most powerful and gripping novels I have ever heard. The story follows the path of best friends Sula and Nel. They grow up in a poor black neighborhood with eccentric and suicidal characters. Sula and Nel grow apart. Sula wants to see the world, Nel settles for a married life. Will Sula return to her roots? If so, how will she be received? And will she be able to reconstruct her friendship with Nel?<br />I marvel at Morrison's gorgeous language and quirky symbolism. Her work is thought provoking and realistic. I look forward to reading her other books.	2000-11-27
2196970:US	50774468	R12EQUIFQT5C4D	0452281881	800097079	E: A Novel	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A clever satire of office politics!	Wow! I haven't read such original and hilarious novel in quite a while. I couldn't stop laughing. I marvel at Beaumont's originality. Who would have thought that an author would pull off a novel written in e-mail format? E enters the information age with a brilliant satire of office politics. Through e-mail, the reader learns about the back-stabbing, bureaucratic bungling, and sexual escapades of a group of people working for an ad agency that would do anything to land the Coca-Cola account. I laughed so much when Carla and Zoe were fighting over the PA job that promises more money. And who could forget David Crutton's frustration with e-mail? His e-mails were inexplicably forwarded to a colleague in Finland -- one of the funniest scenes in the novel. Can you handle a novel written in e-mail format? Give this book a whirl. You'll laugh your socks off!	2000-11-27
2204429:US	50774468	R3GJQWUN4SGHHR	0679442766	687421275	The Consolations of Philosophy	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Philosophy according to Alain De Botton!	Alain De Botton has proven again and again that he is a keen observant and a genius. Having read On Love and How Proust Can Change Your Life, I was curious about Botton's views on Western Philosophy. His views are both amusing and intelligent. He introduced the of work Nietzsche and Seneca (my favorite philosopher) in a great way. The chapters and illustrations are amusing and intense at the same time. I know of people who have absolutely no knowledge on philosophy and this book could teach the basics of this interesting subject. The great thing is that Botton does so with a great deal of wit and originality. I highly recommend this book.	2000-11-20
2207581:US	50774468	R1QVSHEWQ1JTHM	0618093974	504583572	My Life on a Plate	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Could this book be any funnier?!	Could this book possibly be any funnier? I couldn't stop laughing. My Life on a Plate is filled with the kind of ironic, wicked and self-deprecating humor that I love. The comic timing is extremely precise. Clara Hutt is one of the best heroines in contemporary literature.<br />This isn't the usual single-at-thirty-living-in-London novel. It isn't about single life at all. My Life on a Plate is about life after Happily Ever After. Is marriage all that's cracked up to be? Will marriage be the end of one's loneliness? Clara will tell you a thing or two about being a smug married woman with two kids.<br />This is a hilarious and painfully honest book that will crack you up till the last page. It is, without a doubt, a tour de force! You mustn't hesitate to read this book!	2000-11-17
2207590:US	50774468	R2Y40S3TH8MUFA	0312963157	916877177	The Last Girl	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Intense and chilling to the core!	Ever since 70-year-old Larry Mann set eyes on 23-year-old Amanda, the new tenant at a boarding house in London, he was convinced that she would be his new best friend. He is lonely and convinced that Amanda is his soulmate. Shy and depressed, Amanda has no idea how to turn his desperate attempts at kindness -- buying gifts, making tea parties, becoming her confidant -- down, especially when Francis, her lover, begins to spend weekends with her. Larry's intentions are good -- or are they? Is there something sinister behind his persuasiveness with Amanda? This extremely shocking, chilling, haunting and original thriller will keep you turning the pages until its disturbing conclusion. I marvel at the unique narration; Larry's voice drips with contempt and obsession. Penelope Evans has written an incredible thriller that should be devoured within days. Read it!	2000-11-17
2209480:US	50774468	R1Q85WRF7BTWM	0060932686	887166280	Collected Stories	Books	5	26	31	N	N	The best collection of short stories I've ever read!	Gabriel Garcia Marquez is one of the most incredible writers I have ever encountered. He is a profound storyteller. In fact, his work is like a beautiful Magritte painting filled with surreal images. I marvel at the translator. I can't imagine translating &quot;Eyes of a Blue Dog.&quot; How on earth was he able to translate such a complicated story? It's incredible! The other stories are amazing as well. My favorites are &quot;Big Mama's Funeral&quot; and &quot;A Very Old Man With Enormous Wings.&quot; Each story has a special dose of magical realism. I look forward to reading other books from this author. I highly recommend this book.	2000-11-15
2210725:US	50774468	R2RRAIZTKDL8HI	0802135056	49389546	Behind Closed Doors	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Choose your own (erotic) adventure	Alina Reyes has won the reputation of being a literary voice in erotic fiction. Her books are poetic and provocative at the same time. Having read The Butcher, I know that Reyes writes her sensuous stories with a touch of magical realism. She has done the same thing with Behind Closed Doors.<br />This book is broken into two sections. It is shown from the female and male perspective. You enter the Kingdom of Eros -- a labyrinth of erotic adventures that you experience by choosing which door to enter. There is no real plot in this novel, except that there are lots of quirky symbolism in the chapters -- or rather, doors. I particularly enjoyed &quot;The Man at the Window.&quot; I love its symbolic message.<br />This is a great and entertaining book. You should not, however, take this book seriously. Despite the symbolism, Behind Closed Doors is meant to be a fun and sensuous read. Enjoy!	2000-11-14
2215455:US	50774468	R18FGPDF4BK63F	0028615115	967458316	The New York Yankee Encyclopedia	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Go Yankees!	I bask in the loveliness of being the fan of the baseball team of the millenium! The Yankees have won for three consecutive years and there is no stopping them! I have Yankee fever. I like a book that describes the history of this amazing team and its past accomplishments. I marvel at the fact that so many great players have been part of this team. I also enjoyed reading the stats of past players and the rookies. This is a book that every Yankees' fan should own. Go Yankees!	2000-11-10
2215742:US	50774468	REO8AJX3KZ7H2	0802135056	49389546	Behind Closed Doors	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Choose your own erotic adventure!	Alina Reyes has won the reputation of being a literary voice in erotica. Her books are erotic and poetic at the same time. Having read The Butcher, I know that Reyes writes her kinky stories with a touch of magical realism. She has done the same thing with Behind Closed Doors.<br />This book is broken into two sections. It is shown from the female and male perspective. You decide which gender role to play. (I chose the woman, of course.) You enter the Kingdom of Eros -- a labyrinth of erotic adventures that you experience by choosing which door to enter. There is no real plot in this novel, except that there certainly is symbolism in almost every erotic adventure that you enter. I particularly enjoyed &quot;The Man at the Window.&quot; It is very symbolic and hit very close to home. <br />This is a great and entertaining book. There are, however, things that could have been better. I think that some of the sexual scenes were done abruptly when they should have been more descriptive (after all, this is erotica) and the ending made absolutely no sense to me. But then again, there isn't a plot in the novel to begin with. <br />This is not a book to be taken seriously. Despite the symbolism, this book is meant to be a fun and sensuous read. Enjoy!	2000-11-10
2217706:US	50774468	R2J8PBMI3TE7E0	0375504036	46292343	Big Stone Gap	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Absolutely enchanting!	I was absolutely enchanted with this book. Adriana Trigiani has put together a wonderful story that will be remembered for a very long time. Big Stone Gap is a well-crafted novel that was written for the sentimental and romantic at heart. This is the story of a 35-year-old woman of Italian descent whose family secrets are revealed. Like a puzzle, Ave Maria's life reconstructs piece by piece. Ave Maria is a wonderful heroine. She tells the story with a great deal of heart and soul. Her voice literary comes out of every page! She is so real! I could relate to her a bit. After all, she, too, gets grief for being single and independent. But is that what she really wants? The other characters in the novel are great too, especially Iva Lou, Jack Mac, Pearl and Theodore. Also, I love the backdrop of the small town of Big Stone Gap in Virginia. I could smell the clean air of the mountains through the writing. Her descriptions are quite vivid. This is a beautiful and charming novel that should be read more than once. I highly recommend it.	2000-11-08
2221156:US	50774468	R3MBHKF79NN8IA	0671041320	286696000	Lip Service	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A sensuous and sinister mix of suspense and erotica!	Could a novel be erotic and intelligent at the same time? Of course! M.J. Rose has made a special blend of erotica and suspense in Lip Service. This novel is utterly intelligent and extremely well crafted. It is also very sexy and provocative. Also, the author must have made a lot of research on psychology.<br />In Lip Service, Julia Sterling's life couldn't be better. Well, at least the social circle around her thinks so. After all, she is married to a respected psychiatrist, has a wonderful stepson and lives on Manhattan's Upper East Side. Her ordered life is suddenly threatened when she decides to research the perverse world of phone sex for a book. She has discovered a sexy, perverse and sinister world in the fantasies that she concocts for the anonymous callers. This is a world that her husband knows nothing about. Will she tell him her dark secret? What will happen to Julia? And are sexual fantasies and fetishes as disturbing as one might think?<br />This book covers several taboo subjects regarding male and female sexuality. It questions morality and the inhibitions that society has placed upon us. I marvel at Rose's courage to write about such thought-provoking subject. This is one of the best thrillers I have ever read. I recommend it most highly.	2000-11-05
2224901:US	50774468	R18A0UHAD7QL51	0449005577	617091549	Catching Alice	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A charming and funny romantic comedy	Having read Love: A User's Guide, I couldn't wait for the release of Clare Naylor's second novel. Catching Alice, though not as good as Love, is a charming and hilarious British romantic comedy that would keep you turning the pages and hoping that the heroine would find happiness.<br />Having lost her boyfriend, job, apartment and thin figure almost simultaneously, Alice feels as though a dark cloud is upon her life. Her life, however, takes a dramatic change when Tash, her American friend, lures her to Los Angeles with the promise of a glamorous job, trendy clothes and endless cocktail parties. No sooner she arrives to LA than her lifestyle changes. She even has her very own stalker. Who is this mysterious man? Will Alice settle in LA? And does the fact that this man shows every sign of being a stalker bother her? There are some hilarious turns in the story.<br />Are you in the mood for a droll, modern Cinderella story? Read Catching Alice. You will love it!	2000-11-01
2227028:US	50774468	R2ULT6VKFJIRT7	0679779159	698950156	How Proust Can Change Your Life	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Self-help at its best!	Alain de Botton knows how to delve into subjects that really matter. He is a genius who certainly knows what he's talking about. There are self-help books that aren't, well, very helpful. How Proust Can Change Your Life isn't one of them.<br />Step by step, de Botton guides the reader into the realm of self-improvement. There are chapters like &quot;How to Suffer Successfully&quot; -- a chapter that, despite its ironic title, helps deal with personal problems and unexpected circumstances. Also, there is a short autobiographical portrait of Marcel Proust -- the author that influenced this book.<br />I cannot fully attribute the incredible work of this book to Proust, but it is evident that he had something to do with it. One thing is certain though: Alain de Botton is a genius! I highly recommend this book!	2000-10-31
2234504:US	50774468	R1HAJ94JVCPSMW	0312252277	995467183	Sirena Selena: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Sirena Selena: Caribbean Queen!	It has been a long time since I have read a beautiful novel set in the Caribbean. I had to get my hands on Mayra Santos Febres's book! It is so great to rediscover my Latin roots!<br />Sirena Selena is a fifteen-year-old boy whose grandmother died and left him alone in the streets of San Juan. The boy, however, had a great gift: he had the voice of an angel. Having heard him sing sad boleros in an alley, La Martha -- a Drag Queen and nightclub owner -- decides to take the boy under &quot;her&quot; wing. The novel takes you on a delicious and poignant trip to the life-altering events of Selena's life.<br />I love the bickering and the conversations between the &quot;locas&quot;; it is hilarious. The storytelling and language is beautiful. I marvel at the flawless translation. This is a very unique novel that everyone should indulge in. I highly recommend it!	2000-10-24
2234594:US	50774468	RTRY8EUPOC2T2	0060964049	98800983	Tales of the City (Tales of the City Series, V. 1)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A brilliant satire of 70's San Francisco!	I have heard so many wonderful things about the Tales of the City book series that I finally decided to give it a whirl. What a brilliant and hilarious book! The book introduces the reader to San Francisco during the Seventies (the time in which this book was written) and the mythic apartment building at 28 Barbary Lane. Each character in the book has his or her spark of wit and neurosis. I especially enjoyed Mrs. Madrigal, Mary Ann Singleton and Michael. I marvel at the brilliant and exceptionally witty characters. It didn't take me long to realize -- especially with the author's Afterword -- that the book is a satire of the gay scene in San Francisco. The characters have a great deal of humanity in this book, for it is obvious that the author had a message to send to his readers. Is Armistead Maupin -- as some people have said -- this era's -- or rather, the Seventies era -- Charles Dickens? With his incredible writing and undeniable wit, I'd say yes!	2000-10-24
2240728:US	50774468	R21KO4GH8PU4OZ	0892967269	332779254	Beneath the Skin	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Thought provoking and haunting -- an incredible thriller!	I marvel at Nicci French's attention to detail and ability to write a great thriller. I have read Killing Me Softly -- one of my favorite thrillers -- and she has managed to awe me again with Beneath the Skin.<br />This is the story of Zoe, Jennifer and Nadia. Three women who have only one thing in common: they are targeted by a sadistic and very clever killer. He sends them &quot;love&quot; letters in which he explains in gruesome detail what he would like to do with them. He inflicts fear and emotional distress on his victims and enjoys it. What will happen to these women? And will the police be of any help? More importantly, who is the killer? Of course, everyone is a suspect.<br />What struck me most when reading this book was the fact that the story was told from the victims' point of view. You can feel the fear, confusion, anger and hopelessness that the female characters go through -- so much better than third person narration.<br />What an amazing book! I still can't get it out of my mind. Nicci French is an amazing storyteller. I look forward to reading her other books. I don't think I have to tell you that you should read this book, do I?:)	2000-10-19
2247917:US	50774468	R14339YGH64HPJ	0312263287	798973869	Girls on the Verge: Debutante Dips, Drive-bys, and Other Initiations	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Sugar and spice and everything nice?	Vendela Vida has put the nail in the head with this book. The issues that are discussed here -- female gang and cult initiations, teen marriage, promiscuity -- are very accurate and, despite having witnessed this sort of thing in real life, shocking. Vida has evidently done her homework. She has proven that young women today aren't the shadow of how they're perceived by family members. Are girls still considered to be sugar and spice and everything nice? Not according to this incredible work of non-fiction. I highly recommend this engrossing and honest book.	2000-10-13
2250739:US	50774468	R38YREWWBN5UD4	037570731X	22798973	The Ladies' Man	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Cute and charming!	The characters in The Ladies' Man are quite enchanting. The story has the kind of charm that should sweeten up the toughest reader out there.<br />Having failed as a jingle composer, Nash Harvey, a heartbreaking womanizer, reappears in the lives of the Dobbin sisters. This wouldn't be so hard if he hadn't disappeared on the night he was celebrating his engagement to Adele Dobbin. Why is he back after thirty years? Does it have anything to do with the fact that he is now a middle-aged lonely man? One thing is certain though: the Dobbin sisters will never be the same.<br />This is a very cute and charming romantic comedy that should be saved for those times in which you are in the mood for something light and breezy. Let's face it, every reader should indulge in something pleasantly light from time to time. And you can never go wrong with Elinor Lipman.	2000-10-11
2256007:US	50774468	R33RLVYHX20MCO	0802134505	268472281	The Butcher: And Other Erotica	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Poetic Erotica!	This is one of the sexiest books I have ever read. Alina Reyes's language is poetic and erotic at the same time. This isn't your typical romance novel in which the plot is pretty much out on the open; you have to actually read between the lines and figure out what the scene symbolizes. I love the story of a French woman whose innocence is lost during college vacation. She worked at a deli, and the butcher whispered in obscene detail what he would like to do with her. Despite having fallen in love with a male classmate, the young woman is drawn to the butcher. Alina Reyes will take you on an erotic journey that you can't even begin to fathom. As I've mentioned earlier, you have got to figure out what the story symbolizes. This is a great read. With sensuous scenes, beautiful language and poetic undertones, The Butcher is one of the most profound pieces of fiction I have ever read.	2000-10-07
2257153:US	50774468	R3E5TX4GUT1X4L	0870114263	124990161	House of the Sleeping Beauties and Other Stories	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A thinker person's collection of short stories	Every time I enter the realm of magical realism I feel as though there's no going back. The intense and sometimes disturbing descriptions in the stories make you think and reflect on the surrealism and powerful message behind the writing. Having read House of the Sleeping Beauties, I realize that no other category of literature is as profound as this one. I love all of the stories in this book, especially &quot;One Arm.&quot; This incredible and strange story awed me. There is a recurring theme in the stories: men's perverse obsession with women, particularly young girls. The message is very ambiguous, which means that you have to read between the lines in order to grasp the meaning. Yasunari Kawabata's work is very similar to Banana Yoshimoto's. These Japanese authors write stories filled with interesting language and mystical messages. I strongly suggest that you read this!	2000-10-06
2260117:US	50774468	RVGJPJDOOPTE3	0446670251	437057713	The Virgin Suicides	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A lyrical and dark novel about youth innocence gone awry!	What beautiful language! The Virgin Suicides is a tale of lost innocence. Jeffrey Eugenides introduces the lives of several young men and their obsession with the Lisbon sisters. The second person narrator took me on a journey that I hadn't been able to foresee -- the gothic feel of the novel has a very special brand of magical realism. Also, the novel is a satire of suburban life in the seventies. Which means that it contains the kind of dark humor that I love in literature. Even though there are some unanswered mysteries in this novel, it still sucks you in and doesn't let go until you are appalled by the chilling descriptions and makes you smile because of its sharp wit and humor. I haven't seen the film based on this book, but I am sure that it doesn't compare to the book. I highly recommend that you read this.	2000-10-04
2266805:US	50774468	R2JRZEZF190X2C	0380976188	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Jane Austen meets the TV show &quot;Friends&quot;!	Having read Rachel's Holiday, Marian Keyes's latest book, I thought I should definitely read one of her earlier novels. I had been looking for a laugh-out-loud romantic comedy to read and Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married did not disappoint. What great novel! This book shouldn't be compared to Bridget Jones -- it shines its own light.<br />Lucy Sullivan has received the news of a lifetime: a psychic has predicted that she will be married within a year. The problem is that she has no idea to whom. Who is the lucky man? No one knows. Of course, the search for Mr. Sullivan will take some interesting and rough turns, for Lucy isn't exactly a girl with very high dating standards.<br />This is a great novel. The story is very reminiscent to a Jane Austen novel -- it has that heroine-looking-for-love-in-all-the-wrong-places-but-wouldn't-notice-the-true-love-of-her-life-if-it-hit-her-in-the-head love theme. I loved it. Also, it's like a more intelligent version of the TV sitcom Friends. I loved the neurotic characters. Lucy's roommates -- Karen, the bossy and high maintenance one and Charlotte, the ditsy and naive one -- are hilarious!  As are Daniel (he seemed adorable), Megan and Meredia. I laughed so much with this one. In fact, I was given some puzzled looks on the train on my way to work. My only complaint is Keyes's obvious need to stereotype races. Oh, and having read Rachel's Holiday, I have detected a pattern in Keyes's writing -- a pattern that I cannot discuss for it might spoil the plot.<br />Funny, charming, and as resistible as it is addicting, Lucy Sullivan should be on every woman's reading list. That is if you're in the mood for good British humor.	2000-09-28
2271103:US	50774468	R1ITVIWOT14ZN9	0871138190	754092812	Four Blondes	Books	3	1	2	N	N	It's like reading a magazine article	I enjoyed Candace Bushnell's Sex and the City. I also love her column in the New York Observer, but her new book, Four Blondes, lacks charm and originality. I felt as though I was reading one of her newspaper articles. She brought absolutely nothing new in this one. That's not to say, however, that it isn't a fun and interesting read. I really enjoyed the story of Janey WIlcox. I have met my fair share of gold diggers and she is a very spunky character. The other stories were okay, but they seemed awfully familiar. Bushnell is incredibly talented. She talks about sex, money and lavish lifestyles with a great deal of knowledge and soul. I just wish she'd write something with fewer cliches.	2000-09-25
2271467:US	50774468	RKH5RMRL02HJ4	0060192755	192598613	Kill Me First	Books	1	2	8	N	N	Writing a script would have saved her the trouble	Ugh! What a trite book! It was literally like reading a script.  Evidently Morgenroth had intended to write a novel that would receive offers from every film producer in Hollywood. Yes, there are some exciting and intense moments when Merec is shown just how evil he could be, but not enough to make it exciting or likeable. There isn't a spark of originality in the plot. There's no literary merit. None.<br />May I suggest a dark novel that is thought provoking and intense? Try Criminals by Margot Livesey. I highly advice you to skip this one -- unless you want to read a script disguised as a novel.	2000-09-25
2274915:US	50774468	R28HUSTX85AWTK	0385498934	55785627	The First Paper Girl in Red Oak, Iowa: Stories	Books	4	8	8	N	N	An interesting collection of short stories	This is a very interesting piece of fiction. The stories in The First Paper Girl In Red Oak, Iowa are quirky, poignant, intelligent and funny. What amazes me most is the character development in the short stories. Stuckey-French is able to create wonderful and life-like characters in a brief story. My favorites are &quot;Junior,&quot; &quot;The First Paper Girl In Red Oak, Iowa,&quot; &quot;Famous Poets,&quot; and &quot;Blessings.&quot; Each story has its own brand of quirkiness and hidden message. Also, I love the backdrop of the Midwest. I have never been there -- I've always been an East Coast girl -- but the vivid descriptions made me feel as though it was my own hometown. This is a great book. I highly recommend it, especially to Midwesterners.	2000-09-22
2275052:US	50774468	R20MFTGV5OYVHL	0140262776	564111200	Criminals	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A thin line between good and evil	This incredible book awed me. I still haven't been able to get it out<br />of my mind. Having read The Missing World, I wanted to get my hands on<br />another Margot Livesey book. Her beautiful language is filled with<br />dark humor and disturbing scenes. Criminals is about selfishness and<br />what it takes to do the right thing. On his way to visit his<br />emotionally imbalanced sister, Ewan finds a baby in a bathroom at a<br />bus station. Frantic, he takes the baby with him. He figures that once<br />he's settled at his sister's house he'd be able to report the missing<br />baby. Little does he know that it is all part of a man's scheme to<br />make a profit. To make matters worse, his sister becomes emotionally<br />and psychologically attached to the infant. There are many disturbing<br />and engrossing moments in the novel, especially its disarming and<br />surprising conclusion. This is one of the most memorable psychological<br />thrillers I have ever read. There's a thin line between good and evil<br />and moral and criminal behavior in the story. Are you searching for a<br />suspenseful and literary thriller? Look no further. Criminals is a<br />book that will keep you turning the pages in the wee hours of the<br />night.	2000-09-22
2281137:US	50774468	R20BKYXNRL7Z76	014017821X	967009109	The Bloody Chamber: And Other Stories	Books	5	60	69	N	N	Quirky, disarming, witty, sexy -- magic realism at its best!	Do you have the courage to enter Angela Carter's quirky realm of magical  realism? She is brilliant. BRILLIANT! I love these short stories -- or  rather, fairy tales that everyone is familiar with. The stories have very  familiar themes, like tragic love stories, werewolf stories and  Cinderella-like stories. Of course, Angela added her own ingredients in the  stories. There are a lot of elements of sex and a large dosage of magical  realism. They are so mind-boggling disturbing that I found myself thinking  about them long after I finished reading them. My favorites are &quot;The  Lady of the House of Love,&quot; &quot;The Snow Child,&quot; and &quot;The  Werewolf.&quot; I marvel at Carter's imagination. She is truly gifted. Her  writing style sort of reminds me of Amanda Filipacchi -- a brilliant French  novelist. In fact, I wonder if Carter influenced Filipacchi's work. I  highly recommend The Bloody Chamber. This isn't for the faint at heart;  this is dark literature at its finest!	2000-09-16
2281308:US	50774468	R2SVY4D9G8LBUS	006277266X	250385521	Access San Francisco 8e	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A very helpful city guide book!	I went on vacation to San Francisco about a month ago and I needed a book  that would guide me to the city. Access San Francisco was extremely  informative and helpful. I found some great restaurants, caf&eacute;s and shopping  areas. Of course, it also guided me to China Town and the Golden Gate  Bridge. Also, the book tells us the history of San Francisco and the  different types of neighborhoods one might want to go to. I loved it. Are  you planning on going to San Francisco? If so, buy Access San Francisco.  Believe me, it is a tourist's must have!	2000-09-16
2287338:US	50774468	R22AK47106LUPE	0451408888	475370067	The Trials of Tiffany Trott	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Excruciatingly funny!	I have read some pretty funny novels, but this one tops them all! Having  read and enjoyed Making Minty Malone, Isabel Wolff's second novel, I  couldn't wait to read this one. I can't believe I hadn't read this book  until now! I have no excuses -- people were constantly telling me to read  it. I am so glad I did. The story is about serial dater Tiffany Trott and  her tenacious search for Mr. Right. She answered personal ads and attended  parties for singles. The man of her life was out there, she just had to  find him.<br />I couldn't stop laughing at the funny situations that Tiffany  had encountered. I lost count of all the men she met in the story, but it  was funny that it seemed as though she only attracted dysfunctional men. Or  was she the dysfunctional one? There were some incredibly memorable moments  in this novel. I loved it when she said, &quot;Actually, I didn't say that  at all...&quot; I mean, let's face it. We don't always say what's really on  our minds. She was very witty and clever and real and I could definitely  identify with her character. Also, I loved the backdrop of London's public  transportation. It really made me feel as though I was there with her. Are  you looking for an intelligent and hilarious read? Look no further. The  Trials of Tiffany Trott is an unpredictable, hilarious and Seriously  Successful novel that will keep you turning the pages. A definite must  read!	2000-09-11
2290786:US	50774468	R3TWMBT1UL66DC	0684863588	43535728	Stick Figure: A Diary of My Former Self	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Rings a bell	I think I've met Lori Gottlieb before. In fact, I think I know her.  Actually, she reminds me of how I used to be. I, too, was Anorexic. I was a  twelve-year-old straight-A student dealing with the same issues that Lori  dealt with. The only difference, of course, is that I was not raised in  Beverly Hills -- better known as the body-conscious capital of the world. I  enjoyed reading this memoir. Lori was a very funny and clever  eleven-year-old girl and I laughed and marveled at her wit. But I also  marveled at her keen observation. Yes, women are obsessed with their  appearance; I do believe that Anorexia is the manifestation of society's  obsession with thinness. Everyone around Lori -- including her neurotic  mother -- was constantly dieting and obsessing with make-up and clothes.  She kept asking why her mother and other women were allowed to starve  themselves and she wasn't. And that was how Lori was able to notice women's  preoccupation with beauty and the fact that she was considered  &quot;unique&quot; because of her intellect and lack of interest in  fashion.<br />I have read tons of books about Anorexia Nervosa, but this  memoir was able to provide me with an insight about the illness that I have  indeed noticed before, but never thought of it as perhaps one of the most  important aspects of the illness. I couldn't help but notice that Lori  Gottlieb could be a great sociologist. She is very bright and conscious of  the things surrounding her. I strongly suggest that you read this book. It  unravels many aspects of Anorexia Nervosa -- aspects that we often take for  granted.	2000-09-07
2294884:US	50774468	R145S8UZHHJYA0	0375504133	603083203	The Fundamentals of Play: A Novel	Books	4	2	8	N	N	Very well done and interestingly nuance!	I see that Caitlin Macy is a talented writer. After all, she has brought  the characters in The Fundamentals of Play to life. I marvel at the fact  that this novel is somewhat similar to The Great Gatsby. Evidently Macy has  done what Helen Fielding and other authors have done: create a novel that  is vaguely similar to a classic. That's okay though, I mean, she has  succeeded in adding her own exquisite language in the story. The story  focuses on George Lenhart (the narrator) and his college friends, Chat and  Kate. Having lived a sheltered and predictable life, the three friends have  no idea how Nick, the poor and less likely to succeed student in Maine has  turned into a successful business man. To George's dismay, Nick's life is  interestingly nuance and it's breaking all the rules that are supposed to  keep life in order. There are many amusing moments in this novel, like  having to deal with a career in New York City and class-conscious friends.  I strongly suggest that you read this entertaining and witty novel. Trust  me, you will love it.	2000-09-05
2295478:US	50774468	RZ07SAYG6ECVE	0151004714	4054666	The Last Life: A Novel	Books	5	13	18	N	N	The most beautiful book I have ever read!	What gorgeous language! What an incredible writer! The Last Life is one of  the best written novels I have ever read. This incredible novel contains  various elements of fiction: historical, philosophical, and just the right  touch of magical realism.<br />The story is about a French-Algerian family  and the constant moving to different parts of the world -- the South of  France, the East Coast of the U.S. and Algeria -- has affected each of  their lives. It seems as though each family member has found his or her  identity in one of the many places they have been. As a result, they never  feel like they have found a home. The thing that struck me most when  reading this book was how the author described life in the lost world of  French Algeria in the 1950's. The historical part of the novel is  incredibly accurate. Let me tell you that I have learned a lot of important  parts of history in this book. I also love the fact that the story is told  through the eyes of fourteen-year-old Lagesse, seen through the eyes of  innocence indeed!  The Last Life is -- without a  stretch of doubt -- the best historical fiction novel I have ever read.  This novel should not be overlooked. Run along and get it!	2000-09-05
2297068:US	50774468	R2QO18S4KEAFE1	0312203241	279845342	Emotionally Weird: A Novel	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Emotionally disappointing	I thought that I would find a funny, entertaining and extremely neurotic  story in this one. The first few chapters of Emotionally Weird were done  very well. I was getting what I wanted: a satire of college life in the  1970's, but then it got irritating and trite. Unfortunately I found the  series of stories and character anecdotes annoying and misguided. Yes, it  is very funny. But the comedy does not make up for the ludicrous and  confusing situations. I am not going to say that you shouldn't buy this  book, although you should know what you're getting yourself into. In the  end, you will either love or hate it.	2000-09-03
2297338:US	50774468	R1YH6AH8MPJY3R	0385498241	648980228	Not a Day Goes By: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Entertaining and provocative!	This is the first E. Lynn Harris novel I have ever read. Let me tell you  that it will not be the last. His sharp writing, precise wit and incredible  narration are one of the best I have recently read. I love the story of  ex-football player turned sports agent John &quot;Basil&quot; Henderson and  up-and-coming, ego-is-larger-than-actual-fame Broadway star Yancey  Harrington Braxton. Their love story illustrates how childhood traumas  could affect adult relationships. I love John's character; he is a very  earnest and very confused man. In fact, all of the characters are earnest  and real. I have met my fair share of Basils or Yanceys or Avas (Yancey's  wayward mother) in life. This is a great novel. E. Lynn Harris is a very  talented contemporary writer. I strongly recommend that you give this book  a whirl.	2000-09-03
2301491:US	50774468	R30QCSZGUNXG9V	0020383142	690811311	Old New York	Books	5	29	33	N	N	The story-telling talents of Edith Warthon!	There is no doubt about it. Edith Warthon -- the stunning creator of  amazing novels like The Age of Innocence and The House of Mirth -- had  outdone herself with Old New York. The four novellas in Old New York have  similar themes: infidelity, jealousy and the always intriguing class  system. I love all the stories, but I particularly like &quot;New Year's  Day,&quot; which focuses on an adulterous woman. I marvel at the fact that  this story had probably caused some controversy in those times. I also  enjoyed &quot;False Down&quot; and &quot;The Old Maid.&quot; I know that  this particular book is not as popular as -- oh, I don't know -- The Age of  Innocence, but the timeless quality in the stories is definitely memorable.  If you haven't given this wonderful book a whirl, please do!	2000-08-30
2302700:US	50774468	R3GTC3Q5L4V54A	067177543X	812693368	Playing Away	Books	5	13	15	N	N	An intelligent and honest look at marriage and infidelity	Is there such a thing as Happily Ever After? That's what Connie Green -- the spunky heroine in Playing Away -- wonders. More importantly, why would  a confident and successful career woman with a seemingly perfect husband  want to have a sleazy affair with a  I-can-get-any-woman-I-want-whenever-I-want man? These are the things that  the precocious heroine is battling with. Connie cannot resist John  Harding's enigmatic and tenacious nature. Before she knows it, she has  begun a steamy and dangerous affair that could make or destroy her life.  Connie is confused. She doesn't know what she wants. So she seeks advise  from her friends, all of which are too preoccupied with their own love  lives -- or lack thereof. Will Connie come to her senses, or will she throw  caution to the wind and jeopardize her marriage?<br />This novel made laugh  and cry. There were some scenes in which Connie and John engaged into some  pretty racy sex. But there were funny and touching moments as well. I loved  Connie's friends -- their get-togethers and witty conversations felt as  though I was watching an episode of Sex and the City. However, I frowned at  the fact that Connie seemed a little too desperate about John and degraded  herself most of the time. It was painful. But the sharp writing and witty  characters are the force in this magnificent novel. Playful, sexy, perverse  and with a particular brand of sly naivete all its own, Playing Away is a  reading investment. I highly recommend it.	2000-08-30
2308027:US	50774468	RE62FP2CVCX0	068818071X	519845136	Rachel's Holiday	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Poignant, compelling and honest!	This is the first time I have read a Marian Keyes novel. Her writing<br />is very witty and sharp. Also, she has proven that she is perfectly<br />capable of writing a funny and compelling story about a woman whose<br />life in the fast lane abruptly comes to a halt when she is faced with<br />two choices: either attend a rehab center or die of an<br />overdose....<br />I love the comedy in the novel. I also love<br />the fact that Keyes has successfully created a heroine whose denial is<br />so acute that it managed to fool me for a moment. She has obviously<br />done her homework. I also love the romance between Rachel and her<br />boyfriend Luke. He is a great character. The supporting characters in<br />the novel are all great.  The only blemish in the novel is the<br />constant Hispanic stereotypes -- to be honest, I found it<br />grotesque. Other than that, this is a fascinating and poignant novel<br />that should be read and appreciated to the fullest. Enjoy.	2000-08-25
2308449:US	50774468	RAH51EG0LXYGN	156414206X	49881162	Smart Woman's Guide to Interviewing and Salary Negotiation (Smart Woman's Series)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Very informative!	Let's face it. Women have a hard time being aggressive. We are raised to be mild-mannered creatures who apologize a lot. To make things worse, we face discrimination in the work force. But, of course, that could change. I  marvel at The Smart Woman's Guide to Interviewing and Salary Negotiation's  intelligent and useful information on how to be confident and persuasive in  a job interview.<br />There are many valuable steps one can take to land the  job one wants and the salary one deserves. Of course, the book discusses  dressing properly and speaking clearly and confidently during an interview  -  I have had plenty of information on how to achieve that. But the book  also discusses gender discrimination, sexual harassment, stereotypes in the  work force, and describes ways to negotiate the salary you deserve and how  to demand a raise.<br />Job interviews aren't easy - in fact, they are rather  fastidious. Which is why I highly recommend this book. Do you need some  direction on how to achieve in life? Read the book. Trust me, it is money  well spent.	2000-08-25
2316068:US	50774468	R28QE76S9UY489	0802134092	897378500	On Love	Books	5	10	13	N	N	The human's guide to romantic love!	This book awed me. I marvel at Alain de Botton's attention to detail. He  has unraveled the many mysteries of romantic love. And he does it with a  great deal of wit and irony. A woman named Chloe on a Paris flight to  London smites the nameless narrator, and by the time they reach the baggage  claim, he knows he has fallen in love. From then on, Alain charts the  different stages of love -- from the blissful beginning to the  heart-wrenching ending. I have found some interesting things in this book,  like the fact that one's attempt at being charming on a first date consists  in not doing or saying a lot of things one would normally say or do. Having  experienced this, I utterly agree with the author. In fact, this book  helped me understand many things about relationships. I love the  philosophies and the theories that were illustrated in his writing. This  dissertation/novel is one of the most complex and most intellectually  stimulating pieces of literature I have ever read. This is -- without a  stretch of doubt -- the human's guide to romantic love. I strongly suggest  that you read and reflect on the chapters in this novel. Believe me, you  will love it!	2000-08-19
2316528:US	50774468	R3QSZ0HFSRHYCM	0451409256	208908626	Making Minty Malone	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Warning: this book could be addictive!	Dumped. Ditched. Deserted. Jilted. Minty Malone's ultimate nightmare comes  true. Her fiance, Dominic, has run off on their wedding day. Minty, a  sweet-mannered radio reporter, is suddenly single. After having suffered a  mild nervous breakdown, she decides to improve her life. She is a pushover;  everyone walks all over her. Well, no more Miss Nice Guy. With the help of  her novelist cousin Amber, Minty throws the bouquet over a bridge, demands  a promotion at work, and attends meetings that will help her overcome her  sweet temper. In the process of a complete emotional transformation, she  meets a charming novelist and screenwriter named Joe. But will she ever get  over Dominic? And will she give love another chance? I couldn't put this  book down. The wit, charm, humor, and compelling characters make this  single-at-thirty-living-in-London novel utterly irresistible. I wanted to  indulge in this book the same away I indulge in a delicious strawberry  cheesecake. It is, without a doubt, addictive. Having said this, you should  know how to handle it. Don't say I hadn't warned you!	2000-08-19
2317560:US	50774468	R3154O0TLJL1VM	0553212583	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Wuthering Heights	The Bronte sisters were extremely remarkable women. They have left a literary place in history. Charlotte Bronte was the most popular one; she  wrote Jane Eyre, one of the most popular fiction novels in history. But  there is definitely room for Emily Bronte. Wuthering Heights, Emily's only  novel is -- without a doubt -- the work of a genius. The tragic love story  of Catherine and Heathcliff is one of the most memorable ones I have ever  read. Also, I love the backdrop of the story. The story took place on the  untamed Yorkshire moors in England. It symbolizes their wild love -- or  more specifically, Heathcliff's wild ways. I love a story with symbolism.  It saddens me to know that this is the only novel of Emily Bronte. She  would have written other books if she hadn't died the way she did. I am  consoled with the fact that she has left us this incredible book, a book  that will be treasured forever.	2000-08-18
2323481:US	50774468	R3FOWCIPT50X6Y	0892966971	298802765	Killing Me Softly: A Novel of Obsession	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A fatally attractive novel!	Killing Me Softly kept me turning the pages. The suspense put me in a  trance. Nicci French's writing is very haunting; she reigns as one of the  best and most original psychological thriller writers today. She -- like  British counterpart Helen Zahavi -- has the effortless ability to capture  you with her dark world and interesting characters.<br />Alice Loundon's life  couldn't be any more fulfilling. She is a successful career woman and is  engaged to a wonderful man named Jake. Even though her personal life is in  order, she feels that there is something, that there is a void that needs  to be filled. Her ordered life lacks excitement. But things change as soon  as she meets a handsome and mysterious stranger named Adam. After a night  of passionate lovemaking with Adam, she dumps her fiance and marries Adam.  Little does Alice know that she has embarked on a roller coaster ride of  obsession and malice. There are some very intense moments in this  novel.<br />Killing Me Softly has a Fatal Attraction quality to it that will  keep you turning the pages. There are many thrillers out there --  especially thrillers about obsession -- but Nicci French's language is  original. I am pleased that this incredible novel surprised me into  consciousness. I urge to read this magnificent novel.	2000-08-14
2323569:US	50774468	R7EOV8X1G4PKD	0671725661	974765383	West Side Story	Books	5	19	23	N	N	The urban equivalent of Romeo and Juliet	West Side Story has always been one of my favorite musicals. The tragic  love story of Tony and Maria touches me in many ways. I, too, have had a  forbidden romance, which is why I marvel at the earnestness of the story.  Set in New York City, it introduces two groups.<br />The Jets: an American  gang.<br />The Sharks: a Puerto Rican gang.<br />The gangs attend a community  dance in which they plan a fight. Things take an interesting twist when  Tony -- the former leader of the Jets -- falls for Maria, Bernardo's  sister. Bernardo happens to be the leader of the Sharks, and he doesn't  want his sister involved with his rival.<br />This is, without a doubt, the  urban equivalent of Romeo and Juliet. The stories are very similar, but  West Side Story has an irresistible urban appeal, an appeal that has  captured audiences and readers for many decades. I am so glad I have read  the novelization of this popular musical. If you're in the mood for a  timeless love story, read West Side Story. Satisfaction is guaranteed!	2000-08-14
2324816:US	50774468	R77MGF6I8G3W2	0385323638	337263488	Pink Slip	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Hilariously funny and irresistibly sexy!	I have heard that Rita Ciseri is this era's Jane Austen. She writes books that are both romantic and funny. Well, I don't know if she has what it  takes to become this era's Jane Austen, but she has written a very funny  and romantic book.<br />Lisa Diodetto's mother wants her to be married. She  is constantly reminded that time is of the essence. But Lisa couldn't be  happier living a single life, that is until she meets Eben Strauss -- a  straight-laced Jewish man who happens to be Lisa's boss at a pharmaceutical  firm. Lisa, whose Italian family is Catholic, is faced with a dilemma. Will  her family approve of the relationship? Also, she has kept secrets from her  mother, like the abortion she had years ago. There are some incredibly  funny and sexy moments in this novel.<br />This novel is extremely well  written and emotional. Ciseri has a way with words. And she has indeed  written a beautiful love story that captured me. I have only one objection:  the fact that there are too many subplots. It was confusing and seemed  misguided at times. But other than that, this book is great. I highly  recommend it.	2000-08-13
2328789:US	50774468	R38Q9CBTC6QOG	0786862823	996514530	The Honey Thief	Books	5	25	25	N	N	As sweet as honey!	The Honey Thief is a lucid and beautiful novel about how the errors of the past haunt the present and how a widowed wife and daughter deal with  bottled up feelings. Do secrets affect relationships and every day life?  After eleven-year-old Eva is picked up on her fourth shoplifting charge,  her mother, Miriam, decides to move from Manhattan to a quiet town in New  York State. Lonely, Eva bonds with a middle-aged beekeeper named Burl. But  Eva hasn't felt compelled to tell her mother about her new friend. Also,  Miriam has never told Eva about her father's death. She told her he died of  a heart attack. But is that the truth? The disturbing and heart-wrenching  way her father died could affect Eva's future. As tension mounts between  mother and daughter, Miriam wonders if she should open up to her daughter.  There are some haunting scenes in this book.<br />The Honey Thief has  beautiful language; it has a rather lyrical feel to it. I have fallen in  love with this book; there are few novels about family dilemmas that touch  me this way. With compelling characters and exquisite language, The Honey  Thief is as sweet and as rich as, well, honey. I highly recommend this  title.	2000-08-10
2328852:US	50774468	R3QX6YXLYJMSCY	0688157483	980403553	The Body in the Big Apple (Faith Fairchild Mysteries)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A wonderful and entertaining mystery	Kathryn Hall Page's mystery novels have all been very well written and  entertaining. The Body In the Big Apple is a prequel of The Body In...  mystery series. In this novel, Faith Sibley Fairchild is a caterer in New  York City. She bumps into an old college friend at a party. Emma Morris --  Faith's friend -- is the wife of an important politician. Exasperated, she  tells Faith that she is being blackmailed. She is the daughter of 60's  radical Nathan Fox -- she hadn't known that fact until recently and the  media scandal could cost her husband's political career. Also, Emma has  other secrets that she hasn't told her husband. And that is how Faith  begins to solve mysteries.<br />I found this book to be enchanting. I love  how she described New York City -- especially since the story took place  around Christmas -- and the recipes she had written down in the book. The  characters are great and Faith is a strong and smart heroine. I suggest  that you purchase this entertaining and exciting book. Oh, and I also  suggest that you read the whole Kathryn Hall Page mystery series. They are  all very entertaining. Enjoy.	2000-08-10
2337513:US	50774468	R3RPY7UITNF9R	0802116698	400458351	Asleep	Books	5	12	16	N	Y	The master storyteller is back!	Banana Yoshimoto's novels have touched me in so many ways. Her lucid,  subtle and disarming writing style is a work of art. She is a tour de force  in contemporary fiction. I have waited a long time for the release of  Asleep, and I am not disappointed.<br />The three novellas in Asleep are  earnest, sensuous, eccentric, and extremely surreal. The three female  characters in the book are bewitched into a spiritual and magical sleep. In  Night and Night's Travelers, the first story, a woman finds herself  sleepwalking at night. In Love Song, a woman's sleep is haunted by a rival  whom she once competed with in a love triangle. And in Asleep, a woman  loses her best friend to suicide. Also, she is having an affair with a man  whose wife is in a coma. Things take a strange turn when she finds herself  suddenly unable to stay awake. The stories are very ambiguous; you have to  pay attention to every detail in order to grasp their meaning. The magical  realism in the stories is as mystical as a ghost story and the language is  deceptively simple -- it is meant to play with the reader's mind.<br />I am  awed by this incredible piece of fiction. The stories are very well done  and interestingly nuance. This is her most creative work since Kitchen and  her best collection of stories since Lizard. Powerful and spooky, Asleep  will capture your heart. I strongly urge you to read this one!	2000-08-04
2338717:US	50774468	RFC62TWCKZX1A	0060393203	956920947	Getting Over It: A Novel	Books	5	47	49	N	N	A wickedly funny and compelling read	I have fallen in love with this book! The comic timing is precise and the  story is infectious and enchanting. Anna Maxtet is -- without a doubt --  one of the funkiest and boldest new voices in contemporary fiction. Helen  Bradshaw is a great heroine; Bridget Jones has got nothing on her!<br />After  having lost her father to a heart attack, Helen's world crashes down. Well,  her life has never been perfect anyway. After all, she has a menial job at  a woman's magazine, drives an old Toyota, has had her share of bad  boyfriends, lives with the roommate from hell, her mother is the mother of  all drama queens, her friends always seem to be perfect, and her cat,  Fatboy, is the only man in her life. While she tries to deal with her  mother's grief, Tom -- a charming veterinarian -- sweeps Helen off her  feet. But will he stick around after having witnessed Helen's embarrassing  tequila incident? There are some memorable and incredibly funny moments in  this novel. Getting Over It is one of those rare treasures that should be  read again and again. I strongly recommend this title. Now roll along and  get it!	2000-08-04
2342406:US	50774468	R1HYVXO6OUWZ17	0688174566	992211330	After Lucy: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A funny and remarkable novel about love and grief	After Lucy is one of those rare novels that mix something as heartfelt as the loss of a wife and mother with something as hilarious as going to a  road trip and end up stranded in a campground with a bunch of Grateful Dead  fans.<br />After having lost his wife to Breast Cancer, Porter tries to  overcome his grief by going on a road trip with his two kids. He has traded  his wife's Mazda for a run-down camper. He ends up stranded in a strange  campground surrounded by Deadheads. The trip does not go as planned, but he  is able to face his grief and accept that things will not change. Instead,  he decides to help a young pregnant woman find her wayward boyfriend. There  are some funny moments in the story, and the characters -- especially  Porter's in-laws -- are somewhat neurotic and interesting.<br />The story is  both hilarious and heartwarming, but I have one objection. The author  should have added more elements of grief in the story, especially with the  kids. The novel seldom mentions Lucy, which is strange considering that  this character is very important in the story. Other than that the story is  great. Enjoy!	2000-08-02
2344270:US	50774468	R1WR91Q8L81K7H	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A true classic!	Harper Lee's To Kill A Mocking Bird has a timeless quality -- people of various generations and cultures have embraced it. This is -- without a doubt -- one of my all-time favorite novels. I marvel at Harper Lee's  amazing language and compelling story of Atticus Finch and his two  children, Scout and Jem. Atticus has decided to defend a young black man  accused of raping a white woman. Set during the Depression in Alabama,  defending Tom Robinson is not an easy task. The whole town is against what  he's doing. Lee touches on some very sensitive subjects, like the caste  system, separation based on class and racism. I love the fact that the  story is told through the eyes of Scout and Jem -- the children talk with  honesty, humor and innocence. Also, I am awed by Atticus's fatherly warmth  and family values. With great characters and a tender story, To Kill A  Mockingbird is an everlasting treasure that should be read more than once.	2000-07-31
2345037:US	50774468	R3T3S1I3JNMAZU	0679764038	833943531	Collected Stories of William Faulkner	Books	5	34	43	N	N	This is literature at its finest!	William Faulkner's work has influenced many writers. His extravagant language and quirky stories are the epitome of fiction. Having read this amazing collection of short stories, I have no doubt in my mind that  Faulkner was a very interesting person -- I would've loved to meet him.<br />My favorite story is &quot;A Rose for Emily&quot;; the quirkiness and  symbolism in the story is both beautiful and strange. I also like &quot;A  Bear Hunt,&quot; &quot;All the Dead Pilots,&quot; &quot;Wash,&quot; and  &quot;Two Soldiers&quot; -- all of the stories have a very unique language.  If you like good literature, I strongly suggest that you read this amazing  book.	2000-07-31
2346278:US	50774468	RSCWP2N3ZV1EW	031225234X	312924571	Name Dropping	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A fun and illuminating read	What happens when two people with the same name live in the same building? You get the other person's mail and deliveries. But what if the person lives a life that only exists in your wildest dreams? That's what happens  to Nancy Stern, a preschool teacher and divorcee from Manhattan. Her life  couldn't be any duller, but then she starts receiving invitations to  glamorous dinner parties and private film screenings with -- oh, no one  special -- Harrison Ford. To her surprise, another woman named Nancy Stern  -- a famous celebrity journalist -- has moved into the building. Also,  Nancy receives notes from a mysterious admirer. Will Nancy become a  usurper? There are some exciting twists and turns in the story.<br />This is a  very fun book that should be read on a hot and sunny day at the beach. The  situation is funny and entertaining; it will keep you turning the pages.  Happy reading!	2000-07-30
2348780:US	50774468	R2P34TQ2WUE9NQ	0452282195	331831848	The Bluest Eye (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	20	24	N	N	A literary masterpiece!	Toni Morrison is one of the best fiction writers of this era, and she has proved it again and again. The Bluest Eye, Morrison's first novel, is a rich and heart-wrenching story with language so exquisite and beautiful  that moved me in many ways.<br />The story is about Pecola, a girl whose only  dream is to have blue eyes. Her perception of beauty is somewhat deluded,  but that's the sad reality African Americans have endured for decades. The  novel emphasizes self-hatred, but the focus in the story is not how one  perceives one's beauty, but rather how others perceive it. The secondary  characters are essentially important in the novel. Pecola, the focal  character, is not quite as developed as the others. I think Morrison wanted  the reader to comprehend other people's perception of Pecola's beauty -- or  lack thereof. It is sort of an outsider looking in type of thing. Pecola's  story is both tragic and thought provoking. One might wonder: how do I  perceive beauty? Is beauty really in the eyes of the beholder?<br />This is --  without a stretch of doubt -- a thinker's novel. Oprah has picked an  excellent book. Toni Morrison is a gifted storyteller. I strongly urge to  read this book!	2000-07-28
2362737:US	50774468	R3IUXTG2GMQYCT	0375420525	383727435	House of Leaves	Books	4	38	50	N	N	Thought provoking and haunting	I have read various twisted novels, but this one left me in a state of intense turmoil. Each page is filled with disturbing details and mind-blowing suspense.<br />After having found a monograph called The  Navidson Record, a book based on a documentary that was written by a blind  man named Zampano, Jonny Truant's life is not the same. And after having  read House of Leaves, I, like Truant, haven't been able to forget this  incredible piece of work. Luckily, I, unlike Truant, don't have nightmares  because of it.<br />This is not a book that you can pleasantly read on the  beach; it demands your undivided attention. I marvel at Mark Z.  Danielewski's talent and genius. I highly recommend House of Leaves. Now  run along and get it!	2000-07-19
2363217:US	50774468	R33E8Q2UFI3I4N	0312252250	7984183	The Perfect Elizabeth: A Tale of Two Sisters	Books	5	49	56	N	N	A charming comedy about the spirit of true sisterhood	The Perfect Elizabeth is a poignant and charming comedy about two sisters that go together like peanut butter and jelly. Their closeness is very tender and beautiful. They, like many women, struggle with relationships,  careers and other things that life brings unexpectedly.<br />At 32, Eliza,  the narrator, has no idea what she wants in life. Frustrated by her lack of  resourcefulness career-wise, she finds comfort in the arms of her boyfriend  Gregor, whereas Bette is a teacher at a prestigious university and writes  dissertations on English novels, but her love life isn't exactly great.  Eliza wants her sister to be in a relationship, but when Bette meets the  man of her dreams, she turns into a modern-day June Cleaver. Meanwhile,  Eliza is still dazed and confused. By the end of the novel, the sisters  have endured infidelity, neurotic parents and self-discovery.<br />Smart,  funny and touching, The Perfect Elizabeth is a book to be devoured. I  marvel at Libby Schmais's sharp wit and precise comic timing. I highly  recommend this book.	2000-07-19
2363390:US	50774468	R3E7FKKJXWWNLQ	0679776532	557008872	Believers: A Novella and Stories	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Luminous and funny -- this is fiction at its finest!	Having read A Feast of Love, I was compelled to read another Charles Baxter book. This book is quite funny and touching -- Baxter has the ability to move people's hearts with his unique language and precise coming  timing. The short stories are great; my favorites are  &quot;Reincarnation,&quot; &quot;The Next Building I Plan to Bomb&quot; and  &quot;The Cures for Love.&quot; These stories are extremely funny and  thought provoking at the same time.<br />Believers, like The Feast of Love,  has a timeless quality that establishes Baxter as one of our most gifted  fiction writers of today. I strongly recommend this book.	2000-07-19
2369259:US	50774468	R2EFPCVI9YFE0O	1862300461	491732356	Donna and The Fatman	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Brilliant! Helen Zahavi is utterly original!	Brett Easton Ellis and Quentin Tarantino have created a world of surrealism and dark humor in their work. I hadn't read a book with such subjects written by a woman until I discovered Helen Zahavi. Zahavi writes  novels with a great deal of rage -- rage against abusive men, gang leaders,  etc. She showed her full potential with Dirty Weekend -- one of my favorite  novels -- and has taken a leap forward with Donna and the Fatman.<br />This  novel, like Dirty Weekend, has a recurring theme: revenge. Set in the  graphic life of London's criminal warfare, it introduces Henry -- also  known as the fatman -- a notorious gang leader and Donna, the object of the  fatman's desire, or rather, the object of the fatman's need to take of  advantage of his power. Donna is obligated to free her boyfriend's debt by  sleeping with Henry. At the last minute, however, she changes her mind. She  steals money from Henry and escapes. But Henry, of course, won't let her  get away with that, and that's when the story takes some interesting twists  and turns.<br />Donna and the Fatman is a tour de force of dark humor and  gorgeous language. I strongly urge you to read it!	2000-07-15
2374655:US	50774468	R1RYAHLW8UTXRF	0808508962	342588515	A Midsummer Night's Dream (Folger Library General Reader's Shakespeare)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The funniest Shakespeare book I have ever read!	Yes, Shakespeare has a sense of humor; he proved it in A Midsummer Night's Dream. I have enjoyed all of his books, especially Romeo and Juliet and MacBeth, but A Midsummer Night's Dream is, in my opinion, his best work.  There are many love stories in this book, one of which is about Hermia and  Lysander. They hide in the woods because Hermia's father wants her to marry  Demetrius, a wealthy man. In order to win over Hermia's father, a woman  named Helena tells him where Hermia is, and they immediately go after the  two lovers. What happens to Hermia and Lysander? Does she marry Demetrius?  You'll have to read it in order to find out. There are other great stories  in this book, including the one of Theseus and Hippolyta -- two royals that  are about to get married. With Shakespeare's ability to write a beautiful  love story with a touch of poetry and precise comic timing, this is a  classic that everyone should read. I highly recommend it!	2000-07-12
2378909:US	50774468	R8KPXMD8RXJUF	0449005569	474004755	Love: A User's Guide	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Funny and Entertaining	Have you ever had a crush on a celebrity? How would you feel if the  celebrity has a crush on you? That's what happened to Amy, the precocious  heroine in this charming love story.<br />Working for Vogue magazine, Amy  spends endless days and nights dressing Euro-trash models. To her  disappointment, the job is not as glamorous as she thought it would be. But  when she meets Orlando Rock, a famous actor in England, she feels that she  has found the jet-set life she has dreamed of. Amy wants to attend movie  premieres, cast parties, photo shoots -- in other words, she wants to  become a celebrity in her own right. But all Orlando wants is a private  life and a relationship with a &quot;normal&quot; woman. Does Amy love  Orlando, or is she using him?<br />This novel vaguely resembles the movie  Notting Hill, but the romance in the book is much better. I highly  recommend it!	2000-07-10
2382374:US	50774468	R1BAB9NI7PRP3R	067946302X	754868365	Never Mind Nirvana: A Novel	Books	5	15	19	N	N	An Excellent Read!	I have read books about characters that supposedly evolve through time -- they grow up because they &quot;have to.&quot; In Never Mind Nirvana, Pete Tyler gave up his gig as a musician in favor of a career. He is now a  deputy prosecutor, which, of course, is a very grown-up job. At 36, Pete is  convinced that he wants -- or rather, has to get married, but he doesn't  know to whom; there are several possible brides, including Beth, Pete's  first love. But he can't make up his mind, after all, he is sort of a  playboy -- he hasn't given up on bars, clubs and one-night stands. There  are other things that trouble him. For instance, when he is forced to take  a date-rape case -- the accused is a local rocker from Pete's era -- he  recognizes the fact that he is better off living an adult life.<br />This is  a very musical novel -- the music that's described in the novel blends well  with the story and chapters. I don't usually listen to alternative music,  but I did enjoy reading about Seattle's local bands. I highly recommend  this novel.	2000-07-08
2386551:US	50774468	R2AZ5Y1Q4PRFGK	0156007754	787923440	Blindness (Harvest Book)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Brilliant and Chilling!	This is one of the most twisted novels I have ever read. Jose Saramego has written a very disturbing and intelligent novel.<br />In a mysterious city, a man loses his sight in his car while waiting for a traffic light to change.  But, and this is very interesting, instead of living in darkness, he can  only see white. Exasperated, his wife takes him to a hospital, but then  everyone in the hospital, including his wife, becomes blind. Everyday, more  and more people become blind, and they are immediately sent to an insane  asylum.<br />There are some interesting things in this novel. For instance,  how come the characters don't have names? What city are they in? Everything  is nameless, and I'm sure that it is done with a purpose. I know for a fact  that it is symbolic, for I have read many novels with symbolism and magical  realism.<br />This is -- without a doubt -- one of the best novels that are  out there today. Saramego is a genius! I highly recommend it.	2000-07-06
2391540:US	50774468	R2QBHTUMQCNAE4	0767905172	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel	Books	5	14	20	N	N	A novel about ugly ducklings and swans indeed!	I haven't read a chick novel that's wittier than this one! Yes, I have read some good chick novels, but this is  the best one!<br />The story is about Jemima Jones: an overweight, wannabe journalist who's often  patronized by her roommates and editors at the Kilburn Herald, a local  newspaper in which she writes the Top Tips column. Jemima, at twenty-seven,  is miserable. When she meets Brad, a gorgeous Californian over the  Internet, Jemima decides to lose the weight and become the slim, gorgeous,  gym-obsessed glamour girl she has always wanted to be. But is Brad the true  love of her life? Or is it Ben Williams, a drop-dead gorgeous ex-colleague  at the Kilburn Herald? I can't spoil the surprise, but ah, the irony.<br />Anyway, as I've already mentioned, this is the best chick novel I have  ever read. It is filled with every female fantasy you can think of. Indeed,  it is a novel about ugly ducklings and swans. I devoured this book in one  day. A must-read!	2000-07-03
2394393:US	50774468	R3RIJX59OY8GZC	037540581X	869606125	The Missing World	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Thin Line Between Love and Obsession	This is one of the best dark novels I have read in quite a while. And I love its recurring theme: second chances.<br />After his ex-girlfriend loses her memory, Jonathan takes advantage of a once in a lifetime opportunity:  Hazel does not remember the loathsome experiences she had with him, and so  he devotes his life to her and tries to wipe away the blunder in their  past. Obsessed, Jonathan has turned Hazel into a prisoner in his home -- he  is afraid of losing her. While Jonathan rewrites their history, an American  roofer and an unsuccessful actress cross Jonathan's path -- each of them  haunted by unpleasant memories they would rather forget. There are many  disturbing scenes in this novel, especially the one in which Jonathan rapes  Hazel while she's having a seizure.<br />Margot Livesey's voice is absolutely  exquisite -- she has written a wonderful novel filled with dark humor.  Also, I love the backdrop of London in the story. I highly recommend this  one!	2000-06-30
2408457:US	50774468	RMLD16DK9X818	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	3	10	19	N	N	The ugliness of society mirrored in a psychopath	This novel has had a lot of controversy since its release in 1991; it has appalled many readers, but I think that many people have failed to see the symbolism in this book.<br />Patrick Bateman (otherwise known as the  &quot;Anti-hero&quot;) is a handsome, rich, well-educated, and intelligent  man. He works on Wall Street and has many friends, all of whom are very  similar to Bateman: shallow, empty and cruel. He is often referred to as  &quot;the boy next door,&quot; a very misguided description, by the way. He  tortures and murders women, animals (particularly dogs), homeless people  and homosexuals -- he describes the scenes in gruesome detail. Also,  Bateman, like his friends, is racist. Patrick is so empty and deluded that  designer brands and fancy fonts on a business card are essentially  important in his life.<br />The ugliness of society is mirrored in Bateman's  character. He represents everything that is wrong with the world today.  Yes, the story emphasizes life in the Eighties, but the ugliness in those  times still exists. Read this book with an open mind; it's the only way  you'll fully appreciate it.	2000-06-23
2411186:US	50774468	R35IBHLS8LYRBA	0375502815	455937043	Normal Girl: A Novel	Books	4	16	23	N	N	Less Than Zero meets Sex and the City	There are many novels about rich kids on drugs, but this one is told from a young woman's point of view. And I haven't read many books about a young drug addict from New York City. Well, at least not quite like this  one.<br />At nineteen, Miranda Woke seems to have it all, except for a normal  life. Her parents ignore her and her A-list friends are all cocaine and  heroin addicts. After having OD'd on cocaine and alcohol, Miranda -- or  rather, Miranda's ex-boyfriend Brett proposes a move to rehab. In rehab,  Miranda is able to kick her cocaine, heroin, Valium, and alcohol addiction.  But could she have a normal life? Could she have a normal relationship with  her wayward parents? And could she party at the hottest spots in Manhattan  without having cravings? Her struggles have just begun.<br />In the novel,  Jong-Fast illustrates the many aspects of life as a socialite, but the  heroine's stay in rehab is not very descriptive. I think the author should  have added more vivid and disturbing details, especially the times in which  she experiences withdrawals. I just think those chapters were done  abruptly.<br />Overall, a nice, quick read. I recommend this novel.	2000-06-21
2414646:US	50774468	R3HZNM7XSIBKVO	0679003215	128005758	Fodor's New York City 2000	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A very precise guide to NYC!	I have wanted to learn about the hottest spots in Manhattan, and Fodor's New York City 2000 was very helpful. In addition to having found some great clubs and restaurants, I was also able to find great and affordable areas  in which I can shop without maxing out my credit cards. Also, there are  tips on how to protect yourself when taking the subway train late at night.  The information in this book is precise and very informative. I highly  recommend this book, especially if you're thinking about moving to New York  City.	2000-06-20
2418185:US	50774468	R1764IE7XA0WHJ	0932440223	93171431	Homage to the Lame Wolf: Selected Poems	Books	5	9	10	N	N	I have entered the realm of magical realism!	This is an incredible collection of poetry by Vasko Popa -- an incredible European poet. The poems are very surreal; it is required to read each poem at least three times in order to grasp its meaning. Each poem has a  beautiful and strange world of its own. Plus, there is a lot of magical  realism in this book, which is something I always look for in  literature.<br />My favorite Popa poems are &quot;Ashes,&quot;  &quot;Hunters,&quot; and &quot;Heaven's Ring.&quot; I also love the Little  Box series, especially &quot;The Owners of the Little Box,&quot; &quot;The  Tenants of the Little Box,&quot; and &quot;The Enemies of the Little  Box.&quot;<br />This is -- by no stretch of doubt -- the best book of poetry I  have ever owned. Charles Simic's translation is excellent; I marvel at his  ability to convert beautiful poems into a language that I can appreciate  and understand. I highly recommend this incredible book!	2000-06-18
2424060:US	50774468	R3GVB1UD32099B	0451526554	363093333	Jane Eyre (Signet Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Jane Eyre	Charlotte Bronte created quite an admirable heroine. Jane Eyre is, without a doubt, one of the most unforgettable heroines of all time. Also, the love story has a modern quality that tells the reader that this book was ahead  of its time.<br />As a penniless orphan, Jane Eyre had to endure many  adversities in order to secure her status as a governess in the home of Mr.  Rochester, a temperamental man with a dark secret -- a secret that could  destroy the powerful bond he'd had with Jane Eyre.<br />This novel has  revolutionized romantic fiction; it has influenced many writers. Jane Eyre  is one of my favorite heroines; I will always admire her courage and  independence. I applaud Charlotte Bronte for having invented such an  unforgettable character. Jane Eyre has found a special place in my heart --  and on my bookshelf!	2000-06-14
2424654:US	50774468	R2208ZSPS6LWPV	0446525367	828168267	Crazy for Cornelia	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Crazy for this novel	I love the fairy tale feel of this novel. The love story sort of reminds of Cinderella. Yes, the story of a poor man falling for a rich girl is quite banal, but the novel's irresistible charm kept me turning the  pages.<br />The story is about Cornelia Lord, a deeply misunderstood young  woman following a dream: to give Nikola Tesla, the inventor of modern  electricity, his rightful place in scientific history. Her determination,  however, is taken away by Tucker, Chester Lord's (Cornelia's father)  right-hand man. In order to earn 30 million dollars on his thirtieth  birthday, Tucker has to sweet-talk his way into the altar; he has to marry  Cornelia before she turns twenty-one. But a charming new doorman named  Kevin Doyle sweeps her off her feet. There are some interesting twists and  turns in the novel.<br />The writing is wonderful; Mr. Gilson is very  talented. Also, he must have done his homework -- the information in the  novel is precise. My favorite character in the book is Kevin Doyle; his  passion and earnestness are funny. The other characters are also great.  This is a beautiful love story that will capture your heart. A cliche  story? Yes, perhaps. Is it worth reading? Absolutely! I highly recommend  this book.	2000-06-14
2430908:US	50774468	R1PUIJJVKX4YET	0380805421	10322470	Smart Vs. Pretty	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Funny and Entertaining	Does your sister drive you crazy? Is she cute and charismatic? If so, read Smart vs. Pretty.<br />This book is about coping with sibling rivalry. In an effort to save the family business, the smart and articulate Francesca  endures the presence of her annoyingly cute sister Amanda. The sisters  compete with each other, which makes the story hilarious.<br />So, would you  rather be smart, or would you rather be pretty? I don't think it matters,  but to tell the truth, I'd rather be smart AND pretty. A fun read!	2000-06-11
2446782:US	50774468	R3A7H982NEJ6NA	0375410198	292207917	The Feast of Love: A Novel	Books	5	73	83	N	N	A breathtakingly beautiful novel!	Charles Baxter, author of the book Believers, has a writer's block. He is wandering around his neighborhood late at night, hoping to get ideas for his novel. When he sits on a bench, a young fellow named Bradley has a  marvelous idea for a novel. The name of the novel is The Feast of  Love.<br />This is a wonderful piece of literature. It vaguely resembles  Shakespeare's  A Midsummer Night's Dream, except that this novel is utterly  contemporary. The novel is about love. The author explores different kinds  of human relationships. There's Bradley: the hopeless romantic; there's  Harry Gingsberg: an old philosopher with a troubled son; then there's Chloe  and Oscar: the young, wild lovers. Chloe and Oscar touched me; their love  was so pure that it made me cry.<br />This novel is breathtakingly beautiful.  I love the language; the characters' voices are very expressive. I highly  recommend this novel. Now run along and get it!	2000-06-02
2448238:US	50774468	R2HPYCSJRFH2IZ	0679601910	569473707	Persuasion (Modern Library)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Persuasion	Jane Austen has been one of the most influential writers of all time. Her beautiful love stories will always be remembered. Her work was ahead of its time, which is why a lot of today's writers emulate her style. My favorite  Austen novel is Persuasion.<br />After the heroine, Anne Elliot, was talked  into leaving the man she loved, an attractive and financially challenge man  named Frederick Wentworth, she felt she couldn't possibly marry a poor man.  Eight years later, however, Wentworth returned to his homeland with a  fortune and a place in society. It is obvious that those were the times in  which social status was the most important thing, not love. Jane Austen had  created a beautiful story that people can still relate to. The characters  are beautiful and the story is memorable. I have read Pride and Prejudice  and Emma, but in my opinion, Persuasion is her best work.<br />This is a  beautiful piece of literature, and if you haven't read it, I suggest that  you do.	2000-06-01
2455263:US	50774468	REDQNG04E1N72	0688175848	781670340	The Fires: A Novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Sexy and disturbing	Rene Steinke has written a novel filled with pyromania and promiscuity. The story is about Ella, a young woman controlled by an urge to act out her desires. Ella, unlike many women, does not want to practice self-control;  she pushes way beyond the levels she has attained over the years.<br />This  is a very sexy and disturbing novel. The language is beautiful; Rene is a  great writer. A nice read!	2000-05-28
2455306:US	50774468	R2ZRUIYUK4CPJ	0670892084	884489587	Welcome to My Planet	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Witty and utterly contemporary	This is a fun book; it sort of reminds me of The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing. The book is about Shannon (I wonder if this book is an autobiography disguised as a novel), a neurotic young woman who has no idea  what she wants in life. She attends graduate school --subconsciously  postponing her life. She's also struggling with boyfriends, careers, and an  identity. The heroine seems to have a rather unique relationship with her  mother, Flo. The mother and daughter share a common desire: the need for  true intimacy. Flo doesn't know if her husband truly loves her. Shannon,  like her mother, doesn't know if the men in her life have loved her or used  her. This is a great contemporary read, very funny and quite touching. A  great piece of fiction. I highly recommend it.	2000-05-28
2455839:US	50774468	R1WKKYPNZ2RKCP	0670892084	884489587	Welcome to My Planet	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Witty and utterly contemporary	This is a fun book; it sort of reminds me of The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing. The book is about Shannon (I wonder if this book is an autobiography disguised as a novel), a neurotic young woman who has no idea  what she wants in life. She attends graduate school --subconsciously  postponing her life. She's also struggling with boyfriends, careers, and an  identity. The heroine seems to have a rather unique relationship with her  mother, Flo. The mother and daughter share a common desire: the need for  true intimacy. Flo doesn't know if her husband truly loves her. Shannon,  like her mother, doesn't know if the men in her life have loved her or used  her. This is a great contemporary read, very funny and quite touching. A  great piece of fiction. I highly recommend it.	2000-05-28
2472700:US	50774468	R1E35TV2ZD4LAP	0312252536	379322859	Plan B: A Novel	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Funny and entertaining	Plan B is a novel about friendship. It's about five 30-something friends struggling with work, romance and life. But the story focuses more on Jack, a famous Hollywood actor and cocaine addict. Ben (the narrator), Lindsey,  Chuck and Alison try to help Jack face his demon by way of intervention. In  denial, Jack refuses to get help. Desperate, the friends try Plan B:  imprisoning Jack in a house in the country until the period of withdrawal  passes. While they try to help their friend, they face their own demons and  try to improve their lives.<br />The narration is nicely done and the comic  timing is precise. I think that Jonathan Tropper could turn this into a  movie (this book begs for a script). A nice read.	2000-05-18
2477917:US	50774468	R2R4PX276IXXHC	0517204312	438990501	Half Hours with the Best Poets	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A collection of the best poetry in the world!	I have finally found a collection of my favorite poems! They're all in Half Hours with the Best Poets.<br />This magnificent book contains poems by William Shakespeare (including my favorite, &quot;Shall I Compare Thee to A  Summer's Day?&quot;), William Blake, John Keats, Emily Dickinson, and many  more.<br />If you love poetry, then this is a collection  that you wouldn't  want to miss! A must-have!	2000-05-15
2479141:US	50774468	RMLETM50WWQZJ	0671532855	831456478	Amrita	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A magical world of self-discovery!	Banana Yoshimoto is -- by no stretch of doubt -- a gifted storyteller. She's also one of the best fiction writers today. Her stories are filled with eccentricity and magic. Amrita is not an exception.<br />The story is  about Sakumi, a young woman who loses her memory after having lost her  famous sister to suicide. With the help of her sister's lover, she is able  to regain her memory, but she gets more than she bargains for. Like her  previous efforts, Yoshimoto's focal point in this novel is self-discovery.<br />This is, by far, her best work since &quot;Kitchen.&quot; I marvel at  Banana's ability to touch people with her beautiful writing. A must-read!	2000-05-15
2483554:US	50774468	R1DJFT8V9FFEYY	0670894184	334925003	Back Roads (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Dysfunctional family drama!	In this incredible novel, I was introduced to four children whose lives are destroyed after their mother murdered their abusive father. Their mother was incarcerated, and Harley, the oldest of the four kids and only  male in the family, gave up his childhood in order to provide for his  sisters.<br />The darkness of the book is illustrated by the cynical and  scarred Harley. Sometimes he is not a very likeable character, but the  cynicism and anger in his tone is understandable. He becomes obsessed with  Carlie Mercer, a young wife and mother he met by way of his younger sister.  He subconsciously sees her as some sort of mother figure; the sex scenes  between the two characters are rather strange. Harley's sisters are equally  messed up. There's Amber: the oldest of the three, a depressed Lolita who  finds acceptance in the arms of a man. There's Misty: the mysterious one of  the three, the secretive one. And then there's Jody: the innocent and  youngest one, the only hope in the family. There are many twists and turns  in the story, including murders, obsessions, and incest.<br />This is one of  the best novels I have recently read. But I hate the ending -- it is a  vivid reminder that life isn't fair.	2000-05-11
2487815:US	50774468	R3AI2DDOTE58EM	0452265347	79148744	The Piano Lesson	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A closer look at reality	The Piano Lesson is my favorite play. The language is very surreal and heartwarming at the same time. It also gives us a closer look at reality; the reality African Americans have endured for decades.<br />Boy Willie wants to sell an antique piano that was once owned by his ancestors. He wants to  buy a land his parents had once worked as slaves. His sister, Berniece,  refuses to give up the piano -- it has a sentimental value that she cannot  let go. But it is the piano itself that teaches the family an important and  valuable lesson about the importance of family history and the need for  future opportunities.<br />This is a piece of literature that cannot be  overlooked. August Wilson is a master storyteller!	2000-05-09
2493492:US	50774468	R29NXTSJ7AC26K	0385077254	715697163	The Velveteen Rabbit	Books	5	7	12	N	N	My all-time favorite children's book!	The Velveteen Rabbit was (and still is) my favorite children's book. The classic tale of how the little boy's love made the rabbit real is a classic. I had a hard time finding this book, but I finally have it. I am hoping to read it to my future kids and hopefully my kids will read it to  their kids. This is a book that anyone from any generation could enjoy. I  will always love the Velveteen Rabbit!	2000-05-06
2498711:US	50774468	R2G5I1EPEH8W1F	0671743503	772003176	The Object of My Affection	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Bittersweet Read	How would life be if you fall in love with a man who cannot reciprocate your affection? That happened to Nina, George's roommate. After living together for about a year, Nina tells George she's pregnant. To his surprise, Nina wants to raise the baby with George. This the dilemma: It is  not George's baby. George is gay. And that's when it gets  interesting.<br />This novel touches on a subject that many people are  reluctant to acknowledge. The humanity and beauty of the story is very  touching and realistic. I have seen the movie based on this novel, and it  is told on Nina's point-of-view. In the novel, we read George's side of  things. I think it's important to watch both the movie and the novel for  this one. If you're in the mood for a bittersweet love story, read The  Object of My Affection.	2000-05-03
2499613:US	50774468	R1RVGFJG1QYGSS	0385333404	895394482	Dating Big Bird	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Charming and witty	Dating Big Bird is one of the funniest novels I have recently read. The heroine's desire to become a mother is hilarious. The interaction between Ellen (the heroine) and Malcolm (her boyfriend) moved me; the author illustrates a more human and vulnerable side of relationships.<br />With funny  lines and witty characters, Dating Big Bird is a must-read!	2000-05-03
2511738:US	50774468	RTQWN9095XG7C	0688165575	430042831	Use Me	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Wonderful and quite touching	This is a collection of  stories about love and loss. This is not your typical woe-is-me-single-woman book; it is a lot more intelligent than that. This book takes you on a journey where you learn about the loss of a  parent and the reality of relationships between men and women. My favorite  story is &quot;Novice Bitch,&quot; very funny and original.<br />This book  sort of reminds of The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing, except that  this one's a lot better. If you're in the mood for a sentimental read, I  highly recommend &quot;Use Me.&quot;	2000-04-26
2519606:US	50774468	R24OAH14BQ98JN	0802135226	79903283	The Passion	Books	5	7	9	N	N	One of the most beautiful novels I have ever read!	This novel is a work of art. The words are filled with poetry. It is a bittersweet love story that takes you to a whole other world. The story of Henri and Villanelle will touch you in many ways. There are many metaphors  and foreshadows, which means that you'll have to pay close attention to the  descriptions. I love the beautiful descriptions in the novel; they captured  me.<br />This is an incredible read; it blew me away! I highly recommend it.	2000-04-22
2523987:US	50774468	R8LW0RHE4434O	0671532766	94824442	Lizard	Books	4	16	16	N	N	An amazing storyteller!	I am very pleased with Banana's work so far. Her ability to write beautiful and touching stories is admirable. I love &quot;Kitchen&quot; and &quot;NP&quot;, and now, &quot;Lizard.&quot;<br />Even though this is not  Banana's best work, it is a fun and enjoyable read. All five stories have a  similar theme: spirituality and self-discovery. Like her previous books,  Banana touches on the more human and spiritual aspects of the characters'  lives. My favorite stories are &quot;Newlywed,&quot; &quot;Dreaming of  Kimchee,&quot; &quot;A Strange Tale from Down by the River,&quot; and  &quot;Helix.&quot; Each story had a touch of magic realism, which is  something I love in literature. They were beautiful and surreal. Banana has  a way with words. I hope to read a new Banana Yoshimoto novel soon.	2000-04-19
2542791:US	50774468	R2ZFJZCQC7LOSF	158195008X	821991146	Cracks	Books	3	27	30	N	N	Sexually honest and disturbing	Remember when you were a pre-teen. Were you curious about sex? Were you curious about other people's bodies?<br />This disarming novel focuses on the innocence and sexual curiosity of a group of pre-teen girls who find  themselves in a strange situation when the outsider of the group  mysteriously disappears. They knew that their swimming coach had a strange  obsession with her, but was she responsible for the girl's disappearance?  The ending will shock you. It is a disturbing and sexually honest novel  about the age of innocence and curiosity. The novel is utterly original. I  highly recommend it.	2000-04-09
2566636:US	50774468	R2NC7PX4LTL8WQ	0446673544	656995955	Sex and the City	Books	5	171	198	N	N	The age of Un-innocence indeed!	'Sex and the City' is fun to read and entertaining. The characters' lives are so outrageous that your life seems dull and predictable in comparison. I love the topics: the toxic bachelors; the guys who date models;  threesomes; and the four city girls, including &quot;Carrie&quot;, visiting  married women in Conneticut and enjoying themselves, to their surprise.<br />The book is mainly focused on Carrie  and her boyfriend, &quot;Mr.  Big.&quot; I love the HBO series based on this book, but the book tells us  a different story of love and dating in New York. The book is as fun and as  outrageous as the HBO series. A fun read!	2000-03-29
2576207:US	50774468	R2QSOI6O38ZWJW	0679746048	92211220	Girl, Interrupted	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Entertaining and Brutal	Kaysen's memoir is thought-provoking. I wonder: could it happen to me? Am I really sane? The answer to that question is a mystery now that I've read the book.<br />Despite the harsh realities that the author experienced in the  loony bin (Kaysen's words), she had some amusing moments as well. The  character named Lisa made me laugh out loud. Some of the things that the  patients said or did were very funny. Let me guess: Angelina Jolie plays  Lisa in the movie version of the book, am I right? I haven't seen the movie  yet.<br />Loved the book, very insightful and entertaining. If you've seen the  movie, I advise you to read the book as well.	2000-03-26
2585999:US	50774468	R7LLRH1VSGJ29	0671898264	772470399	NP	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Thought-provoking and intense	I have read &quot;Kitchen&quot; -- it is actually one of my favorite novels. I simply love Banana's descriptions and eccentric characters, and she managed to impress me one more time with &quot;NP.&quot;<br />This quirky  novel left a funny taste in my mouth. It dealt with such controversial  issues such as incest and suicide -- but it is done with such humanity and  vulnerability that you can't help but adore the characters and wish them  the best. The translation was done nicely, although I'm sure that the  original Japanese version (and Banana's actual words) is much better. I'm  looking forward to her new novel, &quot;Asleep&quot; -- I will buy it on  the first day of release.	2000-03-21
2605659:US	50774468	R2X5LXAACCL4XO	0670892963	787771217	Bridget Jones : The Edge of Reason	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Hurrah, Bridget!	This novel was a great read, it was hilarious.  May I say that I think it's funnier than the original. Of course, it is not very different from the original -- she is still trying to quit smoking and trying to lose  weight, but the heroine seems a little more together this time  around.<br />There was a setback, the whole death threat thing, for a minute  there I thought I was reading a mystery novel (I hate mystery novels) --  but other than that, it is great!  I was cracking up on the subway train on  my way to work this morning while I read the chapter in which she was  interviewing Colin Firth -- the actor who played Mr. Darcy in Pride and  Prejudice. The people on the train were staring at me, but I couldn't help  it, it was too funny.<br />I know it sounds insane but I do wish Miss Fielding  writes another Bridget Jones novel. I would happily buy all the Bridget  Jones novels available!<br />Oh -- and I loved the whole Jane Austen feel.  The original was Pride and Prejudice, and this time around, Persuasion.  There were also the essential Jane Austen elements, such as the gossiping,  giggling, and obsession with men. Loved it!	2000-03-07
2630044:US	50774468	R2Y76F7IXNM6FR	0671880187	536943079	Kitchen	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A wonderful novel about love and loss	Banana Yoshimoto is one of the most gifted writers I have ever read. Her novel, &quot;Kitchen&quot;, takes you to an emotional rollercoaster of love and loss. The pain one feels when someone one cares about dies -- the  painful and the seemingly endless grieving process and then finding the  strength to move on.<br />The two stories are beautiful and emotional, she has  a way with words, the writing is very beautiful. I will definitely check  the other books from this author.	2000-02-17
2636865:US	50774468	R1ZS12URPMN4II	0385494505	517893800	In the Drink	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	The anti-heroine!	There are many reasons I like In the Drink so much: 1) It is not a cute story. It is real. There are people whose lives are less than perfect and therefore find comfort in substance abuse such as drinking. 2) It is not  Bridget Jones's Diary. It is more real, it has more soul. Don't get me  wrong, I love BJD, but the redundant story of a  30-something heroine  whining about being single at 30 it's too blah for me. Claudia whines, but  for a good cause. 3) Its urban appeal. Love it, the writing has a poetic  feel -- Christensen obviously loves poetry -- or is a poet, because the  writing is beautiful. Claudia Steiner is the anti-heroine, she is not  glamorous or even extremely witty, she is one of the most realistic  characters I have read. And finally, I can relate to the story about her  secret love to William, I too was secretly in love with my male best  friend, although I am glad that he is not a pervert. Anyway, give this  novel a chance, it is a great novel, one of the most unique and beautifully  written ones from last year. I hope to read more novels from this author in  the future.	2000-02-12
2666044:US	50774468	R10XXSIKYNFR0E	0786706546	266316509	April Rising: A Novel	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Goldilocks with a twist!	Beautiful and touching, hilarious and quirky at times -- April Rising is one of the best and most original novels I have read recently. The heroine, Ellen, is a sassy, smart, but incredibly arrogant young woman who left for  Europe and came back two years later to her suburban home to find that  another young woman named April has taken over her bedroom, her family, the  love of Ellen's older brother (whom she had a meaningful level of affection  -- even attraction), and basically her life. Ellen was determined to show  April the way to the door for good. Little did she anticipate that she was  just as smitten by April's naivette ways as her family -- and she  definitely did not expect that April might turn out to be her soulmate, her  twin sister in spirit.<br />The story takes some unexpected turns and some  twists -- but the emotions that are felt through the writing are vivid,  touching, and surreal at times. With April's help, Ellen discovers her  passion for journalism, and that there is more to life than a nice suburban  home and a bank account. A must-read!  I also recommend Vapor by Amanda  Filipacchi.	2000-01-23
2675527:US	50774468	R1CL7NMH1PGJ2O	067088698X	597004632	Before You Sleep	Books	3	27	29	N	N	Family ties, love, and infedility	Before You Sleep is a story about a family whose dysfunctional stories begin in the 1930s with the narrator's grandfather. The stories about her sister and her cheating husband, her mother's eccentric personality, her  father's reluctant existance, and the narrator, Karin, a seductress that  gets the man that she wants at all cost.<br />The story is mainly focused on  infedility--we are shown just how incredibly weak some men are and doesn't  take them long to become unfaithful. Karin seduced several married men, and  then she noticed how the guilt from the men turned them into especially  sweet and attentive husbands later on. It is very real and emotional and  even a bit quirky at times--this is a great story about a family that is  less than perfect, but still you can somehow feel the love and the ties  that bond.	2000-01-16
2679374:US	50774468	ROY4Z0YU85MQ8	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A Classic	Pride and Prejudice was the book that introduced me to Jane Austen. I find the love story between Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth simply irresistible. Will they get together? That kept me in agony. I have to admit that it was hard  to follow at times, but it still kept me in suspense. It is so obvious that  today's female (and some male) writers emulate Austen's writing, writing  touching romantic comedies. This is definitely one of the books that I'm  proud to keep on my bookshelf.	2000-01-13
2694049:US	50774468	R1V8597CY5HF1E	0316782475	728951005	The Dangerous Husband: A Novel	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	Is it possible that anyone could be that clumsy?	Dennis was one clumsy character. I'm surprised this man was still allowed to be in the free world! The Dangerous Husband is hilariously funny---she makes a serious situation, like being married to a man that anything he  touches gets injured or dies seem hysterical. She felt that the only way to  get rid of Dennis was by killing him. Despite of all the injuries he put  her through (they weren't intentional, of course), she still loved him.<br />I wonder, is it possible for someone that clumsy to exist? If so, then I  don't want to find out.	2000-01-04
2706240:US	50774468	REB93MRHQ4L7H	0140178929	475704212	Nude Men: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Still one of my very favorites....	Review updated 2/25/2007<br /><br />I picked up Nude Men right after reading Vapor.  I was enamored with Amanda Filipacchi and her surrealistic comedy and had to read everything she'd written.  I was lucky to have found Nude Men at a bookstore because the book was out of print shortly after.  It has been seven years since I first read this book and I still marvel at Filipacchi's dark humor, magic realism and philosophical insights whenever I reread this novel.  This is the story of Jeremy Acidophilus, a twenty-nine-year-old loser with low self-esteem, a nagging girlfriend and a job at an entertainment magazine where he gets no respect.  Amid his misery, he receives an interesting offer from a beautiful woman he meets at a diner: a painter of nude men, and she wants him to be her next subject.  Jeremy thinks he's found the woman of his dreams, but it is Sarah, the woman's eleven-year-old daughter, who ends up seducing him.<br /><br />The novel is both disturbing and endearing.  Disturbing because the author and the interesting characters and world she creates push you beyond the level of your comfort zone.  Filipacchi makes you think and see the logic in the illogical.  But these things are also endearing because they are told with an irresistibly ironic tone that isn't lost on the reader.  Whenever I read her books I feel like I'd like to sit down and have a chat with this author over coffee.  She must be a very interesting person.  Based on the synopsis, some people may think that this novel is similar to Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita, but it is not, it is a story all its own.  My favorite parts are the ones in Disney world -- with Jeremy's mother hitting on men and Sarah playing word games.  I still laugh out loud after having read this book dozens of times.  I also love the ending because it is so dark, ironic and disturbing that it leaves you thinking longer after you've done reading it.  And even though some readers may find Jeremy's actions inconceivable or unacceptable, you still feel a great deal of sympathy for the character because the author does an amazing job with character study and mixing things up with keen humor.  All in all, I adore Nude Men (no pun intended).  This is a must read for those who enjoy comic surrealistic and thought provoking novels.  I also recommend the other books by this author: Vapor and Love Creeps.  Good luck finding Nude Men at an used bookstore though, or you can wait for a reprint.  I still have the same copy I bought by chance seven years ago and I'm not letting go of it any time soon.ptable, you still feel a great deal of sympathy for the character because the author does an amazing job with character study and mixing things up with keen humor.  All in all, I adore Nude Men (no pun intended).  This is a must read for those who enjoy comic surrealistic and thought provoking novels.  I also recommend the other books by this author: Vapor and Love Creeps.  Good luck finding Nude Men at an used bookstore though, or you can wait for a reprint.  I still have the same copy I bought by chance seven years ago and I'm not letting go of it any time soon.	1999-12-26
2732706:US	50774468	R31HROCX4E5WHR	0375703675	742933968	Dear Exile : The True Story of Two Friends Separated (for a Year) by an Ocean	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hats down Kate!	I loved this book, I would have never had the courage to stay in Kenya as long as Kate did. She endured a life that's very different from the way she grew up to put up with the injustice that Kenyan students were put through.  I would loan this book to anyone that might be thinking of joining the  peace corps.<br />I could relate to Hilary's story more. She's from New York  and had to deal with more ordinary dilemmas like dating and work and buying  an apartment but as she stated on her letters to Kate, even though they  weren't big problems they were her problems. This book gives a great  message, that distance makes the heart grow fonder and it makes the  friendship of two people seem even more special, even though they are  incredibly different from one another. I truly enjoyed this book, don't  hesitate and buy it!	1999-12-05
2734016:US	50774468	R26PX97SD8RE2I	0671025864	182852244	Was It Something I Said	Books	1	9	11	N	N	Was it something she wrote?	The author is obviously a great writer, she shows style and potential, but why did she invent the most incredibly obnoxious and shallow characters I've ever read? Justine was the worst one, she's someone I wouldn't be  friends with if she were real. Barry was not any better. The only decent  character there was Pipa, but hardly interesting. Don't bother reading this  book---read In the Drink or Otherwise Engaged instead.	1999-12-04
2735955:US	50774468	R1VFNGXH8RCEIB	0312198345	87751558	Big Night Out: An Adventure Where You Decide the Outcome	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Like nothing I've read before!	It was fun reading this book, I got to choose my own adventure, unfortunately, some of the choices I made were the wrong ones. This is the kind of book you can read without taking it seriously, it is not a story  and you can't read it from beginning to end. It is different from  everything I've read before. Buy this book and read it while you in a plain  or bus, the time will fly because you'll be too caught up on the funny  situations and choices you'll have to make!	1999-12-03
2737908:US	50774468	R311JI8YSJ9UF8	0375406522	312828157	Otherwise Engaged : a Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Funny as hell!	I have never laughed as hard when reading a book the way I did with Otherwise Engaged. The heroine took us step by step through the emotions that took place after she becomes engaged to her long-term boyfriend  Michael. Remembering her abusive relationship with an athlete, to the death  of her father and step-mother to the death of her sick friend. She also  experienced pre-wedding gitters and had cold feet.<br />The one-liners were  brilliant and Suzanne's writing is precise. Buy Otherwise Engaged, I also  recommend The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing and In the Drink.	1999-12-01
2742200:US	50774468	R1QMUBOIOU8QAN	1559723793	867521910	Good Girl, Bad Girl: An Insider's Biography of Whitney Houston	Books	1	32	35	N	N	Exploitation of a star for a quick buck	I wanted to read a biography on one of my favorite singers that will give a realistic, yet, smart look on her life. Good Girl, Bad Girl is nothing but a piece of trash written by a man who either wanted to get back on  Whitney for something, or was looking to make a quick buck at her expense.  I am aware that celebrity lives behind the spotlight might not be  wonderful---but I still feel that they are entitled to their privacy. I am  so glad I didn't buy this book, I returned it to my friend the very next  day, I didn't bother to finish it.	1999-11-29
2744276:US	50774468	R2NXNSUIQ1AWDU	067088300X	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Funny, Smart and Sexy!	The only thing I hated about this book is that it ended. I loved it, the character Jane is funny in a cynical sort of way. I read her grow from a cute and slighty obnoxious 14-year-old to a mature and wise-cracking  30-something single woman from New York.<br />The only set-back I experienced  in this book was those two chapters that weren't about Jane. Those two  chapters made absolutely no sense to me---I don't know what Melissa Bank  was trying to tell us but it had nothing to do with Jane.<br />But this book  is a great and light read. I especially love the last chapter, how Jane  tried to follow every rule to getting Robert when all she had to do was be  herself. I recommend this book to anyone--- it is not your usual  &quot;single woman in New York&quot; book, it is so much more.	1999-11-27
2746979:US	50774468	R1P3IPJF1DMY76	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	LOL til the end!	This is one of the funniest books I've read. Helen Fielding brought a character that we can all relate and feel some of her pain. Although Bridget sometimes lacked confidence toward everything, that is what makes  this book special. We as women are insecure, whether we want to admit it or  not---we worry about our weight, might not have good vices, and have dated  a jerk from time to time. I really did feel that Bridget Jones is more like  me in most of the writing.<br />It is hilariously funny and well-written, one  of the books I take with me when I travel--- it is a must-have and a  must-keep in my opinion. If you haven't read it, I suggest that you do!	1999-11-25
2748005:US	50774468	R1FTGW4KXAKH69	0671025864	182852244	Was It Something I Said	Books	1	2	4	N	N	One of the most unlikeable characters I've read	This book is absolutely horrible. The first couple of chapters were  okay---but as I went on reading, it only got worse. Justine is probably the  most self-centered, unlikable character I've ever read, it made me wonder  what on earth Barry saw in her to begin with, even though he wasn't any  better at times.<br />Valerie Brock wrote a book about two shallow characters  that fall in love under the most ridiculous circumstances I could read. I  agree with most of the reviewers here, this book is painful, I couldn't  finish it, after about four chapters left to read, I just didn't bother  anymore and judging by the reviewers, I'm glad I didn't waste any more time  although I did waste my money on this sorry excuse for a book.	1999-11-24
2749621:US	50774468	RLE6PNHH40724	0684856220	787821381	Cupid and Diana: A Novel	Books	2	10	17	N	N	Predictable and boring	This book just didn't do it for me. Although the plot was indeed interesting, and there were some good moments, especially Diana's odd relationship with her father and sisters, for the most part this book just  isn't what I thought it would be. I found her constant descriptions about  everything, especially what people wore extremely boring and the ending is  predictable to say the least.<br />I can't really say that you shouldn't buy  this book because is not terrible, but in my humble opinion, it is not good  either.	1999-11-22
