1366:US	51010391	R262MC9OGVDY6N	038550764X	642742400	Mission to America: A Novel	Books	4	15	21	N	N	"If you're going to convert, you might as well choose the wealthy."	The Aboriginal Fulfilled Apostles, replete with New Age tracts and feminist ideals, is a closed society in danger of extinction without the infusion of new female blood. A matriarchal cult, much like the self-contained Amish culture, the AFA has existed for years without interference from the outside world. Threatened by natural selection, the elders send two representatives from their enclave in Butte, Montana into the world, commonly referred to as Terrestria, charged with sage advice: \\"If you're going to convert, you might as well choose the wealthy, who have friends.\\"<br /><br />At the beginning of their trip, the hapless missionaries, Mason LaVerle and Elder Elias Stark, stick to the rules, eating natural food and sleeping in the second-hand Dodge van provided for their journey, but before long they fall victim to temptation, gorging on junk food and watching television for hours on end, psychologically invested in the outcome of game shows and daytime soaps. Spurred on by a distant advisor, Lauer, who may or may not have taken up with Mason's ex-girlfriend, the newly-hatched evangelists paper small towns with their literature, often stopping for conversation with anyone who will give them the time of day. Cultural innocents, their entire lives spent in the clannish environment provided by their religion, Mason and Earl occasionally fall for dubious roadside advice, as when Earl buys crank from a local and the evangelists spend a lazy afternoon with two equally messianic underage Christian young ladies.<br /><br />The greatest culture clash occurs when Mason and Earl arrive at the tourist-friendly, snow-bunnied slopes of Snowshoe, Colorado. Snowshoe is a haven for the spiritually overindulged, wealthy dilettantes who hand-pick their beliefs from a variety of religions, creating a loose philosophy that requires little of them beyond discussion, a sort of elitist's compendium of moral values unburdened by personal responsibility. The missionaries are introduced to the local social hierarchy by Lara, an Emmy-winning ex-actress they befriend when her suicide attempt by antihistamine fails to produce the desired results. Lara is the key to the upper-class of Snowshoe that Lauer has suggested they cultivate, particularly the filthy rich old Mr. Effingham and his cronies.<br /><br />While Earl disappears into the bowels of the Effingham estate, there to spread the word, Mason is sidetracked by Betsy, a girl with an infamous past and a love of all things vintage, fascinated by Mason's discount store clothing and easy amiability. Earl and Mason are soon ensconced in a Neverland where communal damnation is an acceptable concept to an overfed, overspun culture, where every physical need is met and what to have for dinner takes on the importance of a summit meeting, \\"There was no such thing as separation here, not once you'd started listening. Never listen.\\" Absorbed by the excess around them, feted daily with the other guests, Mason and Earl grapple with their individual concerns while AFA is in crisis on the home front: \\"There is no authority Mason, we're on our own.\\" And not everyone is receptive to the evangelicals, the wealthy man's son, Eff Jr., especially annoyed by these \\"crude gypsy mystics aiming for a windfall\\".<br /><br />This tongue-in-cheek view of the new millennium is as twisted as it is astute, Kirn dissecting the complex heart of religious orientation in America, the west inundated with gurus, the cult of personality and the true believers who refuse to give up on the moral slackers. Luan Gaines/ 2005.uced to the local social hierarchy by Lara, an Emmy-winning ex-actress they befriend when her suicide attempt by antihistamine fails to produce the desired results. Lara is the key to the upper-class of Snowshoe that Lauer has suggested they cultivate, particularly the filthy rich old Mr. Effingham and his cronies.  <br /> <br />While Earl disappears into the bowels of the Effingham estate, there to spread the word, Mason is sidetracked by Betsy, a girl with an infamous past and a love of all things vintage, fascinated by Mason's discount store clothing and easy amiability. Earl and Mason are soon ensconced in a Neverland where communal damnation is an acceptable concept to an overfed, overspun culture, where every physical need is met and what to have for dinner takes on the importance of a summit meeting, \\"There was no such thing as separation here, not once you'd started listening. Never listen.\\" Absorbed by the excess around them, feted daily with the other guests, Mason and Earl grapple with their individual concerns while AFA is in crisis on the home front: \\"There is no authority Mason, we're on our own.\\" And not everyone is receptive to the evangelicals, the wealthy man's son, Eff Jr., especially annoyed by these \\"crude gypsy mystics aiming for a windfall\\".  <br /> <br />This tongue-in-cheek view of the new millennium is as twisted as it is astute, Kirn dissecting the complex heart of religious orientation in America, the west inundated with gurus, the cult of personality and the true believers who refuse to give up on the moral slackers. Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-10-13
5713:US	51010391	R3VZFIV04K52MV	1932961119	561705306	House of the Deaf	Books	4	5	5	N	N	"Que detalle mas bonito."	Ben Williamson, his wife and two daughters, live a satisfying life in Lexington, Kentucky. The daughters, Michelle and Annie are very different. At twenty-one, Michelle is already treading a career path, a serious and directed young woman who has traveled to Spain to expand her career options. The slightly younger Annie is an idealist, like her father, participating fully in the world around her with joyful laughter. Through their years of sisterly competition, Michelle cruelly tells Annie that she is the backup sister, in case anything ever happens to the golden child, the first daughter. Only in Spain for a month, Michelle becomes an accidental victim of a terrorist bombing by Basque separatists, her young life extinguished in a manner that sunders her family in America, leaving Annie and her parent's, whose marriage cannot survive the tragedy, to come to terms with this cruel legacy.<br /><br />Almost three years later, Ben Williamson hovers near Annie's campus as if to protect his remaining daughter. After obsessively researching the country where his daughter lost her life, Ben travels to Spain, to the scene of Michelle's death. Ben experiences a series of emotional shifts while in Spain, absorbing all around him, inching around the edges of his unbearable despair and growing rage, in a futile endeavor to make sense of his daughter's death: \\"As all tourists finally must, he becomes a tourist of himself.\\" While wandering near the scene of the explosion, Ben has the good fortune to meet the divorced Paula Ortiz, a sensible and sensitive woman who is drawn to Williamson, but intuits the depth of his unresolved feelings. After a short time together, Ben disappears and Paula is frantic with unarticulated fears.<br /><br />Annie is the other half of this story, the lens through which the author discloses Williamson as father and man, the unwitting beneficiary of a devoted daughter with a finely tuned sensitivity to her father's pain and loneliness. Struggling to accept Michelle's loss, the continued rivalry between the sisters, one alive, one dead, still exists in Annie's mind, a stubborn resentment of the favored daughter. Annie thoughtfully assesses where this continued self-indulgence has gotten her. Impulsively arriving in Spain with an increasing sense of urgency, Annie meets Paula with an assurance that astonishes the older woman, for this girl can feel her father's nearness and the dark emotional terrain that consumes him.<br /><br />The psychological weight of the Williamson's loss is perfectly balanced with the ambiguities of Spanish culture, the small, thoughtful details of everyday life in stark relief to the outbursts of passion, the careful tenderness until the next outburst. The protagonists blindly enter the heart of Basque territory, infiltrated by an angry father who wants another in exchange for his daughter, a landscape of repression, torture and terrorism. In deeply compassionate prose tuned to the subtleties of an exotic culture, the author inserts the conflicted Ben into a world so unlike his own, where historical passions run deep and frequently violent. This extraordinary pilgrimage of one man's broken heart in search of consolation is a moving portrait of loss and personal redemption. Luan Gaines/2005.accept Michelle's loss, the continued rivalry between the sisters, one alive, one dead, still exists in Annie's mind, a stubborn resentment of the favored daughter. Annie thoughtfully assesses where this continued self-indulgence has gotten her. Impulsively arriving in Spain with an increasing sense of urgency, Annie meets Paula with an assurance that astonishes the older woman, for this girl can feel her father's nearness and the dark emotional terrain that consumes him. <br /> <br />The psychological weight of the Williamson's loss is perfectly balanced with the ambiguities of Spanish culture, the small, thoughtful details of everyday life in stark relief to the outbursts of passion, the careful tenderness until the next outburst. The protagonists blindly enter the heart of Basque territory, infiltrated by an angry father who wants another in exchange for his daughter, a landscape of repression, torture and terrorism. In deeply compassionate prose tuned to the subtleties of an exotic culture, the author inserts the conflicted Ben into a world so unlike his own, where historical passions run deep and frequently violent. This extraordinary pilgrimage of one man's broken heart in search of consolation is a moving portrait of loss and personal redemption. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br />	2005-10-11
6545:US	51010391	R35CIGBC3WQWJM	0374286264	335447322	Waterloo: A Novel	Books	4	9	11	N	N	"The builders of the Tower of Babel might have avoided catastrophe if they hired the right architects."	While Nick Lasseter is nursing a broken heart and worried about losing a very mediocre position at The Waterloo Weekly, Beverly Flintic, a newly elected state assemblywoman, is receiving daily visits from lobbyist Kenneth (Bones) Lasseter and meeting gubernatorial candidate Mark Hardaway in distant motels for a few hours. Neither Nick nor Beverly are especially tuned into local politics, both struggling to stay afloat, minor fish in a bay full of sharks in Waterloo, Texas, a thinly disguised Austin. That the inefficient Hardaway, a man of few subtleties, could reach the office of governor says more about his high-powered friends than any assumed political acumen. Beverly's affair with Mark has compromised her effectiveness in her reapportioned district; she has recently put forth a bill for neighborhood gentrification that has hidden clauses affecting the homeowners' right of imminent domain.<br /><br />Andrea Carter, of The Standard American, meets Nick at a funeral for a public figure, William Stanley Sabert. Apparently Kenneth Lasseter is already known to Andrea, whose deceased father worked with Sabert. Writing an article on the Jim Crow library that is about to be demolished for city renovation, Andrea has done an interview with Sabert; hence her presence at the funeral, the only dark face in the crowd. Nick is attracted to Andrea but is distracted by a scheduled interview with Beverly Flintic, although he has no background information on which to base his questions. That changes when Bones Lasseter gives his nephew a sheaf of papers concerning the bill Flintic has sponsored. Republican Flintic is somewhat concerned about the bill and its furthering of privatization of government agenda, but has been assured that all is in order.<br /><br />Beverly is well-meaning and over-worked, trying to resolve family issues while representing a constituency that demands more from her than the usual sellout. Bit by bit, moving through a gridlocked urban sprawl, Olsson's protagonists awaken to their mutual concerns. Even, Bones, the crusty Democratic lobbyist, can read the writing on the wall: \\"It seems like it's all or nothing. There's no more spirit of conviviality.\\" The nostalgic ramblings of these likeable characters reveal a city of conflicts, compromises and the simple urge to succeed in life; these flawed citizens are just like working people anywhere. On the other hand, the grim reality of a shifting economy doesn't slip Olsson's attention, or how easily the important things slip our attention.<br /><br />Couched in everyday amiability, this novel could be Anywhere, USA, the scene of the privatization of human services, the massive fortunes made by committees who sponsor both litigation and public servants, spreading their greed to special interests. The bottom line: in business, anyone and anything can be bought and repackaged for public consumption. Sound familiar? It should. This process has been repeating itself all over America, the poor disenfranchised by redevelopment projects, their voices silenced by the roar of cash machines, extinct as the trees removed to make way for luxury townhouses. Waterloo is peopled with folks we all know, doing their jobs, surviving day by day with a secret hope of getting ahead somewhere along the line. And here are the smooth-talkers, the political aficionados and their behind-the-scenes bankers, chipping away, with more for the few and less for the many. The unseasoned reporters, one a borderline slacker and the assemblywoman who worries about her family, make this a very human story, a fictionalized city in Texas caught in the politics of the new millennium. Luan Gaines/ 2005.n to their mutual concerns. Even, Bones, the crusty Democratic lobbyist, can read the writing on the wall: \\"It seems like it's all or nothing. There's no more spirit of conviviality.\\" The nostalgic ramblings of these likeable characters reveal a city of conflicts, compromises and the simple urge to succeed in life; these flawed citizens are just like working people anywhere. On the other hand, the grim reality of a shifting economy doesn't slip Olsson's attention, or how easily the important things slip our attention.    Couched in everyday amiability, this novel could be Anywhere, USA, the scene of the privatization of human services, the massive fortunes made by committees who sponsor both litigation and public servants, spreading their greed to special interests. The bottom line: in business, anyone and anything can be bought and repackaged for public consumption. Sound familiar? It should. This process has been repeating itself all over America, the poor disenfranchised by redevelopment projects, their voices silenced by the roar of cash machines, extinct as the trees removed to make way for luxury townhouses. Waterloo is peopled with folks we all know, doing their jobs, surviving day by day with a secret hope of getting ahead somewhere along the line. And here are the smooth-talkers, the political aficionados and their behind-the-scenes bankers, chipping away, with more for the few and less for the many. The unseasoned reporters, one a borderline slacker and the assemblywoman who worries about her family, make this a very human story, a fictionalized city in Texas caught in the politics of the new millennium. Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-10-10
9798:US	51010391	R2F04P3NXJ63FF	0618387943	29704877	Carmine: A Little More Red (New York Times Best Illustrated Books)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	"Don't dilly dally. Go directly to Granny's."	Little Red Riding Hood is reincarnated in this imaginative retelling of a favorite tale, Carmine taught to read by a beloved granny who uses alphabet soup to instruct the child. She started with a spoonful of letters and now Carmine can read a whole bowl. Whenever Granny makes a fresh pot of soup, like today, Carmine is invited for lunch. Before she leaves, Carmine sorts through her clutter for anything she might need on her journey, pencils, paper and paint. Accompanied by her beloved dog, Rufus, Carmine has been known to dilly dally on the way to Granny's house, although she has been warned by her mother that the route is fraught with danger. This time a lurking wolf spots the child, who has stopped to paint a picture for her grandmother, distracted by nature's abundant beauty. Racing ahead... well, you know this story. Luckily for Carmine, her Granny doesn't meet the same fate as the original grandmother, this one hiding in the closet as the hungry wolf gathers an armful of soup bones to take home to his pups. Happily reunited, Carmine, Granny and Rufus sip their soup while admiring Carmine's latest work of art.<br /><br />The artwork in this book is vivid and imaginative, combined with a layout that introduces new vocabulary words used in context with the illustrations. This artist thinks outside the box, using both visual images and language to inspire young readers, cartoon balloons filled with Carmine and the Wolf's dialog as they confront their situations. Words like pluck, dawdle, mimic and nincompoop add alliterative rhythms, balanced with lively drawings, a bright palette accented with every shade of red: scarlet, carmine and fuscia. A multi-level reading experience, Carmine is a fabulous addition to a child's library, a visual and verbal feast as exuberant as its young heroine. Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-10-08
9824:US	51010391	R37PKVKWJP62TK	1596921498	574967165	The Jungle Law	Books	4	3	4	N	N	(4.5) "The night has gotten  into his head..."	The unusual friendship between Rudyard Kipling (1865-1936) and an impressionistic neighbor boy, Joe Connelly, is the crux of Kipling's Jungle Books in Vinton's imaginative tale. In 1892, the newly transplanted writer has settled in Vermont to build his dream house, inspired to write without the exotic distractions of India. Forming the skeleton of his new tale, Kipling finds both landscape and boy a source of inspiration: \\"The cold and the snow were like a revelation, with stark and unspoiled purity he'd never beheld before... here was a place where he could work... where the seasons went from wet to dry and the dead never seemed to stay dead.\\"<br /><br />Joe's imagination is caught by Kipling's words, the tale of the boy, Mowgli, yet forming in the author's mind. With Joe as inspiration, man and boy confer, Kipling sharing the bits of adventure yet to be written, the boy taking ownership, ignited by such freedom, the color and warmth of India, the lush jungle so different from the icy scene of Vermont. Reaching into the Vermont landscape, Kipling builds Mowgli's world, peopled with all its enchantments, dreaming Joe into the verdant fantasy, while the boy's parents watch their son with chagrin, determined to recapture him. The two families could not be more different, yet Kipling and Joe form a bond that transcends circumstances in Vinton's fictionally believable account of a creative endeavor and a budding friendship. The prose is striking, contrasting the stark Vermont countryside with the India of Kipling's youth, the tales of Scheherazade and the burgeoning adventure of a boy raised by wolves.<br /><br />Joes' father, Jack, is an Irishman come to America to escape the famine, almost killed while working on the railroad, now toiling on his own small farm for meager sustenance. A man burdened by disappointment, the ideals he once nurtured dashed by the reality of hard labor, Jack finds solace in his jug at night, but the drink turns him bitter, shamed that his wife, Addie, does washing and ironing for their strange neighbors, the Kipling's. Jack doesn't trust Kipling, views him the same as the wealthy landowners who passed the starving Irish peasants without a nod. What can such a man do when his son is threatened by the fascination of new ideas, called to a world so unlike what his father can provide? In his wanderings, a conflicted Joe has come face to face with his own limitations, Kipling's words a heady drug that leads him into the dark and unforgiving night: \\"How foolish to think that he was heading forward... when in fact all he's done is wind his way back to another story's beginnings, one that leads only... to dull compromise and sharp regret.\\"<br /><br />Vinton has brought all together in a fierce, magical tale, filled with the intimate details of Kipling's life, his pampered childhood; his removal from the security of mother and home, placed in a hostile foster home until his mother rescues him and his sister; Kipling's friendship with Wolcott, who  introduces the author to his sister, Carrie. After her brother's untimely death, Carrie marries Kipling, now pregnant with their first child. Vinton's brilliant prose introduces the reader to the inventiveness of the writer's world and the power of a fertile imagination unrestricted by geography, fashioning a compelling story from Kipling's rich history, building on the writer's life with layers of her own imaginings, the pages scattered with images that transcend time and place in the heady prose of the creative mind. Mixing fact and fancy, Vinton has indeed written her own jewel, a novel to be savored and passed along. Luan Gaines/ 2005.s wife, Addie, does washing and ironing for their strange neighbors, the Kipling's. Jack doesn't trust Kipling, views him the same as the wealthy landowners who passed the starving Irish peasants without a nod. What can such a man do when his son is threatened by the fascination of new ideas, called to a world so unlike what his father can provide? In his wanderings, a conflicted Joe has come face to face with his own limitations, Kipling's words a heady drug that leads him into the dark and unforgiving night: \\"How foolish to think that he was heading forward... when in fact all he's done is wind his way back to another story's beginnings, one that leads only... to dull compromise and sharp regret.\\" <br /> <br />Vinton has brought all together in a fierce, magical tale, filled with the intimate details of Kipling's life, his pampered childhood; his removal from the security of mother and home, placed in a hostile foster home until his mother rescues him and his sister; Kipling's friendship with Wolcott, who  introduces the author to his sister, Carrie. After her brother's untimely death, Carrie marries Kipling, now pregnant with their first child. Vinton's brilliant prose introduces the reader to the inventiveness of the writer's world and the power of a fertile imagination unrestricted by geography, fashioning a compelling story from Kipling's rich history, building on the writer's life with layers of her own imaginings, the pages scattered with images that transcend time and place in the heady prose of the creative mind. Mixing fact and fancy, Vinton has indeed written her own jewel, a novel to be savored and passed along. Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-10-08
10377:US	51010391	R1OTHE97OXD43B	0312424671	602974929	Small Island: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	N	There goes the neighborhood...	Small Island is a fascinating collection of personalities trapped by their own assumptions, often clashing with the reality of the world they live in. Hortense Roberts, a Jamaican, marries Gilbert Joseph, also Jamaican, trained in America to fight in World War II for the British forces. Settled after the war in England, his bride yet to arrive from the island of their birth, Gilbert is by turns disappointed and enraged by the shameless prejudice that follows him through the streets of London, always watched, always judged.<br /><br />Gilbert has taken rooms in Queenie Bligh's home, a woman forced to rent to boarders when her husband fails to return from service. Queenie has no idea if the dour and silent Bernard has perished in the war, but must survive. Enjoying a short dalliance with a Jamaican soldier who brings light into her otherwise dismal life, Queenie has no problem renting to the Jamaicans who cannot find housing in 1948 London. Then Hortense arrives, coming to Queenie's establishment when Gilbert fails to meet her boat. The women meet but are congenitally unable to communicate, Hortense insulted that her English can't be understood and Queenie speaking to Gilbert's wife as though she is learning-impaired. When Bernard finally returns, he is incensed at his wife's activities, demanding the boarders leave. But there are more serious complications to be resolved before Queenie relinquishes her authority to an absentee husband.<br /><br />Here is human prejudice in all its ubiquitous subtlety: white against black, black distrusting white, Hitler decimating the Jewish population, India preparing for self rule but torn by civil conflict. Through all of this the four characters, Queenie, Hortense, Gilbert and Bernard, speak to their own concerns, their particular needs colored by racial proclivities. Gilbert cannot fathom how Bernard considers himself superior, while Bernard is still ruminating on the brown faces he witnessed in Calcutta, where he was surrounded by otherness, protected from the chaos only by his nationality. The two women at odds from the first, Queenie patronizes Gilbert's wife, assuming that Hortense is incapable of navigating the streets of London without help (she's not). All these irritating conflicts initiate a strange tension defined by skin and class. Color creates a barrier, but more telling, the idiomatic Jamaican and English language hinders easy communication that may have resolved many of the issues at hand.<br /><br />In alternating pre- and post-war chapters, these four characters expose their hopes and dashed expectations, finally face to face with their own prejudices in Queenie's boardinghouse. Each character is revealed, intimate thoughts exposed, all desperately clinging for purchase in a drastically changed world. The English, beaten down by incessant German bombings, are hard put to open their minds to racial equality, a condition further exacerbated by the natural British assumption of superiority. Proud by nature as well, the Jamaicans are not inclined to be subjected to the same insults heaped upon American blacks, where racial stereotyping is endemic. Out of this strange brew, the author brilliantly creates flawed protagonists who are defined by their experiences, but also unique, inhabitants of their small islands, forced to work out problems and make peace with their differences. Luan Gaines/2005.unded by otherness, protected from the chaos only by his nationality. The two women at odds from the first, Queenie patronizes Gilbert's wife, assuming that Hortense is incapable of navigating the streets of London without help (she's not). All these irritating conflicts initiate a strange tension defined by skin and class. Color creates a barrier, but more telling, the idiomatic Jamaican and English language hinders easy communication that may have resolved many of the issues at hand. <br /> <br />In alternating pre- and post-war chapters, these four characters expose their hopes and dashed expectations, finally face to face with their own prejudices in Queenie's boardinghouse. Each character is revealed, intimate thoughts exposed, all desperately clinging for purchase in a drastically changed world. The English, beaten down by incessant German bombings, are hard put to open their minds to racial equality, a condition further exacerbated by the natural British assumption of superiority. Proud by nature as well, the Jamaicans are not inclined to be subjected to the same insults heaped upon American blacks, where racial stereotyping is endemic. Out of this strange brew, the author brilliantly creates flawed protagonists who are defined by their experiences, but also unique, inhabitants of their small islands, forced to work out problems and make peace with their differences. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-10-08
10480:US	51010391	R1B7CJ656A5PWV	1582346771	124192966	Minerva Clark Gets a Clue	Books	4	1	2	N	N	"The worst day of my life began at the video arcade."	Crime lurks beneath the surface of this modern day teen-aged heroine's novel. A Nancy Drew of the new millennium, thirteen-year old Minerva Clark is a \\"self-conscious, self-loathing, freak show freak\\", forever under the supervision of whatever BIC (Brother-In-Charge) is left to watch the younger sister. Dressed in her favorite too big khaki pants and hooded Van's sweatshirt, the unsuspecting Minerva visits a local bookstore, Under the Covers, with her cousin, Jordan. On the way home, Jordan is arrested and Minerva has no idea what is going on. Not much later, lending herself as part of a science project, Minerva is all wired up, when, out of nowhere, lightening strikes and she is electrocuted. Strangely enough, this shock turns Minerva's life around, her shy self-awareness a thing of the past. Infused with confidence, the new Minerva is fearless, no longer a shadow of her three older brothers who serve as surrogates since their parents' divorce.<br /><br />Minerva wastes no time sleuthing the cause of Jordan's arrest, diving into a mystery that involves identity theft, a complicated money scam and a death. This empowered seventh-grader throws aside the usual teen angst and chronic self-evaluation, tapping into her inner Superwoman. The worst day of her life becomes a catalyst for change that is more than surface, the quirky teen taking some hard knocks but coming back with a healthy attitude. Speaking in the easy jargon of today's young teens, laced with cyber-speak, Minerva is an innovative and interesting character, her usual wise-cracking apropos and reflective of the electronic age. Teen-aged girls can readily identify with this spunky teen as she steps up to be counted, peer pressure and self doubts a thing of the past. Move over, Nancy Drew. There's a new girl in town. Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-10-08
11795:US	51010391	RNLGL319YS3KF	1931561753	423433982	Dermaphoria	Books	4	11	15	N	N	"Speak to the Token Man. Ask for Desiree."	When he wakes up in a hospital jail surrounded by beeping machines and a determinedly friendly detective, Eric Ashworth remembers nothing. He recalls sensations, images, fireflies and a name, Desiree, but without any context. Later, somewhat on the mend, Eric is ensconced in the Hotel Firebird, Room 621, but, \\"Jail moves with me, an invisible box surrounding my every step with every tick of the clock.\\" His paranoia accelerates, information temporarily buried in a damaged mind; he sees microprocessors in insects, \\"umbrella men\\" following his every move, yet is unable to resist the urges of a demanding brain for more, more, more.<br /><br />His memory returns in snatches, between doses of drugs that bring him ever closer to the brink of fragmented recall. Eric Ashworth is an uber-chemist, able to recreate any formula, tweaking and adjusting, improving the quality of the high. Working for professionals willing to pay for his expertise, Eric demands a certain level of competence in his labs, only too aware that carelessness can erase his work in a fiery ball. Eric understands it all, manufacturing, R and D, distribution, sales and marketing. And he realizes \\"the best batch wouldn't go anywhere in the world without a good name\\". Hence, Diesel  Blockers, Straight Eights, Road Dogs, Green Berets, Mad hatters and White Rabbits, an endless stream of top quality uppers and mood changers, eagerly consumed by a voracious public. His latest creation, Derma, or Skin, brings the user close to God, in raucous demand. Not a problem for Ashworth, the consummate chemist, a genius at refining the essence of the drug du jour in mass quantities.<br /><br />The author's knowledge of pharmacological detail is impressive, the fine art of cooking, drugs as important in this novel as in his first excellent fiction, The Contortionist's Handbook. But Eric lacks the depth and passion of Clevenger's first protagonist, lost in a haze of drug-induced confusion that moves between fantasy and reality, mixing the two, characters real and imagined but without much substance beyond his imagination. Accurately detailed and written with the passion of a lit match poised to light a rising layer of ether, this world of phantoms carries its own harsh fate. The faceless men who people this lucrative market are expendable, but Eric is not, his unusual talent making him a marked man. Trapped in the cacophony of his own thoughts, Eric fuels the rush of memory with ever higher doses of Derma, accelerating a harsh awakening as fact separates from fiction. Faced with the inevitable results of his chemical euphoria, Eric's lucidity waxes and wanes, until both love and tragedy are revealed in equal measure, the breadth of his betrayal unbearable. Luan Gaines/ 2005.antasy and reality, mixing the two, characters real and imagined but without much substance beyond his imagination. Accurately detailed and written with the passion of a lit match poised to light a rising layer of ether, this world of phantoms carries its own harsh fate. The faceless men who people this lucrative market are expendable, but Eric is not, his unusual talent making him a marked man. Trapped in the cacophony of his own thoughts, Eric fuels the rush of memory with ever higher doses of Derma, accelerating a harsh awakening as fact separates from fiction. Faced with the inevitable results of his chemical euphoria, Eric's lucidity waxes and wanes, until both love and tragedy are revealed in equal measure, the breadth of his betrayal unbearable. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br />	2005-10-07
18625:US	51010391	R2BKT3JYDN2T9M	140003387X	309584716	The Wake-Up	Books	4	2	4	N	N	(4.5) Crank wars. Whatever. Whenever. Whoever.	After a deal gone very bad, everyone a safe house brutally murdered, ex-Delta Force Frank Thorpe is fired from his \\"shop\\". When a rude businessman knocks down a young Latino boy at the airport, Frank cancels his Miami vacation to find the guy and make him apologize for his thoughtless transgression. Frank decides to teach Douglas Meachum a lesson in manners he won't soon forget, a \\"wake-up\\" as it's called in the trade. In the course of setting Meachum up, Thorpe comes in contact with Missy Riddenhauer, wife of a surfer-drug lord, Clark, who runs a huge meth operation.<br /><br />After meeting Gina Meachum, Thorpe thinks twice about his approach to her husband, but now he has involved the Riddenhauer's, a deadly couple who employ a couple of talented enforcers, Arturo and Vlad. Once he's tripped over Clark's operation, Thorpe follows his natural inclinations, using the few resources left to him and an insurance data base, posing as an insurance agent. Frank is busy tracking the Riddenhauer's and keeping an eye out for the Engineer, mastermind of the safe house massacre, all this in sunny California, from Newport Beach to Corona del Mar, the upscale neighborhoods belying an excess of criminal activity.<br /><br />Juggling miscreants gets complicated, but Thorpe has a clear and concise agenda, as well as extraordinary determination. As the crank wars heat up, a renegade is knocking over Clark's meth labs in Riverside; meanwhile, the Engineer tracks Frank electronically, anxious for a rematch. Having underestimated the Engineer the first time, Frank isn't about to make the same mistake twice, but he's kept moving by accelerating events, planning to deal with Doug Meachum's lesson later, hopefully with less collateral damage: \\"A man's passions were always his weakness.\\" But Missy and Clark have the habit of removing everyone and everything in their path, thanks to the two terrors, Arturo and Vlad. The coast glows with power and creature comforts, but Riverside is Crank Central.<br /><br />Peppered with secret agencies, rogue agents, the DEA, and shady meth-cookers, Ferrigno mixes a heady batch of ex-military patriots gone mercenary and the drug underground, where one spark can ignite a fire ball: \\"We're not saving the world anymore... we're just showing off.\\" Thorpe is in his element, without resources, depending on familiar contacts and irritating some powerful players along the way. Darkly humorous and edgy, Ferrigno, author of The Horse Latitudes, is at his contemporaneous best, non-stop action driving the plot, taking no prisoners. Luan Gaines/ 2005.nk Central. <br /> <br />Peppered with secret agencies, rogue agents, the DEA, and shady meth-cookers, Ferrigno mixes a heady batch of ex-military patriots gone mercenary and the drug underground, where one spark can ignite a fire ball: \\"We're not saving the world anymore... we're just showing off.\\" Thorpe is in his element, without resources, depending on familiar contacts and irritating some powerful players along the way. Darkly humorous and edgy, Ferrigno, author of The Horse Latitudes, is at his contemporaneous best, non-stop action driving the plot, taking no prisoners. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br /> <br />	2005-10-03
20176:US	51010391	RADBD6ZECPDRW	0312425171	807042318	The Secret Histories: Hidden Truths That Challenged the Past and Changed the World	Books	4	37	37	N	N	"History is a frog: half of it submerged..."	The Secret Histories is a compilation of dozens of documents, transcripts and investigative journalistic efforts, exposing the formerly undisclosed details in the public interest. At a time when the Freedom of Information Act is a critical factor in untangling the half-truths and bureaucratic excuses for incompetence, even fraudulent activities, the public must be willing to inform themselves. Formerly unbiased journalists opened the door to democratic discourse in the affairs of government and bureaucracy, but as we have so recently seen, corporate ownership of media can affect the exposure of certain information and access to open debate on critical issues. Democracy thrives on discourse; history has proven, over and over, that where there is secrecy, there is opportunity for fraud and misinformation.<br /><br />A journalist and documentary filmmaker, John S Friedman has gathered examples of memos, published articles and assorted documents that include the work of Edward R.  Murrow, James Risen, Alexander Haig, Richard Nixon, HR Haldeman and other notable figures. Subtitled \\"Hidden Truths that Challenged the Past and Changed the World\\", this weighty volume covers the code breakers and collaborators of World War II, the Korean War, the Atomic Age, Cold War Secrets (including Murrow's \\"Report on Senator Joseph R. McCarthy\\") and Mark's \\"The Search for the Manchurian Candidate\\". The section on Original Crime includes material on Martin Luther King, the Vietnam War's \\"Gulf of Tonkin Incident\\" and \\"The Massacre at My Lai\\". Moving into more recent history, Iran is discussed, as well as Kornbluh's \\"The Pinochet File; and under the heading \\"Abuses of Power\\", the Nixon White House, Watergate and the torture at Abu Ghraib Prison.<br /><br />Some revelations in The Secret Histories: the Mafia was one of the many secret societies created to free the island of foreign domination; war is only politics carried on by other means, i.e., the Korean War; \\"the running battle between Hoover and [Bobby] Kennedy defined the larger political context for the escalation of activity against [Martin Luther] King\\"; Strom Thurmond sent a memo to the White House and Attorney General John Mitchell, suggesting that John Lennon's planned tour would coincide with the 1972 election campaign and Lennon should be deported to avoid money pouring into the \\"coffers of the New Left; the original investigation of the My Lai Massacre was conducted by Colin Powell, a US Army Major, \\"who refuted claims that a massacre had occurred\\", despite testimony to the contrary.<br /><br />In order to take ownership of our society and the government that represents us, it falls upon the citizens to inform ourselves, to ask the hard questions and not shirk from uncomfortable answers. The documents in this significant collection are timely and important, disclosing formerly hidden information concerning our nation's history. Here is both the opportunity and the means to question the elected government and the corporations that do business on out behalf. The truth speaks louder than fiction on these pages, whether it concerns the secretive Nixon Administration or our involvement in Vietnam under Lyndon Johnson. Revisiting history or discovering information that has slipped into the past, The Secret Histories is a valuable resource for all interested citizens. Luan Gaines/ 2005.g battle between Hoover and [Bobby] Kennedy defined the larger political context for the escalation of activity against [Martin Luther] King\\"; Strom Thurmond sent a memo to the White House and Attorney General John Mitchell, suggesting that John Lennon's planned tour would coincide with the 1972 election campaign and Lennon should be deported to avoid money pouring into the \\"coffers of the New Left; the original investigation of the My Lai Massacre was conducted by Colin Powell, a US Army Major, \\"who refuted claims that a massacre had occurred\\", despite testimony to the contrary. <br /> <br />In order to take ownership of our society and the government that represents us, it falls upon the citizens to inform ourselves, to ask the hard questions and not shirk from uncomfortable answers. The documents in this significant collection are timely and important, disclosing formerly hidden information concerning our nation's history. Here is both the opportunity and the means to question the elected government and the corporations that do business on out behalf. The truth speaks louder than fiction on these pages, whether it concerns the secretive Nixon Administration or our involvement in Vietnam under Lyndon Johnson. Revisiting history or discovering information that has slipped into the past, The Secret Histories is a valuable resource for all interested citizens. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-10-02
21852:US	51010391	R2OHN5K3LUUTK7	0374230706	29016716	A Perfect Pledge: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	"Is something that fall on your lap. Nobody else could do it."	In 1956 Trinidad, Narpat Dubay's family lives quietly, this father of four tending his sugar cane patch and designing ingenious contraptions to make life easier. In Trinidad, nothing is ever planned, the frequent floods thought of as an act of God, a punishment, and Narpat seeks to rectify such ignorance. He has also noticed an influx of \\"Outsiders\\", squatters who fill empty houses as though they own the land. Narpat is determined to run them out and restore order to a country filled with corruption and graft: \\"Just like the invaders of India, the Outsiders were introducing a system of values alien to the village.\\"<br /><br />Overburdened by insidious poverty, Narpat's wife, Dulari, borrows two-hundred dollars from her more successful brother to outfit her children properly for school and to arrange transportation for the older girls. While they are dependant on local bus transportation, Dulari waits anxiously for her daughters to return, content only when she has purchased a safe ride for them. Overruled and his authority threatened, Narpat is furious, believing the walk is beneficial, but then he expects every inconvenience to be turned into a learning experience, always ready with homilies to instruct his children on the virtues of hard work. Narpat feels his wife is acting against his wishes, as he routinely attempts to instill good habits and independence in Jeeves, Chandra, Kala and Shushilla.<br /><br />Trinidad's anticipated day of independence is August 31, 1962. With all the crooked politicians in the election, Narpat runs for county councilor, his main concern that the cane farmers own the deeds to their lands. Later, building his factory is an act intrinsically out of step in island society, the degree of individuality and authority he assumes an anomaly. His philosophy too large for his world, Narpat is sure to disappoint, but it is in his nature to pursue his dream. While Narpat dedicates himself to fighting corruption and bureaucracy, his wife and children are held hostage to his ideals. Dulari is essentially powerless, her sanity preserved only by \\"this numbing ritual of sweeping, cooking, cleaning and washing, this silencing of my mind\\". Meanwhile, Narpat's life is purpose-driven; he is determined to adhere to the high moral path no matter what the cost, the children caught in the emotional underpinnings of futile arguments between their parents. As they mature, the children may question their father's dogmatic approach to existence, but the most telling exchanges are between husband and wife behind the closed door of their bedroom.<br /><br />Time passes and the island changes but \\"progress [is] closely allied to treachery\\". In this landscape, village life, seemingly insignificant in the larger scope of things, is a microcosm for universal principles. The eccentric characters that people these pages, their idiomatic speech and stubbornness, portray a land in the midst of change, corruption a natural outgrowth of its evolution. The voices of Narpat, the Manager, Doon the schoolteacher, Radhica, Dulari and Jeeves fill this tale with the dreams and laments of the ages, a template for humanity, played out in all its sturm and drang. Luan Gaines/ 2005., his wife and children are held hostage to his ideals. Dulari is essentially powerless, her sanity preserved only by \\"this numbing ritual of sweeping, cooking, cleaning and washing, this silencing of my mind\\". Meanwhile, Narpat's life is purpose-driven; he is determined to adhere to the high moral path no matter what the cost, the children caught in the emotional underpinnings of futile arguments between their parents. As they mature, the children may question their father's dogmatic approach to existence, but the most telling exchanges are between husband and wife behind the closed door of their bedroom. <br /> <br />Time passes and the island changes but \\"progress [is] closely allied to treachery\\". In this landscape, village life, seemingly insignificant in the larger scope of things, is a microcosm for universal principles. The eccentric characters that people these pages, their idiomatic speech and stubbornness, portray a land in the midst of change, corruption a natural outgrowth of its evolution. The voices of Narpat, the Manager, Doon the schoolteacher, Radhica, Dulari and Jeeves fill this tale with the dreams and laments of the ages, a template for humanity, played out in all its sturm and drang. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-10-01
23382:US	51010391	R2OTI3GZ3GI1HE	0151011613	642724528	The Great Stink	Books	4	42	45	N	N	"London, the largest metropolis in the world, was poisoning itself."	William Henry May, mapmaker and surveyor, joins England's battle against the Russians in the Crimean War, but is wounded and consigned to a filthy hospital ship, where he languishes almost unto death. Given to unaccountable rages and despair, May never imagines he will survive to be recalled to London. He has frozen into uncaring acceptance of his predicament, but recovers the will to live, the raw emotion so painful that he begins to cut himself, the self-mutilation a relief for his overburdened mental state.<br /><br />When May is hired in the rebuilding project of the London sewers, a huge and expensive undertaking, his prospects have changed radically for the better. Married, with one son and a baby on the way, William is a changed man, but still tormented by nightmares, unhinged by his experiences in the war. William, nicknamed \\"The Sultan of the Sewers\\", continues to disintegrate in this dark hell, where his psyche finds peace only in cutting, his wife purposefully oblivious to her husband's suffering. This is the landscape of 1880's London, with little opportunity for advancement, men desperate to carve out a niche that will keep their families from starvation.<br /><br />As gruesome and as poverty riddled as any Dickensian tale, this novel exposes the indigenous city poverty, personified by the denizens of the sewers, those who make a scant living collecting the mud-encrusted detritus of others. Vast numbers of poor people create income from the even the filthiest refuse, bought and sold for profit. The great rotting underground sewers are a metaphor for the class distinctions that leave the destitute to wallow in the most extreme conditions, soothed by cheap gin, while the Fancy, the rich, indulge in betting to alleviate their boredom, visiting the slums for sport. Even the bureaucracy is corrupt, the sewer project approved, while the funds are withheld by a bickering Parliament.<br /><br />As the project progresses, the sewers become less navigable, the flushers left to ever more ingenious ways in and out. Under the threat of exposure, agents supplying bricks attempt to force May to accept substandard materials, especially Alfred England, whose bricks have been contracted by May's superior. The stress of constant threats to his family should he not agree to the illegal contracts drive May deeper into the chaos of his own mind, thoughts of death and war merging with everyday reality. Indeed, in the face of murder, who better to blame than the insane, self-mutilating William May?<br /><br />With remarkable detail that requires a strong constitution, the author reveals the complex underpinnings of city management and graft. In a complex blend of murder, greed and madness, the London bureaucracy ripe for plundering by privateers, the protagonist becomes the unwitting victim of greedy villains. In this unhealthy mix, all are caught in the rude stew of city waste, men with their own personal demons and small enjoyments. Not an easy book to read, with its unflinching detail, The Great Stink is a timely reminder of the skeleton that must be maintained, a framework for civilization, where opportunity offers freedom from a life of discontent and distorted appetites. Luan Gaines/2005the flushers left to ever more ingenious ways in and out. Under the threat of exposure, agents supplying bricks attempt to force May to accept substandard materials, especially Alfred England, whose bricks have been contracted by May's superior. The stress of constant threats to his family should he not agree to the illegal contracts drive May deeper into the chaos of his own mind, thoughts of death and war merging with everyday reality. Indeed, in the face of murder, who better to blame than the insane, self-mutilating William May? <br /> <br />With remarkable detail that requires a strong constitution, the author reveals the complex underpinnings of city management and graft. In a complex blend of murder, greed and madness, the London bureaucracy ripe for plundering by privateers, the protagonist becomes the unwitting victim of greedy villains. In this unhealthy mix, all are caught in the rude stew of city waste, men with their own personal demons and small enjoyments. Not an easy book to read, with its unflinching detail, The Great Stink is a timely reminder of the skeleton that must be maintained, a framework for civilization, where opportunity offers freedom from a life of discontent and distorted appetites. Luan Gaines/2005	2005-09-30
27400:US	51010391	R24236IMQMNW8E	0811850994	287073610	Vincent's Colors	Books	5	38	39	N	N	"Starry, starry night"	One of the most well-known post-Impressionist artists is Vincent Van Gogh, whose paintings are filled with the brightest shades of yellow, blue and green. In a series of sixteen paintings, accompanied by the descriptive phrases Van Gogh wrote to his brother, Theo, young readers can enjoy the brilliance and energy of this man's work. Van Gogh has a particular appeal for children, a welcome introduction into the world of art, as each painting is reproduced with fine detail and the assured brushstrokes Van Gogh made on his canvases. Beautifully bound, the book begins with the author's self-portrait and the facts of his birthplace and eventual move to France, where he was inspired by nature's bounty, rich color and simplicity.<br /><br />One of the most recognizable paintings is Sunflowers, \\"Twelve flowers that are light on light\\"; Irises, \\"a big bunch of violet irises\\"; The Bedroom, \\"two chairs the yellow of fresh butter\\"; and The Starry Night, \\"and in my head a starry night\\", all of them spilling from page to page, in unfolding poetry. Van Gogh's appeal is universal, the perfect artist to teach a child the language of color and creativity. By Chronicle Books, this is a beautiful addition to a child's library of beloved artists. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-28
27443:US	51010391	RDL8TKEYVMCU1	0316741574	322476620	The River House: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	"Everyone has the mist floating over the land..."	Ginnie Holmes, a psychologist, lives in a house in London near the Thames River, with her husband, Greg, and sixteen-year old daughter, Amber. Another daughter, Molly, has just left for college. Ginny has grown comfortable with her life, in spite of the noticeable emotional distance from Greg, who is writing a book and plans to sleep in Molly's newly vacated room until he has finished. At her job, working with a traumatized young boy, Ginnie requests additional information from a detective who was once called to the boy's house; Ginnie hopes the detective can add some insights into the boy's lack of responsiveness in therapy. When Ginnie meets Will Hampton, the two are instantly attracted. Never before unfaithful to Greg, Ginnie is amazed how easily she falls into a clandestine affair with Will. The couple has little privacy until they discover a deserted, ramshackle house on the Thames during one of their walks, with enough privacy to shield them from prying eyes. The shabby river house becomes a haven for their weekly rendezvous. Then there is a brutal murder near the river house; the careful security Ginnie has relished is replaced by fear and imminent danger.<br /><br />A woman of a certain age, Ginnie has, for the most part, treasured her life, her job, husband and daughters, vaguely aware of the absence of passion in her marriage. When she begins the romantic liaison with Will, she attempts to compartmentalize, deceiving herself that these two worlds will never infringe on each other. The brutal crime changes this blissful isolation and Ginnie is forced top confront the ugly reality of infidelity: that others, by association, are involved and can be wounded. Her middle age defined by the infinite pressures of family, the illnesses and deaths that take the bright shine from the future, Ginnie has grasped a lifeline to that carefree time of romance and unfettered passion reserved for the young, thinking it possible to rediscover it, if only for a while. Of course, she is mistaken, the consequences and responsibilities standing sentinel just around the corner.<br /><br />Leroy writes delicately of place and time, her protagonist caught in an emotional dilemma. The river house is indeed awash in silvery light and secrecy, her daughters sparkle with youthful intensity and the sense of danger, once it strikes, is pervasive. But Ginnie has developed a pattern of permissiveness and it is that which will call her to account: her marriage with Greg passive and boring, making her vulnerable to the sudden rush of passion for a new man; and she is increasingly apathetic with her daughter, letting Amber shirk her responsibilities to pursue youthful enjoyments. Glorying in Amber's beauty and promise, perhaps Ginnie confuses herself with her daughter for a time, ignoring her parental role. In this psychological tale of one woman's descent into unfamiliar territory, Ginnie is blindsided by events, unbridled passion and violence rushing in, altering forever her perception of the world. Luan Gaines/ 2005.while. Of course, she is mistaken, the consequences and responsibilities standing sentinel just around the corner. <br /> <br />Leroy writes delicately of place and time, her protagonist caught in an emotional dilemma. The river house is indeed awash in silvery light and secrecy, her daughters sparkle with youthful intensity and the sense of danger, once it strikes, is pervasive. But Ginnie has developed a pattern of permissiveness and it is that which will call her to account: her marriage with Greg passive and boring, making her vulnerable to the sudden rush of passion for a new man; and she is increasingly apathetic with her daughter, letting Amber shirk her responsibilities to pursue youthful enjoyments. Glorying in Amber's beauty and promise, perhaps Ginnie confuses herself with her daughter for a time, ignoring her parental role. In this psychological tale of one woman's descent into unfamiliar territory, Ginnie is blindsided by events, unbridled passion and violence rushing in, altering forever her perception of the world. Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-09-28
27923:US	51010391	R32DY59JO7Q2WY	1593150180	531133542	A Son Called Gabriel	Books	4	14	15	N	N	"The Church is infallible and don't you ever forget it."	In 1960's Catholic Ireland, young Gabriel Harkin abides by the tenets of a religion that condemns his burgeoning homosexuality, forcing him into the masculine mold of his peers and he is endlessly tortured by bullies who sense his weakness and prey on such vulnerability. The oldest of four children, Gabriel fights for acknowledgment from a father who favors the younger and more physical James, taunting his older son about his sensitivity, a negative quality in the father's eyes. Gabriel is confused by the mixed messages of his religion and the prurient interest of others boys who prey on his innocence. Gabriel realizes what is expected of him as a male and strives to deliver, but is constantly undermined by his father's criticism and his own natural inclinations.<br /><br />Ireland is no easy place for a sexually ambiguous boy to survive, the country awash in sports fanaticism and passion for the ideals and activities of the IRA, the Troubles with the Protestants growing daily more violent. Gabriel's artistic temperament and lack of athletic skill hinders his acceptance by the other boys at St. Malachy's, making him an easy target. Caught in a confusing mix of emotions, with no guidance but the authoritative dogma of the Catholic religion, Gabriel's isolation is complete. He bears the burden of a sexual preference that is increasingly real and unacceptable. He simply cannot be like the others boys and they easily intuit this flaw, seizing on Gabriel's inability to protect himself.<br /><br />Gabriel's mother is constantly \\"sorting him out\\", which means she temporizes, taking no action, while his father belittles and questions his son's masculinity. Uncle Brendan, a missionary priest in Africa, is held up as a model for Gabriel and shows confidence in the boy's ability when he visits. But is the focus of a family secret that the boy cannot unravel, since the adults refuse to talk about it. In the midst of a raucous Irish-Catholic family, Gabriel is surrounded by siblings, cousins, aunts, uncles and grandmothers, all of whom have something to say about his behavior and future. Their unhelpful views aside, there is really no one willing to address Gabriel's particular dilemma and he is left to his own resources.<br /><br />His rite-of-passage into adolescence problematic and riddled with anxiety, Gabriel does his best to pass what he refers to as God's test, always terrified that some word or behavior will give him away. Gabriel has been taught that what he wants is sinful, an abomination. He is flawed and doesn't know how to fix it, but confession is out of the question. Although he is angry at God for giving him this test, Gabriel knows that he will never turn away from God, for then he would be forever alone. McNicholl perfectly renders Gabriel's confusion, denial, anger and finally acceptance of a world in which he doesn't fit and the dawning realization of how different his life might be. The geography of his past forever altered, Gabriel looks to the freedom of anonymity and an opportunity to start over. Luan Gaines/2005.siblings, cousins, aunts, uncles and grandmothers, all of whom have something to say about his behavior and future. Their unhelpful views aside, there is really no one willing to address Gabriel's particular dilemma and he is left to his own resources. <br /> <br />His rite-of-passage into adolescence problematic and riddled with anxiety, Gabriel does his best to pass what he refers to as God's test, always terrified that some word or behavior will give him away. Gabriel has been taught that what he wants is sinful, an abomination. He is flawed and doesn't know how to fix it, but confession is out of the question. Although he is angry at God for giving him this test, Gabriel knows that he will never turn away from God, for then he would be forever alone. McNicholl perfectly renders Gabriel's confusion, denial, anger and finally acceptance of a world in which he doesn't fit and the dawning realization of how different his life might be. The geography of his past forever altered, Gabriel looks to the freedom of anonymity and an opportunity to start over. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-28
28056:US	51010391	R1MJNKCR5MFNNR	0811843432	706366001	Beyond the Great Mountains: A Visual Poem About China	Books	5	8	8	N	N	"Mist rose and fell, rain gathering..."	This striking book is bound in a unique format, layers of pages that reveal paper-collage illustrations and symbols, as spare and elegant as a Chinese scroll. Each layered page adds another line of prose and art, revealing the grace and majesty of China. The art is extravagant, each unfolding image larger and more captivating, a garden of natural beauty with prose to complement the artist's vision, unrestricted by conventional ideas: \\"Beyond the great mountains/ far to the east, a vast fertile plain./ In its sky, mist rose and fell, rain gathering, river cascading/ down cliffs and boulders, through valleys into fields.\\"<br /><br />Beautifully bound, this elegant prose, combined with imaginative collage is a magical experience. Introduce a child to the vast beauty of China, if you are able to part with this volume, the harmony, simplicity, tradition and wisdom of ancient symbols. (The inside back cover includes a list of Chinese characters then and now, the symbols integrated into the artwork, all flowing together.) The author's philosophy is revealed in his work: \\"Rather than show a particular instance of the idea, it reminds me that ideas are bigger than a single instance... that leisure is not simply an activity but a state of being.\\" Born in China, but now living in the United States, Ed Young retains the inspiration of that mystic land. A combination of words and images, this elaborate and unusual feast of words and pictures is a treasure. Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-09-28
36483:US	51010391	R1QRLIKRS36GL7	1932961127	778751309	The Singing and Dancing Daughters of God	Books	4	8	8	N	N	"The whole world likes to mourn together and hate together when it can."	You don't know what to expect when a novel begins with the celebration of an execution. Everyone is in costume to commemorate the death of a father who killed his two sons by putting rat poison in their Halloween candy apples. And the newly divorced school bus driver, Hud Smith, carries a root beer bottle filled with vodka, ruminating on his separation from eight-year old Nina as he chauffeurs the oddball kids to school in the morning. Meanwhile, Hud's seventeen-year old son, Gatling, has taken to the road with a popular gospel singing group, The Daughters of God, Sunny, Harmony, Dolly and June. Hud also thinks about religion, how it \\"got passed around town like something infectious\\". Where most kids used to escape in music, drugs and sex, the teens in this Nebraska town are clinging to that old time religion, quoting doomsday verses from the Bible and inking red dots on their palms to express solidarity with the Crucifixion. When the Daughters of God singing group shows up at the Rivoli Sky-Vue drive-in theater, Hud is hoping for a reunion with his son, but things never go as Hud expects and he is forced to make adjustments to his plans. Luckily, just about everything that happens to Hud is an inspiration for a new song.<br /><br />These people live simple lives, their worldly goods slightly shabby, faithful congregations at Sunday services, their only expectations to minimize trouble and grief. Filled with strange rituals, quirky residents and an infusion of religious fanaticism, this novel is a symphony of images, parents caught up in broken dreams, their children holding the Good Book and murmuring damnation scripture. Each character is uniquely eccentric: Hud, the alcoholic song-writer; his ex, Tuesday, who is drifting slowly back to her husband; Ozzie Yates, the best friend whose wife died of breast cancer, leaving him to raise teen-aged Charlotte alone; the enigmatic Charlotte, once girlfriend to Hud's son, traveling gospel musician, Gatling; and Junior, Charlotte's current boyfriend, preacher of biblical catastrophe.<br /><br />The Singing and Dancing Daughters of God is a charming story of regular people somehow gone off track, the promises of youth abandoned for a more realistic approach to the daily troubles that come with marriage and raising children. These hapless characters are all the more sympathetic for their faults, their personalities familiar and unpretentious. I suspect this small town in Nebraska is a microcosm for Anywhere, USA, where generations stumble through the social changes of an evolving society, one hand firmly clutching the values that make them such likeable people. There is a strong undercurrent of hope as Hud struggles to regain his fragmented family, both children benefiting from their parents' love, if sometimes misguided. Every heartache is tempered with tenderness, every mistake with forgiveness. Luan Gaines/ 2005.nior, Charlotte's current boyfriend, preacher of biblical catastrophe. <br />  <br />The Singing and Dancing Daughters of God is a charming story of regular people somehow gone off track, the promises of youth abandoned for a more realistic approach to the daily troubles that come with marriage and raising children. These hapless characters are all the more sympathetic for their faults, their personalities familiar and unpretentious. I suspect this small town in Nebraska is a microcosm for Anywhere, USA, where generations stumble through the social changes of an evolving society, one hand firmly clutching the values that make them such likeable people. There is a strong undercurrent of hope as Hud struggles to regain his fragmented family, both children benefiting from their parents' love, if sometimes misguided. Every heartache is tempered with tenderness, every mistake with forgiveness. Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-09-24
36551:US	51010391	RWY5C71LDYSR8	0393058158	474287812	Women of America	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Lost highways	To read Charlie Smith's Women of America is to experience a journey, traveling familiar and unfamiliar roads, the external and the internal, with incisive glimpses into the heart of a man who uses words as his compass:<br /><br />\\"That is, darling, your turn will come.<br /><br />I'd walk out on myself if I could.<br /><br />I love the distant glow in the nighttime desert sky<br /><br />like a worn yellow spot in the dark<br /><br />everything might still slip through. (\\"Late Days: Outside Las Vegas\\")<br /><br />The images are extraordinary, the emotions stark, unflinching, revealing both the poignant and the painful, a self-examination without filters. He walks a worldly terrain, where place becomes incidental to the truth exposed, but where landscape serves as inspiration. And always the fading footsteps a love gone wrong or not yet known:<br /><br />I was thinking of a woman I loved,<br /><br />who wouldn't love me.<br /><br />I thought I would never get past this,<br /><br />and though it was obvious I would,<br /><br />that we all do, I began to love the pain<br /><br />that didn't want to go away, and held on to it. (\\"Compared to What\\")<br /><br />Love is held to the light for careful observation, but more the love one used to know or the love waiting, the act in constant transition as the author delves into his motivations and desires. There is no landscape that does not spark a memory of love or the wish for fulfillment. Both erotic and transcendent, these perfectly coupled phrases inspire introspection, a moment's passage into shared emotions, a soulful recognition:<br /><br />Dearest, they are tearing<br /><br />down the movie theaters-<br /><br />blackened areas in which<br /><br />we clutched each other,<br /><br />leaving marks. (\\"Talking to Whom\\")<br /><br />and...<br /><br />the solitude she entered<br /><br />like a phrase dispelling doubt,<br /><br />the solitude<br /><br />entrained and crowded now<br /><br />something- something- weeded out. (\\"Solitude\\")<br /><br />Throughout his wanderings, his mind returns again and again to the women who have shaped his heart, the incidental, the passionate, the forbidden, the lost and the mourned. Luan Gaines/ 2005.nd returns again and again to the women who have shaped his heart, the incidental, the passionate, the forbidden, the lost and the mourned. Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-09-24
36696:US	51010391	R3CM54AUD9AV0N	0312327927	54774100	Revenge: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	"The ubiquitous Loretta Partlow."	A young artist, hoping for tenure at Heartwood College in Connecticut. A well-known and much acclaimed novelist who lives in the neighborhood near the college, Heartwood Springs. The artist, Andrea Geller, is consumed with her father's death, sure her stepmother played some part in it, if only one of negligence, the night he drove off a bridge, overmedicated, and lingered in a coma for two years before he expired. During that time, Andrea visited every day, but her stepmother, Elena's, visits become ever more sporadic, until they ceased altogether. At first only acquaintances, Loretta and Andrea become friends and Andrea discloses her belief that Elena was partly responsible for her father's death.<br /><br />Loretta, a consummate writer, seems sincerely interested in Andrea's story and the two draw closer. The author encourages Andrea's work as well, a series of paintings, all of her father's home in Shallow Lake, the repetitious renderings evolving into an artistic statement and an emotional canvas of Andrea's internal struggle. Andrea's life is untidy, unfocused since her father's death. A cardiologist, his presence looms large in her imagination and her work, as her painting resolves issues she cannot acknowledge, let alone confront. Loretta's interest serves as a catalyst, triggering long-buried memories and emotional scars. Andrea wants Loretta to know her story, slowly forming a plan, an intricate web that will help her find closure, but who will be using who?<br /><br />Morris takes the twisted memory of family trauma and fashions it into an intriguing drama shaped by conflict, obsession, guilt and grief. Couched in a simple friendship, Andrea and Loretta's relationship is beautifully complicated, giving the novel a natural tension that portends a difficult resolution. Carefully subtle, the author intimates without exposing, setting up her protagonist for a surprising exercise in frustration. Morris reveals the nature of intimacy and obsession, the selfish motivations that impose burdens that cannot be sustained. Andrea learns the nature of friendship and her own capacity for self-delusion. Both writer and artist exist on the edge of their interior worlds, where the creative process draws from life. The natural boundaries, once breeched, have no defense against the urgency of creation. What is grist for Andrea's artistic endeavors and growing body of work is also vulnerable to poaching. This self-involved and socially stunted artist must face the consequences of her actions and be prepared to pay the price of indiscretion. Luan Gaines/2005.ion, the selfish motivations that impose burdens that cannot be sustained. Andrea learns the nature of friendship and her own capacity for self-delusion. Both writer and artist exist on the edge of their interior worlds, where the creative process draws from life. The natural boundaries, once breeched, have no defense against the urgency of creation. What is grist for Andrea's artistic endeavors and growing body of work is also vulnerable to poaching. This self-involved and socially stunted artist must face the consequences of her actions and be prepared to pay the price of indiscretion. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-24
43515:US	51010391	R1HZXJ38200GUQ	1596921269	408088712	The Point of Fracture	Books	4	4	5	N	N	(4.5) We are as sick as our secrets.	Hollon sets up the scenario of this psychological thriller with attention to the small details of a perfect crime, carefully measuring his characters' actions and reactions in a profoundly disturbing manner. As well the author knows, the novel is unsettling, Michael Brace and his wife, Suzanne, locked in a passionless embrace, Michael hoping for new beginnings, Suzanne trapped by her own imagination. On the surface they are a perfect couple, the beautiful wife with a writer husband from a wealthy and successful local family in Fairhope, Alabama. But in reality they've been drifting apart for a long time, the sweet exuberance of their early romance trickling into memory, replaced with a woman plagued by headaches who sleeps alone, her husband relegated to the living room couch in lieu of the spare bedroom.<br /><br />Michael's life has been spiraling downwards for a few years, his fifteen year marriage to Suzanne only highlighting the unhappiness that has begun to fill his waking moments. Almost out of money, Michael will either have to ask his parents for a loan or get a job, neither prospect particularly desirable. Michael has been writing a novel, unaware that Suzanne has read every page, overwhelmed with rage that he should somehow intuit what she has never told anyone. Her background filled with the anxiety and distrust of alcoholism and mental illness, Suzanne has avoided any contact with her family of origin. Michael has accepted these terms, little realizing the turn his life will take while he stands idly by.<br /><br />Hollon writes with a rich imagination of the impossible tension between a husband and wife locked into a marriage that has lost the shine of its early promise and settled into the stale rhythm of monotony. Except that in Michael and Suzanne's case, their marriage has deteriorated even farther, much closer to the edge of ruin than Michael anticipates. He has let himself believe in those early days with Suzanne, a time when she believed he would protect her from a past she couldn't bear to talk about. By the time Michael finds himself mired in an unimaginable quagmire, his normal consanguinity has turned to confusion, a man with no future questioning his past. This masterful drama catches the reader in a web of dark intrigue, turning one man's slightly unhappy world into an overnight horror story.<br /><br />Beside his protagonists, Hollon has created a gallery of impressive eccentrics: the older neighbors who see everything that goes on; Michael's old friends, a hapless bunch of guys who cling to their carefree afternoons of drinking and fishing; Suzanne's therapist, a woman out of her depth and expertise; and the lonely misfit, Jerry Bannon, who wanders the empty pre-dawn streets collecting bits of trash in a plastic bag. Hollon is an aficionado of the human condition in all its intricacies and small betrayals. From disconnected spouses to taut courtroom drama, the pace of the novel is constant, a slow building toward the inevitable, a perfectly executed denouement. Although it reads like a thriller, this is no crime procedural, but a finely wrought tale of two people caught in a web of destruction. The author walks a fine line between a carefully plotted revenge and the redemption of a man who never asks much from the world until he loses everything, only to learn that \\"freedom is complete, or it isn't freedom at all.\\" Luan Gaines/ 2005.would protect her from a past she couldn't bear to talk about. By the time Michael finds himself mired in an unimaginable quagmire, his normal consanguinity has turned to confusion, a man with no future questioning his past. This masterful drama catches the reader in a web of dark intrigue, turning one man's slightly unhappy world into an overnight horror story. <br /> <br />Beside his protagonists, Hollon has created a gallery of impressive eccentrics: the older neighbors who see everything that goes on; Michael's old friends, a hapless bunch of guys who cling to their carefree afternoons of drinking and fishing; Suzanne's therapist, a woman out of her depth and expertise; and the lonely misfit, Jerry Bannon, who wanders the empty pre-dawn streets collecting bits of trash in a plastic bag. Hollon is an aficionado of the human condition in all its intricacies and small betrayals. From disconnected spouses to taut courtroom drama, the pace of the novel is constant, a slow building toward the inevitable, a perfectly executed denouement. Although it reads like a thriller, this is no crime procedural, but a finely wrought tale of two people caught in a web of destruction. The author walks a fine line between a carefully plotted revenge and the redemption of a man who never asks much from the world until he loses everything, only to learn that \\"freedom is complete, or it isn't freedom at all.\\" Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-09-20
43545:US	51010391	R39820R00HZNB3	0156031248	607016870	Two Harbors (Harvest Original)	Books	3	8	22	N	N	"There are things to learn here. But why is not one of them."	A plangent longing for the missing mother (or father) seems to be the impetus for a spate of coming-of-age scenarios. In Two Harbors, Casey Maywood holds fast to her memories of the mother who abandoned her, leaving Duluth, Minnesota for Hollywood to become an actress. This sad refrain strikes the same familiar notes, the lies the daughter clings to, the waiting for her mother to return. This particular beautiful mother could not get over her lost ambitions for fame; coupled with depression over the loss of her own mother, Lila Maywood leaves husband and daughter behind, although she occasionally writes. Casey patiently waits for her mother's promised return, her youth twisted by yearning and memory. Then the handsome Dex Stone comes to Duluth, stopping to view a film, Two Harbors, playing at the theater where Casey works. The two are instantly attracted and date for a few months. When Dex asks for more commitment than Casey is prepared to give, they have a falling out. Casey is waiting for him to call and make up when her life is suddenly turned upside-down once more.<br /><br />Casey finally leaves the security of home to travel to Hollywood, the land of myth, searching for answers to her romance and perhaps locating her missing mother along the way. She has no idea of where to begin or what to ask in the land of milk and honey, but allows herself be guided by people and events once she reaches Hollywood, sensing there are those close by who know but are reluctant to speak for a variety of reasons. Having existed in her imagination for so long, Casey is determined to know the truth, no matter what the personal cost. In true Hollywood fashion, she maneuvers through the smoke and mirrors of the West Coast Hollywood myth, doggedly pursuing her truth. This world should be familiar to Casey, the one she was raised on, false emotions and duplicitous actions. But this Minnesota native is frustrated by the lack of response and the thin veneer of civility.<br /><br />In a series of scenes, real time (with Casey, Dex's brother, father and assorted starlets) and make-believe (fantasy scenes from a movie or conversations with an incredibly shallow mother), the story plays out to its resolution. But I knew it all along: this is a screenplay masquerading as a novel, the characters developed without subtlety or depth. Nothing about this coy novel feels real, stripping the characters of any authenticity; they're all beautiful, including Casey, lost, betrayed and utterly without inspiration. A movie does not a novel make. Luan Gaines/ 2005.<br /> <br />In a series of scenes, real time (with Casey, Dex's brother, father and assorted starlets) and make-believe (fantasy scenes from a movie or conversations with an incredibly shallow mother), the story plays out to its resolution. But I knew it all along: this is a screenplay masquerading as a novel, the characters developed without subtlety or depth. Nothing about this coy novel feels real, stripping the characters of any authenticity; they're all beautiful, including Casey, lost, betrayed and utterly without inspiration. A movie does not a novel make. Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-09-20
43731:US	51010391	R95FG5LEPMZ1Z	0871138972	933738272	The English Teacher	Books	4	6	7	N	N	"A rose in winter..."	Some people spend a lot of emotional energy without ever acknowledging the nightmares that leak gradually to the surface of rigidly controlled lives. Vida has built such a life for herself and her son, Peter, in Fayer, an island off the coast of New England. An English teacher, Vida has immersed herself in the classics, teaching her students the lessons of great literature. When Tom Belou, a widower with three children, asks Vida to marry him, she says yes, catapulting herself into a situation that will unravel all her self-possession and rigid denial of the past.<br /><br />Watching the Iranian hostage situation play out on television, Vida is a hostage to her fear, a reaction to a denied past and her marriage to a widower with three children. Without much forethought, Vida is the mother of four. Mother and son have lived together for fifteen years on Fayer Island, her days carefully constructed to contain their small world. After the marriage, Peter and Vida move into the family home in Norsett, a more depressed town on the mainland, littered with abandoned processing plants. Tom's children keep referring to Vida as \\"your mother... as if they were trying to give her back\\". Her first day back at work, Vida is teaching her tenth graders Thomas Hardy's Tess of the D'Ubervilles, a novel  that has special significance in Vida's world view.<br /><br />Peter wants desperately to be a part of his new family, but an awkward age he has his own problems, virtually friendless and unable to forge a comfortable identity. Fueled by his mother's distance and his own sense of displacement, Peter, who has never known anything about his father, comes loose from his very tentative moorings. Between them, mother and son make an abrupt entrance into a house still grieving for a mother who died two years ago. As a new husband, Tom is patient to a fault, which only causes Vida's insecurities to become more unmanageable. Just when this woman's thoughtlessness verges on irritating, we are reminded what terrible secret Vida has carried throughout Peter's childhood and adolescence. Mother and son are drawn together unexpectedly, as if forged together but pulling apart. Before their lives can be recovered, Vida must confront a past that is destroying her future.<br /><br />King uses her protagonists' isolation (both Vida and Peter's) to parallel the lessons Vida is teaching, but the safe literary walls crumble, leaving mother and son exposed. What begins with a vaguely irritating English teacher temporizing over her decisions ends with an emotional expose of a mother's ungovernable fears and the courage to speak her truth. Luan Gaines/ 2005.are reminded what terrible secret Vida has carried throughout Peter's childhood and adolescence. Mother and son are drawn together unexpectedly, as if forged together but pulling apart. Before their lives can be recovered, Vida must confront a past that is destroying her future. <br /> <br />King uses her protagonists' isolation (both Vida and Peter's) to parallel the lessons Vida is teaching, but the safe literary walls crumble, leaving mother and son exposed. What begins with a vaguely irritating English teacher temporizing over her decisions ends with an emotional expose of a mother's ungovernable fears and the courage to speak her truth. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br />	2005-09-20
44693:US	51010391	R2UVKYAF6KG5MX	0743271017	813130774	Adam Runaway: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A young man seeks his fortune	Set in early 18th century Lisbon, Adam Hanaway is a man on a mission. Fleeing London after the financial ruin and death of his father, Adam has traveled to Portugal in hopes of restoring the family fortune. Known by his contemporaries as \\"Adam Runaway\\", for his penchant for flight in crisis, Adam hopes to establish himself through the good offices of his uncle, Felix Hanaway. Uncle Felix was also hurt by the market crash, but has retained enough of his fortune to survive with dignity and some comfort. Felix leaves the decisions to his clerk, Bartolomeu Gomes, a Portuguese who is jealous of his position and has no intention of letting young Adam usurp his place in the pecking order. Unfortunately, Felix allows Gomes to determine Adam's manner of employment, so Adam is kept from any prospective success, working side by side with the laborers until such time as he is allowed to take over some of the bookkeeping duties.<br /><br />Adam has found adequate, if rough, lodgings at the Baixa district in Lisbon and it is there that he meets an elderly Englishman, Allen Hutchinson and his daughter, the widowed Dona Maria Beatriz Fonseco. Dona Maria is kind to the much younger man and becomes a great friend and confidant, as does her father. Through the Hutchison's, Adam has his first run in with one of the figure of the famed Inquisition, although he fails to take seriously the religious fanaticism that has ruled the country since the Spanish Inquisition of the 15th century. There is a strange cultural contrast in Lisbon, the young English rakes making merry while the country itself burns with the fires of the auto-da-fe. Gradually stepping into a very rigid, if somewhat permissive society for gentlemen, Adam sets his sights on the very beautiful, very unattainable Gabriella Lowther, whose father is a well-respected businessman. Adam enjoys a flirtation with Gabriella, entertaining hopes of a possible association, until his plans are dashed by the machinations of Gomes at his place of employment.<br /><br />Thereafter, without hopes of betterment in the foreseeable future, Adam contents himself with his good friends, the Hutchinson's, and works as with them until opportunity arises. Unfortunately, Adam's opportunity comes at a difficult time for all of them. What has been a relatively uneventful life has suddenly plunged into the most difficult of straits. Every ready with an inappropriate action or foolish boast, Adam seems forever to be out of step and out of place, his plans of saving his family's fortunes all but shattered. But time and experience do for this young man what circumstances could not and he is forced into maturity in a most unexpected manner and under stressful conditions. The young man whom no one thought much of has indeed become a gentleman of honor, although his path has takes many twists and turns, most of them painful and at great personal cost, often mired in poverty and abject circumstances.<br /><br />Historically precise and brilliantly detailed, perhaps too much so, Prince has created a vast tapestry of Lisbon, a cosmopolitan city of great riches and the taint of the Inquisition, where religious beliefs are the cause of fear for the sinner, or converso. Adam Hanaway is the perfect character to run the streets of this vast city of wealth and poverty, at the height of trade and prosperity. All is destroyed in 1755 in a fatal combination of earthquake, tidal wave and fire. But by then Adam is a man of means and considerable courage that no one would think to call \\"Adam Runaway\\". Luan Gaines/ 2005.s place of employment.  <br /> <br />Thereafter, without hopes of betterment in the foreseeable future, Adam contents himself with his good friends, the Hutchinson's, and works as with them until opportunity arises. Unfortunately, Adam's opportunity comes at a difficult time for all of them. What has been a relatively uneventful life has suddenly plunged into the most difficult of straits. Every ready with an inappropriate action or foolish boast, Adam seems forever to be out of step and out of place, his plans of saving his family's fortunes all but shattered. But time and experience do for this young man what circumstances could not and he is forced into maturity in a most unexpected manner and under stressful conditions. The young man whom no one thought much of has indeed become a gentleman of honor, although his path has takes many twists and turns, most of them painful and at great personal cost, often mired in poverty and abject circumstances. <br /> <br />Historically precise and brilliantly detailed, perhaps too much so, Prince has created a vast tapestry of Lisbon, a cosmopolitan city of great riches and the taint of the Inquisition, where religious beliefs are the cause of fear for the sinner, or converso. Adam Hanaway is the perfect character to run the streets of this vast city of wealth and poverty, at the height of trade and prosperity. All is destroyed in 1755 in a fatal combination of earthquake, tidal wave and fire. But by then Adam is a man of means and considerable courage that no one would think to call \\"Adam Runaway\\". Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-09-20
54415:US	51010391	R182WKNPQ8PGPW	081185079X	180802992	Once Upon a Lily Pad: Froggy Love in Monet's Garden	Books	4	3	3	N	N	"I now pronounce you frog and wife."	This charming little book introduces the fabulous work of painter Claude Monet, of the French Impressionists, in the guise of a love story between two small frogs who inhabit the lily pond Monet so famously painted in canvas after canvas. Hector and Henriette are married, living amid the splendor of Monet's watery garden. But they have assumed that they are the models for the old man in the straw hat that comes near every day and sets up his easel for hours of work. They don't mind posing, not really, but eventually get bored. Their complaints are rudely interrupted by a crow, who inserts himself into the conversation to announce that it is he, not the frogs that the old man is painting. Of course, the frogs find such an idea outrageous and make no bones about telling the crow what they think of his pretensions.<br /><br />Before the matter can be settled, the crow flies down and snatches up the newly born tadpoles, shocking the frogs into silence. But the old painter sees this and quickly throws a stone at the crow, freeing the tadpoles and settling the question once and for all. Thankful for the respite for their small, but growing family, the frogs are content once more to pose for the painter. They do so for many years, until, one year the old man doesn't return and they realize this blissful time in their lives has ended.<br /><br />The illustrations by Kathleen Fain are delightful, as the frogs prop themselves on lily pads, hopping from page to page and hopefully painting to painting. In colors as vivid as the Impressionists, it is possible to imagine a frog or two tucked among the petals or peeking through the greenery. At the end of the story is a gatefold of Monet's Water Lilies, to give the young reader a sample of the master's work. This small, bright volume is a perfect introduction to the world of art, Monet's canvases full of the energy and passion of the Impressionist School. Framed in a silly story of two happy frogs and their tadpoles, children can learn about a wonderful artist who never tired of his garden and the variety it offered to his palette. Luan Gaines/2005.can learn about a wonderful artist who never tired of his garden and the variety it offered to his palette. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-14
55311:US	51010391	R398EL2UZI68IJ	0743483200	563617729	The Hunted	Books	3	1	1	N	N	(3.5) Deadly sport...	Once the killing season starts, and it begins on the first page, the action is non-stop in this well-written formulaic thriller. The author boldly stakes out his territory in the Catskills, near the close-knit community of Centerville, where a local hunter is found stripped and shot, once through the heart and once in the head, execution-style. This shocking crime throws local law enforcement into a quandary: the season has barely begun and someone is hunting the hunters. Two days later, when his wife reports the murdered man missing, Sheriff Willie Brand organizes a search party. The first body offers only a hint of what is to come. Soon the state law enforcement agencies are involved, trying to avoid a rising panic in the area, as more bodies are found, executed in the same fashion. A forensic psychologist is also brought to the scene, in the attempt to inform personnel about the nature of the crimes they are processing.<br /><br />Two brothers who own the auto body repair shop in Centerville, Andrew and Walker Kuhn, are the first to find the slain hunter, but they are asked to keep what they have seen to themselves in hopes of avoiding unnecessary attention from the press. Of course, the media quickly arrives on the scene, but one of the reporters, Diana Brooks, from The Middletown Post, is hoping to do a more in-depth series on the hunting culture from a more personal perspective. Diana has the good fortune to run into Aaron Kuhn, who soon becomes a confident. Thanks to a blooming romance with Aaron, Diana is privy to the world of the hunter, with its own particular rituals and obligations. Diana is planning an expedition with a local family the following day, but after two more murders, it may not be wise to venture into the forest. Not that every one will be denied the opportunity: when the season calls, there are those who will take their chances for the trophy they seek.<br /><br />The killer gradually reveals his motives as he steps into a terrible place that has taken over his subconscious and robbed him of the human sensibilities that enabled him to function in society. He has turned the tables on his fellow hunters, the stalked becoming the stalker, seeking revenge that only makes sense to his twisted perception of justice. Neiderman skillfully uses this pristine landscape for a background for atrocity, death of an entirely different nature than the one that motivates those who live in such places, introducing an element of psychopathology that sheds the balance of the natural world, temporarily replaced by the chaotic inventions of a sick mind. The characters are shocked by the events that overtake their small town; far removed from the random violence of city life, they had thought themselves invulnerable to such insane acts.  Diana Brooks at least finds comfort in the good-natured Aaron Kuhn and his family, a small respite from the all too real terrors that have been visited upon this hunting community. Meanwhile, the authorities struggle to unravel a threat that comes too close to home and reminds them all that the law of the jungle visits the dark thoughts of every man. Luan Gaines/ 2005.e that has taken over his subconscious and robbed him of the human sensibilities that enabled him to function in society. He has turned the tables on his fellow hunters, the stalked becoming the stalker, seeking revenge that only makes sense to his twisted perception of justice. Neiderman skillfully uses this pristine landscape for a background for atrocity, death of an entirely different nature than the one that motivates those who live in such places, introducing an element of psychopathology that sheds the balance of the natural world, temporarily replaced by the chaotic inventions of a sick mind. The characters are shocked by the events that overtake their small town; far removed from the random violence of city life, they had thought themselves invulnerable to such insane acts.  Diana Brooks at least finds comfort in the good-natured Aaron Kuhn and his family, a small respite from the all too real terrors that have been visited upon this hunting community. Meanwhile, the authorities struggle to unravel a threat that comes too close to home and reminds them all that the law of the jungle visits the dark thoughts of every man. Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-09-14
55692:US	51010391	R1WYRGOEIA093C	0151010145	944414399	Out of Season	Books	4	5	5	N	N	"I am a person I never wanted to be."	Bausch takes an almost deserted landscape in Virginia Beach, a resort town abandoned by the tourists until the summer season, and peoples it with damaged characters that are at home with the isolation of this place. His protagonists act out their individual human dramas, each stumbling under a burden of unsettling and unfamiliar emotions. County Sheriff David Caldwell is opening up a local office, commuting back and forth to his home when not ensconced in the local, almost empty, Clary Hotel. Caldwell has never really recovered from the accidental death of his youngest son, Bobby, eight, at the hands of his eleven-year old brother, Todd. After going to trial before a judge, Todd was found guilty of manslaughter, sent to Juvenile Detention until his eighteenth birthday.<br /><br />Two years later and living on his own resources, Todd chooses not to return home, but offers to meet with his father in Virginia Beach. David has failed to make peace with his older son; he has found it increasingly impossible to bridge the gap between Todd and himself. It is the nature of their tragedy, one in which neither can comfort the other. Caldwell is a tormented man, his loss of one son the occasion of the loss of the other, unsettling him in a way that allows no peace of mind. Meanwhile, Todd is nursing the hurts of a wasted childhood, in many ways still the wounded child who has done the unforgivable and torn his family asunder.<br /><br />Lindsay Hunter is an adopted child in search of her birth mother. When she shows up at her mother's trailer, a scant distance from the Ferris Wheel on the boardwalk, Lindsey learns that her mother has been dead for a few years. Instead, her tentative knock is answered by a skeptical half-brother, Cecil Edwards, a massive and humorless man known for his eccentric behavior and dislike of the residents of Virginia Beach. Lindsey serves as an unexpected catalyst with her simple needs and unassuming acceptance of a half-brother whose personality is all but impenetrable. In this stark place, where men posture rather than relate, it is Lindsey who brings a quiet empathy to the male bravado that surrounds her, this macho territory where only dissatisfaction and anger find purchase.<br /><br />With elegant precision, Bausch places his characters in counterpoint, each of their actions affecting the others in unexpected ways. Lindsey forms a relationship of sorts with Cecil, but is generally unable to overcome years of his antisocial veneer. Yet in her cautious exploration of new friendships with Todd and Sheriff Caldwell, Lindsey helps Todd redefine his relationship with his father. The enigmatic Cecil, while antagonizing the bored, middle-aged residents of Virginia Beach, has managed to remain aloof, his very size and temperament serving as a deterrent. But when these men, who can only act as a group, demand the Sheriff to address their problems, all are drawn into an unfolding drama of Shakespearean proportions. Bausch's characters embrace their fates, their complicated relationships ripe with despair, loneliness and abandonment. They wander, helpless, through a morass of uncomfortable feelings, groping toward a resolution that often seems impossible. In spite of considerable resistance, Bausch's characters, albeit often unwilling, learn the language of forgiveness. Luan Gaines/2005.ose personality is all but impenetrable. In this stark place, where men posture rather than relate, it is Lindsey who brings a quiet empathy to the male bravado that surrounds her, this macho territory where only dissatisfaction and anger find purchase. <br /> <br />With elegant precision, Bausch places his characters in counterpoint, each of their actions affecting the others in unexpected ways. Lindsey forms a relationship of sorts with Cecil, but is generally unable to overcome years of his antisocial veneer. Yet in her cautious exploration of new friendships with Todd and Sheriff Caldwell, Lindsey helps Todd redefine his relationship with his father. The enigmatic Cecil, while antagonizing the bored, middle-aged residents of Virginia Beach, has managed to remain aloof, his very size and temperament serving as a deterrent. But when these men, who can only act as a group, demand the Sheriff to address their problems, all are drawn into an unfolding drama of Shakespearean proportions. Bausch's characters embrace their fates, their complicated relationships ripe with despair, loneliness and abandonment. They wander, helpless, through a morass of uncomfortable feelings, groping toward a resolution that often seems impossible. In spite of considerable resistance, Bausch's characters, albeit often unwilling, learn the language of forgiveness. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-14
60564:US	51010391	R2RCVAPB3RMP3H	0811847896	175333147	Zoopa: An Animal Alphabet	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A tasty brew with the perfect ingredients...	Marino has illustrated a delightful alphabet of creatures, her images brimming with energy and humor, all so beautifully rendered, that I would highly recommend it for any lucky child, not to mention adults who collect wonderful children's illustrations. There's nothing like a nice big bowl of Zoopa on a lazy afternoon.<br /><br />This fabulous book offers a visual treat on each page, starting with a bowl of alphabet soup unlike any you have ever imagined. The adventure begins with an ant on the front endpapers, all the way to the zany zebra on the final page, this enthusiastic and creative assortment of animals a delightful mix of fancy and imagination. Hearty and heartwarming, this is a mad menagerie guaranteed to delight and engage young readers.<br /><br />Each page features a double spread, with a blue gingham tablecloth and yellow placemat with red trim, a rich, red bowl of soup centered on the placemat, the highlighted letters introducing a sprinkling of creatures; for example, for E and F, a frog near the bowl, which suddenly sports a rim circled with tiny blue elephants; I and J add an iguana and jellyfish, as page after page fills up with an amazing display of beasties. By the time the reader gets to W, X and Y, the pages are bursting with quirky species, a jungle of joys. For a book that starts out so quietly, the ending is positively raucous. This is one recipe you'll be glad to share. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-11
61898:US	51010391	R3KHS4G6U5W2RW	0811837653	589905897	Stop This Birthday	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Make a wish, any wish...	Zephyr can't wait for her birthday to arrive. Not only will she be another year older, but there will be presents to open and a cake with candles to blow out! Zephyr is so excited she can barely settle down and fall asleep the night before. Finally, it is her birthday. By that afternoon, everything is ready, party favors, cake and balloons. She gleefully answers the doorbell ten times to admit her ten closest friends, all celebrating her birthday. By the time she goes to sleep that night, Zephyr has had the best birthday ever, already dreaming of the next.<br /><br />Zephyr is certainly surprised when the Birthday Fairy appears on the evening of her party, offering to fulfill one wish. Wasting no time, Zephyr wishes to have her birthday every day! The next day, when Zephyr wakes up, it is her birthday all over again, the party dress, the friends, the present, the cake... all of it just the same. Zephyr is thrilled with this turn of events, so when the Birthday Fairy reappears again the next night, Zephyr announces her new wish right away, \\"I want it to be my birthday every minute!\\" The next day begins another full day, of party, presents, friends and cake. That night the over-stimulated little girl is ready for the birthday fairy and has her wish ready, \\"I want my birthday every minute\\" and the next night, \\"I want my birthday every second!\\" Oh dear, this is getting out of hand. Before she knows it, Zephyr is overwhelmed by too much, too fast, shouting, \\"Stop this birthday!!!\\"<br /><br />Luckily, the Birthday Fairy is close by (she has been very busy on Zephyr's behalf!) and grants her wish. Sighing with relief, Zephyr settles back in her tree fort to contemplate the good sense of celebrating a birthday once a year, one party and one cake at a time. She thinks she understands better why such celebrations are special, something to look forward to and plan for all year long. The illustrations are imaginatively done, snappy drawings of a little girl caught up in the excitement of the moment, surrounded by chaos and way too much of everything, presents, balloons, friends and party favors everywhere. Later, as the sun goes down, Zephyr perches in the backyard tree fort, counting stars in the night sky, happy to be exactly where she is. Luan Gaines/2005.e excitement of the moment, surrounded by chaos and way too much of everything, presents, balloons, friends and party favors everywhere. Later, as the sun goes down, Zephyr perches in the backyard tree fort, counting stars in the night sky, happy to be exactly where she is. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-11
62011:US	51010391	R3CTH5RBAAQVV3	1932961100	731727050	Angel and Apostle	Books	4	4	4	N	N	(4.5) How far does the apple fall from the tree?	Noyes' novel, a post-The Scarlet Letter treatment of Hester Prynne's years raising her illegitimate daughter, Pearl, mirrors the arcane verbiage of the era, which begins, in this case, in 1649 New England. At that time, Pearl is a child of about seven years, half fairy sprite and half human, taking her cues from the righteous adults around her, who are given to stoning the less fortunate members of a society ruled by excessively rigid standards. Poor Hester is a shadow of her former self, living with Pearl in an isolated cottage, doing needlework for her betters and rushing to and fro to comfort the sick. Rather than teach her daughter the same independence that allowed her to rebel against a repressive society, Hester instructs the girl in the ways of the sinner, ever cautioning against spirit, imagination and individualism. It is hard to believe that this woman, now faded as a country mouse, ever had the passion to confront her own desires.<br /><br />Early on, Pearl fastens her attentions on Simon Milton, a blind boy whose dying mother is attended by Hester. Simon's older brother, Nehemiah, allows Pearl to take Simon on outings, but when she fails to properly care for him, Pearl is banished in disgrace. She is, after all, only a child. Later, Prynne and her daughter are taken to England by the Milton's, where Hester walks freely without her badge of sin, the tattered red \\"A\\" that adorns her clothing in New England. Their lot is not much improved, as Hester places herself in bondage for the next seven years to a Milton family member. Even in England, mother and daughter are pursued by the enigmatic Doctor Devlin, a man Hester avoids but Pearl is drawn to, as he lurks menacingly through Pearl's youth in New England.<br /><br />As a child, Pearl is far too precocious for her years, her language too sophisticated, hindering my appreciation of the novel at the beginning. But as Pearl matures, her thoughts turn to less maudlin persuasions, the opposite sex now of particular interest. At last perception meets reality and the character matches her rich vocabulary. Now that her fate is more her own, although still dictated by the prevailing religious intolerance, Pearl makes her own willful mistakes. However, as confused as an adult as she was as a child, Pearl is forever tangled in her mother's past, haunted by her father's identity, bound to the ghostly remnants of life in New England, a victim of the self-righteous, Bible-quoting individuals originally penned by Nathaniel Hawthorne.<br /><br />It is always risky to write a sequel to a classic, a tale that stands because of the author's clarity and profound observations of cultural hypocrisy. Noyes does a more than adequate job of capturing the sounds and images of time and place, but in writing Angel and Apostle, Hester Prynne is robbed of her spirit and iconic status, left in the dust by a daughter who is the product of a confusing moral stasis that denies humanity in its rush to glorify the word of God. Perhaps that is Prynne's inevitable fate. Pearl must seek her own voice, find release from the morass she has created in her life and understand the meaning of forgiveness, for herself and others; more importantly, she must take on the burdens of motherhood to know the true heart of her own mother. What is even more frightening is Noyes prescience in crafting a modern morality tale, couched in Puritan New England, that fits just as well in the confusing moral stew of modern society. For this reason alone, centuries later, Angel and Apostle is chilling. Luan Gaines/2005.At last perception meets reality and the character matches her rich vocabulary. Now that her fate is more her own, although still dictated by the prevailing religious intolerance, Pearl makes her own willful mistakes. However, as confused as an adult as she was as a child, Pearl is forever tangled in her mother's past, haunted by her father's identity, bound to the ghostly remnants of life in New England, a victim of the self-righteous, Bible-quoting individuals originally penned by Nathaniel Hawthorne.     It is always risky to write a sequel to a classic, a tale that stands because of the author's clarity and profound observations of cultural hypocrisy. Noyes does a more than adequate job of capturing the sounds and images of time and place, but in writing Angel and Apostle, Hester Prynne is robbed of her spirit and iconic status, left in the dust by a daughter who is the product of a confusing moral stasis that denies humanity in its rush to glorify the word of God. Perhaps that is Prynne's inevitable fate. Pearl must seek her own voice, find release from the morass she has created in her life and understand the meaning of forgiveness, for herself and others; more importantly, she must take on the burdens of motherhood to know the true heart of her own mother. What is even more frightening is Noyes prescience in crafting a modern morality tale, couched in Puritan New England, that fits just as well in the confusing moral stew of modern society. For this reason alone, centuries later, Angel and Apostle is chilling. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-11
62793:US	51010391	R26NNIYC0BAP1B	1932961089	756180202	Wolf Point	Books	4	6	6	N	N	(4.5) A perfect symmetry...	A mature man, driving alone from Virginia to the Thousand Islands near the Canadian border, impulsively stops to pick up two hitchhikers, Jenny and Lester, a young woman and her long-haired companion.  The driver, T. Aloysius Walker, is attempting to repair a broken life, marriage and family a thing of the past. He realizes it isn't smart to stop for these two, but he does it anyway, longing for a change, any change in the isolated monotony of his recent existence. He gets far more than he bargained for. At fifty-seven, T is still attractive, maintaining an athletic build. When Jenny says that she is twenty-three, T thinks she is probably younger; from the start, she flirts openly with him, while Lester, a supposed ex-boyfriend glowers from the back seat of T's new Range Rover. When T reveals his destination, Jenny is enthusiastic and says that's where they are headed as well.<br /><br />At the core of all is a moral conundrum, a man's life on autopilot for so long that he has lost touch with the reasons for getting through each day. Seduced by his own curiosity, he has stepped so far out that he can't retreat. So he goes forward, now cleverly seduced by a girl young enough to be his granddaughter. The hitchhikers act out their roles on another plane of existence, long inured to violence in a world that takes everything and gives back nothing. T clings to a naivet&eacute; that seems either desperate or impossibly innocent for a man of his years. Stranded in a parallel universe, T's is a willing hostage to fate, unconnected to those controlling his future, caught in a moment of reckoning he never sees coming, so wrapped in his miasma of memories.<br /><br />What happens when a man on the downside of life picks up two strangers, with nothing to recommend them but a menace they wear so casually?  Trouble with a capitol T. You might think that a man who makes this kind of foolish mistake deserves whatever happens to him. Yet in the dark silence of the isolated cabin and the water, a two-pronged drama plays out, two separate realities evolving as the past mixes inextricably with the present. Falco so beautifully manipulates his characters that their actions define the moral landscape of an indifferent world, turning away from the unsightly, the hidden horrors that lurk, twisting innocence into misshapen loyalty.<br /><br />From the first page, the author is slyly skeptical of his protagonist's motives, shadowing every action with a reminder of the delicate balance of this situation. As though in a waking nightmare, T dances with Jenny and Lester, sometimes graceful, sometimes clumsy, but never, never leading. In the end, he is confronted with his own mortality and the consequences of careless, if not self-destructive, choices. Luan Gaines/2005.e water, a two-pronged drama plays out, two separate realities evolving as the past mixes inextricably with the present. Falco so beautifully manipulates his characters that their actions define the moral landscape of an indifferent world, turning away from the unsightly, the hidden horrors that lurk, twisting innocence into misshapen loyalty. <br /> <br />From the first page, the author is slyly skeptical of his protagonist's motives, shadowing every action with a reminder of the delicate balance of this situation. As though in a waking nightmare, T dances with Jenny and Lester, sometimes graceful, sometimes clumsy, but never, never leading. In the end, he is confronted with his own mortality and the consequences of careless, if not self-destructive, choices. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-10
63938:US	51010391	R1UULQE6BMPSNQ	0099483556	977000479	Atonement	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A terrible inevitability...	Reading Atonement was a wrenching experience. Once begun, I was driven to finish. The growing tension of the story made it impossible for me to stop reading until the advent of a new course of action and I was released me until the next time.<br /><br />In the innocence of childhood, precocious talents are encouraged, applauded. But by the next stage of development, adolescents are often capable of spite and revenge, and exhibit a certain primal sense of justice. Things are black and white, not mitigated, by circumstance and inside a clever young mind, a twisted labyrinth of perplexing ideation emerges. Simultaneously the ripe possibility of consequence is irresistible, hanging suspended, the flash of guillotine glinting above the prisoner's exposed, perhaps innocent, neck. When the blade descends, imagination prances about, dressed as truth and clearly believable. The young girl, Briony, is so perfectly realized that I recognized myself in her, caught in the consuming greed for notice, compelling the adults to admit the correctness of her new-found maturity, rather than the unstable perceptions of a child. All is contained in the moment, not the consequences, for Briony is immersed in her own self-importance. She is incapable of perceiving the degree to which lives are altered, incapable of such consideration. I can barely forgive her this hubris, no matter what her age.<br /><br />Two other characters are drastically affected, their lives irrevocably changed: Cecilia, Briony's older sister, and Robbie, grown son of a family retainer. Helpless to change the course of events, Cecilia bitterly carves out a life she can endure, unwilling to meet with her sister for years. Eventually, as Briony truly matures, she begins to fathom the nature of her misdeed and the moral burden she bears. In her guilty angst, Briony is humanized and made available as just another flawed human being. There is an indictment, through Briony, of the class-consciousness that enables accusation and judgment without the need of adequate proof. The lower classes of 1935 London are, in Briony's perception, simply incapable of the finer instincts of her class and therefore culpable by default. Social acceptance by virtue of birth or background creates a false sense of entitlement, eroding the society that gives it credence. By the end, I felt in need of redemption myself. But then, isn't that the point? pp Luan Gaines/2005.usation and judgment without the need of adequate proof. The lower classes of 1935 London are, in Briony's perception, simply incapable of the finer instincts of her class and therefore culpable by default. Social acceptance by virtue of birth or background creates a false sense of entitlement, eroding the society that gives it credence. By the end, I felt in need of redemption myself. But then, isn't that the point? pp Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-09-09
65489:US	51010391	RHHTMOUTKXSNT	015101132X	551094744	Reading, Writing, and Leaving Home: Life on the Page	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A clear voice in an age of angst...	In these eleven essays, Freed bares her heart in a combination memoir and reflection on writing, life and the blurred edges between the two. A native South-African, Freed is an award-winning author of five novels and a short story collection, a woman with a unique voice in the modern world. Freed shares the sources of her inspiration and the myriad ways autobiography shapes fiction, tackling her topics with refreshing directness, examining the writer's role in defining and molding characters. The author makes a strong case for those who suffer for their parent's \\"benign neglect\\", a condition that allows the writer-in-training to observe society and her response to it: \\"My sense of male entitlement has carried easily into every sphere of my life.\\"<br /><br />Freed's childhood fascination with witches and goblins is soon replaced by the nightmarish images of the Holocaust; given access to everything in her parent's extensive library, these are the volumes remain etched in her consciousness, a hint of the world beyond fairytales. The third daughter, with two beautiful sisters and a number of miscarried brothers: \\"I was treated with amusement, like a sort of wild card.\\" Enjoying this particular cachet in the family hierarchy, Freed remarks, \\"The bolder I was, the better they liked it\\". Eventually, her facile jousting with words is the only tool the young girl uses for engaging the opposite sex, coming into her own later. Her South African roots still evident, Freed leaves home for New York and beyond, carrying with her the memories of apartheid and Jewish history, armed with her imagination and sharp wit.<br /><br />One shocking, albeit important, statement is that \\"writers are natural murderers\\", suggesting we must kill off anyone whose opinion matters, anyone who will restrict the work \\"down to the heart of the matter within\\". And she talks about motivation: \\"Revenge, for the purpose of fiction, concerns power... the power to expose... the power to understand.\\" The challenge is to find the proper subject in a chaotic memory, to focus and refine, \\"What the writer must know is how things happen, not why.\\" Certainly, this is a cautionary tale of the pitfalls of writing about those we know, which is all we can write about with any authority. The author's honesty is refreshing, one of the reasons this book is such a delight to read.<br /><br />These essays are full of lessons: fiction does not come out of ideas; fiction is achieved through creative failure; longing for an audience guarantees none; and the truth is the life at the very heart of the failure. One of my favorite essays is \\"Taming the Gorgon\\", a piece that speaks to a mother's role, barrier or conduit between her child and the future: \\"When I came back to where I had begun... my mother had come along with me. And so had her voice.\\" Luan Gaines/2005.he challenge is to find the proper subject in a chaotic memory, to focus and refine, \\"What the writer must know is how things happen, not why.\\" Certainly, this is a cautionary tale of the pitfalls of writing about those we know, which is all we can write about with any authority. The author's honesty is refreshing, one of the reasons this book is such a delight to read. <br /> <br />These essays are full of lessons: fiction does not come out of ideas; fiction is achieved through creative failure; longing for an audience guarantees none; and the truth is the life at the very heart of the failure. One of my favorite essays is \\"Taming the Gorgon\\", a piece that speaks to a mother's role, barrier or conduit between her child and the future: \\"When I came back to where I had begun... my mother had come along with me. And so had her voice.\\" Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-09-09
65549:US	51010391	R1EIZAZFC8MAQP	0670033219	512781307	The Woodsman's Daughter	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Generational neurosis...	In one moment of carelessness, Monroe Miller throws away his family legacy and must live with what he has wrought, tormented by his family's rage and disdain. Dalia, the eldest, once her father's favorite, grows to hate the man who has cursed his family with his rash deeds. The prose is finely detailed, reflective of the post-Civil War era in Georgia, particularly the family of a turpentine farmer made rich by his investments in trees, but poverty-stricken in his relationships with those he cares most about. But this is a trans-generational story and each generation carries its burdens.<br /><br />In the first part, Monroe Miller is a tormented alcoholic whose family detests his crude manners and embarrassing drunkenness. His wife is addicted to laudanum, which isn't surprising, considering the birth of their second daughter, who is born blind and afflicted, thanks to the father's self-indulgence. The only really strong character is Dalia, a would-be Scarlet O'Hara, but without any of the bravery and innate strength. Dalia lives in anger and despair, the subject of part two, when she moves to a small Georgia town in search of a husband, leaving her family's tattered history far behind. When Dalia marries and has a child, a boy, Marion, she is unable to connect to him emotionally. Later a daughter is born, Clara Nell; the mother lavishes all her attention and over-protectiveness on her girl. Although she attempts Scarlet' O'Hara's \\"fiddle-dee-dee\\" when dealing with town gossips, Dalia suffers for their mean-spiritedness, while flaunting her own willful ways.<br /><br />Part three deals with Clara Nell's' life as a new bride, the tensions between the daughter's husband and Dalia, provoked by a disturbing history and Clara' Nell's realization that few choices are available to women. In her spirited bid for independence from Dalia, Clara Nell has gotten herself into yet another untenable situation. Throughout the novel, each generation rails against the injustices heaped on women in a man's world, all subjected to constraints on their personal freedoms. Unfortunately, these constraints fuel victimhood rather than strength. It is very difficult to care about these singularly unattractive characters, a drunken father, a laudanum-addicted mother, one blind and afflicted daughter and her bitter sister. Men are cast as villains, almost without exception; even Dalia's well-intentioned second husband fades into the background during her childish manipulations, but he is always there to pick up the pieces and sooth his wife's feelings.<br /><br />Although the novel makes a strong case for the powerlessness of women at the beginning of the 20th century, the dialog, internal and external, is burdened with unhappiness and dysfunction, allowing not a single breath of hope for any of the characters. Dalia is the one constant figure in each generation, but she never escapes the scars of her childhood, every challenge but another opportunity to exercise her self-will. Never does she learn from past mistakes. There is an audience for this book: it falls somewhere between the promise of Wally Lamb's This Much I Know is True and the excesses of Ann-Marie MacDonald's Fall on Your Knees. For this reader, Rubio's self-indulgent generational saga fails to inspire with its tenacious vision of despair. Luan Gaines/2005.heaped on women in a man's world, all subjected to constraints on their personal freedoms. Unfortunately, these constraints fuel victimhood rather than strength. It is very difficult to care about these singularly unattractive characters, a drunken father, a laudanum-addicted mother, one blind and afflicted daughter and her bitter sister. Men are cast as villains, almost without exception; even Dalia's well-intentioned second husband fades into the background during her childish manipulations, but he is always there to pick up the pieces and sooth his wife's feelings. <br /> <br />Although the novel makes a strong case for the powerlessness of women at the beginning of the 20th century, the dialog, internal and external, is burdened with unhappiness and dysfunction, allowing not a single breath of hope for any of the characters. Dalia is the one constant figure in each generation, but she never escapes the scars of her childhood, every challenge but another opportunity to exercise her self-will. Never does she learn from past mistakes. There is an audience for this book: it falls somewhere between the promise of Wally Lamb's This Much I Know is True and the excesses of Ann-Marie MacDonald's Fall on Your Knees. For this reader, Rubio's self-indulgent generational saga fails to inspire with its tenacious vision of despair. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-09
66267:US	51010391	R33ZG4FWJB96WE	0553815393	334819348	The Mapmaker's Wife: A True Tale Of Love, Murder And Survival In The Amazon	Books	3	3	4	N	N	(3.5 stars) An extraordinary wilderness adventure...	In 1735 a team of French mapmakers began a scientific expedition to determine the precise size and shape of the Earth and recording plants and animal species that they encountered. They also encountered the brutality of the Portuguese and Spanish colonists, who abused the native population, turning them into free labor. Following the decade-long exploration, one of the party, Jean Godin, later met and married Isabel Gameson in 1741. Isabel was an upper-class educated Peruvian woman whose family was well off and owned considerable property. The couple spent their early years living near Isabel's family, losing a number of children in infancy.<br /><br />The couple planned to travel to Jean's native France and when the country began to feel less hospitable to the colonists, they decided that Jean would make the initial journey, to prepare the way for his wife to follow. In the course of events and political interference, the couple was separated for over 20 years, divided by a continent. Jean continued to sue the government for a passport, the means to retrieve his wife, but was unsuccessful year after year. Finally, a rumor reached Isabel, who had heard nothing from her husband, suggesting that Jean was indeed alive. In 1769, she made her way over the Andes and along the Amazon, a trek never mastered by a woman and only a few men.<br /><br />The rather naive Isabel began with more than adequate provisions of food and an excess of luxurious garments and jewels to take with her to France once reunited with Jean. Soon the jungle exerted it's dominance over the party, visiting all the rigors of such an endeavor on the travelers. After a series of unexpected misfortunes, Isabel found herself stranded deep in the Amazon, with only her brothers and nephew and no supplies. All were tragically lost through starvation, but for Isabel, who found an unexpected will to live and wandered for weeks in the jungle, while her village assumed her dead. She later stumbled into some friendly natives who rescued the destitute survivor; once she was able, along with some native guides, Isabel continued her incredible journey until eventually being reunited with Jean.<br /><br />There is an enormous amount of information in The Mapmaker's Wife, a number of maps and illustrations, as well as impressive published documents and letters. The beginning of the book hints at Isabel's coming ordeal, but carefully lays the groundwork for the prior journey by the French cartographers and the difficulties they faced. By the time Isabel's trek begins, the reader has ample evidence of the dangers confronting a lone woman who survives all the obstacles of the rugged jungle terrain. (pp)Luan Gaines/2005.friendly natives who rescued the destitute survivor; once she was able, along with some native guides, Isabel continued her incredible journey until eventually being reunited with Jean. <br /> <br />There is an enormous amount of information in The Mapmaker's Wife, a number of maps and illustrations, as well as impressive published documents and letters. The beginning of the book hints at Isabel's coming ordeal, but carefully lays the groundwork for the prior journey by the French cartographers and the difficulties they faced. By the time Isabel's trek begins, the reader has ample evidence of the dangers confronting a lone woman who survives all the obstacles of the rugged jungle terrain. (pp)Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br />             <br /> <br />	2005-09-08
71258:US	51010391	R1HDYE3EAUJWNA	0670899968	74204104	The Blood-Dimmed Tide	Books	4	25	26	N	N	"Madden's always had a way of seeing things clearly..."	Before the convenience of modern electronic communications, John Madden, former Inspector of Scotland Yard, does his sleuthing the old-fashioned way, with lots of leg work and forensics, the psychological components of crime only recently introduced into the detective's bag of tricks. In 1932, Madden has returned to the bucolic countryside, purchasing a farm in Surrey, living quietly with his wife, Helen and two children, Rob and Lucy. A widower when he first met Helen, who is a physician, John hadn't expected to ever find happiness again.<br /><br />Passing through Brookham, John and Helen run into a colleague from Madden's former involvement in a series of brutal murders a decade ago, Will Stackpole, now a constable who needs Madden's help with the disappearance of a young girl. Madden and Stackpole discover the girl's mutilated body hidden by a stream that runs near a tramp's camp. While the local police are actively searching for a tramp that may have been at the scene, Madden is instinctively concerned with the brutality of the crime and certain aspects that cause him to suspect a serial killer. In true procedural form, Madden defers to the local authorities, but puts in a cautionary word to Scotland Yard, should their expertise be required. When similar crimes are uncovered, the Yard takes over in the person of Chief Inspector Angus Sinclair, who assigns Billy Sykes to the investigation, both of whom are close friends with the Madden's and were featured in the previous novel, River of Darkness. Coordinating with the Yard, Sykes liaisons with Madden, in the limited capacity his over-protective wife allows the former Inspector.<br /><br />The investigation throws a wide net to catch the scent of a serial killer with unhindered movement, possibly crossing borders with impunity, someone who can easily cover his tracks, camouflaged by his position. The political ramifications are serious in the delicate balance of relations between England and Germany, as Germany is beginning to assert itself, building up to the regime that will ultimately change the course of world history. The country is still reeling in the Depression of the `30's, the brutal murders followed by detectives who are also concerned with an evolving political climate, the entire mystery shrouded in the threat building in Europe, Jews already the target of random attacks.<br /><br />Even with the serial killer in their sights, unforeseen complications arise, involving delicate diplomatic issues and a monster to be brought down. Airth melds the world of the serial killer with the current affairs of the 1930's, with implications that there is more afoot than meets the eye, a protected identity escaping behind porous European borders.  Artfully constructed in the almost meditative style of River of Darkness, the author builds his tale on a framework of character studies and details, the only disappointment a lack of involvement by Madden, thanks to his wife; fortunately, other memorable characters are emphasized, their roles expanded to fill the void. The author's incisive observations of human deviance and police procedure are joined in a taut thriller that brings back the menace of Hitler's Germany, in prose evocative of quieter times, when even the threat of war captured every nation's attention, and evil was easily identified. On the brink of great societal upheaval, this novel is an excellent portrayal of dedicated men caught in the crossroads of history. Luan Gaines/2005.s Germany is beginning to assert itself, building up to the regime that will ultimately change the course of world history. The country is still reeling in the Depression of the `30's, the brutal murders followed by detectives who are also concerned with an evolving political climate, the entire mystery shrouded in the threat building in Europe, Jews already the target of random attacks. <br /> <br />Even with the serial killer in their sights, unforeseen complications arise, involving delicate diplomatic issues and a monster to be brought down. Airth melds the world of the serial killer with the current affairs of the 1930's, with implications that there is more afoot than meets the eye, a protected identity escaping behind porous European borders.  Artfully constructed in the almost meditative style of River of Darkness, the author builds his tale on a framework of character studies and details, the only disappointment a lack of involvement by Madden, thanks to his wife; fortunately, other memorable characters are emphasized, their roles expanded to fill the void. The author's incisive observations of human deviance and police procedure are joined in a taut thriller that brings back the menace of Hitler's Germany, in prose evocative of quieter times, when even the threat of war captured every nation's attention, and evil was easily identified. On the brink of great societal upheaval, this novel is an excellent portrayal of dedicated men caught in the crossroads of history. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-06
71422:US	51010391	R3V7OONJ5ICKDY	0140449868	687244521	The Home and the World (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	16	20	N	N	A complex allegory in a changing landscape	A prolific Bengalese writer, Tagore structured this novel such that three main characters represent the turbulence of the Partition that was yet to come to India in 1947. Nikhil is married to Bimala, living in the traditional domestic manner; for herself, Bimala has no expectation of her life ever deviating from her wifely path. The concept of \\"Swadeshi\\", a renewed appreciation of everything Indian, and a denial of everything British, particularly British imported goods and grains, rages throughout the country.<br /><br />The egocentric Sandip, a guest in Nikhil's home, is a fierce proponent of Swadeshi. Sandip finds himself passionately attracted to Bimala; he idealizes her as the epitome of \\"Mother\\" India, and pursues Bimala without reservation. Flattered by Sandip's attention, Bimala begins to question the nature of her marriage, and the three embark upon an emotional journey that will forever alter their lives, just as India begins a lengthy period of upheaval and unrest.<br /><br />Of the three, Sandip is transparently shallow, while Nikhil thoughtfully considers every aspect before embarking on a course of action. Both men indulge in lengthy discourses, but the introduction by Anita Desai does much to frame this novel in the appropriate perspective. The allegorical nature of this tale is evident as the characters plunge headlong into the future. (pp)Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-06
71953:US	51010391	R67ZZEDQOXEDK	0316000124	8966181	Dead at Daybreak	Books	4	6	6	N	N	(4.5) One man's heart of darkness	Meyer's second work of fiction, Dead at Daybreak, is set in South Africa, as was his impressive first novel, Heart of the Hunter, once more proving that greed and murder are universal, humanity equally flawed anywhere in the world. Zet van Heerden is disenchanted with life since his partner's death, having quit the force, spending his days in alcoholic oblivion. His old cronies in the department think it is Nagel's death at the hands of a serial killer that has pushed van Heerden over the edge, but it is more than that, an unbearable guilt that the disillusioned detective carries in his heart.<br /><br />When van Heerden, now a private investigator, receives a call from attorney Hope Beneke, he begrudgingly accepts an assignment to recover a handwritten will, stolen from Johannes Smit, an antiques dealer who was tortured with a blowtorch before being shot, execution-style, in the back of the head. Smit's specially built safe is empty, but nothing else in the house has been touched. The antique dealer's live-in partner, Wilna van As, has only seven days to find the will and claim the estate. Zet's job is made more difficult by the time restriction, his frustration mounting with each dead end. But when he discovers there is no paper trail for Smit prior to starting his business, the PI turns his attentions to Smit's activities pre-1983, opening a Pandora's box of killers, intelligence agents, mercenaries and assorted desperadoes, all of whom will do anything to keep certain information quiet, threatening van Heerden's life and those around him. Suddenly, Zet is pursued by faceless assassins and determined intelligence officers in an accelerating cat-and-mouse game that quickly degenerates into violence.<br /><br />The chapters counting backward from day seven, the prose moves back and forth between present and past, the investigation of Smit's murder reopening old wounds, bringing to the surface what the protagonist so desperately wants to suppress. Within the plot of Dead at Daybreak, Meyer creates a parallel universe, the police procedural translated into a struggle to contain the despair that has crippled van Heerden's spirit. Forced to look into his darkest motivations, Zet sees only the evil, unforgiving and without compassion for himself, his concentrated self-denial usurps his waking life, poisoning the present and the future; only the jailer can unlock the cell. Ironically, van Heerden's mother and Hope Beneke have the patience that may foster his resurfacing, as both women allow him the freedom to escape from a moral quagmire of his own making.<br /><br />Constructing a picture of a man in conflict, Meyer ties art to life in a subtle marriage of music, passion and imagination, giving a sense of purpose to suffering: \\"I didn't realize how finally, how dramatically the morning of my life would spill me over the edge like so much flotsam\\". In this fascinating drama, personal morality overlaps professionalism in a moral quagmire, the characters sharply drawn with complicated motives. Even Tiny Mpayipheli, the hero of Heart of the Hunter, makes an appearance, lending his critical support to van Heerden on the final bloody leg of their journey. Insightful and psychologically taut, this South African thriller is compelling, a thoughtful examination of denial and personal responsibility and the acceptance of human limitations. Once again, Meyers displays his impressive skills as an observer of human nature, with all its misplaced passions and yearning for compatibility with the interior landscape of the heart. Luan Gaines/2005.t of Dead at Daybreak, Meyer creates a parallel universe, the police procedural translated into a struggle to contain the despair that has crippled van Heerden's spirit. Forced to look into his darkest motivations, Zet sees only the evil, unforgiving and without compassion for himself, his concentrated self-denial usurps his waking life, poisoning the present and the future; only the jailer can unlock the cell. Ironically, van Heerden's mother and Hope Beneke have the patience that may foster his resurfacing, as both women allow him the freedom to escape from a moral quagmire of his own making. <br /> <br />Constructing a picture of a man in conflict, Meyer ties art to life in a subtle marriage of music, passion and imagination, giving a sense of purpose to suffering: \\"I didn't realize how finally, how dramatically the morning of my life would spill me over the edge like so much flotsam\\". In this fascinating drama, personal morality overlaps professionalism in a moral quagmire, the characters sharply drawn with complicated motives. Even Tiny Mpayipheli, the hero of Heart of the Hunter, makes an appearance, lending his critical support to van Heerden on the final bloody leg of their journey. Insightful and psychologically taut, this South African thriller is compelling, a thoughtful examination of denial and personal responsibility and the acceptance of human limitations. Once again, Meyers displays his impressive skills as an observer of human nature, with all its misplaced passions and yearning for compatibility with the interior landscape of the heart. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-06
74481:US	51010391	RRAE49AG2KVDM	0156030659	462850488	Karoo Boy	Books	4	2	4	N	N	"The air floats unanchored in space."	\\"My mother's cry is a sky full of gaping-beaked seagulls.\\" On the Cape in South Africa in 1976, Dee's twin brother is killed in an accident, struck in the head by a ball while playing cricket; the twin loses the other half of himself, his anchor. His mother can't forgive her husband, who threw the ball, determined to make him suffer for the tragedy. The small family unravels after Marsden's death, the parents drifting away from each other in their grief. In Cape Town, \\"an un-African Africa, death catches the unsuspecting off guard, dealing the cruelest blow.\\" Dee soon realizes that every time his father looks at him, he sees the boy he killed, a constant reminder of his identical twin.<br /><br />When Dee's mother leaves the Cape for the more rural Klipdrop, south of the Free Orange State border, the white boy finds himself in unfamiliar territory, a Karoo boy. The Freedom Movement has already begun and is growing in momentum, crowds chanting, the authorities responding with violence, bulldozing the Crossroads shanty town. Apartheid has not yet been defeated. Curious about the township, the black shanty town not far removed from the white enclave, the bright-haired Dee wishes to make friends with the Xhosa boys. Dee's new friend, Marika, defies her father to visit the township with the boy. This precipitates a series of unfortunate events, all of which could have been avoided had the adolescents realized the inherent danger they brought along on their excursion.<br /><br />Caught between his affection for an old garage man, a black appropriately named Moses, and his friendship with Marika, a white girl his age, Dee's wants are few, mainly to live without conflict in his new environment. Moses is a precious commodity, his willingness to make friends with the white boy putting him in constant danger of reprisal, while Marika is careless, impulsive. But Dee hasn't reckoned with the harsh lessons of apartheid. His young world already broken apart by the loss of his twin, Dee's coming-of-age is painful, a rude awakening for a boy of generous heart in an uneasy land. The author sensitively handles his protagonist, exposing the boy's vulnerabilities as he is transplanted from the relative security of Cape Town to the chaos of his new home, where a carefully constructed world is transformed almost overnight and a fourteen-year old boy passes the boundaries from child to man. Luan Gaines /2005.e loss of his twin, Dee's coming-of-age is painful, a rude awakening for a boy of generous heart in an uneasy land. The author sensitively handles his protagonist, exposing the boy's vulnerabilities as he is transplanted from the relative security of Cape Town to the chaos of his new home, where a carefully constructed world is transformed almost overnight and a fourteen-year old boy passes the boundaries from child to man. Luan Gaines /2005.	2005-09-04
74521:US	51010391	R3DAB4O2W856E1	0316011746	811416764	Fever	Books	4	11	15	N	N	"The Vanishing Jack"	When Matt Shannon runs into his half-brother, Jack Fontana, at a Miami brew pub, the two men sit on the patio with their drinks, watching the flow of ships through the waterway. Fontana has just been released after three years of hard time, although he intimates that he took the fall for Matt. While discussing a freighter just passing, Jack hands Matt what looks like a small video game to try. As soon as Matt activates the game, the word \\"bang\\" appears on the screen and the freighter they were watching blows up, sinking immediately and blocking the channel. After the shock of the explosion, Matt looks around for the game, but realizes it has disappeared with his fingerprints all over it.<br /><br />The agencies on site are looking at terrorism and a Cuban-related protest among other options. All the while, Matt knows he is the cause of the explosion, thanks to Jack: \\"Jack was the trickster, the jack-in-the-box, the carnival barker.\\" As the ingenious plot unfolds, Matt is drawn into a heist of monumental proportions, one involving the robbery of a Festival Cruise Line vessel, the company that employs ex-FBI Shannon as Head of Security. Jack has prepared for every contingency, bringing in a few others with particular skills, even a young woman who caught Matt's eye on the day he met with Jack to discuss the deal. Wracking his brain for an escape plan, Matt is trapped by rapidly evolving circumstances. Matt knows that no matter how well any operation is planned, the unpredictable is expected, in this case a formidable adversary who will stop at nothing to protect her investment. The heist goes as planned, almost. But the collateral damage leaves few survivors of Jack's team.<br /><br />Fast-paced and well-plotted, this energetic suspense novel rolls downhill toward a dangerous and bloody confrontation. Along the way, Matt Shannon is forced to re-examine his past assumptions, accept some difficult truths and get out of Dodge before he's the last man standing. Luan Gaines/ 2005.aines/ 2005.	2005-09-04
75442:US	51010391	R2S2XTANOMSR6N	0374118825	944941975	Captain of the Sleepers: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	"Un tiro de gracia"	A pilot, a small hotel on the beach and an insurrection; from such inspiration, Montero weaves a fascinating tale of love, betrayal and the loss of innocence. Vieques is a small island off Puerto Rico, used for field exercises after World War II, the residents forced to evacuate so that the Navy can blanket their homes and land with bombs. Individual family passions mixed with a nationalist obsession, one man's unfettered lust for Estella and a jealousy that eats away at the mind, are all part of this richly evocative era embroiled in political upheaval, social change and the fanaticism of political beliefs.<br /><br />The novel begins in the present, but the crux of this story takes place in Puerto Rico in the 1940-50's, the author blending past and present in an exotic tapestry of myth and truth, layered in secrets and mystery. Andres Yasin has waited fifty years to confront the only man alive who may have the answers, J.T. Bunker, now eighty-three and dying of cancer. Yasin has no intention of allowing Bunker to exit this world without revealing the truth of the tragic moment that defined Andres' youth and poisoned his adulthood. One of the secrets Bunker hoards is an affair he supposedly had with Andres' mother, Estela. But there is more he seeks than the details of the affair; Andres yearns as well to learn the circumstances of his mother's death.<br /><br />Bunker was known in the 1950's as Captain of the Sleepers, a pilot who transported people who died on the mainland back to the island of Vieques for burial, a common practice for islanders. There was a time when Andres believed that \\"the corpses transported by the Captain in his small plane were travelers who had fallen asleep\\". Yasin reaches into memory, no longer a child, reliving the impressions from the perspective of childhood, locked in the past that haunts him. The family history is shrouded in mystery, the secrets Andres assumes J.T. will finally disclose answer only one small part of an experience that involved everyone, his father, Estela and the man she so desperately loved and Bunker. All of it came crashing down in one fated day, hopes extinguished for more than his family. As so often happens, Andres' years of rage and confusion have been misspent; the unvarnished truth isn't so easily obtained.<br /><br />Caught in the great human drama of revolution, Andres' family is central, but to the boy, his parents' political aspirations are irrelevant; he views all through the eyes of a child. Even as a grown man, he is unable to relinquish the hurt feelings of his youth. Forced finally to accept alternative perspectives, the story evolves, images of a time and place where personal freedom is purchased at a great cost, misconceptions perishing along the way. Yasin has pinned all his hopes on the dying declarations of an old man. The truth he uncovers requires courage, and with it, a revelation of self. Luan Gaines/2005.experience that involved everyone, his father, Estela and the man she so desperately loved and Bunker. All of it came crashing down in one fated day, hopes extinguished for more than his family. As so often happens, Andres' years of rage and confusion have been misspent; the unvarnished truth isn't so easily obtained. <br /> <br />Caught in the great human drama of revolution, Andres' family is central, but to the boy, his parents' political aspirations are irrelevant; he views all through the eyes of a child. Even as a grown man, he is unable to relinquish the hurt feelings of his youth. Forced finally to accept alternative perspectives, the story evolves, images of a time and place where personal freedom is purchased at a great cost, misconceptions perishing along the way. Yasin has pinned all his hopes on the dying declarations of an old man. The truth he uncovers requires courage, and with it, a revelation of self. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-09-04
77278:US	51010391	R2VFL89C2XSEM5	0156030365	460588187	Kung Fu High School	Books	3	6	6	N	N	(3.5) "You're new: you lose. It's that simple."	This is a very graphic novel, in both language and violence. Martin Luther King High School is not for the faint of heart, or, as the students call it King Joony or King Joo. \\"Asian, Latin European, African, Indian and every other American thing in between\\" contribute to the mix of students. But all of them are the color of poor, any logos that make you a target taped over or torn out. Everybody has an angle, even Principal Dermoody, who makes kickbacks to Ridley, a fifth year senior and drug lord planning a school takeover. When Jimmy Chang comes to MLK High School, he changes all that in a plot that becomes increasingly confrontational.<br /><br />There is a survival list for students: get kicked in (unavoidable), don't complain, join a family, stay loyal and learn how to sew (to add Kevlar and other types of body armor worn to school for protection). This Brave New World scenario is a cross between superhero comics and a video game, saturated with brutality and vivid descriptions of injuries sustained. Jimmy Chang, known for his martial arts skills, at first refuses to engage, but is drawn into battle to protect his cousin. Jimmy thought he had seen the last of fighting, but he steps up to protect his cousin and the family.<br /><br />Although the excessive violence and everyday battle for survival becomes a parody of guerilla warfare, the message is clear, a society defined by tribes that rule by force. These kids endure their high school years, one day at a time. The protagonist, Jimmy Chang's fifteen-year old cousin, has been hardened to this life of constant menace, armor-lined clothing, martial arts training, the conditions at MLK fast reaching a boiling point. Finally, there is a massive and bloody showdown, bodies flying, broken and bleeding. Only Jimmy, with his superior fighting skills can save the day, an exercise that results in a virtual Armageddon.<br /><br />This is civilization at its most primitive, where everyone is diminished by the violence, which is so over the top that it becomes a caricature, a Tarentino-esque drama of flying arms and legs, a teen Kill Bill. Young adult readers will either be horrified or excited by the non-stop action, as mesmerizing as a video game that takes out the players one by one. Gattis never romances the truth, each page like a fist in the face, drawing blood. The problem is desensitization. Does this violence dull the senses, rationalizing a way of life, or does overkill prove the stupidity and hopelessness of such a world. Filled with graphic violence, death and despair, the author never romances the truth, but the martial arts scenes do read \\"cool\\", maybe too cool. Parental oversight is needed to determine whether this book is appropriate reading for their young adult. Luan Gaines.2005.by the violence, which is so over the top that it becomes a caricature, a Tarentino-esque drama of flying arms and legs, a teen Kill Bill. Young adult readers will either be horrified or excited by the non-stop action, as mesmerizing as a video game that takes out the players one by one. Gattis never romances the truth, each page like a fist in the face, drawing blood. The problem is desensitization. Does this violence dull the senses, rationalizing a way of life, or does overkill prove the stupidity and hopelessness of such a world. Filled with graphic violence, death and despair, the author never romances the truth, but the martial arts scenes do read \\"cool\\", maybe too cool. Parental oversight is needed to determine whether this book is appropriate reading for their young adult. Luan Gaines.2005. <br />	2005-09-02
78309:US	51010391	R1H8N4T4UE7S5J	0156032813	327824735	An Empty Room	Books	4	1	1	N	N	"Whose job is it to protect the inncent?"	Emily is nineteen, attracted to Tom, son of her parent's acquaintances, Andrea and Tony Raine. While the Raine's file for divorce, Tom's married cousin, Simon, and his wife, Rachel, live with Andrea temporarily to help her prepare for the single life, her residence across the street from Emily's house. On the cusp of womanhood, Emily's attraction to Tom is mostly external, based on his striking handsomeness, their endless evenings of dancing, drinking and drugs a shadow romance. Emily isn't ready for commitment or love, content to drift along in a shallow, if physically satisfying relationship. Whenever Tom manifests any complications, Emily chooses ignorance, unwilling to invest emotionally, carefully aloof. This is the summer before college, the ending of one part of her life, not quite the beginning of another: \\"I helped myself to all the power of being loved, withy none of the cost to myself.\\"<br /><br />Emily's parents coexist in a constant state of tension; her father keeps his clothing in the bedroom closet, but sleeps in the guest room, husband and wife's conversations threaded with sarcasm. In contrast, Tom's mother is brittle and angry, her bitterness infecting everyone around her. Suddenly, Emily finds herself longing for intimacy, tired of her parent's stoicism and put off by Andrea's tragic self-indulgence. Emily's social life has always revolved around a clique of club kids, \\"a them and us fiction... all it was in reality was the possession of Class A and B drugs\\". When Emily begins a clandestine affair with Simon, her attention is focused on him and she still believes the world will bend to her wishes. This young woman's moral quandary is resolved, if not to her liking, shaped more by reality than fantasy, an indelible lesson: \\"Blame... is there waiting in your own mind, when you are ready to read it\\".<br /><br />But Emily's revival from the dark well of her own ego is tainted by the cost to others, an egocentric girl who has avoided reality, seeking comfort in isolation and passivity. The romance awakens this Sleeping Beauty from a long summer of self, but the affair is rendered almost incidental to her newly realized emotional maturity. Stevenson has a particular knack for the young, hip English dialog, in this case, Emily's ongoing inner commentary as she is swept into her love affair with a married man that erases all her boundaries. This deceptively simple story excises the frail pretensions of youth, finally betrayed by the human flaws that determine our commitments and the consequences of our actions. Emily's coming-of-age is fraught with pain, but significant and impressive, her passport into a more effective adulthood. Stevenson should not be underestimated, her prose both incisive and insightful, diving below the surface of facile relationships to expose fears, denials and shattered dreams. Luan Gaines/2005.ing comfort in isolation and passivity. The romance awakens this Sleeping Beauty from a long summer of self, but the affair is rendered almost incidental to her newly realized emotional maturity. Stevenson has a particular knack for the young, hip English dialog, in this case, Emily's ongoing inner commentary as she is swept into her love affair with a married man that erases all her boundaries. This deceptively simple story excises the frail pretensions of youth, finally betrayed by the human flaws that determine our commitments and the consequences of our actions. Emily's coming-of-age is fraught with pain, but significant and impressive, her passport into a more effective adulthood. Stevenson should not be underestimated, her prose both incisive and insightful, diving below the surface of facile relationships to expose fears, denials and shattered dreams. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-09-02
79952:US	51010391	R3VP01F35E1R13	1860496334	878221461	Mapping the Edge	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	A remarkable novel of love and obsession	Characterized by crisp phrasing and impressive descriptions, Dunant has fashioned a story that easily transcends the typical mystery-thriller genre. With a practiced and skillful hand, The author steers her readers through the intricacies of familial relationships and affairs of the heart.<br /><br />At the core of it all is Anna, a single mother who adores her daughter, Lily, and has constructed a loving, if unconventional family with the help of close friends. In her almost obsessive love for the child, the beautiful, independent Anna begins to fear the loss of herself in the constant fascination of the ever-changing Lily. She takes a short holiday to Italy, there to renew neglected facets of her life in a tryst with a new lover, seeking the assurance that motherhood hasn't robbed her of the stimulation of physical and emotional passion she occasionally craves. Anticipating a short escape into the arms of pleasure, Anna's finely tuned intelligence senses something amiss in her personal Garden of Eden. Her brief but intense affair with the mysterious \\"Samuel\\" sends a shiver of uncertainty below the seemingly uncomplicated cloak of pleasure, while Lily remains safely ensconced at home in London with her mother's dearest friend, Estelle, and \\"surrogate\\" father, Paul. But pinpricks of anxiety also begin to intrude upon their purposefully domestic facade, segueing into a worst-case scenario when Anna fails to return as planned. For the child's sake, the adults maintain a united front, quietly enduring an increasing sense of impending tragedy.<br /><br />Anna's motherhood is finely rendered, artfully exposed and vulnerable, her character the very essence of rapturous first-time motherhood, the pure joy of watching a child bloom, whose very existence is celebrated by those who surround her. Equally comfortable in her sensual skin, Anna explores the boundaries of a sexual relationship with a natural earthiness that is seductive and imaginative. There is a genuine engagement of intelligence by this author, beyond solving a clever crime, and the reader wants nothing so much as to see this child reunited with this mother, to put that small, but perfect, universe back in balance. Dunant clearly respects the aptitude of her audience, blending intellectual curiosity and mystery, in a compelling tale of love, betrayal and compassion. (pp) Luan Gaines/2005s a genuine engagement of intelligence by this author, beyond solving a clever crime, and the reader wants nothing so much as to see this child reunited with this mother, to put that small, but perfect, universe back in balance. Dunant clearly respects the aptitude of her audience, blending intellectual curiosity and mystery, in a compelling tale of love, betrayal and compassion. (pp) Luan Gaines/2005 <br /> <br />	2005-09-01
79998:US	51010391	R314BUAMP4H7SI	0552998362	576300906	A Heart Of Stone	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A heartbreaking quest for forgiveness...	Ellen informs the reader from the very beginning that she has escaped from a nightmare, a waking dream that has haunted every action since her 12th birthday. We discover what happened, page by taunting page, until finally glimpsing the enormity of Ellen's alienation. The horrific details are revealed slowly, building a sense of impending doom. What might have been a simple Gothic mystery, is instead a journey toward salvation. Alternating events, present and past, serve as the author's vehicle.<br /><br /> I knew from the first page that this small, powerful book would break my heart. What begins as the tale of happy, bustling family life, becomes the macabre unraveling of a crime so heinous, that the surviving daughter can barely function years after the event.<br /><br />At twelve years of age Ellen experienced a bitter lesson: home, the safest place for a child, is transformed, at the blink of an eye, into the most dangerous place, the site of an unspeakable crime. As one of the two remaining siblings, Ellen has spent her years promiscuously squandering herself with an air of false bravado and self-hate. Now pregnant with a stranger's child, in the middle of a divorce, Ellen moves into the vacant family home, recently put on the market. Drawn into the familiar rooms, where it all began and ended so tragically, this sojourn is a means to salvation, unconscious or not. Ellen confronts the demons that pollute her waking moments. The reward is in the journey itself, step by step, as Ellen unlocks the chains of the past and finds the way home to her authentic self. (pp) Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-01
80637:US	51010391	R39UL0N1CLALTS	0151012164	656820452	Fiddlers: A Novel of the 87th Precinct (87th Precinct Mysteries)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A realistic police procedural	A blind violinist. A cosmetic sales rep. A priest. A professor. All over fifty and all shot two times point blank in the face. This horrific scenario is given to the detectives of the 87th Precinct to solve, with no clues. In this suspense novel, it is the dialog that pushes the plot along, a rhythm that builds, clue by clue, character by character. Along the way we get to know the detectives of the 87th Precinct: Carella, Meyer, Burns, Parker and Oliver Wendell Weeks. Sharing intimate portraits of their personal lives, the detectives work a bizarre set of serial murders with their usual professionalism, solid police work.<br /><br />The detectives take to the streets, hitting night clubs, raves, any and all venues with the potential for shifting quantities of illegal drugs. The trail leads one way, then another, but they can get no fix on the motive for the killings. Meanwhile the murderer keeps busy, dropping new bodies while the cops are mid-stride chasing the last one. As the chapters alternate the crimes and private glimpses into the daily lives of the men who work the 87th, a pattern slowly emerges; it doesn't fit any previously known serial killer, but eventually an identity emerges, a man with a vengeance.<br /><br />Even in the midst of these heinous crimes, the author inserts humorous asides, usually relating to the detectives' personal problems, humanizing the men who deal with everyday violence, a mix of crime and the mundane details that make up police life. McBain sprinkles the pages with eccentric characters, dope dealers, students, ex-husbands, all with pitch-perfect dialog that feels like eavesdropping on a private conversation. The 87th does their footwork by the book, gradually narrowing their suspects. This particular murderer plots his revenge for a painful past, a revenge he prefers served cold. But that's the thing with resentments...they'll kill you. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-09-01
84647:US	51010391	RKZQF32CX79YD	0393051528	29550870	The Man from Beyond: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Spooks and spirits and criminal fraud...	The year is 1922, the country just recovering fronm World War I, Prohibition a popular cause. Molly Goodman, fresh out of Vassar's School of Journalism, tackles the Spiritualist Movement, arranging an interview with magician Harry Houdini, who introduces her to his literary friend, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Writing for the New York Radio Times, Molly Goodman, a Jewish feminist, plans on poking fun at Doyle's Spiritualist beliefs, but finds him so noble and well-intentioned that she is soon sympathetic. After seeing a photograph of Doyle and Houdini at the shore, Molly convinces her editor to let her write about the Spiritualist Movement that is all the rage, \\"holiness through technological means, photographs and scientific studies\\".<br /><br />The middle-aged Harry Houdini, is not the nimble magic man of his younger years, his body now showing the marks of the rough ropes and heavy chains that bound him, his belly rounded with age, but with the thick thighs of a wrestler: \\"the magician's greatest trick is to appear ordinary.\\" In contrast, Doyle considers himself \\"a connoisseur of the supernatural, a public proponent of the scientific study of psychological phenomena, a predictor of the... religious unification under empirically determined metaphysical principles\\". Doyle has recently come to Atlantic City to investigate the experiment with radio waves, signals received from as far away as Pittsburg. He thinks wireless broadcasting has a profound connection to Spiritualism, although society at large has yet to take Sir Arthur seriously on this matter.<br /><br />Houdini currently claims to be the great debunker of spiritual frauds; for that reason, Doyle is drawn to the magician, appreciating that Houdini deeply respects his religious convictions, called only to expose the trickery of spiritualists who make their fortunes on the desperation of believers. By happenstance, at the beach at Atlantic City with Houdini and their respective families, Doyle makes the acquaintance of the infamous Margery and her spouse, Dr. Hugo Sabatier. Margery is renowned for her s&eacute;ances, where a \\"pseudopod\\", an ectoplasmic arm emerges from her body, an extraordinary limb capable of writing messages and generally wreaking havoc in communication with the spirit world. Doyle is a member of The Society for Psychological Research, in good company, with the likes of Sigmund Freud, William James and Alfred Russell Wallace.<br /><br />Molly is the interested observer in the conflict between Houdini and Sir Arthur, with Margery at the center of the debate, Sabatier lurking on the sidelines. Zealously protected by her husband, Margery remains an enigma, as what began as a fascinating quest into a popular movement becomes a scandal, with accusations of murder and criminal fraud. Brownstein breathes life into his characters, especially the charismatic Houdini, a man on the downside of fame, reaching for one more bow in the spotlight; Doyle is equally as fascinating, the stolid, moral man so enamored of the Movement, blinded by his own fierce beliefs and Margery's duplicitous machinations. The drama unfolds while Molly muddles through her own personal life, the impressionistic reporter a witness to the more seedy aspects of a lucrative endeavor in a gullible world. Molly's diligence pays off, revealing the true natures of these amazing men and the mysterious medium. Brownstein has crafted a spellbinding and richly atmospheric novel, his protagonists charmingly flawed, players in an era where the scientific and the spiritual coexist, magic in the mind of the beholder. Luan Gaines/2005.kes the acquaintance of the infamous Margery and her spouse, Dr. Hugo Sabatier. Margery is renowned for her sances, where a \\"pseudopod\\", an ectoplasmic arm emerges from her body, an extraordinary limb capable of writing messages and generally wreaking havoc in communication with the spirit world. Doyle is a member of The Society for Psychological Research, in good company, with the likes of Sigmund Freud, William James and Alfred Russell Wallace. <br /> <br />Molly is the interested observer in the conflict between Houdini and Sir Arthur, with Margery at the center of the debate, Sabatier lurking on the sidelines. Zealously protected by her husband, Margery remains an enigma, as what began as a fascinating quest into a popular movement becomes a scandal, with accusations of murder and criminal fraud. Brownstein breathes life into his characters, especially the charismatic Houdini, a man on the downside of fame, reaching for one more bow in the spotlight; Doyle is equally as fascinating, the stolid, moral man so enamored of the Movement, blinded by his own fierce beliefs and Margery's duplicitous machinations. The drama unfolds while Molly muddles through her own personal life, the impressionistic reporter a witness to the more seedy aspects of a lucrative endeavor in a gullible world. Molly's diligence pays off, revealing the true natures of these amazing men and the mysterious medium. Brownstein has crafted a spellbinding and richly atmospheric novel, his protagonists charmingly flawed, players in an era where the scientific and the spiritual coexist, magic in the mind of the beholder. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-08-30
88077:US	51010391	R28I6Z42C95U9L	0743445872	231853632	Blood Hollow (Cork O'Connor Mystery Series)	Books	3	14	17	N	N	(3.5) A "spiritual" mystery...	In his novel, Krueger pays particular attention to the special bond between fathers and daughters, the anguished language of loss, the intricacies of human behavior and the personal flaws that hinder our spiritual growth. All of these issues come into play with the unexpected disappearance of Charlotte Kane, daughter of the wealthy Fletcher Kane in the small town of Aurora, Minnesota. Searching through a winter blizzard, it isn't until the spring thaw that Charlotte's body is recovered. With that discovery comes a slew of accusations, most directed at Solemn Winter Moon, a young Ojibwe Indian known for his eye for the ladies and, of late, for trouble. Retired ex-sheriff Cork O'Connor helps with the search, but later, when a new sheriff takes over, Cork is given the cold shoulder when making inquiries as to the disposition of the case.<br /><br />For some reason, Sheriff Soderberg is purposefully rude to Cork, hostile even, a fact that dismays and frustrates a man who is only trying to help out interested parties, especially Solemn's mother, who is concerned about her son taking the brunt of Charlotte Kane's family vendetta, if and when an autopsy determines the cause of death. Solemn makes an easy target, an efficient way to put Charlotte's murder or suicide behind the town. Cork's wife, Jo, an attorney, takes on Solemn's case and discovers a few well-hidden secrets that point to the motives of other law-abiding citizens. Due to new evidence, Solemn is released and a number of clandestine relationships are revealed, casting the formerly staid community into supposition overdrive, especially when Solemn Winter Moon experiences a spiritual awakening and is credited with inexplicable miracles.<br /><br />As a very convoluted plot unwinds, there is much consideration of faith, the perception of good vs. evil. One questioning soul after another confronts his belief in miracles, one man in particular acting out disturbing compulsions against nature's stark background, where everything seems clearer, removed from the conventional ambiguities of city life. The assumptions Cork makes lead him from one person to another, slowly picking through the strange motives of a tortured mind. What began as a young woman's disappearance becomes a trail of serial murders inspired by religious fanaticism, crimes committed in the name of God, the denouement of the guilty party illuminated by spiritual, if misdirected, intentions. Joining the mystery genre with Cork's quest for renewed spirituality overrides the logical plot of the novel, faith tested as well as reason, the physical mystery piggybacked with a more personal endeavor, the protagonist's return to a faith he had abandoned. Luan Gaines/2005.where everything seems clearer, removed from the conventional ambiguities of city life. The assumptions Cork makes lead him from one person to another, slowly picking through the strange motives of a tortured mind. What began as a young woman's disappearance becomes a trail of serial murders inspired by religious fanaticism, crimes committed in the name of God, the denouement of the guilty party illuminated by spiritual, if misdirected, intentions. Joining the mystery genre with Cork's quest for renewed spirituality overrides the logical plot of the novel, faith tested as well as reason, the physical mystery piggybacked with a more personal endeavor, the protagonist's return to a faith he had abandoned. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-08-28
89207:US	51010391	R3DTLU9ZYOJDU6	0312317999	767522408	Locked Doors: A Thriller (Andrew Thomas)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	(3.5) "And I alone have escaped to tell you."	From the beginning, only bits of the plot are revealed in this suspense thriller, new characters introduced in short chapters that move the storyline along. Through the actions of one sociopath it is clear that quantities of blood will be spilled before the tale is told. The very stylized chapters ratchet up the tension in a series of tantalizing clues, as an evil design is put in place to lure Andrew Thomas into an elaborate trap. Accused of serial murder, Andrew has been in hiding for the last five years, dead bodies buried at his river-front home in Davidson, North Carolina. The police have every reason to suspect the formerly successful crime writer is the perpetrator of the recent crimes near Thomas's old residence.<br /><br />While Thomas has been hiding in a rustic cabin in Haines Junction, Yukon, his books continue to sell, but the author remains secluded, guarding his privacy with the established patterns of a loner in a desolate part of the world. Recently, Andrew has been writing a new manuscript, one that makes the case for his innocence in the serial killings, postulating that he was framed. Even in his exile, Andrew hears of the recent crimes, so heinous that even his Yukon neighbors are discussing the details. At this point, Thomas realizes that he must leave the security of his hideout and make an attempt to rescue Beth Lancing, who has been kidnapped, the wife of Andrew's deceased best friend, Walter. Beth believes Andrew is responsible for Walter's death until she is confronted with the violent intentions of a stranger. After the abduction, Thomas realizes that Beth's kidnapping is a calling card from an old nemesis.<br /><br />Everyone is searching for Luther Kite, including a detective from Davidson, N.C., Violet King, where an entire family was murdered and Beth Lancing abducted on the same night. With few clues, Luther's name at least gives the police a place to start, their small village wracked by the implication of the murders, indicating the return of the infamous serial killer. In subtle twists and turns, the story assembles the protagonists, with no inkling of who to trust or what horror lurks beneath the face of a stranger. Nothing is what it seems in this nightmarish plot, where the innocent are collateral damage. Taking inspiration from Anne Sexton's \\"Locked Doors\\", Crouch has created a chamber of horrors where death dwells in every corner. Eerily seductive, creepy characters lend an atmosphere of implicit danger, the rapid-fire action leading to a bloody confrontation, unleashed by a depraved mind with a will to kill. No holds barred and unsophisticated, this is terror served raw, with its blatant brutality and ongoing menace, even after the last page is turned, a scorched earth treatment of the criminal mind. Luan Gaines/2005.g the return of the infamous serial killer. In subtle twists and turns, the story assembles the protagonists, with no inkling of who to trust or what horror lurks beneath the face of a stranger. Nothing is what it seems in this nightmarish plot, where the innocent are collateral damage. Taking inspiration from Anne Sexton's \\"Locked Doors\\", Crouch has created a chamber of horrors where death dwells in every corner. Eerily seductive, creepy characters lend an atmosphere of implicit danger, the rapid-fire action leading to a bloody confrontation, unleashed by a depraved mind with a will to kill. No holds barred and unsophisticated, this is terror served raw, with its blatant brutality and ongoing menace, even after the last page is turned, a scorched earth treatment of the criminal mind. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-08-27
90628:US	51010391	R1WNEAQ6TI6441	0811846083	614844658	The Other Side	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An intriuging twist on perception	The Other Side is a unique exploration of, well, the other side, challenging young readers and adults alike to open their minds and explore the unknown. Using visual clues, each page graphically introduces new elements into the illustrator's clever twists and turns, new points of view that question even the obvious, the top, the bottom, the flip side of what our eyes perceive. Looking through a window, a paper airplane glides by; from the exterior of the building, an apartment house, myriad tiny planes fly on the currents of wind; then from the perspective of a jetliner, we see other such airplanes skimming the horizon. A woman sits in an empty theater, waiting for the curtain to rise, the spotlight illuminating a small head with a pointed red cap; from behind the curtain, we see that this is a clown peeking through, and on the stage with him, a ballerina, a bird in a skirt, a cat, a tiger.<br /><br />And so it goes, each new illustration revealing more elements of the compositions to pique our curiosity, each idiosyncratic figure with another perspective. On one side of a block, passersby are startled by a \\"bang!\\"; even the mannequins in a store window turn their attention to the commotion. But it is only a film crew, as we see from around the corner, a cowboy shoot-out in front of a toy store. The simple illustrations in black, white and gray are highlighted by the occasional spot of bright red, the simple, primary drawings belying a sophisticated mind. This is an excellent book to read with a child, an opportunity to see which one's imagination comes up with the most creative assumptions. Another title in the Chronicle Books wide variety of children's titles, The Other Side not only steps outside the box, it makes the box disappear! Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-08-26
91445:US	51010391	R30WTPIW4ZWSMI	0151011621	129477606	Exposure	Books	4	9	9	N	N	"The truth is nothing but the truth. But not the whole truth."	When Alistair Langford, a respected London barrister, is kneecapped one night after a dinner with friends, the perpetrators are quickly arrested. Questioned by the authorities, the they reveal a sordid dalliance, rending the careful fabric of Alistair's life, his blameless wife and family the beneficiaries of this shameful event. Soon after, Alistair's wife, Rosalind, receives a call that that her husband's mother has died. This call is yet another shock to Rosalind, who was told that Alistair's parents died when he was young. Suddenly, the carefully woven past Langford has assembled falls away and he is forced to account for a history of deception, all in service of hiding a past defined by poverty and a mother's questionable lifestyle. Deeply embarrassed and ashamed, Alistair has come to the moment of truth; whether he can accept his own history and make amends to his wronged wife is another matter, as Langford is a proud and cautious man.<br /><br />Alistair requests the help of his popular and successful son, Luke, unable to drive himself to Dover to make arrangements for his mother's effects. For his part, Luke, a self-styled clubber, partier and bon vivant, is floundering, recently released from an amorous relationship with a narcissistic actress, Arianne. Luke cannot break free of his obsession with Arianne, positive she will realize her mistake and return to him. Under her spell, Luke's vulnerability is painful to observe; he remains oblivious to Arianne's manipulations, a shadow of the man his friends know. While in Dover with his father, Luke befriends two refugees from Kosovo, Mila and Goran and it is through these characters that Stevenson artfully skewers the pretensions of the middle class, the \\"egocentric complacency Western money can buy\\". Goran eventually learns to detest Luke's simplistic self-indulgence, \\"he hated Luke for his pointless angst, which was the agony of privileged people\\".<br /><br />Stevenson has a firm grasp of her characters, their flaws, fears and inability to ask for support from one another. In this acute novel, all are forced to confront their pretensions, insecurities and motivations, their perfectly orchestrated public facades. Alistair's existence is defined by lies, infidelity and denial, his family passively absorbing the price of their position, a profoundly casual acceptance of middle class values and aspirations, assuming they are superior, untouchable, until the collapse of their false security. Peeling away the distractions that shield each character, the author exposes the minutiae that fill every waking moment of the Langford`s. In the end, everyone is vulnerable to fate's intervention, distractions crumbling before fear and self-doubt, the lesson unmistakable, a class-conscious society unmasked. While it may be premature to credit Stevenson with the attributes of a Henry James, to her credit, this author can wield a scalpel, making precise incisions into English sensibilities. Luan Gaines/2005.heir flaws, fears and inability to ask for support from one another. In this acute novel, all are forced to confront their pretensions, insecurities and motivations, their perfectly orchestrated public facades. Alistair's existence is defined by lies, infidelity and denial, his family passively absorbing the price of their position, a profoundly casual acceptance of middle class values and aspirations, assuming they are superior, untouchable, until the collapse of their false security. Peeling away the distractions that shield each character, the author exposes the minutiae that fill every waking moment of the Langford`s. In the end, everyone is vulnerable to fate's intervention, distractions crumbling before fear and self-doubt, the lesson unmistakable, a class-conscious society unmasked. While it may be premature to credit Stevenson with the attributes of a Henry James, to her credit, this author can wield a scalpel, making precise incisions into English sensibilities. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-08-26
91621:US	51010391	R1RAJ90OQIX0ZD	0385608705	192305222	The Trial Of True Love	Books	4	1	1	N	N	"worship before knowledge, icons before photographs, dreams before memories."	At age thirty, Bron, a London writer, remains commitment phobic, on the verge of what he hopes will be a successful career, with a contract to compose a book about love at first sight. Bron throws himself into this task with a vengeance, his premise based primarily on the life and love of Artist Paul Marotte. The young author, who has despaired of ever experiencing his topic first hand, moves to a cottage on the estate of his friend, where (viola!) Bron meets the beautiful and mysterious Flora. Casting aside the task at hand for more personal pursuits, Bron follows Flora to Amsterdam, suddenly embroiled in the confusion and angst of his own \\"love at first sight\\".<br /><br />Captivated by Flora, Bron questions his own presumptions of romance and fidelity, the loving self closely tied to the true self. He is on the chase of his life, pursuing Flora, who is not only married but cynical, believing all men who desire her are only after one thing. She isn't sure how to assess Bron, who enjoys more success with her by posing theories on the nature of love than bringing his affections to fruition. For his part, Bron is so consumed with the ideal of Flora that he fails to analyze the attraction beyond her beauty and resistance, but Bron is eventually stimulated in his writing endeavors in this strange dance, forced to reassess his own assumptions. It is difficult to have sympathy for Flora, burdened with her beauty, resenting the covert stares of men. Flora's response to all and sundry is petulant, much like those who agonize over their burden, \\"don't hate me because I'm beautiful\\".<br /><br />While in Amsterdam, Bron meets Freddy Christensen, an art collector who enjoys discussing the Nazi Occupation's usurpation of Jewish art collections during the war, as allowed by Regulation 58/42. The Germans saved the paintings, while exterminating their owners. Freddy gleefully attacks Bron's theories of true love, asking, \\"Is it possible that what a man wants to give is not what a woman wants to receive?\\" Bron believes that love can be given, while Freddy suggests it can only be taken. The quandary for Bron is in determining the right approach to Flora, but much of his enchantment is predicated on fantasy. The formerly commitment-phobic is in new territory, unsure and dangerously romantic.<br /><br />The Trial of True Love is a departure for Nicholson, whose previous novel, The Society of Others, was of an entirely different nature. This more romantically-inclined novel woven around the fictitious painter, Paul Marotte and Bron's own amorous adventures, Nicholson uses fragments of letters from the artist to his beloved, a governess; he also mines literature for sentiments from like-mined poets and authors, all building a case that Bron is forced to prove to himself. After all the hyperbole, Bron must test his assumptions in real life, with himself as the guinea pig. The elusive Flora leads Bron on a lively chase, as does her Marotte-collecting friend, Freddy Christiansen. Bron's personal lesson in love and self-deception is the most difficult of all, yet ultimately the most rewarding. Luan Gaines/2005.a woman wants to receive?\\" Bron believes that love can be given, while Freddy suggests it can only be taken. The quandary for Bron is in determining the right approach to Flora, but much of his enchantment is predicated on fantasy. The formerly commitment-phobic is in new territory, unsure and dangerously romantic. <br /> <br />The Trial of True Love is a departure for Nicholson, whose previous novel, The Society of Others, was of an entirely different nature. This more romantically-inclined novel woven around the fictitious painter, Paul Marotte and Bron's own amorous adventures, Nicholson uses fragments of letters from the artist to his beloved, a governess; he also mines literature for sentiments from like-mined poets and authors, all building a case that Bron is forced to prove to himself. After all the hyperbole, Bron must test his assumptions in real life, with himself as the guinea pig. The elusive Flora leads Bron on a lively chase, as does her Marotte-collecting friend, Freddy Christiansen. Bron's personal lesson in love and self-deception is the most difficult of all, yet ultimately the most rewarding. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-08-26
96446:US	51010391	R3NZ5YDH88LBP9	0316110396	183749856	In the Province of Saints: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	(4.5) "The bog gives back what it claims."	This heartbreaking novel takes place in Ireland from 1976-1981, as a young boy, Michael McDonagh, grows up in a harsh land, his father gone for long periods in America. But there are rumors connecting Padraig McDonagh and a married woman, Padraig's wife bearing the sly gossip of neighbors. As a young boy, Michael both loves and fears his father's power and intensity, the temper that turns so easily physical; yet their bond is deep, the son conscious of Padraig's struggles to survive. When Padraig returns again to America, in search of work, his wife, Moira, slowly unravels, her tentative hold on normalcy slipping with each passing night. Michael and Molly don't know how to help their mother, sensing that whatever is wrong cannot be easily fixed. Michael remembers a time \\"before her illness and his America had taken them away from each other.\\"<br /><br />Molly and Michael have no time for childhood, agonizing as their mother loses touch with reality, brother and sister forced to mature and care for themselves, unprotected and vulnerable. When Padraig's twin dies, Michael's father returns for his brother's funeral. Spending those few days together, Michael learns the dimensions of the man, the depth of his love, time he will come to treasure when his father leaves again. Michael worries constantly about Moira, insecurities bred by her illness forcing him to confront an adult world for which he is ill-prepared: \\"the ghost that roamed the countryside every night...walking the fog-shrouded fields...looking for something that in the light of day was lost and forgotten, was out mother\\".<br /><br />For a short time, Michael enjoys a romantic tryst with a local girl, Cait Delacey, an experience that intimates the experiences that await in adulthood. With Cait, Michael escapes from the harsh realities of his days, constructing a secret place for their meetings, a hideaway that eventually unveils the harshest betrayal of his young life. His time with Cait proves transitory, finally tainted by the intrusion of the world and the Troubles that have affected the country for years. Everything Michael has believed, everyone he has trusted, all will be turned upside-down by events over which he has no control.<br /><br />This close-knit society is riddled with the contradictions of religion and superstition, a common confusion in the land of myths, every explanation of the natural world tainted with the suggestion of a curse. Hardscrabble lives lead to such thoughts, the possibility that something larger-than-life is at work. The author's descriptions of the paucity that strangles the family's joy, awakens an awareness of the very real suffering that goes hand in hand with poverty, never enough to eat, no credit, threadbare clothing, cold seeping in to leach the small bit of warmth, images exacerbated by an unforgiving landscape,In the Province of Saints is defined by its lyrical prose: \\"He jumped easily to the ground, landing like a thin wiry cat, and threw the pitchfork powerfully into the base of the haycock where it quivered, rooted to the ground.\\"<br /><br />The scope of human emotions against the dramatic background of the Irish countryside is exceptional, page after page of stunning descriptions, evoking a harsh present and mythic history. O'Malley traces the symbiotic relationship of religion and congregants caught in the rituals and moral confines of the Catholic Church, the petty grievances between neighbors, ancient grudges harbored for generations and a profound understanding of the commitment this place demands. Michael is changed by his burdens, the Troubles, insidious poverty, Padraig's distance in America, Moira's creeping illness, Cait's innuendoes about his father's past, a shapeless future and a bitter truth, crossing painfully from childhood to adolescence. Luan Gaines/2005.y the intrusion of the world and the Troubles that have affected the country for years. Everything Michael has believed, everyone he has trusted, all will be turned upside-down by events over which he has no control.    This close-knit society is riddled with the contradictions of religion and superstition, a common confusion in the land of myths, every explanation of the natural world tainted with the suggestion of a curse. Hardscrabble lives lead to such thoughts, the possibility that something larger-than-life is at work. The author's descriptions of the paucity that strangles the family's joy, awakens an awareness of the very real suffering that goes hand in hand with poverty, never enough to eat, no credit, threadbare clothing, cold seeping in to leach the small bit of warmth, images exacerbated by an unforgiving landscape,In the Province of Saints is defined by its lyrical prose: \\"He jumped easily to the ground, landing like a thin wiry cat, and threw the pitchfork powerfully into the base of the haycock where it quivered, rooted to the ground.\\"    The scope of human emotions against the dramatic background of the Irish countryside is exceptional, page after page of stunning descriptions, evoking a harsh present and mythic history. O'Malley traces the symbiotic relationship of religion and congregants caught in the rituals and moral confines of the Catholic Church, the petty grievances between neighbors, ancient grudges harbored for generations and a profound understanding of the commitment this place demands. Michael is changed by his burdens, the Troubles, insidious poverty, Padraig's distance in America, Moira's creeping illness, Cait's innuendoes about his father's past, a shapeless future and a bitter truth, crossing painfully from childhood to adolescence. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-08-23
98993:US	51010391	R2WV2HNO00WTNU	1596921420	807403740	Stories From The Blue Moon Cafe IV	Books	3	1	2	N	N	(3.5) A mixed brew...	Brewer's folksy introduction to the fourth volume of short stories by Southern writers waxes idealistically about the writer's life, who can and who can't and who gets to judge. He promises to keep his nose to the ground, so to speak, in search of those writers waiting to be discovered by a ready audience. If that's the case, perhaps the first selection in an anthology determines whether a reader sticks with it. I'm already committed to the pieces by my favorite authors, but if I hadn't been familiar with the earlier editions, I might have put the book aside. I didn't.<br /><br />\\"The Good Neighbors\\" by John Boyet is more to my liking, a sly insinuation of evil intentions behind the facade of good Christian neighbors. Rick Bragg's offering, \\"Dear Friend\\", is a letter of condolence to a family who has lost one of their own, nearly as precious as any child. There is a small selection of poetry by Andrea Hollander Budy, \\"Those Summer Sundays\\" and \\"An Explanation\\", speaking to the high price of love. In \\"Spleen\\", Ann Fisher-Wirth notes the passing of natural species in pursuit of entertainment on the campus of Ole Miss; \\"Where, Beneath the Magnolia\\" is a history-laden paean to Faulkner's legacy.<br /><br />\\"Chicken Bone Man\\", a fiction about 1927 Memphis by Anna Olswanger has an afterward to clarify its subject matter. \\"Down There on a Visit\\", by renowned poet Charles Simac, has footnotes, but this story bears the same authenticity as his poetry. Simac writes of a new segregation, more subtle but just as devastating, \\"there is a caste system with clear class distinctions and accompanying inequality... there are towns... that in their shocking poverty make one gasp\\". Simac's travels through the South yield profound, even frightening observations of religion wedded to politics. \\"Strawberry Fizzle\\" is Kristin Grant's expression of the extremes of segregation, federal government aside. Of course, in \\"That Thing with Feathers\\", Suzanne Hudson's prose is impeccable, as always, a poignant and shocking story of a young girl's loss of innocence, all wrapped up in need and confusion until she sees a way out of an untenable situation. This story alone is worth the price of admission.<br /><br />Like poetry, short stories are subjective, their appeal very personal. This volume offers the writers' fresh perspective of the South, the regional traits that define the genre. Although I have enjoyed other recent collections more (Matthew Kneale's Small Crimes in an Age of Abundance, Christopher Coake's We're In Trouble), this uneven group, much like Stories III, has a number of well-written selections, most notable the superior Suzanne Hudson's. Luan Gaines/2005.ways, a poignant and shocking story of a young girl's loss of innocence, all wrapped up in need and confusion until she sees a way out of an untenable situation. This story alone is worth the price of admission.  <br /> <br />Like poetry, short stories are subjective, their appeal very personal. This volume offers the writers' fresh perspective of the South, the regional traits that define the genre. Although I have enjoyed other recent collections more (Matthew Kneale's Small Crimes in an Age of Abundance, Christopher Coake's We're In Trouble), this uneven group, much like Stories III, has a number of well-written selections, most notable the superior Suzanne Hudson's. Luan Gaines/2005.  <br />	2005-08-22
101035:US	51010391	R7OV97WI8D4Z8	0316011770	454028739	The Historian	Books	3	4	6	N	N	(3.5) "In this spot he is housed in evil. Reader unbury him with a word."	In 1972, a sixteen-year old girl spends this pivotal year in a somewhat unusual pursuit, her professor father a traveling lecturer/historian based in Amsterdam: she joins her father in city after city as he reveals the story of a mysterious book that came into his possession by chance in his graduate study days. The book is connected to the legend of Dracula or Vlad the Impaler, a central figure in vampyric lore. Thought to have died in 1472, there is some question about the location of the tomb and a bizarre possibility that Vlad may, in fact, still be alive.<br /><br />Too terrified to tell the story all at once, the girl's father reveals small pieces of a convoluted journey through the past, as they travel to distant countries, each new city the occasion of more information; but her father is careful to keep these discussions away from their residence in a futile attempt to protect them from whatever evil has been unlashed upon the world. The girl's father was trained in his research methods by Professor Rossi, who disappeared soon after admitting his own search for the tomb, having come across a similar volume in the 1930's, an ancient leather journal with a Byzantine etching of a dragon on the cover. Listening to her father's unbelievable story, the girl is infected with curiosity as well, equally besieged by terrible and frightening events as she pursues information on her own. Clearly, this is not a subject to be trifled with by the uninitiated.<br /><br />Layer by layer, country by country, character by character (both human and vampire), mystery by mystery, the insidious plot develops, more clues unveiled, all leading to the same, irrevocable conclusion: either Vlad the Impaler or some associated evil has survived the centuries and walks the world with impunity, shielded by secrets and societies pledged to keep the location of the tomb hidden. By the time the story is finished, the daughter has caught up with her father's labyrinthine story, another father-daughter relationship is exposed, the girl's mother discovered, all involved in the denouement of a terrible truth. Generations are bound by an impossible search, traveling through gothic settings, impeded everywhere by lurking creatures straight out of Bram Stoker's Dracula. Even in a modern world, there is an aura of antiquity to the tale, the cities buried in the familiar terrain of ancient civilizations. I would have no trouble placing these characters in an 1880's drawing room; for all of its immediacy, the novel may be more accessible in a Victorian atmosphere, the protagonists mired in literature, history and mythology. Doubtless Dracula would lead them all on an unearthly chase, no matter what century he inhabits. Luan Gaines/2005.her-daughter relationship is exposed, the girl's mother discovered, all involved in the denouement of a terrible truth. Generations are bound by an impossible search, traveling through gothic settings, impeded everywhere by lurking creatures straight out of Bram Stoker's Dracula. Even in a modern world, there is an aura of antiquity to the tale, the cities buried in the familiar terrain of ancient civilizations. I would have no trouble placing these characters in an 1880's drawing room; for all of its immediacy, the novel may be more accessible in a Victorian atmosphere, the protagonists mired in literature, history and mythology. Doubtless Dracula would lead them all on an unearthly chase, no matter what century he inhabits. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-08-20
101063:US	51010391	R1869IN6C8E8J3	1400082455	196745943	Kingston by Starlight: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	(3.5) A colorful seafaring yarn	Written essentially as a memoir/monologue with occasional dialog, Kingston by Starlight is the tale of a female pirate, Ann Bonny, who puts to sea disguised as a man and spends years riding the waves for plunder with the likes of Calico Jack Rackam. Bonny tells her story from the perspective of old age, having survived capture and hardship after years of pirate adventures. Her early life in Ireland is one of relative comfort, protected by her wealthy father's reputation until he gambles away his fortune and sets sail for North Carolina in the New World. Bonny and her mother struggle for a now-meager existence until they also set sail for America, in hopes of locating the errant father. The voyage is revelatory, as mother and daughter are sailing aboard a slaver, a horrifying ordeal for the slaves and a young woman who sympathizes with their plight. This disturbing voyage gives the young Ann an idea of the kind of life that awaits the disenfranchised.<br /><br />Reaching their destination in North Carolina, Ann learns that her father has already left for Jamaica; then her mother falls ill, leaving the girl alone. There are no opportunities for employment in the early 18th century for decent women, save marriage or working in a house of ill repute. Ann refuses to consider either. Long given to an appreciation of male pursuits, she cuts her hair, travels to Barbados and begins the ribald life of a pirate aboard the William, captained by Calico Jack. Through many adventures, Bonn, as she is now known, keeps her true identity secret and revels with her mates, even dueling with another, Read. The two battle nimbly to a draw, both conscious of an instant attraction to one another.<br /><br />Eventually, even pirates get tired and Bonn retires for a while with Calico Jack, living in relative plenty until approached by Read and another former shipmate, with tales of gold and treasure too great to ignore. One more voyage will suffice to ensure all their fortunes, a final escapade. Since this novel is narrated by Bonn as an old woman reflecting on her years on the sea, her loves, losses and regrets, clearly she has survived to tell the tale. All the way to the end, there are twists and turns, heartbreaks and unexpected revelations. More character involvement and dialog might have made Kingston by Starlight more captivating, as Bonn's voice becomes somewhat predictable. However, the author has done a fine job of historical research, setting the action on turbulent seas in exotic locales, replaying the lusty days of pirate lore and seafaring bravado. Luan Gaines/2005.escapade. Since this novel is narrated by Bonn as an old woman reflecting on her years on the sea, her loves, losses and regrets, clearly she has survived to tell the tale. All the way to the end, there are twists and turns, heartbreaks and unexpected revelations. More character involvement and dialog might have made Kingston by Starlight more captivating, as Bonn's voice becomes somewhat predictable. However, the author has done a fine job of historical research, setting the action on turbulent seas in exotic locales, replaying the lusty days of pirate lore and seafaring bravado. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-08-20
106324:US	51010391	R6IX07RQVBTL5	0689876904	93698791	The Minister's Daughter (Aesop Accolades (Awards))	Books	4	13	15	N	N	"A Merrybegot...a child sacred to nature."	Early in 17th century England, the country is beset by civil war, the old religion at odds with the Puritanism that is sweeping the land. The old ways smack of superstition and an untoward reverence for pagan feasts and celebrations. The Puritans want none of the trappings of such a religion, sure that Satan has a hand in excessive merrymaking and frolicking on Sundays. In one small village Nell, the village cunning woman's granddaughter and Grace, the minister's daughter, are about to act out the scourge that will spread throughout the country, an accusation of witchcraft that sets off a firestorm of hangings of the accused.<br /><br />Grace is carefully observed by her strict Puritan father, but she is young and headstrong, running off with a young man on the first day of May, the birthday reserved for Merrybegots, children that are sacred to nature. Grace views the consequences of her actions as impossible, begging the plain Nell for help. As the village cunning woman's prot&eacute;g&eacute;, Nell is trained in the healing arts, learning all she can before the old woman's mind shatters completely. Nell herself is a Merrybegot, born from the May Day celebrations. She informs Grace that she cannot help her and a feud is born, one in which Grace holds all the power in a class-conscious society. Desperate to avoid her father's ire, Grace begins throwing fits to avoid anyone learning her secret, drawing her less-attractive sister, Patience, into the infernal chaos that develops. Over time, to avoid the reality of her impulsive judgment come to fruition, Grace accuses Nell of witchcraft. And who will doubt a minister's daughter?<br /><br />The author cleverly weaves history, fiction and magic into an engrossing tale of witchcraft, Puritanism, superstition and the unnamable fears of an ignorant public who believe in God and magic spells in the same measure, Nell symbolizing everything female and uncontrollable in a patriarchal belief system. This fiction is a perfect introduction to a fascinating period in English history, where both God and Satan walk the streets, larger than life, more powerful than incantations. In the throes of hysteria, a small village turns on one of their own, suddenly mistrustful and superstitious, looking to the minister's daughter for answers. Those provided, though quenching the villagers' thirst for blame, only serve to ignite a conflagration that will leap from across continents, settled finally in Salem, in the New World. Luan Gaines/2005.to a fascinating period in English history, where both God and Satan walk the streets, larger than life, more powerful than incantations. In the throes of hysteria, a small village turns on one of their own, suddenly mistrustful and superstitious, looking to the minister's daughter for answers. Those provided, though quenching the villagers' thirst for blame, only serve to ignite a conflagration that will leap from across continents, settled finally in Salem, in the New World. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-17
106506:US	51010391	R16V501NDS9APZ	0811845699	607862629	The Emperor's New Clothes	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Vanity and Pride confounded...	With an animated twist on the Hans Christian Anderson fairy tale, this beautifully illustrated book offers a lesson in vanity and pride, couched in simple language, when an Emperor orders a new set of clothes from a pair of tailors, who, \\"for a bit more gold\\" will cast a spell that will make his clothes invisible to \\"all who dull or foolish be\\". The Emperor is more than willing to pay extra for such cleverness, delighted by the prospect of such unique clothing. Unfortunately, it is the Emperor who is deceived, prancing about his kingdom in nothing at all. The whimsical illustrations add personality to this rogue's gallery of weasels and servants, a variety of elegant tortoises and hares. Pages tinted in an old world gold lend a medieval patina that assumes all the splendor of any self-respecting fairy tale, the characters costumed in royal gowns, except, of course, the Emperor, who wanders about, unaware, in only his \\"birthday\\" suit: \\"As the procession set out, everyone stared and gawked, too frightened to say what they really thought\\". An intrepid frog declares \\"The Emperor's wearing nothing at all!\\"<br /><br />Chronicle Books is an imprint much admired for its quality presentations and illustrations and The Emperor's New Clothes is no exception, the artwork exceptionally detailed and imaginative. This wonderful tale will engage any child with its much-loved parable, combined with the distinctive crackle-glaze art style of illustrator Alison Jay, a truly enchanting book. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-08-17
106635:US	51010391	R34OFNZ5R1WEVZ	0811806472	886704413	The Night I Followed the Dog	Books	4	1	3	N	N	This dog's life...	When a boy discovers his canine returning home one early morning, \\"stepping out of a limousine and wearing a tuxedo\\", he is determined to discover what is going on. For the dog in question, life is anything but predictable. Late that night, after his pet retires to his dog house in the back yard, the boy quietly follows, hoping for a clue about his pet's late-night activities. The first thing he notices is that this is no ordinary dog house. Unchanged from the outside, inside there is an elegant living room, a well-appointed bathroom, even a closet filled with fancy clothes. As the boy watches, the dog in question dresses up in his finery, is picked up by a limo and arrives at a secluded club called \\"The Doghouse\\". The boy peddles furiously on his bicycle to keep up with the progress of the limo.<br /><br />The boy is shocked when he discovers his pet's after-hours occupation: the dog runs a club where other dogs come to be entertained, relax and talk about their problems, before returning to the daily tedium of guarding the family home, patrolling the yard, chasing cats and sleeping in the shade. The boy is treated to a tour of the club and even receives a picture with his pet in a luxurious booth. What an eye opening experience! Stunned by all he has learned about the secret life of his dog, the boy peddles home with new appreciation of his best friend's entrepreneurial spirit. This delightful combination of graphic text and energetic illustrations create a lively adventure, as a young boy's world opens up with a sly sense of humor and imagination. The canines are charming, from the handsome star of the story to the slinky poodle and the camera-toting afghan in her hot pink evening gown. After the sun goes down, it's a dog's life. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-08-17
106800:US	51010391	RRFMKY6VVHOYH	0312424892	72415126	Outside Valentine: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The tentacles of tragedy	Using the events of the Charles Starkweather crime spree in Nebraska in 1958, Liza Ward builds a contemporary tale of the aftermath of the crimes and the lingering effects of the tragedy on surviving family members. In alternating chapters, we meet each of the narrators, Caril Fulgate, Starkweather's partner-in-crime who refuses to accept the blame for her actions, Lowell Bowman, whose parents were murdered by Starkweather and his wife, Susan, a girl abandoned by her unstable mother and desperate for connection with Lowell, the only person she imagines might understand her loss.<br /><br />We first meet Lowell after he has been married to Susan for twenty-two years; his life is unraveling, despite determined efforts to avoid confrontation with the past and the senseless loss of his parents. Back and forth through the years, from the actual events, to Susan's fixation on a boy who may identify with her own abandonment, to Lowell's current crisis, all are entangled in Starkweather's random violence. The author connects the damage of childhood trauma, as it reaches out to poison the future, the futility of flight and the dangers inherent in loving a broken person. Ward's own intimate connections to Starkweather's killing spree give the story a personal touch, believability. Her prose is both lyrical and clinically frank, depending on the narrator, either gently examining Susan's youthful yearning for the orphaned Lowell, his internal agony in as a functioning husband-parent, or Caril Ann's sly observations as Charlie's companion.<br /><br />One of the most chilling narratives is the voice of Caril Fulgate, when she speaks of Lowell's mother, Jeanette, in the final moments before her murder. The woman talks about her son, how much she loves him, begging the girl to help. But Caril remains implacable. Her very passivity translates into Starkweather's dementia in his efforts to please her. The two are emotional ciphers, firmly entrenched in their victimhood. The horrific crimes are narrated from Fugate's point of view, her avowed helplessness belied by the senseless carnage, dispassionate descriptions that are a key element in the crooked route of Starkweather's mind. Thirty years later, Jeanette's son is crippled by his childhood trauma, but unable to connect his current family dysfunction with the past he hoped to escape. He has been running all his life.<br /><br />Lowell has long been collecting treasures to be displayed in his New York gallery, comforted by antiquity and timelessness: \\"Sometimes it seems... that the only compensation for the living world, where things changed, were beautiful objects that stood the test of time\\". Understanding Lowell`s demons, Susan explains, \\"Your past becomes your family's past, and the things you don't deal with show up as your children's dirty laundry\\". The author has skillfully blended these characters, even Fugate's facile observations, creating a story that lingers long after it is finished. The icy Nebraska landscape, sprinkled carelessly with the blood of Starkweather's victims, is also the scene of redemption. It is those who carry the burdens of such senseless violence who speak most clearly in Outside Valentine, the missing haunting the futures of following generations. Luan Gaines/2005.fic crimes are narrated from Fugate's point of view, her avowed helplessness belied by the senseless carnage, dispassionate descriptions that are a key element in the crooked route of Starkweather's mind. Thirty years later, Jeanette's son is crippled by his childhood trauma, but unable to connect his current family dysfunction with the past he hoped to escape. He has been running all his life. <br /> <br />Lowell has long been collecting treasures to be displayed in his New York gallery, comforted by antiquity and timelessness: \\"Sometimes it seems... that the only compensation for the living world, where things changed, were beautiful objects that stood the test of time\\". Understanding Lowell`s demons, Susan explains, \\"Your past becomes your family's past, and the things you don't deal with show up as your children's dirty laundry\\". The author has skillfully blended these characters, even Fugate's facile observations, creating a story that lingers long after it is finished. The icy Nebraska landscape, sprinkled carelessly with the blood of Starkweather's victims, is also the scene of redemption. It is those who carry the burdens of such senseless violence who speak most clearly in Outside Valentine, the missing haunting the futures of following generations. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-17
107243:US	51010391	RLG2XZAC7XAJT	B000A3WW3K	956666045	Roberto, The Insect Architect	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An enterprising termite	Another in the impressive Chronicle series of children's books, Roberto, the Insect Architect is the latest invention of author/artist Nina Laden, the fascinating tale of a wee mite (\\"termite, that is\\"), who grows up wanting to build things out of wood, not just feast on it, going against the grain of family obligations. Roberto aspires to make a name for himself, much like those he so admires, Hank Floyd Mite and Fleas van der Rohe, but he is discouraged when his parents complain that Roberto he has \\"bitten off more than he can chew\\" this time. Against all odds, Roberto sets out for the big city, where he draws inspiration for his designs from all manner of creepy crawlers.<br /><br />Unfortunately, Robert's heroes, Hank Floyd Mite and Fleas van der Rohe, have no time to spare for an unknown architect, but Roberto remains undaunted, believing in himself. Soon he has designed a unique variety of dwellings, works of art that are also functional: the ladybug gets a fireproof home to keep her children safe, the carpenter ant a workshop for his projects, an abode for the house fly, even a habitable dwelling for the roaches. With perseverance and an inventive spirit, Roberto the Architect proves that anything is possible when there is determination and talent. Roberto achieves his goals and the world is better for it, all in a spirit of community. This clever story of creativity and inspiration, teaches a valuable lesson about believing in our dreams. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-08-17
112993:US	51010391	R8CB5L32AK85Q	1853267244	184448755	Deerbrook	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The worst gossip holds a grain of truth...	This precursor of elegant Victoriana of the Bronte Sisters and Jane Austen, is an accurate portrayal of 19th century manners and the damage inflicted by carefully injected gossip. In the village of Deerbrook, two families are in constant rivalry, the Grey's and the Rowland's, each vying for the highest social standing, the best regard of their neighbors. But when the Misses Ibbotson come to the Grey's after the death of their father, the delicate status quo is disturbed. By far the most eligible bachelor, Mr. Edward Hope, the local physician, is drawn to both the sisters, but marries Hester, who remains innocent of his affections for Margaret. For her part, Margaret cares only for her sister's happiness and has set her affections on another gentleman, Philip Enderby, brother of the  formidable Priscilla Rowland.<br /><br />When Enderby announces his engagement to Margaret Ibbotson, his sister's wrath is incurred, as Mrs. Rowland considers her family superior to the Grey's, and by relation, the newly married Hester and Edward Hope. Using her considerable resources, an active imagination, warped sense of injustice and acid tongue, Mrs. Rowland contrives to interfere with Dr. Hope's good name, as well as Margaret's impending marriage. Wrapped in the convoluted morals of their restricted society, Margaret, Hester and Edward Hope struggle to maintain their position, while undermined daily by cruel and insidious gossip. Priscilla Rowland is merciless in her endeavors, too often successful in her malicious interference, setting the stage for good to triumph over evil, as it must in any Victorian drama.<br /><br />Only after considerable heartbreak and noble stoicism do the wronged characters find a measure of peace, although, as morally superior individuals, they turn their sacrifices into successes. The sisters and Edward Hope join forces in facing down their altered circumstances, Mr. Enderby caught in the middle by his love for Margaret and his trust in his sister's motives. With matchmaking and courtship as the central theme, Martineau indulges in the philosophical and social discourse common to the era, a middle-class existence in contrast to Dickens' later attention to the disenfranchised. The women in the novel are restricted by their own futures; only marriage can save one from spinsterhood or the quiet life of a governess. Yet the men are just as constrained in Deerbrook, the women controlling their serenity n the home front.<br /><br />This is a society of esoteric discourses, lengthy conversations on the meaning of life and ritualistic behavior concealing subtle relationships and formal, tentative understandings, a mannered mating dance. Mrs. Rowland's gossip sweeps the story along, the scold's denouement all the more satisfying when it finally occurs. Amid the chaos, backbiting, broken commitments and the Hope's loss of fortune, the plague, the great leveler, descends upon Deerbrook to teach the harshest lesson of all, death striking randomly in the village with no concern for wealth or position. This pastoral countryside, for all its fine manners and pretensions, is a cauldron of discontent and unhappiness until wrongs are set right and love prevails. Luan Gaines/2005.motives. With matchmaking and courtship as the central theme, Martineau indulges in the philosophical and social discourse common to the era, a middle-class existence in contrast to Dickens' later attention to the disenfranchised. The women in the novel are restricted by their own futures; only marriage can save one from spinsterhood or the quiet life of a governess. Yet the men are just as constrained in Deerbrook, the women controlling their serenity n the home front. <br /> <br />This is a society of esoteric discourses, lengthy conversations on the meaning of life and ritualistic behavior concealing subtle relationships and formal, tentative understandings, a mannered mating dance. Mrs. Rowland's gossip sweeps the story along, the scold's denouement all the more satisfying when it finally occurs. Amid the chaos, backbiting, broken commitments and the Hope's loss of fortune, the plague, the great leveler, descends upon Deerbrook to teach the harshest lesson of all, death striking randomly in the village with no concern for wealth or position. This pastoral countryside, for all its fine manners and pretensions, is a cauldron of discontent and unhappiness until wrongs are set right and love prevails. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-14
113108:US	51010391	R3D5BYVZ4EM44G	0151010579	78219009	The Work of Wolves (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	23	23	N	N	"The turtle rolls over. The earth slides off its back."	It is difficult to do justice to a novel of this scope and emotional depth. The Work of Wolves is an experience that evokes South Dakota's great wilderness and the spirit of those who make their living from the land. What begins as an uneven exchange between an arrogant, powerful ranch owner and a teenaged boy who purchases a horse from him, flowers into a battle of wills, when wealthy Magnus Yarborough entices a now twenty-five-year old Carson Fielding to his land to train three horses and teach his wife to ride. Fielding is bound by a contract his father made, a fact that goes against Carson's spirit and the way he works with animals. Yarborough senses a stoic invulnerability in Carson, but imagines he can break any man with his money and his will.<br /><br />As the drama unfolds, circumstance unexpectedly connects four lives, Carson Fielding, Earl Walks Alone, Ted Kills Many and Willi Schubert, a German exchange student with a love of all things Lakota. Fielding bears the immediate consequences and has the most to lose in facing the wrath of Magnus Yarborough, but the four young men are ultimately bound by their actions, their friendship deepening with the desperation of their endeavor, a younger generation coming to understand the motivations of their forebears, the way a relationship with the land can either enrich a man or strip away his connections to others, depending on the kind of man he is. This massive country is a great leveler, keeper of the truth, its lessons irrevocable.<br /><br />In this novel, separate worlds overlap, rich and poor, ranches and reservation, although the Lakota Indians remain puzzled by the habits of the whites: \\"They find a forest and cut it down to settle there...they find a prairie, they plant trees...find a swamp, they drain it...find a desert, they make a lake to irrigate.\\" The cowboy, the immigrant and the Indians unite to rectify a wrong, to deny the cruelty sparked by a loss of control. If Yarborough shows the bland mien of power's indifference, Carson, Willi, Earl and Ted are the faces of humanity, each carefully navigating his own terrain until bound by a common cause, a rejection of Yarborough's \\"suffering as message\\".<br /><br />The author's genius lies in the telling of stories, Nazi Germany with all its grand delusions, robber barons pushing a reservation to pen the unwanted into defined spaces, a young man's vision of his grandfather's spiritual endowment until forced to find his own identity. As disparate elements fold into a vast and chilling landscape, this novel transports the reader to another, finer consciousness, where human flaws are forgivable, but heartlessness is not: \\"Maybe bad ideas rotted from the inside out, swelling and bloating from their own incoherence, and time was a sieve in which they caught and through which they could not flow.\\"<br /><br />Meyer draws the reader into this drama as if gentling a horse, the story is as primitive as the land and as grounded as generations of families who make their mark in such country, carving out ranches, homes and barns, fences of rusting barbed wire, women with deep souls paired with men of few words. Astonishing, courageous and generous, the four young men come together in this time and place, crossing the line into a brotherhood that will change their lives. \\"The turtle rolls over. The earth slides off its back.\\" Luan Gaines/2005.n of power's indifference, Carson, Willi, Earl and Ted are the faces of humanity, each carefully navigating his own terrain until bound by a common cause, a rejection of Yarborough's \\"suffering as message\\". <br /> <br />The author's genius lies in the telling of stories, Nazi Germany with all its grand delusions, robber barons pushing a reservation to pen the unwanted into defined spaces, a young man's vision of his grandfather's spiritual endowment until forced to find his own identity. As disparate elements fold into a vast and chilling landscape, this novel transports the reader to another, finer consciousness, where human flaws are forgivable, but heartlessness is not: \\"Maybe bad ideas rotted from the inside out, swelling and bloating from their own incoherence, and time was a sieve in which they caught and through which they could not flow.\\" <br /> <br />Meyer draws the reader into this drama as if gentling a horse, the story is as primitive as the land and as grounded as generations of families who make their mark in such country, carving out ranches, homes and barns, fences of rusting barbed wire, women with deep souls paired with men of few words. Astonishing, courageous and generous, the four young men come together in this time and place, crossing the line into a brotherhood that will change their lives. \\"The turtle rolls over. The earth slides off its back.\\" Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-08-14
117146:US	51010391	RTY9NM9XWAC0J	0151010846	197924727	Unkempt: Stories	Books	2	2	3	N	N	...or 3 stars or 4 stars, who knows?	What are the criteria for a short story? When does a literate exercise achieve form and substance? And when is prose just self-indulgent rambling, a finger touching on the collective unconscious? The first page of fiction is critical for me, be it short story or novel, even, as the author says, the first five words, where I am drawn to a manuscript or turn away from it. Eldridge's first offering \\"Fits and Starts\\", is a challenge; I am not attracted to precocious writing or semantic acrobatics: \\"What happens is I write a first sentence, then I read the sentence that I've just written...\\" The author makes gratuitous use of \\"so far, see, consequently, oh and what's more\\", segueing into another direction from the original. From there I move on to \\"Sharks\\", a rambling dialog with a friend who has unusual fears, a contretemps between friends, more of an overheard conversation of the kind one imagines between young people with ubiquitous cell phones clutched to their ears, terrified of being alone with silence.<br /><br />I try one more, \\"Thieves\\", a letter of dispute with a credit card company that serves as a vehicle for another digression: a fraudulent purchase, a writer whose story was stolen and a disturbed shopper, an anecdotal m&eacute;lange without resolution, only the signature, \\"Courtney Eldridge\\". To avoid an accusation of snap judgment, I read the title story of the collection, a novella that deals with a mother-daughter tug-of-war, apparently the common denominator of the relationship, hiding a painful history. Only in \\"Unkempt\\" is there any intimation of depth, but even this flash of insight is relegated to the last page.<br /><br />Some of the most rewarding short story collections I have read recently (Christopher Coake's We're in Trouble, Matthew Kneale's Small Crimes in an Age of Abundance) are concise, intellectually stimulating and rewarding. At best, Unkempt is a stream-of-consciousness diary. Perhaps Eldridge's effort is the obvious offshoot of chick-lit and will enjoy a ready audience. Certainly, the stories appeal to critics and many readers, but I reserve the right to disagree, plagued by a sense that someone is putting one over on me, the irony hiding a smirk. Unkempt is unfinished, flirting with emotions without the courage to confront conflict and resolve it...all of the stories end in a psychological \\"whatever!\\",  defined by avoidance, like a sullen adolescent refusing to talk about her problems, clutching an ipod and the soothing chatter of a cell phone, the neurosis of a generation, revealing more by what is unsaid than the torrent of words that fill the pages.<br /><br />Hailed for her literary inventiveness, editorial reviews applaud these quirky, irreverent stories, suggesting comparisons with literary ironists, accolades of appreciation. But I don't find this work remotely accessible, too clever by half, the irony drowned by excess. I don't mind working hard on a book, but I do mind the mental anguish involved in wading through unfettered prose. Neurosis is exhausting and Unkempt makes me want a stiff drink or an overdose of Prozac. Am I out of step with the times? I feel like an old rocker at a hip hop venue. Perhaps Eldridge is the prototypical writer of the future, her mind a seething cauldron of inventiveness and conflicting thoughts, none held back. That's the beauty of books- there's something for everyone. Luan Gaines/2005.and will enjoy a ready audience. Certainly, the stories appeal to critics and many readers, but I reserve the right to disagree, plagued by a sense that someone is putting one over on me, the irony hiding a smirk. Unkempt is unfinished, flirting with emotions without the courage to confront conflict and resolve it...all of the stories end in a psychological \\"whatever!\\",  defined by avoidance, like a sullen adolescent refusing to talk about her problems, clutching an ipod and the soothing chatter of a cell phone, the neurosis of a generation, revealing more by what is unsaid than the torrent of words that fill the pages. <br /> <br />Hailed for her literary inventiveness, editorial reviews applaud these quirky, irreverent stories, suggesting comparisons with literary ironists, accolades of appreciation. But I don't find this work remotely accessible, too clever by half, the irony drowned by excess. I don't mind working hard on a book, but I do mind the mental anguish involved in wading through unfettered prose. Neurosis is exhausting and Unkempt makes me want a stiff drink or an overdose of Prozac. Am I out of step with the times? I feel like an old rocker at a hip hop venue. Perhaps Eldridge is the prototypical writer of the future, her mind a seething cauldron of inventiveness and conflicting thoughts, none held back. That's the beauty of books- there's something for everyone. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-08-11
119847:US	51010391	R1GPNWXQYFUWKC	039332110X	702632205	Yellow Jack: A Novel	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Mister Jack's deathly grin	In 1838 Paris, a young apprentice to L.J.M. Daguerre trashes the photographer's studio, stealing the materials for producing the images, later known as daguerreotypes. Assuming a deceased man's name, the apprentice, now Claude Marchand, flees the continent for America, settling in New Orleans, a mini-Paris with artistic pretensions and an aura of social decadence much to the young man's liking. Claude takes up residence with the paramour of his first friend in New Orleans, Millicent, a beautiful octoroon. Millicent favors casting spells on ex-lovers and accepts her station in society with occasional flashes of rage.<br /><br />The wealthy citizens are thrilled by what Millicent labels Claude's \\"magic\\" pictures, lining up to pay for their \\"soliotypes\\". In the original process, there is no negative, each is unique, adding to the popularity of Marchand's artistry. By the summer, Yellow Fever has made its yearly appearance in New Orleans, decimating the poor who remain, while the rich flee to the country. Suddenly without clients, Claude initiates a career of memorial images, as deceased victims are brought to the studio in their coffins. At this time, most people have no likenesses of themselves or family members, other than the expensive artist's portrait, so Claude's \\"magic\\" is much sought after.<br /><br />Claude is hopelessly in love with one of his early subjects, the twelve-year old Vivian Marmu, precocious daughter of a wealthy and indulgent father. Much as he fights these forbidden carnal inclinations, Vivian's innocence seduces Marchand. When she is sixteen, Vivian offers herself in stages, binding her lover in heart and spirit. Millicent's charms pale in comparison to Vivian's efforts, but both women play an erotic cat-and-mouse game with Claude. He participates willingly, in love with Vivian but helpless to deny Millicent`s allure. This duality is characteristic of Marchand, who has by then been affected by the quicksilver fumes used on the plates, the chemicals seeping into his system and affecting his mental stability.<br /><br />Claude's nature itself is suspect. Is he indeed the creator of what he calls soliotypes, or is he merely a petty criminal who has turned his training into a lucrative trade? A connoisseur of women, spirits and opium, Claude's self-destructive behavior, added to the physical effects of the chemicals he uses, affect his mind and judgment, his genius flowering early, a dissolute lifestyle his undoing.  Marchand walks a narrow ledge of respectability, drawn to the excesses of New Orleans society, where perversion is de rigueur and the yearly sickness sends frightened citizens into paroxysms of decadence. By 1845, the city is reeling from the summer onslaughts of the fever, although the mayor and his lackeys refuse to admit this imminent danger to the citizens. Claude's images effectively document the thousands felled, forcing the city to respond. But Marchand's artistic cachet is purchased at an exorbitant price.<br /><br />Russell evokes an era where science has not yet revealed all its secrets, the photographic likeness a magical endeavor, a curiosity. Yellow Jack is a miasma of steamy pursuits, born of Yellow Fever, lovers' obsessions and careless affairs, clouds of opium to subdue anxieties, women lost in childbirth and the chemicals that warp Marchand's mind and shorten his life. Russell's New Orleans is historically accurate, the characters as impulsive and self-indulgent as their fortunes allow, contrasted with the helpless agony of those doomed by death's toll. Luan Gaines/2005.cals seeping into his system and affecting his mental stability.<br /><br />Claude's nature itself is suspect. Is he indeed the creator of what he calls soliotypes, or is he merely a petty criminal who has turned his training into a lucrative trade? A connoisseur of women, spirits and opium, Claude's self-destructive behavior, added to the physical effects of the chemicals he uses, affect his mind and judgment, his genius flowering early, a dissolute lifestyle his undoing.  Marchand walks a narrow ledge of respectability, drawn to the excesses of New Orleans society, where perversion is de rigueur and the yearly sickness sends frightened citizens into paroxysms of decadence. By 1845, the city is reeling from the summer onslaughts of the fever, although the mayor and his lackeys refuse to admit this imminent danger to the citizens. Claude's images effectively document the thousands felled, forcing the city to respond. But Marchand's artistic cachet is purchased at an exorbitant price.<br /><br />Russell evokes an era where science has not yet revealed all its secrets, the photographic likeness a magical endeavor, a curiosity. Yellow Jack is a miasma of steamy pursuits, born of Yellow Fever, lovers' obsessions and careless affairs, clouds of opium to subdue anxieties, women lost in childbirth and the chemicals that warp Marchand's mind and shorten his life. Russell's New Orleans is historically accurate, the characters as impulsive and self-indulgent as their fortunes allow, contrasted with the helpless agony of those doomed by death's toll. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-08-10
124948:US	51010391	R3PM47UVEO9E3V	1400097398	931307587	The Linnet Bird: A Novel	Books	4	5	9	N	N	(4.5) "This is not my true life"	As a girl, Linny Gow carries the onus of Vauxhall Road, a resident of the poverty-tainted streets of 19th century Liverpool, England, where her mother toils as a bookbinder until succumbing to a fever. After that, the man who took them in, Ram Munt, sells the child's innocence to a succession of men, her youth attracting the easy coin of paying customers. Eventually, Ram sells Linny to a man with dark intentions, her torn body tossed into the Mersy, rescued only by chance. Badly wounded, the girl is left to her own devices and makes her living the only way possible, vowing at least to make her own decisions. Linny's days and nights on the Liverpool streets are harrowing, poverty greedily licking the damp air as she plies her trade in a dead-end world. Linny and the others are disposable, interchangeable, lower class prostitutes relegated to the back alleys, where clients feel free to abuse and demean them: \\"Poverty and inequality are part of the God-given universe.\\"<br /><br />Linny endures the desperate violence of her days on the streets yearning for  another way, a genteel, ritualized society that keeps the chaos of poverty at bay, mannered constructs separating one element of society from another. Her own meager resources bring Linny to the edge of demoralization and despair, restricted by her lack of choices, until a chance meeting with a selfless young man ushers her into a place of security and acceptance, but one that is equally treacherous for all its civility. Given the opportunity to sail to India in 1830 as part of \\"The Fishing Fleet\\", young women who hope for advantageous marriages on the sub-continent, Linny escapes the England of her birth.<br /><br />From the tumultuous ocean voyage to her instant infatuation with this new country, Linny remains an outsider, a fraud, confined as much by her own fears as the constraints of English Imperialism: \\"There is an obvious underlying hostility toward the Indians...perfectly ordinary British men and women...don a voluminous imperial cloak as if it is their right, their duty.\\" True to form, Linny's curiosity draws her to this place and its people; because of her own harsh beginnings, Linny is sensitive to those who are unseen by the ruling class. The silent workers are everywhere, attending to the infinitesimal needs of the autocratic, the constant attentions of quiet servitude. Linny is instructed to respect the status quo, this mini-England shadowing the homeland, recreated on Indian soil to comfort and protect the foreigner's sense of displacement. But her past returns with a vengeance in the person of Somers Ingram, a dissolute man she is forced to marry to protect her reputation.<br /><br />Any security Linny fancies is quickly surrendered in this brutal marriage, but she refuses to be victimized by circumstances. Her mettle constantly tested, this woman is a survivor, destined to lose friendship, love and her sense of independence. She finds \\"her true self\\", her child and steadfast friends, released from the confines of an intractable existence. The Linnet Bird is rich with plot twists, nefarious characters, exotic locales, the kindness of strangers, class differences and dangerous liaisons. From her early escape from the arms of Morpheus to the opiate dreams that soothe her broken spirit, Linny is a true Victorian heroine, a woman larger than the era that seeks to repress her every action, a fearless champion of her own independence. Luan Gaines/2005..don a voluminous imperial cloak as if it is their right, their duty.\\" True to form, Linny's curiosity draws her to this place and its people; because of her own harsh beginnings, Linny is sensitive to those who are unseen by the ruling class. The silent workers are everywhere, attending to the infinitesimal needs of the autocratic, the constant attentions of quiet servitude. Linny is instructed to respect the status quo, this mini-England shadowing the homeland, recreated on Indian soil to comfort and protect the foreigner's sense of displacement. But her past returns with a vengeance in the person of Somers Ingram, a dissolute man she is forced to marry to protect her reputation. <br /> <br />Any security Linny fancies is quickly surrendered in this brutal marriage, but she refuses to be victimized by circumstances. Her mettle constantly tested, this woman is a survivor, destined to lose friendship, love and her sense of independence. She finds \\"her true self\\", her child and steadfast friends, released from the confines of an intractable existence. The Linnet Bird is rich with plot twists, nefarious characters, exotic locales, the kindness of strangers, class differences and dangerous liaisons. From her early escape from the arms of Morpheus to the opiate dreams that soothe her broken spirit, Linny is a true Victorian heroine, a woman larger than the era that seeks to repress her every action, a fearless champion of her own independence. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-08
126944:US	51010391	R1N3QNE1EVXK06	075381370X	499014129	The Resurrectionists	Books	5	3	3	N	N	"I got vision and the rest of the world wears bifocals."	Frank Cassidy lives on the fringes of society in a succession of demeaning jobs, a wife with an ex-husband on death row in Georgia, an angst-riddled stepson waiting for his father to be executed and an innocent pre-schooler, obsessed with his toy dinosaurs. Frank's edge-of-desperation lifestyle can be traced back to his childhood, his father and mother killed in a fire that erupted on the family farm when Frank was five-years old. His memories of that time are dim, shaped by the overwhelming presence of his uncle, who raised him as one of his own, and the psychological evaluations the doctor hoped would unlock Frank's fragmented memory of the night of the conflagration.<br /><br />As soon as he is old enough, Frank leaves the farm behind, along with all family connections, to make his way in a hostile world with no patience for an emotionally damaged survivor. His life since then has been a series of misdemeanors, an anti-social approach to the rest of mankind. Frank views his occasional petty crimes as the natural evolution of a careful society, like car theft, his deeds \\"preordained statistical probability\\", but refuses to believe that \\"stupidity and desperation equate to evil\\". When he reads of his uncle's murder, Frank gathers his family and heads for the past, a dark trek from New Jersey to the vast, empty cold of the far north in Michigan.<br /><br />Along the way, Frank telephones his cousin at the farm, arguing about the purpose of the trip and the resolution of a shattered history. For Frank, this journey is like poking a stick at a bad tooth, as painful memories surge, taunting and confusing his every action, his haunted youth returning with savage intensity. He makes his way back to the kind of town nobody would willingly return to unless called by tragedy or loss. People here live in despair, inhabiting days frozen in minimal needs and obligations, waiting to thaw. At each phase of his odyssey, Frank is beset by images and memories, the flickering light of a television screen in a starless night, black and white reruns the backdrop for a tragedy buried in his subconscious that fills him with a vague sense of guilt, a mistrust of his own motivations.<br /><br />Thirty years after the traumatic events that stole his childhood, Frank is called back into the chaos of his youth, the self-destruction that has defined every rebellious action since. Both distressed and comforted by a suffering family he can barely provide for, Frank plunges into what remains of his world, forced to redefine time and place, to make a stand in this frozen wilderness, drawing courage from his own need for resolution and the love of his dysfunctional family. He does so with consummate grace, a tragic character cart-wheeling through free-associative hell on a collision course with the truth. The prose is shadowed and disturbing, a painful view of the underbelly of American life, where the have-nots gather around a burning trash can in hopes of warmth in an indifferent landscape. Luan Gaines/2005.ght of a television screen in a starless night, black and white reruns the backdrop for a tragedy buried in his subconscious that fills him with a vague sense of guilt, a mistrust of his own motivations. <br />  <br />Thirty years after the traumatic events that stole his childhood, Frank is called back into the chaos of his youth, the self-destruction that has defined every rebellious action since. Both distressed and comforted by a suffering family he can barely provide for, Frank plunges into what remains of his world, forced to redefine time and place, to make a stand in this frozen wilderness, drawing courage from his own need for resolution and the love of his dysfunctional family. He does so with consummate grace, a tragic character cart-wheeling through free-associative hell on a collision course with the truth. The prose is shadowed and disturbing, a painful view of the underbelly of American life, where the have-nots gather around a burning trash can in hopes of warmth in an indifferent landscape. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-08-06
130039:US	51010391	RLO6JD8PPRJ5H	0224073028	607050193	Speak For England	Books	3	1	1	N	N	(3.5) A theater of the absurd...	Brian Marley is his own harshest critic. Almost forty, his life is the epitome of mediocrity, teaching English to foreigners and seeing his three-year old son on visitation days. When Brian is approached by a producer/acquaintance to appear on a British reality show, Brit Pluck, Green Hell, Two Million, where six contestants will be stranded in the jungles of Papua, New Guinea, he seizes the opportunity.<br /><br />As shocking to him as the other contestants, Brian outlasts everyone, his final challenge to spend one more week alone on the island. At the end of his physical resources and his tether, sure that death awaits, Marley is filming a final message to his son when he falls from a cliff. When he wakes up, he is no longer surrounded by the fetid jungle, but safe in the well-ordered camp of the survivors of the 1958 crash of an airplane, a De Havilland Comet IV, en route to a huge Commonwealth Public Schools Jamboree. The group has been stranded in New Guinea for over fifty years awaiting rescue, their enclave hidden from surveillance by low-lying clouds. Under the leadership of Headmaster Quartermain, the colony has fared admirably, establishing a daily protocol. The only escape route from camp is a pass that leads to a swamp, but the local tribe tends to snap up strays and cannibalize them.<br /><br />In this place, time stands still, out of touch with current events or the direction of English politics. It is into this half-century old mindset that Marley arrives, his memory addled by the fall, snippets of memory taken out of context and misinterpreted by his new friends. But the tepid, socially inept Marley is a different man in the able hands of Georgina Harcourt, who takes him under her wing, prompting his recollections. Released from his stultifying past, an uninhibited Brian basks in newfound masculinity, reluctant to release his recent history. Eventually remembering, Brian is lacerated by the truth of his reality, \\"his poverty, his non-status, his endless failures, his entire lack of charisma and drive, his pathetic attempts at parenthood, his useless car.\\"<br /><br />Hawes takes a satirical approach to this \\"everyman\\" thrust into the spotlight, a newcomer in a colony that has lived by their wits awaiting rescue, their society bound by the rigid control of a  leader who has resorted to unorthodox means to ensure the safety of his charges. This insular society has lived on the erroneous suppositions of a country on the brink of world war and advancing Communism, shocked to discover the changes wrought in their absence. Not to worry, after the rescue everyone is a star, Headmaster Quartermain readily accepted into a world in dire need of his extraordinary vision.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Marley grapples with the sponsors of the reality show for the money he believes he has won, agents wheel and deal for book and movie rights and Brian is a magnet for anyone who has ever known him, however peripherally. The great PR machine is in motion, grinding out images and interviews, spinning fictions. Caught in the middle, Marley is a catalyst for the greatest news story in years, but soon relegated to his former ineptitude, a bumbling fool who grabbed an opportunity for wealth and his fifteen minutes of fame, only to question which reality is really the nightmarish jungle. Luan Gaines/2005.his entire lack of charisma and drive, his pathetic attempts at parenthood, his useless car.\\"    Hawes takes a satirical approach to this \\"everyman\\" thrust into the spotlight, a newcomer in a colony that has lived by their wits awaiting rescue, their society bound by the rigid control of a  leader who has resorted to unorthodox means to ensure the safety of his charges. This insular society has lived on the erroneous suppositions of a country on the brink of world war and advancing Communism, shocked to discover the changes wrought in their absence. Not to worry, after the rescue everyone is a star, Headmaster Quartermain readily accepted into a world in dire need of his extraordinary vision.    Meanwhile, Marley grapples with the sponsors of the reality show for the money he believes he has won, agents wheel and deal for book and movie rights and Brian is a magnet for anyone who has ever known him, however peripherally. The great PR machine is in motion, grinding out images and interviews, spinning fictions. Caught in the middle, Marley is a catalyst for the greatest news story in years, but soon relegated to his former ineptitude, a bumbling fool who grabbed an opportunity for wealth and his fifteen minutes of fame, only to question which reality is really the nightmarish jungle. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-08-04
133715:US	51010391	RPLPEQ1HPKU83	0385721412	127261313	The Crusader: A Novel	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	A map of the soul...	In 1275, Francisco de Montcada returns to the Monastery of Santes Creus after years of fighting and imprisonment in the Holy Land, his soul burdened by his deeds. Sent by Archbishop Santo of Tarragona, Brother Lucas assumes the exorcism of his friend, who has been chained to the cell for his own protection. Francisco has been in the care of Father Adelmo, an exorcist who claims more than one thousand successes: although they did not survive, these victims were able to achieve salvation before they died.<br /><br />For all their prayers and penitence, the monks exhibit the casual brutality of the 13th century, prior to the conflagration that would follow with the Spanish Inquisition. Seasoned by the use of extreme cures for spiritual ills when battling for a soul, fatal wounds are commonly inflicted to enable salvation. When Brother Lucas takes over, Father Adelmo has exhausted every means short of a deadly cranial incision to release Francisco's evil spirits. Trained by the more moderate and psychologically inclined Brother Vial, Brother Lucas is sympathetic to Francisco's temperament and holds the knight in high regard. Only with time does Brother Lucas draw out Francisco's \\"confession\\".<br /><br />Brother Lucas' tongue-in-cheek narration of his actions on behalf of the Lord exposes the many flaws of power joined to worship. The purchase of favors, indulgences and position belie the very humility exhibited by powerful bishops and abbots. Even the Cistercians, seeking to redress the worldliness of the Benedictines, indulge in their petty grievances. As he climbs the ladder of success in the religious hierarchy of the monastery, Brother Lucas explains the self-serving details of each promotion: \\"I never lost faith that the Lord or one of His illustrious servants would recognize that quality and reward my fealty.\\"<br /><br />Francisco de Montcada never craves the Sword or the Cross, but when his brother, Sergio, the heir, falls in love with God and is called to the Cistercian Order, their father convinces Sergio to go on Crusade instead. A tragedy leaves Francisco the only son; distraught, Francisco dreams that he can redeem his brother by taking his place. In the heart-rending saga of Francisco's dark journey of the soul in the Holy Land, Christians slay Infidels, honor betrayed by the horrors of the battlefield and the excesses committed in the name of righteousness. With his cousin, Andreas Correa de Girona, at his side, the men march into the mouth of hell. Bearing the weight of his own self-judgment, Francisco cannot forgive himself or the rampages of the Christian soldiers against the helpless survivors. Eventually, Andreas' cousin, Isabel de Correa, travels to Santes Creus to aid in Francisco's recovery, where all three, monk, knight and maiden are beset by unexpected dangers once more.<br /><br />This novel is reminiscent of Jean-Christophe Rufin's The Abyssinian, covering similar territory, observing and weighing the differences in cultures. Eisner reveals the hypocrisy inherent in the Crusades, the urgency of garnering honor from the defeat of Infidels on foreign soil, a balanced account of this great clash of civilizations and the extremes of fanaticism, eerily familiar in modern times. No participant is without stain and Francisco, an honorable man, is faced with the reality of conflict and the evils men perpetrate upon their enemies in the name of honor. The Crusader contains chivalry, swordplay, savagery, solidarity, honor, deceit, damaged souls and finally, hope and a return to forgiveness. Historically accurate and engrossing, The Crusader brings this bloody and tempestuous era to life. Luan Gaines/2005.the Cistercian Order, their father convinces Sergio to go on Crusade instead. A tragedy leaves Francisco the only son; distraught, Francisco dreams that he can redeem his brother by taking his place. In the heart-rending saga of Francisco's dark journey of the soul in the Holy Land, Christians slay Infidels, honor betrayed by the horrors of the battlefield and the excesses committed in the name of righteousness. With his cousin, Andreas Correa de Girona, at his side, the men march into the mouth of hell. Bearing the weight of his own self-judgment, Francisco cannot forgive himself or the rampages of the Christian soldiers against the helpless survivors. Eventually, Andreas' cousin, Isabel de Correa, travels to Santes Creus to aid in Francisco's recovery, where all three, monk, knight and maiden are beset by unexpected dangers once more. <br /> <br />This novel is reminiscent of Jean-Christophe Rufin's The Abyssinian, covering similar territory, observing and weighing the differences in cultures. Eisner reveals the hypocrisy inherent in the Crusades, the urgency of garnering honor from the defeat of Infidels on foreign soil, a balanced account of this great clash of civilizations and the extremes of fanaticism, eerily familiar in modern times. No participant is without stain and Francisco, an honorable man, is faced with the reality of conflict and the evils men perpetrate upon their enemies in the name of honor. The Crusader contains chivalry, swordplay, savagery, solidarity, honor, deceit, damaged souls and finally, hope and a return to forgiveness. Historically accurate and engrossing, The Crusader brings this bloody and tempestuous era to life. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-08-03
134859:US	51010391	R1ROIUE6BU5KTK	0385513836	658578335	The Icarus Girl: A Novel	Books	4	16	17	N	N	The juxtaposition of myth and reality	Eight-year old Jessamy Harrison has never been like the other girls at her school in Bromley, England. Daughter of a Nigerian mother and a British father, Jessamy is gifted, difficult, even peculiar, given to screaming tantrums and strange, febrile fevers. Jess spends hours alone, reading and drawing, seemingly content in her own company. Early in the novel, the family visits Nigeria, where a bevy of aunts, uncles and cousins await and, most significantly, her maternal grandfather, who believes in the ancestral ways but is a devout Christian. It is on this visit that the solitary Jessamy meets a new friend in an abandoned building, Titiola, whom she calls TillyTilly. Jess is delighted to have a playmate, drawn into the intimacies of young girls sharing secrets. Titiola's true identity is unclear until the family returns home, where she appears once more.<br /><br />TillyTilly knows all of Jess's secrets, the girls at school who ridicule her difference and lack of social skills, anyone who disturbs or makes Jess angry. But eventually Jessamy realizes that no one can see her new friend; she is invisible. It is at this point that the novel shifts from fiction to fable. Is this girl a figment of Jessamy's imagination, a panacea for her emotional turmoil, or is there a darker source, in the roots of African folklore, where spirits have the power to enter the physical realm? As the disturbing incidents increase and Jess realizes she can't control TillyTilly's appearance or her actions, fear presides, those closest to Jessamy affected by the sinister presence of this sister-friend who does or doesn't really exist. The tale beings to make sense when Jessamy's parents take her to a therapist. It is through the girl's response to Doctor McKenzie that the real image of this tormented child takes shape.<br /><br />It is TillyTilly who tells the shocking secret of Jessamy's birth: she was born a twin, but her sister did not survive. TillyTilly yearns to take the lost sister's place, but all is twisted around her own identity as the missing half of another twin. TillyTilly wields her power, controlling Jess, whose fright grows in proportion to escalating events. As a twin, Jessamy is a child of three worlds: \\"this one, the spirit world and the Bush, which is a sort of wilderness of the mind\\", according to Jessamy's mother. In a desperate struggle for dominance, Jess returns to Nigeria with her family, there to confront her confusion. It is here that the battle for Jessamy's soul is engaged, a fight waged between two realities, the physical and the spiritual, the living and the dead.<br /><br />The novel was written by Oyeyemi before her nineteenth birthday, capturing both the innocence and the deviousness of an unhappy child who cannot find a comfortable place to inhabit, a place where conflicting emotions are allowed to coexist; instead, folklore mixes with reality, the half-life of the spirits begging recognition. The Icarus Girl is imbued with the language of otherness, a fairy tale in which anything is possible, ancestral rituals in Nigeria, lost twins and imaginary friends part of the warp and weft of the fragile fabric of Jessamy's existence. Luan Gaines/2005.e lost sister's place, but all is twisted around her own identity as the missing half of another twin. TillyTilly wields her power, controlling Jess, whose fright grows in proportion to escalating events. As a twin, Jessamy is a child of three worlds: \\"this one, the spirit world and the Bush, which is a sort of wilderness of the mind\\", according to Jessamy's mother. In a desperate struggle for dominance, Jess returns to Nigeria with her family, there to confront her confusion. It is here that the battle for Jessamy's soul is engaged, a fight waged between two realities, the physical and the spiritual, the living and the dead. <br /> <br />The novel was written by Oyeyemi before her nineteenth birthday, capturing both the innocence and the deviousness of an unhappy child who cannot find a comfortable place to inhabit, a place where conflicting emotions are allowed to coexist; instead, folklore mixes with reality, the half-life of the spirits begging recognition. The Icarus Girl is imbued with the language of otherness, a fairy tale in which anything is possible, ancestral rituals in Nigeria, lost twins and imaginary friends part of the warp and weft of the fragile fabric of Jessamy's existence. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-02
138747:US	51010391	RQXXSS9P96I2Z	077102620X	942155806	Origin of Haloes	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The aching landscape of loss	A planned community on the Ottawa River, it is in Deep River in the 1960's that Olympic-bound gymnast Kay Clancy finds herself pregnant at sixteen and out of the competition. Trained by a coach who almost made the Olympic team himself, Kay literally flips into the waiting arms of Joe LeBlanc, who catches not only her compact body, but her heart as well. Pregnancy interferes with Kay's athletic career, but later, as the wife of Joe LeBlanc, she could not be happier, the mother of three, Estelle, Louis and Margaret. The only cloud on the horizon is Joe's penchant for disappearing. He leaves the first time before Estelle's birth, but returns in time to claim mother and child. Joes's second abandonment is more disconcerting, while Kay is carrying yet-to-be-born baby Margaret, whose name Louis shortens to Margar.<br /><br />While the LeBlanc clan thrives, Joe still at the center of their domestic harmony, another family across town struggles to keep their fragile bonds intact. Coach Russell Halliwell, inspiration of Olympic hopefuls and bon vivant of a small town, is married to Marie, whom he romanced and wed in Rome. Their only child is the rotund, bespectacled Eddie, a bitter disappointment to his athletic father, but the comfort of the often-melancholy Marie. Eddie isolates himself, turning to art for expression, but on the edge of an ungovernable anger that draws him into a dark and savage place.<br /><br />The story evolves in Olympic-year intervals, as the children grow up without the presence of their father. Margar will never know Joe and spends the rest of her life searching for him in pictures and crowds, while Louis remembers shrieking with glee in his father's arms. After Joe leaves, Louis stops growing until Kay buys a trampoline for the back yard that both terrifies and excites the little boy: \\"He was so afraid, but so compelled to jump, that fear clung to the soles of his feet and desire grabbed the tips of his fingers. Together, they stretched him.\\" Kay is the keeper of family secrets, complicit in the events that drive Joe from his home, but unable to change what she has wrought; she is \\"the brave-faced mistress of whitewash\\", never revealing her fears or suspicions about her missing husband. Kay doggedly waitresses in her parent's cafe, providing for her children with the unbidden kindness of Joe's uncles, Alphonse and Toussaint LeBlanc, master craftsmen with wise and generous natures.<br /><br />It is through these two families, the LeBlanc's and the Halliwell's, that we appreciate the author's skillful rendering of pathos, disappointment and personal redemption. As in her previous novels, den Hartog takes the small intimacies of ordinary lives and fills them with the daily dramas that form the centerpiece of her writing. The characters assume human dimensions, Kay's desperate belief that happiness can be built upon a lie, Marie Halliwell's gradual loss of rigid emotional control to stave off unhappiness, Eddie Halliwell's observant quietude, overhearing what he isn't meant to know, and Margar's inchoate yearning for Joe, the only LeBlanc child with no memory of her father. Set in the rural Deep River, this is the Canada beloved by the author, where people and place suggest endless combinations of individual joys and grievances in a bucolic background. Equally heartwarming and heart-rending, Origin of Haloes is an intimate family saga, constructed of infinite details, weaving a colorful fabric of disparate lives, snagged by shared experiences, knotted together in a secret past. Luan Gaines/2005.family secrets, complicit in the events that drive Joe from his home, but unable to change what she has wrought; she is \\"the brave-faced mistress of whitewash\\", never revealing her fears or suspicions about her missing husband. Kay doggedly waitresses in her parent's cafe, providing for her children with the unbidden kindness of Joe's uncles, Alphonse and Toussaint LeBlanc, master craftsmen with wise and generous natures.     It is through these two families, the LeBlanc's and the Halliwell's, that we appreciate the author's skillful rendering of pathos, disappointment and personal redemption. As in her previous novels, den Hartog takes the small intimacies of ordinary lives and fills them with the daily dramas that form the centerpiece of her writing. The characters assume human dimensions, Kay's desperate belief that happiness can be built upon a lie, Marie Halliwell's gradual loss of rigid emotional control to stave off unhappiness, Eddie Halliwell's observant quietude, overhearing what he isn't meant to know, and Margar's inchoate yearning for Joe, the only LeBlanc child with no memory of her father. Set in the rural Deep River, this is the Canada beloved by the author, where people and place suggest endless combinations of individual joys and grievances in a bucolic background. Equally heartwarming and heart-rending, Origin of Haloes is an intimate family saga, constructed of infinite details, weaving a colorful fabric of disparate lives, snagged by shared experiences, knotted together in a secret past. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-08-01
139980:US	51010391	R3BC33RL9MRORP	0312424868	960294437	Broken as Things Are: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	"The prison of solitude"	A dysfunctional family in denial, the thin line between social acceptance and the taint of poverty and a lack of personal boundaries between brother and sister, mother and son; everything factors into this disturbing coming-of-age tale, all the more painful for its immutability. For years Ginx and Morgan-Lee have lived in a world of their own making, where affection for one another is unquestioned and without boundaries, creating a place of comfort and seclusion. Ginx suffers from a form of autism, functional enough to attend high school, but still given to withdrawal and ritualistic behavior. In the summer of Morgan-Lee's fourteenth birthday, subtle shifts have already opened a shallow breech between brother and sister.<br /><br />With a mother too distracted to care for Morgan-Lee, Ginx and their sister, Dana, the children create their own landscape. This is the summer of Morgan-Lee's search for identity, defined by her own needs and wants, rather than the sheltering of Ginx's fragile ego. Morgan-Lee has literally belonged to her fifteen-year old brother, their youth a patchwork of imaginary fables and shared secrets, but she is a survivor who subconsciously acknowledges that she can never provide all that her brother needs.<br /><br />Morgan-Lee has long flirted with romantic attachments, but it is not until the children socialize with a very strange young woman, Sweety-Boy, and her half-brother, Jacob, new to their part of North Carolina, that their careful surface develops fissures, threatening to change their relationship irrevocably. The three children are isolated from their peers, Morgan-Lee gladly shepherding Ginx through his emotional difficulties, but when the siblings attend an intimate birthday party thrown by Sweety-Boy, the status quo is altered by the drunken exposure of naked needs blooming in the humid summer air.<br /><br />In some ways, Sweety-Boy's world-weary cynicism acts as a catalyst for Morgan-Lee, a role model for accomplishing goals; on the other hand, Morgan-Lee is perplexed by the other girl's actions, mistaking her stubbornness for confidence. Prematurely worldly, Sweety-Boy is conscious of her own currency in a stingy world, while, in contrast, Morgan-Lee is still wrapped in innocence, her desire for the opposite sex deepening, but she remains incapable of reading the signs around her, grappling with unfamiliar emotions, knowing the price will be the loss of her brother and the solace they offer each other. Ginx, Morgan-Lee and Dana are thrown into unexpected betrayals. The most keenly observant of the three, Morgan-Lee recognizes the storm on the horizon, helpless to change the inevitable, \\"the prison of solitude that so often kept people together, no matter how unhappily, was constructed out of pure, empty yearning\\".<br /><br />Against a southern gothic background, Morgan-Lee, her brother and sister play out their fates, all of them branded by a lack of emotional support and affection, the suggestion of forbidden intimacies and the chaotic behavior of a family desperately clinging a hope of normalcy. Many scenes are wracked with the painful awkwardness of adolescence and the yearning for love, the carefully constructed walls of their house of cards all but destroyed by Morgan-Lee's impulsive lurch into her own identity. Written in deceptively simple prose, Broken as Things Are is both disturbing and poignant, the protagonists victims of the harsh realities of life. Luan Gaines/2005.als; on the other hand, Morgan-Lee is perplexed by the other girl's actions, mistaking her stubbornness for confidence. Prematurely worldly, Sweety-Boy is conscious of her own currency in a stingy world, while, in contrast, Morgan-Lee is still wrapped in innocence, her desire for the opposite sex deepening, but she remains incapable of reading the signs around her, grappling with unfamiliar emotions, knowing the price will be the loss of her brother and the solace they offer each other. Ginx, Morgan-Lee and Dana are thrown into unexpected betrayals. The most keenly observant of the three, Morgan-Lee recognizes the storm on the horizon, helpless to change the inevitable, \\"the prison of solitude that so often kept people together, no matter how unhappily, was constructed out of pure, empty yearning\\". <br /> <br />Against a southern gothic background, Morgan-Lee, her brother and sister play out their fates, all of them branded by a lack of emotional support and affection, the suggestion of forbidden intimacies and the chaotic behavior of a family desperately clinging a hope of normalcy. Many scenes are wracked with the painful awkwardness of adolescence and the yearning for love, the carefully constructed walls of their house of cards all but destroyed by Morgan-Lee's impulsive lurch into her own identity. Written in deceptively simple prose, Broken as Things Are is both disturbing and poignant, the protagonists victims of the harsh realities of life. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-31
140390:US	51010391	R27D37YBNHB9Q6	0312301936	428666378	Bitter Milk: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	(3.5) When life gives you lemons...	Nine-year old Loren Garland carries more than one voice in his bulky body. Although food has been his primary comfort, he also relies on Luther, the narrative voice of Bitter Milk, for an appropriate perspective on the world. An outcast in a family of eccentrics who live near Chilhowee Mountain, Tennessee, Loren feels safest with his mother. Opal Avery Garland suffers from gender dysphoria, unable to make peace with a yearning for maleness, but trapped in her female body. When she leaves abruptly after the death of her mother, MawMaw, Loren is left in the care of relatives who fail to understand the confusion he bears.<br /><br />Passing from one family member to another, Loren confronts his aloneness, often shutting out Luther's nattering objections. But Luther refuses to go quietly; he has inhabited Loren's mind for far too long as an invaluable ally. When none of the family members, Aunt Ruby, Cass, or Eli can reach the confused boy, they leave him to wander the back roads of his imagination, collecting bits of truth about a world that has turned increasingly hostile. Loren is most deeply troubled by his mother's recent departure, unsure what this action bodes for his future, amid whispers of her sojourn in a mental hospital for depression or treatment of another kind to reject the physical signs of her gender. Is this a time-out or abandonment?<br /><br />The closer Loren gets to his truth, the less power Luther exerts over his alter-ego, a boy chipping away at the walls of his own denial. While the recently sold family property is surveyed for construction and family members decide how to spend their expected windfall, Loren reconstructs his inner child in a mutable world. With regional dialog that reflects family life in the shadow of a Tennessee mountain invaded by progress, the old ways clash with a surge of opportunistic greed. Characters reminiscent of The Beans of Egypt, Maine, rendered clumsy in their efforts to communicate, struggle to comprehend a woman who wants to be a man and her overweight, troubled son. But it is Loren/Luther who makes lemonade from this batch of bitter lemons. Luan Gaines/2005.woman who wants to be a man and her overweight, troubled son. But it is Loren/Luther who makes lemonade from this batch of bitter lemons. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-31
143333:US	51010391	R2NPQWM3KV5JRO	0618068872	719178727	Empress Orchid: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The woman behind the public mask	Empress Orchid is an extraordinary tale of a beautiful Manchu girl who is selected as one of the seven wives of Emperor Hsien Feng in 1852. The sumptuous passages of the Forbidden City are rendered in exquisite detail, a deeply-rooted caste system of eunuchs and concubines in service to one man, a love of poetry and beauty surrounded by luxury and an intimate appreciation of nature, singing birds in gilded cages and royal pets.<br /><br />In this arena, Orchid's rise to power is unparalleled. Although not chosen as First Wife, she bears Hsien Feng's heir and is his confidant and advisor when the Emperor falls ill. Vying with powerful eunuchs who do the bidding of generals seeking to influence the throne, Orchid is thrown into an untenable position, fighting for her life and the future of her son.<br /><br />Superstition is rampant in the Forbidden City, spiritual symbols adorning every artifact, the concubines appeasing the gods with offerings, begging protection. Orchid believes her life is \\"a piece of embroidery with every stitch made by my own hands\\". Rather than remain passive like the other wives, Orchid stays involved in court matters, with an eye to protecting her position amid the constant rivalries brewing among the Emperor's wives.<br /><br />Orchid's honesty and wit mark her as a favorite and the Emperor visits her more frequently than the other wives. Overwrought and burdened by the problems of governance, he requests his new bride's assistance with official documents. In this way, she becomes a necessity to a man increasingly overwhelmed by the weight of his office. Orchid applies herself to the opportunities presented, acquainting herself with the most powerful men in the kingdom.<br /><br />Clear-eyed and level-headed, where First Wife is stubborn, Orchid learns the importance of the Emperor's attention to the business of the kingdom, especially the onslaught of the West, forcing trade at gunpoint. Meanwhile the Westerners batter ceaselessly at the Chine ports, determined to continue a lucrative opium trade, European armaments far superior to Chinese weaponry, whose wars are fought in the ancient tradition, swords useless against guns. The Europeans are confidant they will breech the outmoded defenses of Chinese warriors, samurai tradition rendered irrelevant by modern artillery. The Europeans will not retreat from Imperial China and its trade; this is a battle China cannot win, the tide of history against them.<br /><br />Author Min has proven to be a myth-breaker, her previous novel, Becoming Madam Mao, redefining the wife of the Chairman, and in Empress Orchid, challenging historical archives that describe Tzu Hsi as a \\"mastermind of pure evil and intrigue\\", suggesting the woman's survival rested on her ability to navigate the complicated and cutthroat court she eventually ruled. Min's Orchid is not evil, but driven to protect her son's lineage and her own dominance, although it is difficult to accept this portrayal of a constantly rationalizing empress, who is predominately cerebral and passionless unless it serves an immediate purpose. Certainly Empress Orchid uses the tools of power as well as any man, overcoming opposition often with sheer force of will. What is truly amazing about this woman is her rise from abject poverty to the pinnacle of power, perched on the throne of China. While Min infuses her characters with humanity, it is impossible to know the true heart of Tzu Hsi. In this fictionalized version, fact blends with fiction revealing a portrait of a woman as complex as the China of her birth. Luan Gaines/2005.orts, determined to continue a lucrative opium trade, European armaments far superior to Chinese weaponry, whose wars are fought in the ancient tradition, swords useless against guns. The Europeans are confidant they will breech the outmoded defenses of Chinese warriors, samurai tradition rendered irrelevant by modern artillery. The Europeans will not retreat from Imperial China and its trade; this is a battle China cannot win, the tide of history against them. <br /> <br />Author Min has proven to be a myth-breaker, her previous novel, Becoming Madam Mao, redefining the wife of the Chairman, and in Empress Orchid, challenging historical archives that describe Tzu Hsi as a \\"mastermind of pure evil and intrigue\\", suggesting the woman's survival rested on her ability to navigate the complicated and cutthroat court she eventually ruled. Min's Orchid is not evil, but driven to protect her son's lineage and her own dominance, although it is difficult to accept this portrayal of a constantly rationalizing empress, who is predominately cerebral and passionless unless it serves an immediate purpose. Certainly Empress Orchid uses the tools of power as well as any man, overcoming opposition often with sheer force of will. What is truly amazing about this woman is her rise from abject poverty to the pinnacle of power, perched on the throne of China. While Min infuses her characters with humanity, it is impossible to know the true heart of Tzu Hsi. In this fictionalized version, fact blends with fiction revealing a portrait of a woman as complex as the China of her birth. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-28
144474:US	51010391	R1Z343O5JSXTL4	0743277198	86157417	Crusader's Cross: A Dave Robicheaux Novel (Dave Robicheaux Mysteries)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Where the bodies are buried...	I was hooked on Burke's Dave Robicheaux series early on, enjoying his antics and dramas over the years. Now in the third decade of the intrepid detective's adventures, Burke writes from long experience, deep pockets of memory that have infused his characters with their own particular authenticity. The latest Robicheaux novel harkens back to Dave's youth with his look-alike half-brother, Jimmie the Gent, the two working the Louisiana-Texas coastline. It is there that Dave and Jimmie meet the insouciant Ida Durbin, in the sweltering summer of 1958. Their friendship is short, but significant, as Ida saves the brothers, stranded on a sandbar, from the closer-circling fin of a shark.<br /><br />Jimmie falls for the slightly-older, but charming Ida, who is evasive about her job and where she lives. As it turns out, Ida is a lady of the evening who works in a house on the notorious Post Office Street in Galveston. Jimmie plans to buy Ida out of her bondage and live in Mexico, her shady career relegated to the past, but Ida disappears without a trace before their scheduled meeting. Dave never forgets about the quirky woman, her memory easily resurfacing as a sin of omission \\"like the rusty head of a hatchet buried in the heartwood of a tree- it eventually finds the teeth of a whining saw blade\\".<br /><br />Forty years later, news of Ida's fate appears from an obscure source. By the time his conscience bids a reckoning, Dave has retired from the Sheriff's Department in New Iberia Parish. As a recovering alcoholic, the past is not an ideal place for Dave to focus his thoughts, his history littered with violence, mayhem and two dead wives; but once the hook is in, his instincts take over. His own past rife with dead bodies, criminal acts and vigilantism, Dave's old friend Clete Purcell, formerly of the New Orleans Police Department, has opened his won P.I. firm. Robicheaux decides to pay his pal a visit, Ida Durbin heavy on his mind. Clete applies himself to what he does best, digging up connections most people want left alone. Out of nowhere, Dave is the subject of intense interest and the object of violence, only aggravating his curiosity and determination. Given the circumstances, Robicheaux temporarily takes his shield back from the New Iberia P.D.<br /><br />With Clete Purcell in tow, Dave mixes it up from New Iberia to New Orleans, dealing with such colorful characters as the Chalons family (organized crime), Nig Rosewater and Wee Willie Bimstine (bail bondsmen), Bad Texas Bob Cobb (a cop on the pad) and Jigger Babineau (mob muscle). To add to the confusion, Dave gets romantically and emotionally attached to Molly Boyle, a nun who never took her vows and is not adverse to Mr. Robicheaux's charms, even when her work and reputation are imperiled. True to form, Dave and Clete push against anything and everyone in the way their investigation.<br /><br />Behind the sudden resurfacing of Ida's past and a recent series of related murders of women in Baton Rouge, Robicheaux's world is filled with gangsters, long-buried insidious secrets and the recurring chaos that follows him everywhere, as all the demons he walked away from return for one more pitched battle. Silk-suited, passing-for-genteel thugs, murderers and disappeared prostitutes are all part of the Robicheaux lexicon, the dark heart of these mysteries buried in a south that seethes with conflicted loyalties and the tentacles of organized crime, set in a landscape of breathtaking beauty, magnolia blossoms and gothic architecture. The evil creeps out at night and even the weary Robicheaux can't ignore the call to justice for the powerless and unrequited. Is this one of Burke's best, informed by a rich past, or another exercise in the same well-worn vein, the intrepid Robicheaux reaching the end of his tether? Not as long as there are loyal readers who appreciate a little seasoning on their heroes. Luan Gaines/2005.what he does best, digging up connections most people want left alone. Out of nowhere, Dave is the subject of intense interest and the object of violence, only aggravating his curiosity and determination. Given the circumstances, Robicheaux temporarily takes his shield back from the New Iberia P.D. <br /> <br />With Clete Purcell in tow, Dave mixes it up from New Iberia to New Orleans, dealing with such colorful characters as the Chalons family (organized crime), Nig Rosewater and Wee Willie Bimstine (bail bondsmen), Bad Texas Bob Cobb (a cop on the pad) and Jigger Babineau (mob muscle). To add to the confusion, Dave gets romantically and emotionally attached to Molly Boyle, a nun who never took her vows and is not adverse to Mr. Robicheaux's charms, even when her work and reputation are imperiled. True to form, Dave and Clete push against anything and everyone in the way their investigation. <br /> <br />Behind the sudden resurfacing of Ida's past and a recent series of related murders of women in Baton Rouge, Robicheaux's world is filled with gangsters, long-buried insidious secrets and the recurring chaos that follows him everywhere, as all the demons he walked away from return for one more pitched battle. Silk-suited, passing-for-genteel thugs, murderers and disappeared prostitutes are all part of the Robicheaux lexicon, the dark heart of these mysteries buried in a south that seethes with conflicted loyalties and the tentacles of organized crime, set in a landscape of breathtaking beauty, magnolia blossoms and gothic architecture. The evil creeps out at night and even the weary Robicheaux can't ignore the call to justice for the powerless and unrequited. Is this one of Burke's best, informed by a rich past, or another exercise in the same well-worn vein, the intrepid Robicheaux reaching the end of his tether? Not as long as there are loyal readers who appreciate a little seasoning on their heroes. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br />	2005-07-28
146493:US	51010391	R2AHJR1IRVG8SD	0312422415	827503696	The Paris Review Book of People with Problems	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Another excellent collection	The latest Paris Review anthology is timed to coincide with Editor Philip Gourevitch's redesign of the venerable magazine, a staple of avid readers for the last fifty-two years, this volume dedicated to \\"People with Problems\\". The cover features the collection behind glass, with instructions to \\"break in case of emergency\\". Who can resist these stories, some from George Plimpton's editorial oversight, others chosen by Gourevitch. Authors include Annie Proulx, Rick Bass, Frederick Busch, Denis Johnson and Julie Oringer.<br /><br />Over the years, summer has become synonymous with beach reading, or lit-lite, those few heated months in danger of being swamped by chick-lit and frivolous novels. This anthology is a breath of fresh air, an opportunity to spend a few hours of intellectual stimulation. The new editor, who lobbied enthusiastically for his position, has a vision for Plimpton's seminal magazine, to \\"publish essential reading\\". Not only is the fiction carefully chosen in the new Paris Review, but the poetry selections will be fewer, but with more work from each poet, moving \\"seriously toward poetry portfolios\\". The editor's intent is clear in the anthology and a hint of the new direction of the magazine.<br /><br />The Paris Review's reputation aside, this volume stands alone, a welcome addition to briefcase or bedside table, as a companion to a solitary meal or a story before sleep, The Paris Review Book of People with Problems is a certain success. Creativity and critical thinking, observations of modern life, both dark humor and drama; the series of Paris Review anthologies offer quality work for those who demand it, a variety of perspectives, the truth in its many disguises.<br /><br />In James Lasdun's \\"Snow\\", a young boy awakens to life's realities one snow-filled Christmas, years before he processes the facts he learns on his journey to manhood. Rick Bass offers an exceptional tale in \\"The Hermit's Story\\", stepping into the pristine landscape of the Canadian winter, as a female dog trainer returns a man's dogs and they wander, setting the training with the animals in the snowy countryside. They experience the beauty and danger of nature's extremes, touching upon a moment of grace that the woman relates to friends years later, that \\"ribbons of grace are still passing through and around us, even now, and for whatever reasons, certainly unbeknownst to us, and certainly undeserved, unearned\\".<br /><br />\\"The Fifth Wall\\", by Melinda McCallum, is a shocking expose of the drug culture, a soul-searing foray into drug life, when a methamphetamine-addicted mother allows her child to be used as a pawn, muling drugs to California. Meanwhile, the mother spins out her own private dance of self-destruction. A woman who is \\"beautiful except for\\" tells her story in Miranda July's \\"Birthmark\\". When her port-wine birth mark is removed by laser, she is beautiful without a caveat, but finds that wish fulfillment is never as wonderful as the anticipation.<br /><br />True to its title, this collection is about people with problems in critical moments, either unaware or by means of their own self-destructive impulses. In other instances, the authors speak of the mundane, everyday events that inhabit their own small dramas. There is something for everyone to savor in this fine compilation, people with problems and more. Luan Gaines/2005.e Canadian winter, as a female dog trainer returns a man's dogs and they wander, setting the training with the animals in the snowy countryside. They experience the beauty and danger of nature's extremes, touching upon a moment of grace that the woman relates to friends years later, that \\"ribbons of grace are still passing through and around us, even now, and for whatever reasons, certainly unbeknownst to us, and certainly undeserved, unearned\\". <br /> <br />\\"The Fifth Wall\\", by Melinda McCallum, is a shocking expose of the drug culture, a soul-searing foray into drug life, when a methamphetamine-addicted mother allows her child to be used as a pawn, muling drugs to California. Meanwhile, the mother spins out her own private dance of self-destruction. A woman who is \\"beautiful except for\\" tells her story in Miranda July's \\"Birthmark\\". When her port-wine birth mark is removed by laser, she is beautiful without a caveat, but finds that wish fulfillment is never as wonderful as the anticipation. <br /> <br />True to its title, this collection is about people with problems in critical moments, either unaware or by means of their own self-destructive impulses. In other instances, the authors speak of the mundane, everyday events that inhabit their own small dramas. There is something for everyone to savor in this fine compilation, people with problems and more. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-27
152449:US	51010391	R2D48I5HXVIHAR	0060525355	427906915	The Canterbury Papers: A Novel of Suspense	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A "modern" medieval heroine	Although they have been long estranged, Eleanor of Aquitane, once Queen of England and mother to kings, sends a request to Alais Capet, at King Philippe's court in France. Philippe, the princess's brother, has also received a letter, but Alais keeps the contents of her missive to herself. Eleanor, now nearly eighty, has asked Alais to retrieve private letters written years ago, stored behind the altar of Becket's Chapel at Canterbury. Leaving nothing to chance, Eleanor has baited her hook artfully, dangling information Alais is desperate to obtain.<br /><br />Taking with her only the messenger, Owain ap Caedwyd, a seasoned soldier, and a few knights proffered by Philippe, Alais sets out to accomplish Eleanor`s unusual task. En route to Canterbury, Alais observes some suspicious riders not far behind their party. When she meets her uncle, the Duke d'Orleans, at the inn where they retire, the French princess is suspicious, pondering the extraordinary activity to and from the famed cathedral. From the first chapter, we learn that Alais is spirited away while on her mission to Canterbury, but the identity of her captors is a mystery, as is the significance of Eleanor's request and why Alais Capet has become the focus of recent interest.<br /><br />So begins an adventure that brings into play the early figures of the early 12th Century, King John of England, King Philippe of France, Eleanor of Aquitane and the Knights Templar, who have their eyes on the misanthropic John's throne. The author captures the era with her descriptions of place, the castles, cathedrals, countryside and the differential language of those dealing with royalty. Alais is an educated, observant woman past the years of early bloom, but still at the height of her beauty, made wiser by experience, especially the unrequited love of Richard the Lionheart and the crushing disappointment of their cancelled nuptials. Alais is no frivolous royal, but a woman with a past that now beckons, long-forgotten issues reawakened to torment her with a hope too devastating and uncertain to bear.<br /><br />The novel addresses court intrigue on several levels, the usual machinations of kingship, but also the undercurrents of historical events that reach from one generation to another, secret societies and religious cabals operating under the guise of nobility. This is the stage of great figures, the Capets, the Plantagenets, the kingdoms of France and England vying for dominance in the great age of chivalry. Like other successful novels of this genre, Healey intimately inhabits her subject, drawing the reader into the spirit of the times, invested in Alais' assignation with destiny and the resolution of her most profound hope. This engaging tale gallops through the labyrinthine  passageways of medieval conceits, racing across time with all the antics of larger-than-life historical figures. Luan Gaines/2005.issues reawakened to torment her with a hope too devastating and uncertain to bear. <br /> <br />The novel addresses court intrigue on several levels, the usual machinations of kingship, but also the undercurrents of historical events that reach from one generation to another, secret societies and religious cabals operating under the guise of nobility. This is the stage of great figures, the Capets, the Plantagenets, the kingdoms of France and England vying for dominance in the great age of chivalry. Like other successful novels of this genre, Healey intimately inhabits her subject, drawing the reader into the spirit of the times, invested in Alais' assignation with destiny and the resolution of her most profound hope. This engaging tale gallops through the labyrinthine  passageways of medieval conceits, racing across time with all the antics of larger-than-life historical figures. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-23
152714:US	51010391	RV1XI6I26J42B	1596921250	678132608	Dying Light: And Other Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	(4.5)  A  stimulating, thought-provoking collection	Well-written short story collections breed adjectives, as one is compelled to describe them, to give shape and substance to the author's intent. In this particular collection, the adjectives flow freely, stimulated by the author's creativity. Hays captures people in moments of decision, those memorable occasions when life can be radically altered by precipitous action. Choosing pivotal moments to illustrate his character's lives, Dying Light and Other Stories reminds me of Christopher Coake's excellent short stories in We're in Trouble, where death is the centerpiece. Hays expands on this theme, holding fast to the truths uncovered by extremity, a series of personal epiphanies. Vacillating between drama, irony and black humor, Hays has a real talent for dialog and truthful plotting, the characters as quirky as family members. It is a rare pleasure to dive into each new tale, never knowing what to expect from this astute author.<br /><br />\\"Rites of Love\\" speaks of loss and personal redemption, a woman coming to terms with the loss of her son by caring for her first love, a man crippled in a high school football accident. She seeks to resolve a spiritual dilemma, afraid that \\"God is either an absence or an assassination\\" and her husband's extraordinary generosity allows this balm to her aching heart. In contrast, \\"Private Dance\\" deals with the misanthropic adventures of a stubborn man's quick descent into personal and professional ruin, a coach turning his wife's betrayal into an odyssey of self-destruction. In a reflection of reality, one man's life experience is reduced to grist for a writer (\\"Material\\"). Each story is unique, a changing perspective that allows insights into a myriad of human behaviors.<br /><br />Hay's southern roots are evident, his character's voices ringing with accented phrases and subtle regional mannerisms, adding dimension, although all the stories take place in the murky and ruthless territory of the human heart and cover the gamut of emotions, loneliness, despair, acceptance and redemption. These finely nuanced characters find themselves in universal situations that call for more than ordinary responses. Compassionate and beautifully plotted, this collection is peopled with all manner of individuals, cantankerous, stubborn, brutally honest, given to examination of the bittersweet events that shape their lives. Rich and filling, Hays' writing is a feast of infinite variety, trenchant observations  combined with deeply satisfying prose, a series of confrontations by brave souls with nothing left to lose. Luan Gaines/2005.the gamut of emotions, loneliness, despair, acceptance and redemption. These finely nuanced characters find themselves in universal situations that call for more than ordinary responses. Compassionate and beautifully plotted, this collection is peopled with all manner of individuals, cantankerous, stubborn, brutally honest, given to examination of the bittersweet events that shape their lives. Rich and filling, Hays' writing is a feast of infinite variety, trenchant observations  combined with deeply satisfying prose, a series of confrontations by brave souls with nothing left to lose. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-23
153006:US	51010391	R2KG1XF63KNMO9	0810151537	686396300	A Day, A Night, Another Day, Summer: Stories	Books	4	1	2	N	N	"It is hard to live above time."	In this striking collection, Schutt's prose is thrifty, skillful and mesmerizing, her stories riveting. The author offers a vision of the inner workings of the human psyche, her protagonists unabashedly revealing their flaws. Each story stands alone on its merits, small islands of truth, isolated incidents that make up the whole cloth. The author illustrates exactly how our days are lived out, in moments, decisions, encounters that are remembered later. In subtle and powerful language, Schutt observes the human condition, her message clear and precise.<br /><br />\\"Darkest of All\\" considers the ambivalence of motherhood, small, fragrant boys grown to unpredictable young men; the mother hides her fears behind walls of her own invention; another reminds of the careless intimacies of college life (\\"Weather is Here, Wish You Were Beautiful\\"), the focus on pleasures of the moment, knowing it is only a fragment of the rest of a person's life. Yet another meditation on the intransigence of youth and the passage of time is found in \\"Do You Think I Am Who I Will Be?\\"<br /><br />Life is viewed through the prism of age. In \\"The Human Season\\", a mother yearns for a visit from her son, who is a great comfort, but he will not come, refusing to bring his new girlfriend to the place where his mother resides with an abusive man, a cad who is bitter and jealous of the mother-son relationship; \\"The Life of the Palm and the Breast\\" addresses the sweet pleasures of love and family, so intensely vital that caution lingers in the air, whispering \\"what if\\"; a young woman's visit to her grandparents awakens long-forgotten memories in \\"They Turn Their Bodies into Spears\\", the quietude and adaptation of old age interrupted by the energy she brings to their home, stimulating recollections of her mother. These thoughts stir the air, unsettling.<br /><br />Schutt examines emotions in each small gem, always with an eye on the passage of time, when the past is all there is because the future disappears, eaten by each new day. There are moments of youth and joy; there are moments of grief and despair. In another tale, \\"Unrediscovered, Unrenamable\\", a young son's innocent awakening on a summer island is silenced by his mother's cruel and crude response, when he asks, \\"But what is my purpose?\\" And in \\"Winterreise\\", we learn the pain of watching a friend suffer, sharing the present and avoiding the past, \\"whatever came before and marked her has been sanded away\\". In all of these stories, shards of lives are cast on the ground, where the light touches each briefly, illuminating, then moving on to the next.<br /><br />The collection is written from the perspective of a certain age, the smoldering wisdom that informs the very things that once were puzzling, now ring clear. Schutt possesses a unique gift, a poetic voice that surfaces in the structure and sound of her language. Her voice is individual, recognizable from one tale to the next, as she bites off pieces of lives, each new taste revealing human nature and the consequences of choice. Schutt hops from person to person, moment to moment, reminding us that this is exactly how life occurs, that \\"it is hard to live above time\\". Luan Gaines/2005.se the future disappears, eaten by each new day. There are moments of youth and joy; there are moments of grief and despair. In another tale, \\"Unrediscovered, Unrenamable\\", a young son's innocent awakening on a summer island is silenced by his mother's cruel and crude response, when he asks, \\"But what is my purpose?\\" And in \\"Winterreise\\", we learn the pain of watching a friend suffer, sharing the present and avoiding the past, \\"whatever came before and marked her has been sanded away\\". In all of these stories, shards of lives are cast on the ground, where the light touches each briefly, illuminating, then moving on to the next. <br /> <br />The collection is written from the perspective of a certain age, the smoldering wisdom that informs the very things that once were puzzling, now ring clear. Schutt possesses a unique gift, a poetic voice that surfaces in the structure and sound of her language. Her voice is individual, recognizable from one tale to the next, as she bites off pieces of lives, each new taste revealing human nature and the consequences of choice. Schutt hops from person to person, moment to moment, reminding us that this is exactly how life occurs, that \\"it is hard to live above time\\". Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-22
154272:US	51010391	R19MNLWAC0B2PV	0974841129	15908837	Adventures of Riley--Mission to Madagascar	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A passport to adventure and more...!	This is a thoughtfully designed, well-rendered adventure story that reaches into the world of nature and draws young readers into a landscape that piques curiosity, challenges the imagination and builds vocabulary. When Riley is invited to go on a trip to Africa by his Uncle Max, he's not sure what to expect, but Uncle Max explains that the purpose of the excursion is to locate and film the aye-aye, a rare lemur that only appears at night. Riley has never been to such an exotic location and can't imagine what adventures await. The group will include Uncle Max, Aunt Martha, Cousin Alice and a film crew.<br /><br />The first leg of the journey takes the group to London, then on to the capitol of Madagascar. Once on safari, they run across a variety of unusual species and Riley learns that finding the aye-aye may bring bad luck, or so the legend says. The inquisitive boy certainly tests this theory before the trip is over. While Riley puts on a brave face, Cousin Alice prances around in her feather boa, posing for the camera crew, who has more complicated things to attend to. As the adventure continues, Riley learns an important lesson: it's all right to be scared. As it turns out, the boy is invaluable in discovering the reluctant aye-aye and capturing the animal on film.<br /><br />Not only do the illustrations carry the tale forward, but the vocabulary is appropriately challenging for young readers, the layout optimizing a youngster's interest. Besides the vivid images and lively characters, selected pages feature details of particular interest in this story, facts about animals and insects met along the way, even photographs of some species that blend perfectly into the jungle scenes where a myriad of creatures lurk. At the end of the book is a glossary of terms and an illustrated map of the area around Madagascar, a hidden puzzle and, best of all, a \\"Passport to Riley's World\\" that can be detached and filled with stickers from each Riley's adventure book (the Madagascar sticker is included in this volume). There is also a mail-away application form for a membership kit with a copy of the latest Riley newsletter. Lots of extras in this purchase!<br /><br />Riley is the perfect hero for this lively adventure, a little boy filled with curiosity, bravado and the courage to ask grownups for help when necessary. More than a story, this book is a beginning adventure in science and nature, exploring other places all over the globe and saving stickers from these travels in a special passport. Well-designed with young readers in mind, this book will delight and fascinate any child who is interested in nature and the magnificent world around us. Luan Gaines/2005.is included in this volume). There is also a mail-away application form for a membership kit with a copy of the latest Riley newsletter. Lots of extras in this purchase!    Riley is the perfect hero for this lively adventure, a little boy filled with curiosity, bravado and the courage to ask grownups for help when necessary. More than a story, this book is a beginning adventure in science and nature, exploring other places all over the globe and saving stickers from these travels in a special passport. Well-designed with young readers in mind, this book will delight and fascinate any child who is interested in nature and the magnificent world around us. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-07-22
156999:US	51010391	R5AG8RME5H7I9	0385511248	393815345	Dearly Devoted Dexter: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The return of the Dark Passenger...	The Dark Passenger is back. Like before, he rides just behind the driver's seat of Dexter Morgan's car. Harry, Dexter's foster father, raised the boy rigorously, teaching self-control \\"the balance between Need and Knife\\". Thanks to Harry's oversight, Dexter preys only on the truly horrid serial killers who slay without remorse, those special playmates who deserve a fitting end to their bloodthirsty careers. The perfect sociopath, Dexter has integrated into society, imitating the emotions of those around him, mimicking his own humanity. All is meshing perfectly, until: \\"Somehow here I was on a just right night, playing Kick the Can with a flock of children instead of playing Slice the Slasher with a carefully chosen friend.\\"<br /><br />Dexter works hard to \\"invent\\" his human side in this second novel of Lindsay's serial killer-cum-nice-guy. Having survived the pitfalls of life as a killer who only disposes of the deserving, Dexter's daily routine hides his dark side, a regular job as a blood splatter analyst for the Miami-Dade Police Department, even adding a girlfriend to the mix. But Dexter can only do so much to control his impulses. Eventually the Dark Passenger needs a fix, a little mayhem to quiet his blood. Sergeant Doakes, also of Miami-Dade P.D., is Dexter's nemesis, a forty-eight -year old African-American, who possibly has his own demons, giving off the faint flicker of a kindred spirit.<br /><br />It is Dexter's foster sister, Deborah, now a police sergeant herself, who draws him into a current case that has the hardened police at the crime scene gagging and gasping for breath. There is a new monster in town, gruesomely maiming a select set of victims. In keeping with the seriousness of the crimes, Washington emissary, Kyle Chatsky, is assigned to the case along with Deborah's unit. The perpetrator is ingenious, even shocking Dexter, a man of eclectic murderous tastes. Deborah falls for Chatsky; when he disappears, she fears he is the next victim of the savage slicer. Distraught, Deborah begs Dexter to help her locate Chatsky.<br /><br />Dexter is an unremittingly charming monster, his instincts finely tuned, his wit honed with sarcasm and innuendo. Just as attractive an anti-hero as in Lindsay's previous novel, Darkly Dreaming Dexter, the insouciant protagonist is impossible to dislike. If, in this incarnation, Dexter is given to more irony, it is understandable. Lindsay manages to make Dexter's bizarre world almost normal, the reader rooting for the Dark Passenger as the underdog, challenged to fit into society while pursuing his dark delights, vicariously executing vigilante justice. Constantly evolving, Dexter sniffs out the evil-doers who prey on innocents. This is a young man with a future. Luan Gaines/2005.Distraught, Deborah begs Dexter to help her locate Chatsky.    Dexter is an unremittingly charming monster, his instincts finely tuned, his wit honed with sarcasm and innuendo. Just as attractive an anti-hero as in Lindsay's previous novel, Darkly Dreaming Dexter, the insouciant protagonist is impossible to dislike. If, in this incarnation, Dexter is given to more irony, it is understandable. Lindsay manages to make Dexter's bizarre world almost normal, the reader rooting for the Dark Passenger as the underdog, challenged to fit into society while pursuing his dark delights, vicariously executing vigilante justice. Constantly evolving, Dexter sniffs out the evil-doers who prey on innocents. This is a young man with a future. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-07-20
159337:US	51010391	R2TJH5PMT08B5P	0393059197	446185011	Inheritance	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Love among the ruins...	In traditional China, girls were valued less than boys. If a woman failed to give her husband a male heir, she lost face and possibly her man to a woman who could bear sons. Hong, the narrator of this familial saga struggles with her role as a female caught between two worlds and two cultures, resisting a history of devalued women until Communism turns centuries upside-down and changes the face of China.<br /><br />The writing is exquisite, as finely wrought as the Chinese characters on a page of poetry, Chang perfectly attuned to the lives of these women, their fierce attachments and rigorous self-control in a country in the throes of tremendous upheaval. Each generation speaks its truth through female characters, Chanyi, Hong's grandmother, Junan, her mother and Yinan, her beloved, if eccentric aunt. Hong speaks of her grandmother, whose heart is broken because she cannot bear a son. Chunyi passes this legacy on to her daughters, the beautiful Junan and the quiet, introverted Yinan. The country is in such turmoil that Junan cannot have the marriage she imagined, but must adapt to a constantly changing landscape that she cannot control.<br /><br />This is China lived from inside the Revolution, the only hope of starving people, desperate for survival and resentful of the leaders who live freely off their labor. Junan's husband, Li Ang, is a Nationalist soldier, his brother, Li Bing, a Communist, the two men's political beliefs clashing, but the brothers drawn together by stronger ties of blood. By 1940, the family has left their home in Hangzhou for Chongquin, one of a succession of moves to escape the violence, their world altered by the Occupation and the rigors of war: \\"The past three years the city had bloated like a tumor with the new people, their soldiers, their bureaucrats and their refugees\\".<br /><br />Chang's characters inject life into history, peopling the pages with passion, despair, aspirations and the bonds of blood. Seen through the viewpoints of individuals, the past becomes a presence, the animation of humans caught in a tidal wave of political and societal change. The innocence of youth is soon corrupted by war, the scars of personal indiscretions and the desperate love between those who cannot find peace within themselves or with each other. But there are love stories scattered among the refuse of bombed cities and lost expectations, as the old ways disappear and the land is overtaken with a new sense of purpose. Affection reaches beyond political agendas, lovers grasping a few moments of peace among the chaos: \\"She held in her hands a piece of his desire. Without it he was crippled.\\" Others love one another \\"with the cruelty of frightened people. I hurt him with information and he wounded me with secrecy.\\"<br /><br />A rich tapestry of faces, dreams and the urgencies of war, Inheritance is a quietly powerful novel reflecting a family in constant flux, their emotional ties scoring the heart of the woman who wistfully relates her family history: \\"We can never understand our children or our parents. Perhaps it is this ignorance that gives each young generation the confidence to live.\\" Luan Gaines/2005.comes a presence, the animation of humans caught in a tidal wave of political and societal change. The innocence of youth is soon corrupted by war, the scars of personal indiscretions and the desperate love between those who cannot find peace within themselves or with each other. But there are love stories scattered among the refuse of bombed cities and lost expectations, as the old ways disappear and the land is overtaken with a new sense of purpose. Affection reaches beyond political agendas, lovers grasping a few moments of peace among the chaos: \\"She held in her hands a piece of his desire. Without it he was crippled.\\" Others love one another \\"with the cruelty of frightened people. I hurt him with information and he wounded me with secrecy.\\"    A rich tapestry of faces, dreams and the urgencies of war, Inheritance is a quietly powerful novel reflecting a family in constant flux, their emotional ties scoring the heart of the woman who wistfully relates her family history: \\"We can never understand our children or our parents. Perhaps it is this ignorance that gives each young generation the confidence to live.\\" Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-07-19
159909:US	51010391	R1JJ95SENEPW6G	0385515480	799341927	Sky Burial: An Epic Love Story of Tibet	Books	4	28	28	N	N	"War gives you no time to study and no chance to adapt"	Sky Burial is a novel that transcends the centuries, as a young Chinese wife, Shu Wen, a physician, joins the army in search of her husband, Kejun, reportedly killed in Tibet. A doctor as well, Kejun volunteered to aid to the Chinese soldiers, fighting for dominance of Tibet. Unlike the other soldiers killed in action, there is no information as to cause of death, no acclaim for the fallen man as a hero. His bride refuses to believe Kejun has perished, traveling the same route her husband took. Shu Wen has no idea at the start of the journey that she will spend the next thirty years looking for traces of her love.<br /><br />In 1958, when Shu Wen joins the army to follow Kejun, China is recovering from decades of civil war between the Nationalists and the Communists and Mao is rebuilding the motherland. The Communists have had control of the country since 1949, nurturing patriotic extremism; loved ones are often separated in service of the country. Shu Wen starts out with a contingent of soldiers and eventually they come across a stranded woman, Zhuoma, a Tibetan who will prove a trusted friend and guide for a young woman far from home and family, a bride who does not speak the language.<br /><br />Zhuoma has her own fascinating familial tale, which she relates to her new friend, as the two set out in the direction Kejun traveled. The women are beset by a number of trials, separated from the soldiers during a skirmish, rescued by a nomadic Tibetan family who take them in, caring for Shu Wen as she recovers her strength. It is through this family that Shu Wen learns the patterns of Tibetan life, the spiritual nature of their days and the rituals that have accommodated their needs for generations. Far from the world she has known, it is possible to exist in this rarified state of prayerful existence, lost in the centuries-old daily routines. One of Tibet's most profound religious ceremonies, the Sky Burial \\"manifests the harmony between heaven and earth, nature and man\\". This ritual reflects the Tibetan philosophy concerning the connectedness of all things, the natural flow, the great design of the spiritual universe. While Shu Wen is absorbing these time-honored traditions, her country is changing from one decade to another, rendering the China of her memory virtually unrecognizable.<br /><br />Shu Wen's odyssey is related by a journalist who learns the story firsthand in an interview; soon after, the woman disappears once again into history. In thirty years of wandering, dear friends are lost and found and a human spirit awakened, as a woman continues her quest with incredible tenacity, the love of her mate filling the pages of this book with transcendent moments and indelible images. Time falls away, days reduced to the most essential elements, families immersed in Tibetan culture and religious ceremony, spending their every waking moment in prayer. Sky Burial is a poignant testimony to the power of love, commitment and spiritual awareness. Luan Gaines/2005.ture and man\\". This ritual reflects the Tibetan philosophy concerning the connectedness of all things, the natural flow, the great design of the spiritual universe. While Shu Wen is absorbing these time-honored traditions, her country is changing from one decade to another, rendering the China of her memory virtually unrecognizable. <br /> <br />Shu Wen's odyssey is related by a journalist who learns the story firsthand in an interview; soon after, the woman disappears once again into history. In thirty years of wandering, dear friends are lost and found and a human spirit awakened, as a woman continues her quest with incredible tenacity, the love of her mate filling the pages of this book with transcendent moments and indelible images. Time falls away, days reduced to the most essential elements, families immersed in Tibetan culture and religious ceremony, spending their every waking moment in prayer. Sky Burial is a poignant testimony to the power of love, commitment and spiritual awareness. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-19
163871:US	51010391	R1IXUORZ0LN3CN	0385661177	644127204	Deadly Slipper: A Novel	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A rare and deadly discovery	While backpacking, a young woman finds a remarkable grouping of orchids in the Dordogne Forest in southwestern France, the centerpiece a rare species never before located in this part of Europe. Excitedly she photographs the blooms, both in close-up and from a distance, establishing the location of the groupings. The forest is absolutely still, when the woman hears a footstep...<br /><br />Nineteen years later, Mara Dunn arrives on Julian Wood's doorstep. Taciturn and withdrawn, Wood is a bachelor, botanical aficionado and orchidologist, one of many in this area of the French countryside. Armed with only the poorly-exposed film and a single print of a pigeonnier, a dovecote, Mara enlists Julian's aid in locating the orchids her sister, Bedie, photographed, a point of reference for Mara's search. A Canadian interior decorator, Mara has lived in the region for the last few years, drawn lately to the scene of Bedie's earlier disappearance. Proving knowledgeable about orchids, cultivating his own, as well as botanical projects from which he makes his living, Julian reluctantly agrees, tempted by a great find in the world of horticulture.<br /><br />Mara and Julian map out a search area, scientifically approaching what seems an impossible task. As this odd couple progresses, Mara often senses someone watching her; once, isolated in a stand of trees, she hears footsteps and begins to run, but the steps easily keep pace, foiled only by the appearance of a stranger, Alain Sauvignac, whose parents own a nearby estate. Such unnerving incidents distract Mara, increasing her anxiety. The forest is the key, but every time she goes there, it is with a familiar unease.<br /><br />The countryside is filled with eccentrics, not the least of which is Julian himself, who is both irritated and excited by Mara's intense personality. Mara wants to learn more about the old woman, La Binette, and her son, Vrac, who reside on a farm near the pigeonnier from Bedie's pictures, but is unable to rouse the interest of their neighbors, the Sauvignac's, although Mara is certain La Binette knows more than she is telling. Luckily, Alain, recently returned from his travels to visit his ageing parents, is sympathetic to Mara's plight, a welcome relief from Julian's obsession with the Lady's Slipper. But Mara trusts her intuition more than anyone she's met and remains the outsider, warned that the French will close ranks if any of their own is threatened. Suddenly the very people she feels safe with are the ones Mara suspects.<br /><br />The novel is a horticulturalist's delight, finely detailed and researched, the quirky personalities of the French rendered fascinating by their petty territorial skirmishes for notoriety and the fame that attends discovering a new species of orchid. Beautifully mixing heroes and villains, the author leads the reader on an intricate chase of obscure characters and nefarious motives. Mara draws closer to the heart of Bedie's disappearance, as the infamous Lady's Slipper assumes a deadly presence, its rare beauty the key that unlocks a cunning murder. Luan Gaines/2005.nable to rouse the interest of their neighbors, the Sauvignac's, although Mara is certain La Binette knows more than she is telling. Luckily, Alain, recently returned from his travels to visit his ageing parents, is sympathetic to Mara's plight, a welcome relief from Julian's obsession with the Lady's Slipper. But Mara trusts her intuition more than anyone she's met and remains the outsider, warned that the French will close ranks if any of their own is threatened. Suddenly the very people she feels safe with are the ones Mara suspects.  <br /> <br />The novel is a horticulturalist's delight, finely detailed and researched, the quirky personalities of the French rendered fascinating by their petty territorial skirmishes for notoriety and the fame that attends discovering a new species of orchid. Beautifully mixing heroes and villains, the author leads the reader on an intricate chase of obscure characters and nefarious motives. Mara draws closer to the heart of Bedie's disappearance, as the infamous Lady's Slipper assumes a deadly presence, its rare beauty the key that unlocks a cunning murder. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-16
164018:US	51010391	R182D5XNE86G0A	089296006X	222778774	Cape Perdido	Books	3	5	14	N	N	Environment vs. corporate greed	When the pristine Perdido River in Northern California is threatened by a plan to move massive amounts of water from the northern part of the state to Southern California, Aqueduct Systems Corporation bids for the job with a system of \\"waterbagging\\", even though the area is under the aegis of environmental protective laws. The local environmental groups gather, requesting legal backup from the New York-based Environmental Consultants Clearinghouse. The organization sends Jessie Domingo as a community liaison and Fitch Collier, in the capacity of attorney. Jessie and Fitch join with the local group, Friends of the Perdido, headed by Bernina Tobin and Joseph Openshaw, an ecologist and former resident. All are gathered for the State Water Resource Control Board Hearings that will determine the fate of the Perdido River.<br /><br />Jessie is relieved to meet like-minded souls in residents Stephanie Pace, owner of the local cafe, and Curtis Hope, a member of the tribal council of the Pomo Indians. The locals feel betrayed by one of their own, Timothy McNear, who has offered his mill, long closed, as a base of operations for Aqueduct Systems, fronted by Gregory Erickson. Tempers rise and sabotage ensues, all adding to the turmoil. But there is a past history at work here as well, behind-the-scenes manipulations that do not bode well for the success of the hearings in favor of the environment.<br /><br />Cape Perdido is the site of a collision course for an unsolved murder from years past, the sabotage of the waterbagging apparatus and a fire that destroys the mill where Aqueduct Systems Corporation planned to locate their material.  When people disappear from the scene with no explanation, whoever is behind the recent violence remains anonymous and any ties into the past remains unclear. Those who have known each other for years are suddenly distrustful, unsure how much loyalty exists between them. For all the special interest groups, lawyers and environmentalists, clearly Cape Perdido has unfinished business, the small town atmosphere belying a false serenity. The history of this place reaches into the present, buried secrets used as leverage against anyone unwilling to bow to the inevitable progress of a world obsessed with the need for natural resources, particularly water.<br /><br />At first the opposing factions are willing to mediate their differences legally, but the early sabotage suggests that there are higher stakes than the obvious, although the citizens of Cape Perdido consider their water rights inviolate. This is a classic battle of environment vs. corporate intervention, in this case with ties to other nations, adding another layer of complication. The dwindling resources of the planet have come to roost in Cape Perdido, a test case for interventionist policies challenging environmental protection. The Perdido holds the secrets of the coastline, the small town peopled with those who have known one another since childhood. Finally, the public face is betrayed by unresolved issues, the strange destiny of a friendship and the influx of progress. Luan Gaines/ 2005.early Cape Perdido has unfinished business, the small town atmosphere belying a false serenity. The history of this place reaches into the present, buried secrets used as leverage against anyone unwilling to bow to the inevitable progress of a world obsessed with the need for natural resources, particularly water. <br /> <br />At first the opposing factions are willing to mediate their differences legally, but the early sabotage suggests that there are higher stakes than the obvious, although the citizens of Cape Perdido consider their water rights inviolate. This is a classic battle of environment vs. corporate intervention, in this case with ties to other nations, adding another layer of complication. The dwindling resources of the planet have come to roost in Cape Perdido, a test case for interventionist policies challenging environmental protection. The Perdido holds the secrets of the coastline, the small town peopled with those who have known one another since childhood. Finally, the public face is betrayed by unresolved issues, the strange destiny of a friendship and the influx of progress. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br />	2005-07-16
164285:US	51010391	R2TCQH9POOK5PZ	015101079X	227823884	Tabula Rasa	Books	3	2	4	N	N	(3.5) Fighting fire with fire...	The baby who lives in the ugly house in the village of Sojourn has dark, staring eyes, but never smiles, only watches. Her mother often speculates that the infant is a changeling. In the hospital, Edith fills out the birth certificate as \\"Baby Tuttle\\", promising to give her child a lovely name later. But she never does.<br /><br />Billy Nightingale comes to firefighting through his avid curiosity and inventiveness, fascinated by the antiquated pumps of the Fire Department in his home town of Elk Mountain, Wyoming. Later, in New York City, Billy lives his dream, becoming a fire marshal, close friends with his brother-in-law, state trooper Sebastian Bly. Nightingale and Bly arrive at the scene of a terrible fire, where two children are lost to the flames, the mother comforted by a neighbor. Edith Tuttle fails to mention a third child to the police. Spooked by the malevolent aura of the fire-ravaged house, Nightingale searches randomly, sure he is missing something. He discovers a terrified, but silent, baby under the foundation of the house, where she has crawled for safety.<br /><br />Something is terribly wrong at the scene of this fire. Billy's sister, Annie, and her husband, Sebastian, work closely with children's services to adopt the baby, whom they name Meredith, her mother permanently out of the picture. The next few years pass quietly, Merry a contented child. But when Merry inquires about her birth mother, the Bly's are challenged to protect their daughter from a history that could scar her future, their only concern to give this child the bright prospects she so richly deserves. This innocent that came to them from a house of death has known a life free of chaos, stimulated by a loving environment, her career as a professional ballerina already on track. Merry inadvertently sets in motion a chain of events that will threaten her and her adoptive family years later.<br /><br />Reuben's characters are energetic, their personalities well-defined. The writing crackles with energy and an appreciation of the subtleties of fires, the methods of arson and the clues that help investigators identify causes. Besides the relevant information about arson investigation, a search for adoptive parents and the intricacies of a dancer's life, the novel also deals with the emotional aspects of adoption, especially when a child is driven to find her birth parents. In Tabula Rasa, the happy family circle is shattered by a child's obsessive quest for identity and the dark forces that search unleashes. The author's personal expertise is extensive and evident in the novel, adding interest and believability, a fascinating foray into an area rarely experienced by most. Tabula Rasa suggests that a blank slate can be written on any number of ways, DNA directed toward success instead of failure, with the aid of a loving family. Luan Gaines/2005.iting crackles with energy and an appreciation of the subtleties of fires, the methods of arson and the clues that help investigators identify causes. Besides the relevant information about arson investigation, a search for adoptive parents and the intricacies of a dancer's life, the novel also deals with the emotional aspects of adoption, especially when a child is driven to find her birth parents. In Tabula Rasa, the happy family circle is shattered by a child's obsessive quest for identity and the dark forces that search unleashes. The author's personal expertise is extensive and evident in the novel, adding interest and believability, a fascinating foray into an area rarely experienced by most. Tabula Rasa suggests that a blank slate can be written on any number of ways, DNA directed toward success instead of failure, with the aid of a loving family. Luan Gaines/2005.  <br />	2005-07-16
169416:US	51010391	R22UIJ4QHV9H17	0393059987	461823317	Carnivore Diet	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A fiendish allegory	I'm not usually a fan of humorous novels, but Slavin is inordinately clever, her skewed take on suburban Washington D.C. full of bind-boggling images and the tensions of today's reality. Wendy Dunleavy's husband, Matt, a former Congressman, is incarcerated; her son Dylan has just lost a lucrative job as the voice of a cartoon character, Harlan, puberty assailing his once high-pitched vocal chords. To add to the drama, the neighborhood is under attack by a mysterious animal, a chagwa, a sometimes-carnivorous mythological hermaphroditic beast.<br /><br />The only way Wendy can cope with her out-of-control existence is on a diet of sleeping pills and mood enhancers, glued to the local TV station that reports sightings of the monster-at-large. With no husband to protect her, in a land of ubiquitous politicians and random social causes, Wendy is unmoored, beset with fears and insecurities, as fourteen-year old Dylan stands by helplessly. Washington D.C. is not a place for the faint-of-heart, Wendy and Dylan the objects of interest and curiosity in a city that knows virtually everything about everybody. D.C. is literally licking its chops, chasing the fearsome chagwa and dissecting those in the spotlight, where a woman alone is ripe fruit to be picked.<br /><br />Fantasy abounds, beasts and monsters, not to mention nosy neighbors who feast on someone else's downfall. Wendy and Dylan are dragged into a changing future, kicking and screaming. Wendy has her own metamorphosis, while Dylan holds down the home fort with all of the other \\"Harlan's\\" who have played the voice of the cartoon character over the years. Only the chagwa is oblivious, attacking the Dunleavy's house, demanding meat. The citizens mobilize, cooperating in mutual need. Is Slavin's bizarre, dark vision a hallucination or another version of reality? Perhaps the beast is allegorical, usurping reason as families disintegrate. It's all in the eye (or mind) of the beholder: \\"If we feel more secure on the outside, we can begin to change on the inside.\\" Luan Gaines/2005.side, we can begin to change on the inside.\\" Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-12
169502:US	51010391	R1BPASHOIP8YXV	0060763876	653774075	Map of Bones (Sigma Force)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	On the trail of Armageddon	Map of Bones is a contemporary thriller that features a religious cabal, the Dragon Court, a network of Vatican spies, the specialized local police, Comando Carbinieri Tutelo Patrimonio Culturale (The Cultural Heritage Police) and SIGMA, a high level investigative unit from Washington, D.C., all engaged in a race to uncover the encrypted key to universal knowledge, an ancient alchemic formula that will either unleash Armageddon or allow world domination by the sect that acquires the information.<br /><br />The chaos begins in Cologne, Germany, at a Midnight Mass in the Cathedral of the Three Magi, when armed intruders steal the preserved bones of the Wise Men and decimate the celebrants with an alchemic formula. All survivors are annihilated, as the thieves depart with the first of many clues that lead from the Vatican to Milan, Germany, Switzerland, Egypt and France. One destination leads to another in an evolving series of clues, as the Dragon Court plays a deadly game of cat and mouse with SIGMA, under the command of Grayson Pierce and the representatives of the Vatican, Monsignor Verona and his niece, Rachel Verona, a member of the Cultural Heritage Police.<br /><br />At the core of all is the schism of the 12th Century, when the papacy split into two factions, one embracing the Gospels of John, the other swearing allegiance to Thomas, author of the Gnostic Gospels. John represents the orthodox faith, the light of the spirit coming from God alone, while Thomas asserts that the light is in everyone, an ancient Gnostic tradition. The teams attempt to outwit each other, hop-scotching from place to place, but the SIGMA group is often one step ahead only to be caught by the Dragon Court and forced to reveal what they have learned.<br /><br />As the complicated and multi-layered mystery unravels, the action intensifies, each new bit of information vital to the final test and ultimate revelation. Grounded in the ancient rites of alchemy, the Dragon Court is determined to usurp the power and control the world; SIGMA and the Verona's seek only to stop them, appalled by the potential for destruction that may be unleashed. Brutality defines each stage of the struggle, good vs. evil in an eternal battle for supremacy, the murders in Cologne only the beginning of a wide swath of destruction that follows every phase of the chase. True to form, deception is endemic, traitors and spies riddling the Dragon Court and its opponents. It isn't until the apocalyptic denouement that the extent of this treachery is revealed.<br /><br />In the tradition of The DaVinci Code, although more convoluted in its process, Map of Bones reveals Vatican treasures, the long-hidden vaults of antiquities and historical archives of centuries past and an assortment of religious cabals that have surfaced to perpetuate one mystery or another, all hinting at the final chapter in man's desperate struggle to reveal the source of God's light, the key to the universe. Romance, treachery, the secrets of the ages; all are combined in this taut thriller, in a race to possess the essence of ultimate power. Luan Gaines/2005.Court is determined to usurp the power and control the world; SIGMA and the Verona's seek only to stop them, appalled by the potential for destruction that may be unleashed. Brutality defines each stage of the struggle, good vs. evil in an eternal battle for supremacy, the murders in Cologne only the beginning of a wide swath of destruction that follows every phase of the chase. True to form, deception is endemic, traitors and spies riddling the Dragon Court and its opponents. It isn't until the apocalyptic denouement that the extent of this treachery is revealed. <br /> <br />In the tradition of The DaVinci Code, although more convoluted in its process, Map of Bones reveals Vatican treasures, the long-hidden vaults of antiquities and historical archives of centuries past and an assortment of religious cabals that have surfaced to perpetuate one mystery or another, all hinting at the final chapter in man's desperate struggle to reveal the source of God's light, the key to the universe. Romance, treachery, the secrets of the ages; all are combined in this taut thriller, in a race to possess the essence of ultimate power. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-12
169522:US	51010391	R5REV9ZZIG78T	0385513887	317838897	Double Cross Blind	Books	4	3	4	N	N	"The only answer to the past was the future"	This World War II era spy thriller is cast in London, where MI5 and the Germans have infiltrated each other's spy networks, double agents everywhere, turned and turned again. In the few days prior to the Japanese attack on Pearl harbor, Tom Wall, an American who has joined the British forces, is convinced to impersonate his brother, Earl, who has disappeared.<br /><br />Earl Wall is a critical contact for Sondegger, a Nazi spy recently captured in London. Tom's only desire is to locate his brother, who he believes has betrayed Tom's unit in Crete, causing the deaths of countless soldiers. But Earl remains elusive, a cipher who cannot be found. If Tom has to cooperate with MI5 and tolerate Sondegger to get to his brother, so be it. At their first contact, Sondegger makes it clear to Tom that he knows he is not Earl. Still distracted by painful injuries and excessive medication, Tom keeps this critical information from the Brits, unsure what to do with this knowledge, but unwilling to lose his temporary autonomy. Meanwhile, yet another power player in the vast spy network has plans of his own for Tom and sends out two thugs to detain and question Tom Wall.<br /><br />London is a cesspool of nefarious activity during this period, opposing factions meeting secretly to further their private agendas, the Germans as rigorous as the English, the stakes far too high for the losing side, each group driven by intense patriotism and allegiance. Sondegger is savage and unpredictable, taken captive on his own terms with a secret mission in mind. No matter what the precautions, the Brits continually underestimate his cunning. The German keeps his own counsel, planting hints of Earl's whereabouts to Tom, but engineering his own plan, in which Tom Wall plays a central part. The characters play out their roles, mere days before Pearl Harbor, a race against time with thousands of lives at stake. Tom is the pawn of all the players, Sondegger, Earl's, his wife, Harriet, MI5 and the OSS, but Tom is ignorant of his part, instinctively pursuing his brother for a moment of truth.<br /><br />The author frames his story flawlessly, building the tension with each chapter as the operatives act out each minute detail of an ingenious plot. Time and place is perfectly rendered in a harrowing tale that is impossible to put down until all unravels in a burst of violence. Shadowed and menacing, Ross delivers a powerful rendition of a war-torn country riddled with spies, murderous fascists and an idealistic man tormented by the senseless waste of his troops, determined to mete out justice, regardless of the personal cost. Evil geniuses and patriotic heroes dance a macabre tango towards oblivion, where bombs light up the night sky and Americans watch pensively, unaware of the great conflagration soon to hit a quiet Hawaiian naval base. Luan Gaines/2005.nd the OSS, but Tom is ignorant of his part, instinctively pursuing his brother for a moment of truth. <br /> <br />The author frames his story flawlessly, building the tension with each chapter as the operatives act out each minute detail of an ingenious plot. Time and place is perfectly rendered in a harrowing tale that is impossible to put down until all unravels in a burst of violence. Shadowed and menacing, Ross delivers a powerful rendition of a war-torn country riddled with spies, murderous fascists and an idealistic man tormented by the senseless waste of his troops, determined to mete out justice, regardless of the personal cost. Evil geniuses and patriotic heroes dance a macabre tango towards oblivion, where bombs light up the night sky and Americans watch pensively, unaware of the great conflagration soon to hit a quiet Hawaiian naval base. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-12
173207:US	51010391	R2BQ49WVJVEQ5F	0312424914	106874533	Saints at the River: A Novel	Books	3	19	23	N	N	(3.5) Environment vs. emotionalism	Saints at the River addresses a common problem encountered by a country with a diminishing wilderness, but it is tragedy with a human face that turns the tide, making legal decisions all the more difficult: protect the land as dictated by law or make exemptions for deserving humans who are suffering. The Tamassee River is protected by environmental law as a Wild and Scenic River in South Carolina, one of the few pristine waterways kept out of the reach of developers, but it is a long, bitter struggle by the residents to achieve such protective status for the river.<br /><br />However, when a young girl falls drowns near the falls, her body tapped by the hydraulic intensity of the churning water, her parents are distraught. They cannot recover the body. Five weeks later, with media gathered to witness the proceedings, meetings are held to determine whether a temporary dam can divert the water long enough to free the body. A critical factor in the debate is the grieving mother, whose religious conviction is that her daughter's body must be reunited with her soul for burial. This mother's anguish is powerful and moving to the onlookers, her subdued mien all but drowning out the eloquent arguments of a local environmentalist, who says the river has claimed the girl and that she should be left in peace, part of the terrible harmony of nature.<br /><br />Maggie Glenn, a former resident of Oconee County in the Appalachia's, is now a photojournalist in Colombia, South Carolina. Sent by her newspaper with award-winning journalist Allen Hemphill to cover the story, Maggie is forced to relive her personal demons and long antipathy to a father who is dying of cancer. Maggie shoots a stunning photo that does much to sway public opinion on the side of the drowned girl's parents and the temporary dam, but she has second thoughts when the people she grew up with react to her perceived betrayal. Sorting through her mixed reactions, Maggie develops feelings for Hemphill, their new relationship charged with conflicting sentiments each has about the river controversy. But Maggie is not ready to make her peace with the past. It will take the unfolding drama surrounding the drowning to wake the young woman to reconciliation of past with present.<br /><br />This simple story constructs an ever-more common issue, the protection and conservancy of natural assets and all that entails. Clearly, when a sentimental twist is added, it is natural for the public to demand exception to the law to alleviate the suffering of victims. Often such exceptions precipitate the destruction of the protected region. Rash outlines the controversy with an unbiased eye in thoughtful prose, giving equal weight to both sides, illustrating the psychological nuances that color such decisions. But the river moves on inexorably, carrying its dead forever in its watery embrace, nature's voice often overridden by the cacophony of human need. Luan Gaines/2005.w relationship charged with conflicting sentiments each has about the river controversy. But Maggie is not ready to make her peace with the past. It will take the unfolding drama surrounding the drowning to wake the young woman to reconciliation of past with present.  <br /> <br />This simple story constructs an ever-more common issue, the protection and conservancy of natural assets and all that entails. Clearly, when a sentimental twist is added, it is natural for the public to demand exception to the law to alleviate the suffering of victims. Often such exceptions precipitate the destruction of the protected region. Rash outlines the controversy with an unbiased eye in thoughtful prose, giving equal weight to both sides, illustrating the psychological nuances that color such decisions. But the river moves on inexorably, carrying its dead forever in its watery embrace, nature's voice often overridden by the cacophony of human need. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-09
177854:US	51010391	R18F10PPHDOGX9	0312424760	198993018	After: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A psychological contretemps	Writing this novel is either very brave or very cynical, as it embraces the recent tragedy of 9/11, Americans beheaded on foreign soil (Daniel Pearl) and the culture clash of Middle Eastern Fundamentalism with the loss of American innocence. Nothing is referenced in particular, nor are names spoken, only suggestions, but the recent violence is tangible, a widow grappling with the aftermath of her loss.<br /><br />The widow arbitrarily decides to have an affair with a Muslim and says so to her grief counselor, at first merely for shock value. But the idea holds a strange appeal and the woman makes advance to a man she meets at a trade show. That he is of Persian origin is irrelevant; he fits the need of the moment, whatever dark forces are working in the widow's subconscious. This Muslim has been unfaithful to his wife before, but not since the recent events that have branded him as suspicious rather than mysterious. His life has been \\"reduced to a choice of pronouns\\", us or them. The widow finds \\"a naive intensity about him that had made her think she could skip all the small talk\\".<br /><br />Driving to a clandestine meeting at an unkempt hotel in California, the man ponders his life, remembering the violence in his own country, the shocking death of a close friend, his childhood joy in the contours of the sea, remnants of a homeland left behind years ago. Meanwhile, the widow waits. Perhaps she has chosen a man she could not possibly love and therein lies his appeal. Her reasons for arranging the tryst are complicated, suspect, as the widow blindly pursues a release to the unbearable tension that has gripped her since her husband's death. The Muslim has no delusions, only a wish to comfort this strange woman, mislead by her changeable emotions.<br /><br />The couple embarks on their assignation in the anonymous hotel room by the sea, but with the view of an empty pool, any traces of romance obliterated by disuse. Here they act out her fantasy; later he makes tentative advances, wanting a closeness that she cannot or will not allow. He makes dogged attempts at intimacy, refusing to give up on her passivity. The widow has seduced this man with her vulnerability; they are joined in the physical act, yet irrevocably separated by their differences. The union is more unsettling than erotic, his wife barely present, her husband hovering. The coupling takes on a life of its own, with surprising twists of cruelty, barely suppressed rage and the jagged edge of violence. In only a day and a half, what should have been a simple transaction between two virtual strangers degenerates into a purgative ritual, leaving the widow and the Muslim stunned.<br /><br />The author rides the widow's subconscious to the darkest corners of her rage and grief, unleashing the demons that have usurped her ability to function without her husband. The Muslim sees himself as an individual, seeking only the comforts of an extra-marital affair, but this is not the time for such distinctions, as the woman is blinded by the enormity of her loss. Prodding relentlessly at the widow's damaged psyche, Tristram creates a vulnerable, haunted character, driven to act out what she cannot process in words, love and rage impossibly entwined. This provocative novel examines the reclamation of self by a woman who cannot achieve closure by ordinary means, unmoored by an act of infidelity with the object of her enmity. Whether the author goes too far is for the reader to decide. Perhaps this is an act of bravery, writing of the forbidden to uncover hidden reserves of hatred and unfathomable grief. Luan Gaines/2005.; later he makes tentative advances, wanting a closeness that she cannot or will not allow. He makes dogged attempts at intimacy, refusing to give up on her passivity. The widow has seduced this man with her vulnerability; they are joined in the physical act, yet irrevocably separated by their differences. The union is more unsettling than erotic, his wife barely present, her husband hovering. The coupling takes on a life of its own, with surprising twists of cruelty, barely suppressed rage and the jagged edge of violence. In only a day and a half, what should have been a simple transaction between two virtual strangers degenerates into a purgative ritual, leaving the widow and the Muslim stunned. <br /> <br />The author rides the widow's subconscious to the darkest corners of her rage and grief, unleashing the demons that have usurped her ability to function without her husband. The Muslim sees himself as an individual, seeking only the comforts of an extra-marital affair, but this is not the time for such distinctions, as the woman is blinded by the enormity of her loss. Prodding relentlessly at the widow's damaged psyche, Tristram creates a vulnerable, haunted character, driven to act out what she cannot process in words, love and rage impossibly entwined. This provocative novel examines the reclamation of self by a woman who cannot achieve closure by ordinary means, unmoored by an act of infidelity with the object of her enmity. Whether the author goes too far is for the reader to decide. Perhaps this is an act of bravery, writing of the forbidden to uncover hidden reserves of hatred and unfathomable grief. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-06
179263:US	51010391	R2QDLUIC4H0E36	0151008590	810569864	Spies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	"We underestimated the power of words."	This unique novel is a psychological journey through the history, beginning with the Spanish Civil War and Germany's secret air force, as a young pilot wins the heart of an opera singer with Italian eyes. Four grandchildren, two sisters, a brother and a cousin, are the descendants of the dark-eyed singer and her pilot, their childhood spent in pursuit of clues to this mysterious woman's life, for the children carry the dominant trait, the flashing Italian eyes so unlike others in their neighborhood. The children form an impenetrable wall against the bullies who harass them for their difference, spending untold hours together discussing their grandparents, longing for at least one image of the opera singer, whose eyes can be found nowhere in the family album.<br /><br />Three of the children are identified, Carl, Pauline and Nora, but their cousin, the narrator, remains unnamed and it is through him that the story plays out. In a blue-eyed world, these four children are an anomaly, their coloring hinting of unspoken family secrets. So what the adults keep to themselves, the children embroider, intent on their own truth. There is, indeed, a mystery to solve, for the opera singer's pilot disappeared for a time from the arms of his betrothed; he returned but as a keeper of secrets, a private, careful man. The children build another reality to embrace their search, sure that somehow they will solve the mystery of the wartime lovers, the four become spies, seekers of truth.<br /><br />The author's prose is extraordinary, intimate, as though the narrator is whispering secrets that no one else can hear. The book shifts between generations, the narrator as an adult, the cousins as children, the war years and Germany's ultimate humiliation, the love affair of their exotic grandmother and her aviator. The characters are eccentric, quasi-residents of Grimm's Fairy Tales, as seen through the dark eyes of the children. Contradictions abound, for the narrator is careful to point out the many interpretations of a single incident, maybe this was what happened, maybe that. Spies is extraordinarily visual, smells, sights, sounds all part of the eloquent language, a shifting array of possibilities: \\"The black papa falcons, with their uneven wings, faulty beaks and misshapen heads have long been scraped off... and replaced with commercial decals of birds of prey.\\"<br /><br />In the end, the four cousins, now adults, are trapped in their intricate perceptions of each other, memories bound by the strange rituals of children, yet faced by an inevitable transition into adulthood. This astonishing novel carries with it the bright memories of youth, an intimate knowledge of war and a generation defined by its terrible consequences, but also the innate curiosity of youth, the stories that frame a past drastically altered by history, where secrets take on a life of their own and magical eyes inhabit the foolish dreams of children clutching a world more real than the future. Finally, the narrator admits: \\"We underestimated the power of words\\". Luan Gaines/2005.careful to point out the many interpretations of a single incident, maybe this was what happened, maybe that. Spies is extraordinarily visual, smells, sights, sounds all part of the eloquent language, a shifting array of possibilities: \\"The black papa falcons, with their uneven wings, faulty beaks and misshapen heads have long been scraped off... and replaced with commercial decals of birds of prey.\\"  <br /> <br />In the end, the four cousins, now adults, are trapped in their intricate perceptions of each other, memories bound by the strange rituals of children, yet faced by an inevitable transition into adulthood. This astonishing novel carries with it the bright memories of youth, an intimate knowledge of war and a generation defined by its terrible consequences, but also the innate curiosity of youth, the stories that frame a past drastically altered by history, where secrets take on a life of their own and magical eyes inhabit the foolish dreams of children clutching a world more real than the future. Finally, the narrator admits: \\"We underestimated the power of words\\". Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-05
179891:US	51010391	R29DR0OQ12GD4D	1596921242	28527422	Evening Ferry	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Part Two of a generational saga	Evening Ferry is set in Rhode Island in the summer of 1965, as thirty-three-year old school teacher Rachel Shattuck returns to Snow Island to care for her father who has been injured in an accident. Rachel's mother died a year earlier and she is still haunted by visions of Phoebe, memories too fresh to ignore. Back on the island, Rachel relives her strict Catholic upbringing, resenting an overbearing father and a childhood of obligations to siblings. The divorced Rachel is torn, worried that her marriage breakup contributed to her mother's fatal heart attack.<br /><br />The island is filled with the past, assailing her wherever she turns, but when Rachel begins reading her mother's diaries, begun in 1930, she views Phoebe Shattuck in a different light, a young woman with dreams and aspirations much the same as her own. In the parts of the novel devoted to Phoebe's years with Nate, their marriage and the birth of their children, the writing achieves more authenticity, the characters more fully fleshed and believable. This is the heart of the novel, as Phoebe's life takes shape, the disappointments and rewards of the years on the island.<br /><br />The author captures the spirit of Phoebe's compulsive rush into marriage and the realities she faces, disclosing her secrets and uncertainties. Religion is significant in Phoebe's struggle to be a good wife, prayer often her only solace. Rachel has received this legacy as well, her faith deeply ingrained, riddled with the guilt she has carried since childhood. The lessons from mother to daughter are poignant, brought to life on the handwritten pages where Phoebe pours out her heart, an invaluable gift to a young woman who desperately longs for a mother's comfort.<br /><br />Phoebe's scathing honesty reveals a conflicted woman faced with impossible choices, her diaries attesting to the contradictions that are her reality. The diaries are shocking, but ultimately palliative to a young woman who has blamed her father for most of the disappointments she remembers. The answer lies in the acceptance of both parents, each with flaws; but first Rachel must accept her own humanity, taking advantage of opportunities to make peace with the past, embracing the future.<br /><br />Evening Ferry is the familiar Americana of forty years ago, soon after the Civil Rights Movement and at the beginning of the Vietnam War. Reading this novel is like watching an early Technicolor movie, the scenes a little too well-staged, the protagonist striving to carve out a niche of personal identity, although Rachel carries her individuality like a burden. The island is entrenched in old habits, stubbornly rejecting change, which will probably be the focus of the next volume of the Shattuck family saga. This is part two of a trilogy and sets the stage for Rachel Shattuck's continuing coming-of-age and a country deeply divided by the Vietnam conflict, Evening Ferry the calm before the storm. Luan Gaines/2005.most of the disappointments she remembers. The answer lies in the acceptance of both parents, each with flaws; but first Rachel must accept her own humanity, taking advantage of opportunities to make peace with the past, embracing the future. <br /> <br />Evening Ferry is the familiar Americana of forty years ago, soon after the Civil Rights Movement and at the beginning of the Vietnam War. Reading this novel is like watching an early Technicolor movie, the scenes a little too well-staged, the protagonist striving to carve out a niche of personal identity, although Rachel carries her individuality like a burden. The island is entrenched in old habits, stubbornly rejecting change, which will probably be the focus of the next volume of the Shattuck family saga. This is part two of a trilogy and sets the stage for Rachel Shattuck's continuing coming-of-age and a country deeply divided by the Vietnam conflict, Evening Ferry the calm before the storm. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-07-05
181792:US	51010391	R2G1ZV01KBJ349	0140291962	316534633	River of Darkness (John Madden Mysteries)	Books	4	21	24	N	N	The genesis of forensic psychology	When five people are murdered in the rural village of Highfield, England, Inspector John Madden is sent from CID in Scotland Yard to oversee the crime scene. The First World War has just ended and in 1921 England is recovering from the terrible loss of lives in that endeavor; Inspector Madden has lost his wife and child as well, hoping for some peace now that the war has ended, but is quickly caught up in the senseless slaughter of a family, their maid and nanny. The weapon is a baffling choice and a cause for concern: all the victims were precisely stabbed with a bayonet.<br /><br />There is one person the killer fails to notice, little Sophy Fletcher, who was hiding under her bed, wedged against the wall with her eyes shut tight. The village physician, Helen Blackwell, discovers the girl and takes her to recuperate in her home. Inspector Madden quietly speaks with the child; she is comforted by his calm mien and gentle manner. But it is Doctor Blackwell who introduces the more obscure approach to the case, psychology gradually introduced as a tool for solving criminal cases of this nature. Psychiatry is in its infancy, but Inspector Madden is inspired by a friend of Dr. Blackwell's, a Freudian who suggests a different protocol, working towards the killer's identity through his actions: \\"The soul of man is a far country, impossible to explore\\".<br /><br />Just as Madden is making some headway, the Yard's bureaucracy intervenes and he is taken off the case in favor of a publicity-seeking investigator, Samson of Scotland Yard. The inquiry reaches a critical impasse. CID is divided between standard procedures and Madden's belief that this singular killer is driven by a unique ritualistic compulsion. Such an approach virtually unheard of at the time, the field of criminal forensics far removed from the psychology of a killer's motives.<br /><br />The aftermath of war lies heavy on all the characters, especially Madden, scarred by physical and psychological injuries, Dr. Blackwell, who has lost a husband and two brothers and all the men returned from the service, changed by their experiences. The country is still reeling from economic deprivation and tragic personal losses. The murders are a grim reminder of the nature of violence, the quiet country villages decimated by the loss of soldiers. Into this nightmare, the ritualistic killer is born, a man whose soul was lost long ago, brutal fantasies his only preoccupation. Even as Madden focuses on the suspect, another slaying is planned, the innocent victims gathered in the family home, unsuspecting.<br /><br />In quiet prose that carries the reader into the heart of the English countryside where murder lurks, a twisted mind evades the Inspector, a raptor with eyes fixed on his prey. Set in the early 20th century, these lawmen do not enjoy the refinements of current forensic science, yet Madden uses his battle-tempered wits to confound a predator as dangerous as any in the field. Luan Gaines/2005.ies, Dr. Blackwell, who has lost a husband and two brothers and all the men returned from the service, changed by their experiences. The country is still reeling from economic deprivation and tragic personal losses. The murders are a grim reminder of the nature of violence, the quiet country villages decimated by the loss of soldiers. Into this nightmare, the ritualistic killer is born, a man whose soul was lost long ago, brutal fantasies his only preoccupation. Even as Madden focuses on the suspect, another slaying is planned, the innocent victims gathered in the family home, unsuspecting. <br /> <br />In quiet prose that carries the reader into the heart of the English countryside where murder lurks, a twisted mind evades the Inspector, a raptor with eyes fixed on his prey. Set in the early 20th century, these lawmen do not enjoy the refinements of current forensic science, yet Madden uses his battle-tempered wits to confound a predator as dangerous as any in the field. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-03
182066:US	51010391	R2NXXFDA13JJ9B	0060394390	399841946	Land of the Blind: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Compromises and betrayals	This is an out-of genre novel inhabiting a mystery, so well-written that it is impossible not to identify with the murderer as he dictates his \\"confession\\" on yellow legal pads, the detective in charge, Caroline Mabry, waiting to find out exactly what crime was committed and the identity of the victim. To the confessor, Clark Mason, this is \\"a story of weakness not of strength\\". But he is judging his life from the perspective of childhood, when betrayals are more devastating, leaving scars that never heal. Clark sits in an interrogation room in the Spokane P.D., scribbling page after page, a sad tale of personal transgressions and human flaws that have led to the death of another. This is Clark's burden, his presumed guilt for actions taken and not taken, for the attachments that have brought him to this dark place, a history of disappointments and failures as a friend.<br /><br />Clark Mason straddles the line of acceptance as a young boy, half of him firmly entrenched on the side of the misfits, those unfortunates who draw the jeers of more popular kids. Clark cannot help but feel sorry for Eli Boyle, a boy who is constantly tormented by his classmates. As the years drag by, Clark outgrows his earlier awkwardness, though Eli never does, forever the brunt of bullies' practical jokes. Even after losing his eye in an accident, Clark recovers and goes on to hold class offices, driven to find acceptance. Because of their early bond, Clark works with Eli, teaching him how to dress and act and the direction of Clark's life is determined by this close friendship with the gawky youth.<br /><br />Caroline Mabry cannot determine exactly who the victim is, and for reasons even she cannot understand, will not pressure Clark or force a confession before he is ready. Instead, she lurks around the fringes of the purported crime, contacting people who have been close to Clark, making sure that all of them are, indeed, alive. This unbidden empathy for the troubled man confuses Carolyn, but she follows her instincts, holding out against all the principles of police work.<br /><br />The beauty of this novel is found in Clark's honest portrayal of his own life, one laced with poignant revelations, a gutsy clarity that comes from nothing left to lose. His is not a glamorous world, nor is Spokane more than a city of origin, but Clark's journey from child to man is littered with regrets and poor choices, the weight of his past burdening the present. For all his flaws, Mason is an extremely sympathetic character, his attachment to Eli another example of a generous nature. Peppered with an assortment of oddballs and misfits, Walter lays out a human landscape where life fails to deliver on the promises of youth. These are ordinary people struggling to survive when the days have lost the bright luster of success and what remains is simple, unadorned reality. All things considered, Clark's dark night of the soul is a solitary journey, one he is committed to finish with some degree of honor. In the end, \\"maybe it is all we can do sometimes to save ourselves\\". Luan Gaines/2005.man confuses Carolyn, but she follows her instincts, holding out against all the principles of police work. <br /> <br />The beauty of this novel is found in Clark's honest portrayal of his own life, one laced with poignant revelations, a gutsy clarity that comes from nothing left to lose. His is not a glamorous world, nor is Spokane more than a city of origin, but Clark's journey from child to man is littered with regrets and poor choices, the weight of his past burdening the present. For all his flaws, Mason is an extremely sympathetic character, his attachment to Eli another example of a generous nature. Peppered with an assortment of oddballs and misfits, Walter lays out a human landscape where life fails to deliver on the promises of youth. These are ordinary people struggling to survive when the days have lost the bright luster of success and what remains is simple, unadorned reality. All things considered, Clark's dark night of the soul is a solitary journey, one he is committed to finish with some degree of honor. In the end, \\"maybe it is all we can do sometimes to save ourselves\\". Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-07-03
186512:US	51010391	ROY7JDIUZ5F73	038551428X	970964974	The Traveler (Fourth Realm Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	"Damned by the flesh, saved by the blood."	The Traveler superimposes a sci-fi theme over a world already awash w/ surveillance, where every move can be tracked by the government or other interested parties. Among the rebel factions fighting such a system of dominance are the Travelers, those who can move from one reality to another, although few remain today. Another group, the Harlequins, is pledged to protect the Travelers at any cost, even death, rigorously trained in martial arts. Those seeking to destroy both the Harlequins and the Travelers are the Tabula, otherwise known as the Brethren, a group that fosters a new world order and control of all human behavior through a model of containment, the Panopticon.<br /><br />Maya is a Harlequin ordered by her father to protect the Corrigan brothers, Michael and Gabriel (archangels, anyone?), who live in California and are currently in grave danger. As soon as Maya leaves her father's secret location, he is savagely murdered, leaving only Maya to perform the task at hand, which is complicated by the fact that the brothers have not yet become aware that they are indeed Travelers; they have not considered their earlier lives constantly on the road as anything but eccentric. After she discovers her father's mutilated body, Maya's life is radically altered and she is charged with the sense of mission dictated by the Harlequin mentality: \\"no attachments, no compassion, no mercy.\\"<br /><br />The message is that people can only be passive victims or consumers of goods; such a concept feeds the Brethren's sense of ordered control of a society that desires safety above all, freedom from terror. The battle is engaged and clearly defined, good vs. evil. Like any great adventure where the few take on the many, there are conflicted, very human heroes, Maya following her destiny, isolated by her warrior skills; Gabriel a potential hero, on the difficult road to the identity of  a Traveler, his brother in the hands of the Brethren. The enemy is ruthless and determined, prepared to annihilate anyone who disturbs their plan. More marginal, but still important characters are Hollis and Vickie, foot-soldiers who believe in the cause. The Tabula, or Brethren, remain bound to their agenda, hoping to harness the power of the Travelers for their own ends, like the race to space, but of a more spiritual nature.<br /><br />Well-written and fast-paced, John Twelve Hawks has crafted an energetic tale that captures the imagination, lining up believers on each side of the philosophical divide. Who can help but root for the Travelers and Harlequins, the underdogs in a war fought to ensure freedom of thought. Like a chess game, the pieces are in position, marching toward some kind of resolution; even so, it is clear that the story will not end with this volume, that the struggle for dominance will continue and both sides will clash again, each victory only temporary. This is a fight to the death. For those caught up in the spirit of The Traveler, there are websites posted in the back of the book, already adding bits of folklore for those who fall under the novel's spell.<br /><br />This is great summer reading with a broad appeal, the spirit of the underdog fearlessly facing superior forces. Expect a sequel with more challenges for these embattled warriors, as well as an impasse for the Corrigan brothers, one on each side of the struggle. Fantasy, fiction and enough truth to ring with authenticity, The Traveler is only the beginning, an adventure with many more stories to tell...Luan Gaines/2005.determined, prepared to annihilate anyone who disturbs their plan. More marginal, but still important characters are Hollis and Vickie, foot-soldiers who believe in the cause. The Tabula, or Brethren, remain bound to their agenda, hoping to harness the power of the Travelers for their own ends, like the race to space, but of a more spiritual nature. <br /> <br />Well-written and fast-paced, John Twelve Hawks has crafted an energetic tale that captures the imagination, lining up believers on each side of the philosophical divide. Who can help but root for the Travelers and Harlequins, the underdogs in a war fought to ensure freedom of thought. Like a chess game, the pieces are in position, marching toward some kind of resolution; even so, it is clear that the story will not end with this volume, that the struggle for dominance will continue and both sides will clash again, each victory only temporary. This is a fight to the death. For those caught up in the spirit of The Traveler, there are websites posted in the back of the book, already adding bits of folklore for those who fall under the novel's spell. <br /> <br />This is great summer reading with a broad appeal, the spirit of the underdog fearlessly facing superior forces. Expect a sequel with more challenges for these embattled warriors, as well as an impasse for the Corrigan brothers, one on each side of the struggle. Fantasy, fiction and enough truth to ring with authenticity, The Traveler is only the beginning, an adventure with many more stories to tell...Luan Gaines/2005.   <br />	2005-06-29
187423:US	51010391	R1GSKBD3R4X1C8	0393060519	33464443	The Return Message: Poems	Books	4	3	4	N	N	"What if you abandoned yourself?"	Who is there to dispute the genius of the award-winning poet? It is impossible to measure such studied prose, so carefully constructed, each reader led through a labyrinth of memory and emotion, triggered by the errant phrase, images juxtaposed by a thoughtful mind. Might as well attempt to inhabit the mind of an artist, Vincent Van Gogh or perhaps Cezanne, a world of impressions, glimpses of grandeur, moments of joy and despair. No, such work as The Return Message can only be traveled alone, buffered by recognition and clarity.<br /><br />For me, this particular book of poetry is like a Jackson Pollock painting, or the scattered notes of jazz, something familiar, sometimes dissonant, often obscure. There are recurring themes: spring, the beloved, blooming gardens, loss and renewal. And there are phrases that catch the eye and skewer the mind: \\"could you, like Audubon, kill your subjects./ To study them?\\" (New World Cloud Forest); \\"because you could not love the world enough to deny your desire\\" (Special Transmission Outside the Teaching); \\"Will a lost world spend its last days pleading for survival\\" (The Expansion of the Self).<br /><br />Many of the poems are long, filling the page with impressions, observations, shared intimacies, stream-of-consciousness in poetry form:<br /><br />\\"You kill the morning with a jailbait hangover, and when your outside aches as much.<br /><br />As your interior's hidden sadness, you cry until your vanquished metropolis shines...<br /><br />And lo! You are lit up from the inside! A Jules Verne spaceship that cannot fly-\\" (Copperopolis)<br /><br />This book is outsized, with a visually arresting cover, the layout reflective of the author's particular poems, spread gracefully over the pages, often with only a few lines on the left hand page, the right side weighted with the poet's musings. Challenging form, this author scatters her words, thrifty, in few lines or, generous, in great bursts of language that tumbles down the page, periods and apostrophes in unexpected places. This work must be mined carefully and read slowly, thoughtfully, a very personal statement by a woman whose world is strung with words like a necklace of precious pearls, an ever-changing universe of flagrant imagination. Luan Gaines/2005.page, periods and apostrophes in unexpected places. This work must be mined carefully and read slowly, thoughtfully, a very personal statement by a woman whose world is strung with words like a necklace of precious pearls, an ever-changing universe of flagrant imagination. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-06-29
190323:US	51010391	R1MCFU1KX18GVR	015101244X	493822583	The Enemy of God (Otto Penzler Book)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	"The strongest ones don't bend, they break'	Gabe Driscoll, Earl Finley, Andrew Troy and Frank Redmond are the crux of an award-winning swim team at Fordham Prep in New York, bonded by their athletic victories, Catholic religion and easy friendship. These boys will grow up to be Chief of Internal Affairs, a prosecutor with an eye on public office, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and a priest. But on a cold day in Harlem, Father Redmond plunges to his death in his parish, leaving Gabe Driscoll and Andy Troy to determine the cause of death, suicide or murder. Father Frank's demise awakens the past for the now middle-aged men, the sweet memories of their years together still fresh, making the death all the more painful and suspicious.<br /><br />The quest for resolution takes on a life of its own, as Driscoll mines his police sources for an investigation of anyone who might have wanted Redmond out of the way, drug dealers or gang members, perhaps. Regardless of their efforts, the cop and the journalist are hard-pressed to learn anything helpful about their friend, who is a cipher, his monastic life devoid of clues. The truth of the matter is revealed in flashbacks to the earlier years of these men, from their youth to their adult lives, the more private aspects of each, the disappointments and moral dilemmas that define them.<br /><br />Although this is a tough story, years of friendship shared from Catholic school through careers and marriages, there is great energy in the telling, the school years, the Vietnam experience, generational changes that affect the kind of men they become. Shifting from past to present, it is easy to identify with their history of youthful dreams and the lessons learned along the way. Daley writes as if he knows this territory intimately, and for that reason, the characters and plot are entirely believable.<br /><br />Daley's story is particularly affecting, as these four men are so like their generation, although they are not as familiar with the women in their lives. This, perhaps, is the fatal flaw in the investigation: Driscoll and Troy have looked at Frank's world through their own eyes, a prism that is distorted by its very maleness. It is the women who are most intuitive, who have watched Father Redmond in all his flawed humanity, felt compassion for his struggles as a man and a priest. From the Bronx to Harlem, from Vietnam to Africa, the novel follows friendship in all its permutations; but it is those unexpected moments of loss, inexplicable events that question how well one man really knows another and just how much of this road is tread irrevocably alone. Luan Gaines/2005.perhaps, is the fatal flaw in the investigation: Driscoll and Troy have looked at Frank's world through their own eyes, a prism that is distorted by its very maleness. It is the women who are most intuitive, who have watched Father Redmond in all his flawed humanity, felt compassion for his struggles as a man and a priest. From the Bronx to Harlem, from Vietnam to Africa, the novel follows friendship in all its permutations; but it is those unexpected moments of loss, inexplicable events that question how well one man really knows another and just how much of this road is tread irrevocably alone. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-06-26
192700:US	51010391	RP67XVDL5L40P	0151011834	212278075	A Shadow in the City: Confessions of an Undercover Drug Warrior	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Supply and demand	\\"The city does not sleep at this hour...the streets belong to the feral, to predators coursing its arteries for prey\\". Joey O'Shay is agent for the DEA, deep undercover, his home for the last twenty years the dark streets, the shadowed alleys, where drugs are for sale and life is cheap. His network of agents and informants bring the players close. O'Shay takes them in and odes the deal.<br /><br />The drug trade is nothing if not cynical and Joey has been too long behind the scenes, making deals and dodging death, caught up in a web of deceit that he manipulates so skillfully, he has thus far avoided the bullet with his name on it. But the agent is weary, grown used to the game, but with no way out. So he continues setting up the deals, meeting with the Mexicans and the Colombians, pushing the tons of cocaine, marijuana and heroin for the insatiable appetites of addicts.<br /><br />This is a world of ambiguities, where contradictions abound, where day is night and the player's sleep with evil. This book enters a world beyond the senses, revealing the titillating details of drug trafficking, the connections, the cold business of exchanging money for product. Joey O'Shay is the doer, the man behind the scenes, building an almost impenetrable web of associations. O'Shay lives his obsession, always planning, always in the deal, a long time survivor who is reaching some kind of crisis, inhabiting this cold life for too long.<br /><br />His career started with breaking in doors and busting small-time dealers, but has progressed, along with his skills, to include the big Colombians who move enormous quantities of product. These are the deals that please the bureaucrats of the DEA and their bosses in Washington, the phone calls that can be traced to map out an entire network. And O'Shay is never there for the take-down; he moves on to the next deal. To break the spell of this world and make it more livable, the agent paints, listens to music late at night and reads a holocaust survivor's account of the death camps (\\"Man's Search for Meaning\\"), identifying with the author's feelings.<br /><br />Edgy and brutal, O'Shay's stream-of-consciousness hops from past to present, tossing bits of information against the wall like a Jackson Pollock painting. He is surrounded by a cast of shadowy characters: Cosima, his best confidential informant; Alvarez, a man ready to make a deal to save his own life after losing other people`s money; Bobbie, part of the straight world, but drawn to the darker one, close enough to O'Shay to read his state of mind; and Gloria, Cosima's friend and South American connection, who makes the mistake of trusting O'Shay's soft words and pays for it with her freedom.<br /><br />This book is a psychological investigation of one man's life as he goes about increasingly difficult undercover work for the DEA, but the real toll is on his mind, the cost of business eating away at his sense of himself: \\"It is the self-questioning and needing to know ore about the meaning of life...that frightens me. Almost a fear that when I stop pursuing them... I must pursue who I really am or what I became.\\" O'Shay is a very smooth thug and a killer, but he works for the good guys, although now he identifies more with the dealers he sets up. He stays in a life that rots the soul, as jaded as a hardened criminal, unconnected and untouched by humanity because it is too dangerous. He is the Shadow in the City, but it's also the specter of death that haunts his every move. He has become a creature of the streets and it is that private hell that he shares with the author, against a backdrop of other agents and CI's, a lonely figure trying to work his way back to himself. It is the price he pays for this job. Luan Gaines/2005.holocaust survivor's account of the death camps (\\"Man's Search for Meaning\\"), identifying with the author's feelings. <br /> <br />Edgy and brutal, O'Shay's stream-of-consciousness hops from past to present, tossing bits of information against the wall like a Jackson Pollock painting. He is surrounded by a cast of shadowy characters: Cosima, his best confidential informant; Alvarez, a man ready to make a deal to save his own life after losing other people`s money; Bobbie, part of the straight world, but drawn to the darker one, close enough to O'Shay to read his state of mind; and Gloria, Cosima's friend and South American connection, who makes the mistake of trusting O'Shay's soft words and pays for it with her freedom. <br /> <br />This book is a psychological investigation of one man's life as he goes about increasingly difficult undercover work for the DEA, but the real toll is on his mind, the cost of business eating away at his sense of himself: \\"It is the self-questioning and needing to know ore about the meaning of life...that frightens me. Almost a fear that when I stop pursuing them... I must pursue who I really am or what I became.\\" O'Shay is a very smooth thug and a killer, but he works for the good guys, although now he identifies more with the dealers he sets up. He stays in a life that rots the soul, as jaded as a hardened criminal, unconnected and untouched by humanity because it is too dangerous. He is the Shadow in the City, but it's also the specter of death that haunts his every move. He has become a creature of the streets and it is that private hell that he shares with the author, against a backdrop of other agents and CI's, a lonely figure trying to work his way back to himself. It is the price he pays for this job. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-06-24
194654:US	51010391	R3D23QHUVBPLAN	0743272528	188054162	Earthly Joys: A Novel (Tradescant Novels)	Books	4	69	73	N	N	"Practice, not principle..."	Historical fiction is Gregory's m&eacute;tier, especially England in the Tudor/Stuart eras, Earthly Joys covering 1603-1639, post-Elizabethan rule, when James I of takes the throne, bringing his Scottish entourage with him. Changing the face of the once staid and proper Elizabethan court, James closes his eyes to Papist practices and indulges in masks and diversions, wasting the coin of the treasury on vast entertainments, while the common people are burdened with unnecessary taxes, their farmlands enclosed for royal use.<br /><br />Robert Cecil, long a close advisor to Queen Elizabeth, steps in to advise the new King, his estate a favorite diversion for the royals, with its magnificent gardens and handsome appointments. John Tradescant is chief gardener to the statesman, as well as a close friend. A simple man, John believes deeply in the natural hierarchy of authority, God, King, Lord and servant, although many have begun to question the King's direct link to God. John's gardens reflect his philosophy, an Eden without the taint of disorder: \\"a delicate marriage of wildness and artifice, an imposition of order upon unruliness, which... looked as if it had been ordered and well-ruled out of simple good nature.\\"<br /><br />After Cecil's death, John is commissioned to work at other fine estates, creating his intricate gardens from plants he has collected from all over the world. Eventually, John's talent comes to the notice of George Villier, the Duke of Buckingham, a confidant of both King James and his successor and heir, King Charles I. The Duke's behavior is scandalous, his excesses legend and there is gossip that he is lover to both the King and his heir. But when Tradescant meets Villier, he falls under the man's spell, his charm and beauty blinding John to the dangers of such an alliance.<br /><br />John's wife, Elizabeth, has always been of a strong religious bent, eschewing finery for the more austere garb of the Puritans. As John travels over the years for Cecil and the Duke, gathering cuttings and rarities, his son grows up much like Elizabeth, questioning the King's direct lineage to God and wanting more than to pledge his life to another man as an oath-bound servant. By the end of James's reign, the Duke is second only to the new monarch, Charles I, who, like his father, ignores the troubles of his people, indulging in his own pleasures. But John is helpless to deny the Duke, even to the point of death, desperately in love with the charismatic dandy who is squandering the kingdom at the side of Charles I.<br /><br />Throughout the novel, nature's diversity is contrasted with the turmoil wrought by selfish kings and their sycophants. Tradescant straddles the middle ground, wed to the beauty he creates, but losing his balance in matters of the heart. He believes the myth, mistaking a god in the dazzling beauty of the Duke, yet constantly disappointed by the reality of his position in life: he is only a gardener, albeit the finest in all of England. Tradescant is as deeply flawed as the era he lives in, a good man caught up in a dark vortex of conflicted emotions, struggling to balance his duties as a husband and father with the yearning to travel the world, to follow the Duke wherever he leads. His faith in God and himself is put to the test and John knows both indescribable joy and the depths of despair.<br /><br />John serves as a metaphor for the changes sweeping the country, devoted to the old ways, yet tempted by the new, his heart tormented by helpless devotion to the Duke, his marriage flawed but still dear. His life mirrors history, the reign of James I, Charles I, The Gunpowder Plot, the great crash of the tulip market in Holland, the clash of King and Parliament and a growing populist revolution, a well-ordered world thrown into chaos by an irresponsible monarchy blind to the ills of society. Tradescant travels the globe gathering every variety of nature to plant in English soil, a life he could never have imagined, his soul adrift in a rose-filled garden, the sharp thorns of loss hidden beneath the fragrant petals. Luan Gaines/2005.e imagined, his soul adrift in a rose-filled garden, the sharp thorns of loss hidden beneath the fragrant petals. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-06-22
195418:US	51010391	R3HHA30P9BPCKA	0151010919	475576302	He Who Fears the Wolf (Inspector Sejer Mysteries)	Books	4	20	22	N	N	"...shouldn't go into the forest"	When an elderly woman is found murdered on the front steps of her house shortly after a schizophrenic escapes from the nearby mental institution, there is a witness, an overweight young man who lives in a home for boys, Kannick Snellingen. Kannick runs to inform local law enforcement and Chief Inspector Konrad Sejer is called to investigate the crime, but gets sidetracked by a bank robbery/ hostage situation that occurs moments after Sejer sees a suspicious character entering the bank. The security tapes of the robbery are of poor quality, but it appears that the hostage taken by the bank robber is none other than Errki Johrma, the escaped mental patient, his long black hair and feminine gait fooling the Inspector into assuming the hostage is a woman.<br /><br />Set in Norway, this translation is the second of Fossum's novels to be published in this country, following Don't Look Back, again featuring the enigmatic Inspector Sejer, a widower and his young detective, Skarre, as they ponder the strange connections of this most bizarre case. Certainly the bank robber, Morgan has a problem, saddled with a mentally unbalanced companion who is completely unpredictable and may have murdered an elderly woman, Halldis Horn. Sejer seeks guidance from Errki's psychiatrist, Dr. Struel, a woman who intrigues the policeman, striking a spark of curiosity in a man who has buried himself in his work since the death of his wife. Dr. Struel paints a different picture of the troubled young man, explaining the dynamics of Errki's illness and his emotional vulnerabilities.<br /><br />Random events occur one after another, setting in motion a chain reaction that leads from disaster to disaster, as the three misfits, Morgan, the bank robber, Errki, the schizophrenic, and Kannick, the obese boy with a talent for archery, are drawn together in a macabre dance that leaves them reeling and one of them dead. Using the fragmented lives of the unwanted and unsound, Fossum's tale is both shocking and sad, a study on the fate of society's unfortunates.<br /><br />Errki brings another dimension to this murder mystery for Inspector Sejer, introducing the psychological complexities that confuse and confound, because Errki's motives and actions are totally spontaneous and self-protective. As Sejer and Skarre sift through the forensic evidence to find a murderer, another drama plays out as Errki, Morgan and Kannick circle each other in confusion and distrust, forming odd temporary alliances, their fates linked for a short time on that devastating summer day.<br /><br />As the Inspector well knows, it is dangerous to jump to conclusions, guided, as always, by his logic and intuition. The taciturn Sejer finds himself on the verge of a new beginning in spite of the tragedy that unravels around him, finding hope in a world where he expects only darkness. Luan Gaines/2005.on the fate of society's unfortunates.     Errki brings another dimension to this murder mystery for Inspector Sejer, introducing the psychological complexities that confuse and confound, because Errki's motives and actions are totally spontaneous and self-protective. As Sejer and Skarre sift through the forensic evidence to find a murderer, another drama plays out as Errki, Morgan and Kannick circle each other in confusion and distrust, forming odd temporary alliances, their fates linked for a short time on that devastating summer day.     As the Inspector well knows, it is dangerous to jump to conclusions, guided, as always, by his logic and intuition. The taciturn Sejer finds himself on the verge of a new beginning in spite of the tragedy that unravels around him, finding hope in a world where he expects only darkness. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-06-22
199779:US	51010391	RXSY1B25BNAXG	0156032325	382155161	The Ghost Writer	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Life imitates art	Gerald Freeman has been lonely much of his life, growing up in Australia with distant parents, his only comfort a pen pal he corresponds with from the age of thirteen, Alice Jessell. Alice, who lives in London, informs Gerard early on that they cannot ever meet; she was crippled in an auto accident that also killed her parents. Alice wants Gerard always to think of her as whole, eventually signing her letters \\"your invisible lover\\". Gerard pours his heart out to Alice, his dreams and disappointments, virtually friendless but for her.<br /><br />Gerard's once-close relationship with his mother is shattered when she catches him searching through the locked drawer of her dressing table, where he discovers a manuscript, written by the mysterious V.H., and a photograph of a beautiful woman. Thereafter, the boy rightly assumes that he is living in a house of secrets, his mother never acknowledging life before Australia and the birth of her son. Clearly the woman is tormented, at times unhinged by inexplicable events. Somehow the years pass. Gerard becomes a librarian, caring for his now-widowed mother until her death, often musing over the photograph and manuscript that are nowhere to be found.<br /><br />Later, in London, Gerard comes across two more manuscripts penned by his maternal grandmother, Viola Hatherly, Victorian ghost stories that capture his imagination, drawing him into the author's world, where reason and superstition coexist. Each story reveals another piece of an emerging picture, suspicions forming in his mind about his mother's hidden past. Gerard's days are unbearably banal, his persona trapped in Victoriana; but it is necessary to tolerate the young man's lack of assertiveness to get to the meat of The Ghost Writer, Viola Hatherly's unnerving tales, \\"Serafina\\", \\"The Gift of Flight\\" and \\"The Revenant\\", with hints of Henry James' Turn of the Screw. The result is a chilling foray into the shadowy crevices of superstition, betrayal and assorted bedevilments of the afterlife.<br /><br />The reader's challenge is to suspend belief and trust Harwood to carry him through an unsettling journey, ever more bizarre as Gerard moves through parallel worlds, his own mundane, almost pitiful existence and the eerie tales of gothic horrors that send a shiver up the spine like a bad dream from which you cannot wake. Gerard is trapped between past and present, fantasy and truth, clinging to sanity while his imagination spins out of control. The only voice of reason is Alice, who faithfully supports Gerard, urging him on in his quest for truth, charging him with a sense of mission. What he finds turns reality into nightmare as vivid as any Dickensian tragedy, specter-laden and crackling with evil intentions.<br /><br />Harwood's clever novel has just enough plausibility to awaken atavistic memory and irrational fear, with an ample supply of villains, cads and damsels in distress, all playing out their dramas, love spurned and unrequited, betrayed and scorned. Impossible to put down until the last page is turned, with a sigh of relief. Luan Gaines/2005.lments of the afterlife. <br /> <br />The reader's challenge is to suspend belief and trust Harwood to carry him through an unsettling journey, ever more bizarre as Gerard moves through parallel worlds, his own mundane, almost pitiful existence and the eerie tales of gothic horrors that send a shiver up the spine like a bad dream from which you cannot wake. Gerard is trapped between past and present, fantasy and truth, clinging to sanity while his imagination spins out of control. The only voice of reason is Alice, who faithfully supports Gerard, urging him on in his quest for truth, charging him with a sense of mission. What he finds turns reality into nightmare as vivid as any Dickensian tragedy, specter-laden and crackling with evil intentions. <br /> <br />Harwood's clever novel has just enough plausibility to awaken atavistic memory and irrational fear, with an ample supply of villains, cads and damsels in distress, all playing out their dramas, love spurned and unrequited, betrayed and scorned. Impossible to put down until the last page is turned, with a sigh of relief. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-06-18
199985:US	51010391	R1R54OGOM652SY	0393058948	88365408	100 Great Poems of the Twentieth Century	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A remarkable collection	Poet Laureate Mark Strand has selected well-known voices, as well as the more obscure poets, \\"a carefully chosen sampler juxtaposing long and short form, experimental and traditional style, expected and surprising choices.\\" These are the voices of the 2oth century, an international collection, half from outside of the United States, some translated from other languages, a mix of humor and drama, designed for those who love poetry and those who are just discovering the beauty of this form. A distinction: these are not the hundred great poems of the century, but a hundred poems, surely enough to whet any appetite, a kaleidoscope of images as viewed by individuals, representing North and South America and Europe, the North American poets limited to those born after 1927.<br /><br />The voice of war rings loud, the memory of loss still fresh and wounding, the world scarred by conflict, the horrors endured:<br /><br />\\"Up there in the Aleutians<br />they are knocking the gold<br />teeth out of the dead Japanese\\"<br /><br />and...<br /><br />\\"You know by now there<br />isn't much to live for<br />except to spite Hitler-<br />The war is so lurid<br />that everything else is dull.\\"<br />  (Ruth Stone, \\"That Winter\\")<br /><br />For those who live day to day in managed care, white-sheathed nurses watching, evening brings quiet, one more passing of a burdened day:<br /><br />\\"It is the hour of the complicated knitting on the safe bone needles<br />  of the games of anagram and bridge;<br />The deadly game of chess; the book held up like a mask.\\"<br />  (Louise Bogan, \\"Evening in the Sanitarium\\")<br /><br />There are musings of death, choices made and wisdom gleaned in flashes, images that strike like lightning, illuminating:<br /><br />\\"I am bound by my own thirty-year-old<br />  decision: who drinks the wine<br />Should take the dregs; even in the bitter lees and sediment<br />New discovery may lie. The deer in that beautiful place lay down<br />  their bones: I must wear mine.\\"<br />  (Robinson Jeffers, \\"The Deer Lay Down Their Bones\\")<br /><br />Richard Wright's \\"I Have Seen Black Hands\\" calls a nation to acknowledge the struggle, the great anguish of bent backs, hard work and irreconcilable loss:<br /><br />\\"And the black hands strained and clawed and struggled in vain at<br />  the noose that tightened about the black throat,<br />And the black hands waved and beat fearfully at the tall flames that<br />  cooked and charred the black flesh...<br /><br />And some day- and it is only this which sustains me-<br />Someday there shall be millions and millions of them,<br />On some red day in a burst of fists on a new horizon!\\"<br /><br />Through the passage of the century, memories cling, fragments of the past, forgotten until discovered in the bottom of a drawer, or glimpsed in a photograph:<br /><br />\\"No it was not because it was too far<br />you failed to visit me that day or night.<br />From year to year it grows in us until it takes hold<br />I understood it as you did: indifference.\\"<br />  (Czeslaw Milosz, \\"Elegy for N.N.\\")<br /><br />Here are the words of Carlos Drummond de Andrade, W.H. Auden, Jorge Luis Borges, Hart Crane, Allen Ginsberg, Henry Michaux, Ranier Maria Rilke, Theodore Roethke and Dylan Thomas, to name a few. With biographies and index, this volume reflects a century, events that changed the face of the globe, coexisting with intimate moments and small solitudes, all fragments of the whole, food for the soul, carefully selected, one hundred voices ringing. Luan Gaines/2005.\\" calls a nation to acknowledge the struggle, the great anguish of bent backs, hard work and irreconcilable loss:    \\"And the black hands strained and clawed and struggled in vain at       the noose that tightened about the black throat,  And the black hands waved and beat fearfully at the tall flames that       cooked and charred the black flesh...    And some day- and it is only this which sustains me-  Someday there shall be millions and millions of them,  On some red day in a burst of fists on a new horizon!\\"    Through the passage of the century, memories cling, fragments of the past, forgotten until discovered in the bottom of a drawer, or glimpsed in a photograph:    \\"No it was not because it was too far  you failed to visit me that day or night.  From year to year it grows in us until it takes hold  I understood it as you did: indifference.\\"      (Czeslaw Milosz, \\"Elegy for N.N.\\")    Here are the words of Carlos Drummond de Andrade, W.H. Auden, Jorge Luis Borges, Hart Crane, Allen Ginsberg, Henry Michaux, Ranier Maria Rilke, Theodore Roethke and Dylan Thomas, to name a few. With biographies and index, this volume reflects a century, events that changed the face of the globe, coexisting with intimate moments and small solitudes, all fragments of the whole, food for the soul, carefully selected, one hundred voices ringing. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-06-18
200017:US	51010391	R2YCVCFAESF1ZZ	0393059596	909636247	Blue Beyond Blue: Extraordinary Tales For Ordinary Dilemmas	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Fierce and provocative	Words have extraordinary power in our lives, whether transformative, shaming, uplifting or memorable. In Blue Beyond Blue, Lauren Slater takes a novel approach to the power of story, the concept of narrative therapy. In her introduction, Slater speaks to \\"externalization\\", the process of separating the person from the problem, giving the problem its own existence so that it can be dealt with: \\"patients come face to face with the subjugating language and plot points typically given to problems\\". The challenge, of course, is in facing the blank page, a daunting task for most, but one with manifold benefits.<br /><br />Slater carries this process one step further, into the magic realm of fairy tales, rejecting Bruno Bettelheim's Freudian approach of decades past as too limited, the reference too rigidly analytical. However, Slater does value the power in these tales from a child's perspective and their potential for healing. In any case, fairy tales were never meant only for children, but as folklore and social commentary, passed from one generation to the next. One only has to peruse The Annotated Brothers Grimm to uncover an abundance of metaphors, the stories reflecting far more than the obvious.<br /><br />Here Slater pens a collection of her own fairy tales, exploring the complicated dynamics of family, moral issues and the inconsistencies of romantic love. The small, provocative tales are revelatory, couched in the language of fable but based in the resolution of conflict, fierce and graphic, such titles as: \\"Placebo\\", My Girlfriend's Arm\\", \\"The Fairy of Lost Things\\", \\"Six Green Bottles\\" and \\"Gretel's Witch\\". Not to be missed: \\"Blue Beyond Blue\\", where a mother cuts off her daughter's wings to keep her near; \\"The Gun\\", a beautifully disguised metaphor for the evolution of a changing female identity; \\"A Daughter's Tale\\", the fable of a Chinese princess born to a mother who will not bind her daughter's feet in the traditional manner; and \\"Ruby Red\\", the truth about Snow White's wicked stepmother, this version injecting elements of family dysfunction far beyond a sleeping princess waiting for the kiss of her Prince Charming. At the core of all is the essence of femaleness, the ties that bind and sever, the bonds of blood that define a woman in the world.<br /><br />The beauty of a fairy tale lies in its ability to transcend the murky world of the subconscious, experience writ in a more manageable form, not unlike dancing with nightmares with the light on. Mother-daughter relationships, the ambiguities of sexual identity, familiar archetypes turned unrecognizable, all are folded into fables that spill from the pages of Blue Beyond Blue, humankind in all its splendor and depravity, differences fraught with emotional pain and isolation. We use stories like garden tools to till the soil of memory, pulling weeds out by their roots so that healthy plants may bloom. In graphic prose, with color a metaphor for feelings, these lyrical tales are seeded with wisdom and imagination: \\"it is memory, not magic that brings comfort\\". Luan Gaines/2005.bout Snow White's wicked stepmother, this version injecting elements of family dysfunction far beyond a sleeping princess waiting for the kiss of her Prince Charming. At the core of all is the essence of femaleness, the ties that bind and sever, the bonds of blood that define a woman in the world.  <br /> <br />The beauty of a fairy tale lies in its ability to transcend the murky world of the subconscious, experience writ in a more manageable form, not unlike dancing with nightmares with the light on. Mother-daughter relationships, the ambiguities of sexual identity, familiar archetypes turned unrecognizable, all are folded into fables that spill from the pages of Blue Beyond Blue, humankind in all its splendor and depravity, differences fraught with emotional pain and isolation. We use stories like garden tools to till the soil of memory, pulling weeds out by their roots so that healthy plants may bloom. In graphic prose, with color a metaphor for feelings, these lyrical tales are seeded with wisdom and imagination: \\"it is memory, not magic that brings comfort\\". Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-06-18
203045:US	51010391	R3G4Y93UQP9YY1	0375405380	198582056	The Power of the Dog	Books	4	40	46	N	N	(4.5) "Deliver my soul from the sword"	\\"El poder del perro\\"; The Power of the Dog. This novel delivers a healthy dose of reality, shadowing drug enforcement agencies, from the poppy fields of South America to the Mexican border. Laced with the politics of self-deception and political agendas, much goes unreported and unacknowledged as the US continues indefensible relationships with despots who perpetuate the violence of a drug-related economy.<br /><br />Against this background, one figure traces the advances of the drug economy. Since Operation Condor in Sinaloa in 1975, Art Keller has been tracking the drug industry's recurring faces. A Company Man, Keller is one of the \\"lost, the lonely, the cultural misfits with a foot in two worlds and a place in neither, half-Anglo and Half-Mexican\\". North American fire power and munitions meet South American business-as-usual, a disheartening mix of military power in the hands of the politically untouchable who decimate the country's economy in pursuit of profit. Keller pursues one small corner of this world, but he does so doggedly, revealing the complicated infrastructure and government involvement along the US-Mexican border.<br /><br />Keller is infected with guilt; he once was duped by the man who is now a key player, Miguel Angel Barrera. But Keller handles most of his business outside of the purview of the government agencies, a lethal alphabet soup of DEA, FBI and ATF, all committed to keeping a lid on the current problems. Art believes all Third World slums are the same, \\"the same mud or dust, depending on climate or season, the same smells of charcoal stoves and open sewers...malnourished kids with distended bellies and big eyes\\".  At least in Guadalajara, the middle class softens the edge between rich and poor. Not so in the South American countries, reduced to abject poverty and a tiny percentage of ultra-rich. South America is a killing ground, where the poor are slaughtered with impunity.<br /><br />Following the corruption endemic to the drug trade, from Operation Condor in Sinaloa in1975, Guadalajara in 1984, El Salvador in 1985, Mexico and NAFTA in 1992 through the late nineties, is like descending the levels of Hell, each more complicated and fraught with moral indictments, the exorbitant cost of the lesser of two evils, where moral ambiguity becomes the coin of the realm. Art Keller's personal journey, navigating this particular nightmare, illustrates how deeply flawed is the attempt to control illegal substances.<br /><br />This kind of fiction serves a dual purpose: it entertains and informs. While Winslow writes a fascinating fiction of drug trafficking and those it touches so intimately, he also exposes the agencies who have failed to control the uncontrollable, yielding a massacre of thousands in the name of profit, a system of bribery and corruption so endemic that each layer only reveals another, a mix of murderers and drug lords who act with impunity to protect a way of life. In a blistering indictment of the War on Drugs, American support of Third World guerillas financed by the illegal narcotics trade and the easy greed of officials who sell their accommodation to the highest bidder, Winslow spins a powerful yarn that is both informative and disturbing: \\"The hardest thing in the world isn't to refrain from committing an evil, it's to stand up and stop one.\\" Luan Gaines/2005.rug trade, from Operation Condor in Sinaloa in1975, Guadalajara in 1984, El Salvador in 1985, Mexico and NAFTA in 1992 through the late nineties, is like descending the levels of Hell, each more complicated and fraught with moral indictments, the exorbitant cost of the lesser of two evils, where moral ambiguity becomes the coin of the realm. Art Keller's personal journey, navigating this particular nightmare, illustrates how deeply flawed is the attempt to control illegal substances. <br /> <br />This kind of fiction serves a dual purpose: it entertains and informs. While Winslow writes a fascinating fiction of drug trafficking and those it touches so intimately, he also exposes the agencies who have failed to control the uncontrollable, yielding a massacre of thousands in the name of profit, a system of bribery and corruption so endemic that each layer only reveals another, a mix of murderers and drug lords who act with impunity to protect a way of life. In a blistering indictment of the War on Drugs, American support of Third World guerillas financed by the illegal narcotics trade and the easy greed of officials who sell their accommodation to the highest bidder, Winslow spins a powerful yarn that is both informative and disturbing: \\"The hardest thing in the world isn't to refrain from committing an evil, it's to stand up and stop one.\\" Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-06-15
203760:US	51010391	R2OQJY31LYGUKC	0975251732	574695294	Our Napoleon in Rags	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Tilting at windmills	Author Kirby Gann appreciates life's ambiguities, especially couched in human form. With a keen eye and finely tuned wit, he assembles an eclectic group of misfits, who gather nightly to commiserate with each other at the neighborhood watering hole, the Don Quixote. At the center of all is Haycraft Keebler, \\"political philosopher and populist idealist, manic-depressive man-about-town\\", quietly subversive character.<br /><br />The proprietors of the Don Q are especially protective of Keebler, self-appointed guardians of \\"Our Napoleon in Rags\\". Haycraft is ever brewing one scheme or another, small anarchies to challenge neighborhood complacency. Haycraft has a soft spot for the down-and-out, kindred souls who need a helping hand or a floor to sleep on, but everyone is concerned when Haycraft shows up with Lambret Dillinger, a fifteen-year old or so street hustler and graffiti artist with a penchant for sniffing aerosol cans. But Haycraft sees a spark there and nurtures the boy's burgeoning intellect.<br /><br />The cast of characters could be out of a Dicken's novel, as colorful and eccentric as any 19th century denizens of the wrong side of the tracks: Beau and Glenda Stiles, owners of the Don Quixote; Romeo Diaz, who believes that \\"sex is liberation\\", hopelessly in love with Anantha Bliss, ex-ballet dancer turner stripper and internet diva; Chesley Sutherland, a local policeman temporarily off duty for use of excessive force, who watches over the patrons of the bar; and the inimitable Mather Williams, sometimes helper at the Don Q, who lives in Romeo's basement and creates his own unique works of art, a combination of drawings, kitsch and colored markers.<br /><br />In a complicated web of self-delusion, misplaced affections and the afflictions of poverty, these odd characters act out their small dramas, stumbling over one another in their eagerness to accomplish something meaningful in their disappointing lives. Real problems are handled with a Victorian flare by an author with compassion for the human condition. A master of the soliloquy, Gann does his characters proud, each caught in the vacuum of fate, with only each other for comfort. Luan Gaines/2005.e by an author with compassion for the human condition. A master of the soliloquy, Gann does his characters proud, each caught in the vacuum of fate, with only each other for comfort. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-06-15
207667:US	51010391	R33176THMOV9LL	0425202488	676066954	The Turquoise Ring	Books	3	1	2	N	N	(3.5) Fact and fiction in a silver setting	In 16th century Venice, the Jews escape the harsh dictums of the Spanish Inquisition, fleeing their homes in Toledo for the security of more distant lands, free from torture and immolation for their beliefs. While Spain is cluttered with the burnt remains of autos-da-fe, those who remain as conversos, or New Christians, live in constant fear. Shiloh ben Gozan, a moneylender, now resides in Venice with his daughter, Jessica. Her mother, Leah, was tortured and cast out, when her persecutors realized birth was imminent. Shiloh cannot save his wife, but carries a turquoise ring given to him by Leah upon their marriage. Yet even in the more liberal Venice, Jews are marked as such by the garments they must wear in public, a yellow turban and a red badge.<br /><br />Shiloh's servant in Venice, Nerissa, gets by on her wits, looking to better her station. When Shiloh fires Nerissa for inappropriate behavior with male callers, she acts as a go-between for Jessica and Lorenzo di Scimmia, son of a wealthy Christian. Jessica eventually elopes with Lorenzo, stealing her father's silver coin and Leah's turquoise ring. Running away with her new husband, Jessica trades the ring for a pet monkey, unaware of the ring's value to her father.<br /><br />The fate of the turquoise ring propels the story, as it falls to the ownership of others, from Leah to Shiloh to Jessica, then to a merchant. A Spanish sailor steals the ring from a merchant, carrying it to the estate of Lady Portia Bel Mente in Treviso. Portia is currently interviewing suitors in a complicated test to win her hand according to her father's will. Nerissa is at Portia's side, now a close friend and confidant. The women met in Venice and have come to Portia's estate to escape the restrictions of society. Another key character is Xanthe, a servant in Portia's household who is a Moor and the daughter of a Jew.<br /><br />Portia recovers the turquoise ring, ignorant of its history but with her own plans for its disposition. Thereafter, the ring falls into Xanthe's hands, the one woman who holds the secret of the ring, linking past to present. Each of these five women play a critical part, as the ring passes from hand to hand, touching the lives of Jews and Christians alike, an artifact of circumstance. These women reflect the chaos and religious paranoia of the times: Leah, tortured for her religious beliefs, giving birth before she expires; Jessica, raised in Shiloh's traditional Jewish home, rejecting his  teachings to marry a Christian of noble birth and ignoble intentions; Nerissa, Jessica's maid, who goes on to match wits with the soon-to-be-wealthy Portia, a cherished friend; and Xanthe, Portia's servant and keeper of secrets, who recognizes Leah's face in that of her daughter, Jessica.<br /><br />Tiffany, a connoisseur of all things Shakespearean, blends the lives and fortunes of these five women in a tale that touches on the terrible destruction of the Spanish Inquisition and the merchants of Venice, their economy flourishing with the trade of the Jews who have come from Spain.  It is the women, mostly powerless, who manipulate the society of men to accomplish their dreams. In a take on The Merchant of Venice from a woman's perspective, fact and fiction blend together in a tale of misspent fortunes, religious intolerance, tattered relationships and the excesses of a century in transition. Luan Gaines/2005.sposition. Thereafter, the ring falls into Xanthe's hands, the one woman who holds the secret of the ring, linking past to present. Each of these five women play a critical part, as the ring passes from hand to hand, touching the lives of Jews and Christians alike, an artifact of circumstance. These women reflect the chaos and religious paranoia of the times: Leah, tortured for her religious beliefs, giving birth before she expires; Jessica, raised in Shiloh's traditional Jewish home, rejecting his  teachings to marry a Christian of noble birth and ignoble intentions; Nerissa, Jessica's maid, who goes on to match wits with the soon-to-be-wealthy Portia, a cherished friend; and Xanthe, Portia's servant and keeper of secrets, who recognizes Leah's face in that of her daughter, Jessica. <br /> <br />Tiffany, a connoisseur of all things Shakespearean, blends the lives and fortunes of these five women in a tale that touches on the terrible destruction of the Spanish Inquisition and the merchants of Venice, their economy flourishing with the trade of the Jews who have come from Spain.  It is the women, mostly powerless, who manipulate the society of men to accomplish their dreams. In a take on The Merchant of Venice from a woman's perspective, fact and fiction blend together in a tale of misspent fortunes, religious intolerance, tattered relationships and the excesses of a century in transition. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-06-11
210417:US	51010391	R2NFHUCP8IHUHH	1596921196	678546950	You Poor Monster: or This Should Answer Your Questions, My Son	Books	3	10	13	N	N	A little bit goes a long way	The hapless Hamilton \\"Ham\\" Ashe is a man of good intentions who tends to get mired in uncomfortable situations, as easy mark for smooth talkers. Ham's biggest problem is a soft heart that gets in the way of business, the perfect target for the ubiquitous and overbearing Sam Shoogey, self-promoter extraordinaire. A womanizer and a blowhard, Shoogey infiltrates Ham's life, haggling over temporary alimony and the details of his upcoming divorce, filling the air with tales of his exploits.<br /><br />Shoogey is a man without boundaries and Ashe is the perfect prey, too well-mannered to insult his pushy client. Strangely enough, when visiting the library, Ham cannot locate any of the five novels that Shoogey claims to have written. Perhaps they are out of print, Sam opines. Perhaps not. It is discrepancies like this that lead Ham to question virtually everything Sam has ever told him. Like a bad case of halitosis, Shoogey just will not go away, as attached to his \\"friend\\" as a conjoined twin.<br /><br />Ham's predicament continues for a couple of years, during which other, equally dubious cases come into play, until Ham's life is a hash of ongoing litigations without satisfactory results. Does Sam Shoogey ever tell the truth about anything? Do we even care? In the end, this is a mildly entertaining, quasi-stream-of-consciousness story with dialog, a maze of truths and untruths about the mythology a man builds around himself and the lawyer who believes him, riding a roller coaster of small dramas ad infinitum.<br /><br />The characters are difficult to define, since they only speak the truth as they know it, the plot both confusing and frustrating...or nonexistent. The endnotes following the final chapter only obfuscate the tale, more stream-of-something. The protagonist, Hamilton \\"Ham\\" Ashe, manages to pull himself out of a believable muddle in My Wife and My Dead Wife, but You Poor Monster never attempts such resolution. I was hoping You Poor Monster would pull together, but the plot never comes together for me. If another reviewer makes more sense of this novel, please let me know. I find Hamilton a sympathetic character and would like to see him do well in the hands of Mr. Kun. Perhaps Hamilton can request a change of venue. Luan Gaines/2005.gether, but the plot never comes together for me. If another reviewer makes more sense of this novel, please let me know. I find Hamilton a sympathetic character and would like to see him do well in the hands of Mr. Kun. Perhaps Hamilton can request a change of venue. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-06-09
210753:US	51010391	R2NOVR970N3HUY	0393058190	786726018	Departure: Poems	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An imaginative landscape	In flashes of brilliance, Warren calls forth the image of a god, striding down a hillside \\"vomiting down/ its loosened jaw of scree.\\" It is in such moments that changes are wrought, but often go unnoticed:<br /><br />\\"any day, any ordinary hour, when all we see<br /><br />is a peculiar, shivering brilliance in the air<br /><br />like a premonition of migraine; and no one else can see<br /><br />later, how in such a flash, the dark came there.\\" (Arrival)<br /><br />The word \\"mother\\" hovers frequently and cannot help but remind of another mother, brought to life on the pages:<br /><br />\\"facing death, my<br /><br />mother gripped the bedrails but still<br /><br />stared straight ahead- and<br /><br />who was it, finally,<br /><br />who loosened<br /><br />her hands?\\"  (Simile)<br /><br />The words of the poet are incredibly personal, as each line resonates, the shared thoughts brought together, filling the mind with possibilities, with connections and memories. The images evoked by Warren are larger than life, caught in the web of myth, yet made accessible to imagination. Ancient civilization meets the modern world, from archetype to the aching loss of a loved one, classical feet mired in feet of clay. Warren speaks with a singular voice, phrases that capture a moment for eternity: \\"It is enough, this moment, not to speak. To touch your hand.\\" (Ecologue). Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-06-09
211852:US	51010391	R161LS851O6QNM	0393050858	371990699	Caliban's Shore: The Wreck of the Grosvenor and the Strange Fate of Her Survivors	Books	4	23	24	N	N	The Grosvenor: separating truth from myth	\\"Lost at sea\\", a phrase that makes the blood run cold. Even worse, was the fate of the East India vessel, the Grosvenor, in 1782, shipwrecked off the coast of Africa, at the mercy of the elements and indigenous peoples.<br /><br />Heading home to London from Calcutta under Captain John Coxon, the rigid social apparatus that governed English society in India applied on board the Grosvenor as well. Those of wealth and position received the same deference they enjoyed on land, the quality passengers purchasing pride of place on an Indiaman overloaded with valuable cargo. On one disastrous night, as the ship crashed into the unfriendly coast of Pondoland in Africa, any social advantages disintegrated as the survivors struggled toward land. Castaways all, the survivors were faced with a terrible dilemma, whether to remain near the wreck or attempt to reach the safety of a settlement.<br /><br />Without authoritative leadership, the 126 survivors made critical errors in judgment, intimidated by the indigenous natives, their weapons useless without gunpowder and little knowledge of the unexplored terrain. There was a curious lack of heroism among the men who made it to shore, as they scrambled to save themselves, ignoring the plight of those less able.<br /><br />The fate of the women and children left behind in the march became a source of many unanswered questions, the grist of myth, finally a black mark against the honor of the East India Company. Only a handful of the original 140 passengers survived, along with frequent rumors of white women assimilated into the local tribes. The fertile imagination of the English fed upon the fearful distortions that saw the delicate white women and children at the mercy of \\"savages\\", when their ultimate peril was at the hands of the men who should have protected them. The concept of \\"women and children first\\" had yet to be accepted into the social fabric of shipboard etiquette.<br /><br />Society as they knew it all but disappeared, as people of quality were reduced to the same desperate straights as the common folk. Even more shocking, however, is the lack of cohesion among the survivors. There is little evidence of the espirit d'corps of later such misadventures. Instead, various groups continually splintered off from the original number, drastically reducing the chances of the more helpless, especially the women, children and the wounded. Captain Coxon was indeed a villain. Although not literally responsible once they were on land, Coxon did accept the leadership position, a mistake that was to cost the majority of the survivors their lives. His arrogance and misconduct did not come to light for many years, due to the lack of accurate reporting.<br /><br />Taylor's account of the Grosvenor is compelling, drawn from a variety sources, especially since the tragedy occurred before journalism was freed from conjecture and common gossip, when any outrageous rumor was printed as truth. That and the paucity of written documentation led Taylor to sift through a century of supposition and lurid tales from India to England, including the fate of women living with natives, raising new families. Such gossip served as fodder for a years of bizarre tales and Taylor's painstaking research does much to clarify the fate of the Grosvenor survivors. Dramatic, heartrending  and shocking, Taylor proves that truth is indeed stranger than fiction. Luan Gaines/2005.but disappeared, as people of quality were reduced to the same desperate straights as the common folk. Even more shocking, however, is the lack of cohesion among the survivors. There is little evidence of the espirit d'corps of later such misadventures. Instead, various groups continually splintered off from the original number, drastically reducing the chances of the more helpless, especially the women, children and the wounded. Captain Coxon was indeed a villain. Although not literally responsible once they were on land, Coxon did accept the leadership position, a mistake that was to cost the majority of the survivors their lives. His arrogance and misconduct did not come to light for many years, due to the lack of accurate reporting. <br /> <br />Taylor's account of the Grosvenor is compelling, drawn from a variety sources, especially since the tragedy occurred before journalism was freed from conjecture and common gossip, when any outrageous rumor was printed as truth. That and the paucity of written documentation led Taylor to sift through a century of supposition and lurid tales from India to England, including the fate of women living with natives, raising new families. Such gossip served as fodder for a years of bizarre tales and Taylor's painstaking research does much to clarify the fate of the Grosvenor survivors. Dramatic, heartrending  and shocking, Taylor proves that truth is indeed stranger than fiction. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-06-08
215232:US	51010391	R11SKT2YGFO01G	0393058239	152712788	No Direction Home	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Life on the edge of chaos	Abandonment leaves a scar that is all but invisible, but lies, corrosive, next to the heart that bears such a burden. No Direction Home tells the stories of abandonment in its many forms, the men who run from their families, the wives and children left to cope with unexpected grief and the long road to forgiveness, a treachery-laden path, at best.<br /><br />Ten-year old twins, Will and Nathan, are born with impaired vision, a disappointment to their astronomer father, who seeks solace in the beauty and mystery of the universe. When Frank abandons Caroline and the boys, Will takes the blame unto himself, certain his father would have stayed if he had been the right kind of son. Caroline left California, reinventing herself in Missouri, wife to Frank and twin sons, only to find herself abandoned once more, her father's leaving still fresh in her grownup mind.<br /><br />Caroline's father, Victor, returns home eventually, his acting career on the descent, life with Eleanor a quiet oasis after bachelor apartments and casual acquaintances. What neither anticipated is Eleanor's swift decline into dementia. Now Victor cares for his ailing wife, a woman's whose mind is no longer accessible to her daughter, Caroline. Grown weary from the burden of caretaker, Vincent hires Amador, an illegal immigrant with family problems of his own, wife and children left behind in Mexico. Victor admires Amador's quietude: \\"to be present and not present at the same time is a quality that recommends a person to such unrequited duty\\". In truth, Amador cannot speak Victor's language.<br /><br />Caroline returns, her sons in tow, to Eleanor's small house in Los Angeles, trekking across country, hoping for a fresh start once they reach their destination. Victor is uncomfortable with his daughter, without a sense of her adult self. To Vincent, \\"Caroline is like a room full of funhouse mirrors. He doesn't want to act trapped and end up staring at his elongated or horrifically fattened self\\". Meanwhile, two teenagers, one from Mexico and the other from the Midwest, set out on their own, making their way to the same destination. Rogelio is Amador's fourteen-year old son and Marlene is Frank's daughter from an earlier relationship, each determined to locate an errant father. Theirs is the world of the streets, the inherent dangers of moving unprotected through a treacherous underground.<br /><br />The author creates a variety of characters, each voice blended into a chorus of hopes, needs and unanswered questions. None have expectations, but all are driven to the source, their fathers, men as befuddled as their wives and children, but who retain the power to change lives. Silver's prose is insightful, deeply empathetic and nonjudgmental, focused on individual struggles for connection and the all-too-human face of suffering, a language charged with grace. Trenchant observations render this novel a pleasure to read, the intimate details exposing the characters' vulnerabilities. There are lessons here, clues to navigating a random world made livable by those we love and the unexpected bounty of forgiveness. Ultimately, Caroline realizes \\"that it is not given to us to occupy the life we live, that we must choose each day to be present\\". Luan Gaines/2005.hile, two teenagers, one from Mexico and the other from the Midwest, set out on their own, making their way to the same destination. Rogelio is Amador's fourteen-year old son and Marlene is Frank's daughter from an earlier relationship, each determined to locate an errant father. Theirs is the world of the streets, the inherent dangers of moving unprotected through a treacherous underground.<br /><br />The author creates a variety of characters, each voice blended into a chorus of hopes, needs and unanswered questions. None have expectations, but all are driven to the source, their fathers, men as befuddled as their wives and children, but who retain the power to change lives. Silver's prose is insightful, deeply empathetic and nonjudgmental, focused on individual struggles for connection and the all-too-human face of suffering, a language charged with grace. Trenchant observations render this novel a pleasure to read, the intimate details exposing the characters' vulnerabilities. There are lessons here, clues to navigating a random world made livable by those we love and the unexpected bounty of forgiveness. Ultimately, Caroline realizes \\"that it is not given to us to occupy the life we live, that we must choose each day to be present\\". Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-06-05
216264:US	51010391	R3U6WOPHMF8ZZR	061856828X	189151308	An Unfinished Season: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A slow dance through 1950's Chicago	Wilson Ravan is on the cusp of the rest of his life, the years with his parents soon to be left behind, childhood memories to be savored in his own middle age. Wils has flashes of insight into the inherent complications of marriage, but is preoccupied with his own emerging future. A child of 50's Chicago, Wils' generation is informed by a black and white world, capitalism, Communism and the opportunities for renewal after a world war. Wilson echoes his parents' choices, college, the coming out parties of North Shore debutantes, an esoteric blend of wealth and privilege: \\"So that year we all grew apart, secessionist provinces of an unstable nation\\".<br /><br />In An Unfinished Season, the characters embody a sense of place that is extraordinary, reflecting the history of the Eisenhower years, post-World War II, when conservative ideology permeates a generation of businessmen, industrialists and rabid anti-Communists. Power is a recurring theme in the novel, the events that shake a man's beliefs and alter his worldview irrevocably. The McCarthy era is indicative of the country's mentality and the Ravan family staunchly supports current policy, especially Teddy Ravan, his business mired in a strike by the workers. Teddy feel betrayed: \\"You played as a team for the team, a philosophy that endured a lifetime.\\"<br /><br />As the 40-something Wils looks back over that fateful summer before college in Chicago, he savors that lost innocence, but has moved away from the class distinctions his parents embraced, a man who has devoted his life to a different set of values. But back then, running from day job at a tabloid newspaper to nights at debutante balls, Wils drifts back and forth between these unique universes, savoring the differences, the subtle nuances missed by most young men his age. In a way, the young Wils is simply the unformed, older Wils, already watching and questioning the values of those around him.<br /><br />Wils becomes infatuated with Aurora Brule, the daughter of a prominent Chicago psychiatrist, a troubled man at best. Through his intense pursuit of Aurora, Wils stumbles over his own best intentions, his heart victim to youthful hubris, the undoing of first love as Wils misjudges Aurora's commitment when challenged by tragedy. With a natural temperament older than his nineteen years, Wils is a watcher, always on the way to the rest of his life, caught up in the present without noticing his missteps, too busy planning the years ahead with Aurora.<br /><br />This is a remarkable book on many levels, deeply intuitive and observant. It is the subtle weaving of all the elements, politics, the tools of power, a nation on the rebound from World War II but soon to engage the Korean War, parents caught in the complexities of their maturing marriage and the utopian life of the North Shore debutantes, a sheltered arena, where the future offers only promise and wealth. The prose is richly textured and compelling, a delicate balance of Chicago politics, interpersonal relationships and the rarified world of privilege. Finally, Wils' life assumes a shape he never imagined, where \\"winning was not the only thing; often, it wasn't anything\\". Luan Gaines/2005.a Brule, the daughter of a prominent Chicago psychiatrist, a troubled man at best. Through his intense pursuit of Aurora, Wils stumbles over his own best intentions, his heart victim to youthful hubris, the undoing of first love as Wils misjudges Aurora's commitment when challenged by tragedy. With a natural temperament older than his nineteen years, Wils is a watcher, always on the way to the rest of his life, caught up in the present without noticing his missteps, too busy planning the years ahead with Aurora. <br /> <br />This is a remarkable book on many levels, deeply intuitive and observant. It is the subtle weaving of all the elements, politics, the tools of power, a nation on the rebound from World War II but soon to engage the Korean War, parents caught in the complexities of their maturing marriage and the utopian life of the North Shore debutantes, a sheltered arena, where the future offers only promise and wealth. The prose is richly textured and compelling, a delicate balance of Chicago politics, interpersonal relationships and the rarified world of privilege. Finally, Wils' life assumes a shape he never imagined, where \\"winning was not the only thing; often, it wasn't anything\\". Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-06-04
217881:US	51010391	R3BFKNPE199LM	0060742887	382907390	Devil's Corner	Books	3	4	5	N	N	"The urban vision of the house that Jack built"	Devil's corner is just another part of hell, one of Philadelphia's drug-infested slums, where desperate addicts wander in search of a fix. The trade is brisk on the dark streets, where crime thrives with impunity.<br /><br />Victoria Allegretti's father grew up in this place, so when a brutal row house murder brings the Assistant US Attorney to the neighborhood, she thinks about her father growing up here years before in a home ruled by poverty but never as desolate as the wasteland it has become. On one fateful night, Vicki is caught in the crossfire of an interrupted robbery, her friend from ATF shot down while she watches. Since then, even though she has been warned by her boss, the AUSA can't let go of her self-styled mission for justice.<br /><br />Vicki's CI was killed the night of the gun battle as well as the ATF agent, so Allegretti resources the case files, choosing to work with the one person who can possibly help her, Reheema Bristow. Reheema refuses to cooperate at first, or discuss her part in the case, but when her crack-addicted mother is brutally murdered, the girl throws in with Allegretti. Vicki was at the woman's house right before Mrs. Bristow was killed; if not a suspect, she is certainly a person of interest.<br /><br />Various city and federal agencies wrestle for jurisdiction, each stating the case for precedence in the murders. But Vicki and Reheema cut through the red tape, using cell phone images from their surveillance of drug dealers at Devil's Corner to inform the local cops of drug activity. While working undercover, albeit without her boss' consent, Allegretti forgets the importance of legal procedure, jumping to conclusions in her enthusiasm and putting emotions before professionalism, which is a serious mistake while on the job.<br /><br />Vicki and Reheema make a curious pair. It is hard to imagine either woman willing to get down and dirty in thug life without getting spotted by the dealers or in some way compromised on the street. But for the sake of the story, this odd couple stakes out Devil's Corner, snapping pictures of the criminals in action, piecing together the plot behind Reheema's Federal indictment and the murder of her mother. In the end, Victoria successfully circumnavigates the very system she works within, acronyms and all, proving herself invaluable in solving a complicated case, restoring her credibility as a functioning agent of the court system.<br /><br />Scottoline's fans will hail Devil's Corner as another timely adventure, her new heroine establishing street creds and a heart of gold, helping Reheema to a viable life sans crime. Her romantic aspirations rising from the ashes, Allegretti proves a worthy opponent of crime, a champion of the underdog and a winner in the game of love. Luan Gaines/2005mpromised on the street. But for the sake of the story, this odd couple stakes out Devil's Corner, snapping pictures of the criminals in action, piecing together the plot behind Reheema's Federal indictment and the murder of her mother. In the end, Victoria successfully circumnavigates the very system she works within, acronyms and all, proving herself invaluable in solving a complicated case, restoring her credibility as a functioning agent of the court system. <br /> <br />Scottoline's fans will hail Devil's Corner as another timely adventure, her new heroine establishing street creds and a heart of gold, helping Reheema to a viable life sans crime. Her romantic aspirations rising from the ashes, Allegretti proves a worthy opponent of crime, a champion of the underdog and a winner in the game of love. Luan Gaines/2005	2005-06-03
218070:US	51010391	R18ZHS2PS75NKX	0151012504	184264350	Red Leaves	Books	4	4	6	N	N	"Dread is a kind of humility"	One minute Eric Moore's family enjoys a peaceful, well-ordered life; then a tragic event changes everything, the facade of happiness ripped away, exposing cracks and fissures that have been there all along. Then Eric's son, Keith, babysits an eight-year old girl, Amy Giordano, and the world as they know it changes overnight. The following morning, Amy is missing, her father is convinced that Keith knows what happened to his daughter.<br /><br />Eric has lived a complacent life, at least as an adult, closed off from the memories of his mother's death, when her car plunged from a bridge, the cancer that stole his beautiful sister and the general disharmony of his family of origin. His new family, wife Meredith and son Keith, is vastly different, with a lovely home, satisfying work and a teenaged son beset only with the demons of adolescence. Eric's life is surrounded by a sort of determined sturdiness, like his brick barbeque or his house, built to survive the elements, like \\"bacon and brewing coffee, odors that mark a family man as sure as perfume betrays a bounder\\".<br /><br />Amy's disappearance exposes them all, as Eric doubts his son's veracity, fearful that Keith is hiding terrible secrets beyond the usual teenaged angst. \\"In life, it is not what we see but what we choose to be blind to that sustains us.\\" Suspicion corrodes everything it touches, Eric and Meredith's relationship with their son, with each other, the town's innocence and gradual mistrust of a shy fifteen-year old boy, Eric's fear of what lies in Keith's hidden thoughts. The mystery of the child's whereabouts sets off a chain reaction that affects anyone who saw her that last day, especially Keith. Finally, Eric's suspicion \\"turns into a raging affliction\\" and he wants answers to everything, his father's cryptic remarks, his mother's untimely death, Keith's secretiveness, Meredith's judging, all of it.<br /><br />Cook eviscerates complacency in any form, especially the well-lived life suddenly infected with the seed of doubt, the ugly eye of suspicion cast randomly, searching for some place to land. This distrust eats away the family connections once smoothly aligned, now jagged and distorted, ill-fitted. Meredith grows more volatile, Keith more defiant, the town's facade altered by the loss of an eight-year old girl. The author handles a sensitive topic with fearless attention to detail, the small moments and misjudgments, careless conclusions and dangerous assumptions. The ending is heartbreaking, appropriate to the kind of turmoil unleashed in this story. In an age when everything moves too fast and the answers are too readily at hand, this author spins a cautionary tale that is poignant and profoundly disturbing. Luan Gaines/2005.y infected with the seed of doubt, the ugly eye of suspicion cast randomly, searching for some place to land. This distrust eats away the family connections once smoothly aligned, now jagged and distorted, ill-fitted. Meredith grows more volatile, Keith more defiant, the town's facade altered by the loss of an eight-year old girl. The author handles a sensitive topic with fearless attention to detail, the small moments and misjudgments, careless conclusions and dangerous assumptions. The ending is heartbreaking, appropriate to the kind of turmoil unleashed in this story. In an age when everything moves too fast and the answers are too readily at hand, this author spins a cautionary tale that is poignant and profoundly disturbing. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-06-03
224028:US	51010391	RC351AKOXEJS8	0786714328	719800615	Bourbon Street	Books	4	3	5	N	N	"The past crawled all over the city...	...like insects on a carcass.\\" In prose that shines with originality and images that burn the psyche, Bourbon Street is liberally laced with the violence that is endemic to the novel, set in 1958 New Orleans, where a mixed-race son, the fruit of a damned coupling, is pitted against his lot in life. The story is riddled with breathtaking moments of unexpected brutality that quickly fades into the chaotic merriment of Mardi Gras insanity, the dizzy swirl of instant gratification, the wild, decadent dance before All Saint's Day shuts down the Devil's celebration for a brief period of atonement.<br /><br />The story opens with a poker game at L'Hotel Moreau, this time infused with the fresh blood of Deke Watley, a marginally successful gambler out of his depth with these players. Watley has been invited to sit in on Alex Moreau's game, although the Texan soon finds that there is more in store for him than a game of cards. Psyched for the challenge and eager to win, Watley is astonished when he runs into Hannah, a woman from his shameful past. Years ago, Deke turned his back on Hannah, an act he has since regretted. It is unbelievable that he should find her now in this place.<br /><br />Once Deke discovers Hannah, the skeletons rattle free from their cobwebbed closets, old secrets freed, haunting tales of love, hate and simmering rage. August Moreau virtually owned Alex's mother, a black woman of great strength and pride, certainly a match for the man's unbridled hubris. Their endless power struggle pushes them to the brink, where the black woman is left dead and the wealthy white man blinded. August's casual brutality is passed on to a son who barely knows the meaning of affection. Trapped in the horrific tableau of his parent's contretemps, Alex's sole mission is to avenge his mother's unspeakable death.<br /><br />Both Alex and August have committed unspeakable acts, surrounded by the decadent souls who live in their sick world, tied to the elder Moreau by greed or infamy. In this tug of war all are pawns, even Hannah and Deke, and nothing is as it first appears. Rapier-like, Gaiter's incisive prose slashes through these distorted lives, ripping away genteel facades, a monochromatic wasteland soaked in the bright red of spilled blood, human elixir reduced to a common hue. Purging his character's embattled emotions, Gaiter lays bare the truth of racial hatred, the distortions of years spent in a silent war, the child paying the exorbitant price of his parent's destructive union.<br /><br />In his black-hearted thriller, the author mines the dark side of human nature, where betrayal oozes from every corner, giving no quarter, each character face to face with his own worst nightmare and sold-out soul. The hall of mirrors becomes a house of horrors as the occupants of L'Hotel Moreau are sacrificed to their greed and the consuming rage of a broken son, as Alex degenerates finally into the same monstrous decadence of his father. None of the characters, after all, are redeemable. Luan Gaines/2005.Moreau by greed or infamy. In this tug of war all are pawns, even Hannah and Deke, and nothing is as it first appears. Rapier-like, Gaiter's incisive prose slashes through these distorted lives, ripping away genteel facades, a monochromatic wasteland soaked in the bright red of spilled blood, human elixir reduced to a common hue. Purging his character's embattled emotions, Gaiter lays bare the truth of racial hatred, the distortions of years spent in a silent war, the child paying the exorbitant price of his parent's destructive union.  <br /> <br />In his black-hearted thriller, the author mines the dark side of human nature, where betrayal oozes from every corner, giving no quarter, each character face to face with his own worst nightmare and sold-out soul. The hall of mirrors becomes a house of horrors as the occupants of L'Hotel Moreau are sacrificed to their greed and the consuming rage of a broken son, as Alex degenerates finally into the same monstrous decadence of his father. None of the characters, after all, are redeemable. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br />	2005-05-29
224284:US	51010391	R4W0H6K2G1CQC	1931561907	391250830	In The Dark Of The Moon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	(4.5) "Now look what you've done"	Hudson's latest foray into the gothic South is masterful, a riveting tale of family secrets and lost daughters, what may well be a classic novel. The Lacey family has long enjoyed the privacy of money and privilege. Old Campbell Lacey is the family patriarch, often at odds with his wife, Lucille. Camp Lacey, the sheriff of Sumner, Georgia, voices the typical sentiment of the Southern male, superior and capricious in dealing with the blacks who tend to the family's needs. Jack Lacey, Camp's son and heir, lives without the distortions of prejudice that have so warped old man Lacey's thinking. A deputy sheriff, Jack has his hands full with a chronically depressed wife, Pearl, an unhappy woman who indulges daily in an excess of peach brandy, ignoring her daughter, Elizabeth.<br /><br />The conscientious Elizabeth carries the world on her shoulders, turning to her Bible for solace in a house of shadows, where propriety is paramount and affection is incidental. Given to the emotional extremes of her mother, Elizabeth is unstrung by violence of any kind, blaming herself for every injustice. A teen when World War II breaks out, Elizabeth is precocious and flirtatious. She loves to dance, unaware of the consequences of her provocative sexuality, devoting herself to entertaining the troops in service clubs. Invariably, Elizabeth falls in love with a con man more than willing to fulfill her romantic fantasies. On one fateful night, Elizabeth has an assignation with this man, an encounter that will leave her pregnant and lead to an unspeakable act that taints the town for years to come.<br /><br />Kansas Lacey enjoys her mother's love for only a few years, as Elizabeth barely clings to sanity, finally unable to continue with the anguish of her daily life. It is Kansas who is the beneficiary of the household servants, the women who so carefully tended the fragile and unraveling Elizabeth. Kansas reaches out to Pinky, Eula Lura's mother, now dying of cancer. Eula Lura, the Lacey family cook, bears the weight of Ned's death, her devoted husband who was lynched, his body found mutilated one foul morning after a midnight fishing trip. Eula Lura knows the identity of the murderer, holding that information close to her heart, waiting for the time to set things right. It is Pinky who reaches out to Kansas, recognizing the same despair as in her mother's eyes.<br /><br />On the cusp of the desegregation movement, the swaggering white men of Sumner brag of their exploits, the Ku Klux Klan blooming in the threat-laden atmosphere. It is in the midst of radical change that Kansas pieces together the fragments of her mother's life, the teasing, girlish insouciance that serves as a catalyst for so much violence, the Lacey family's murky past and the promise of a different future: \\"Kansas would think back on Southern Georgia's gathering swell of violence, when Schwerner, Goodman and Cheney ended up dead in the morally desolate Mississippi of Emmit Till's final summer.\\"<br /><br />In beautiful, studied prose, Hudson weaves a web of insidious evil that permeates Sumner through these historic years, the characters subtle and complicated, caught in the changing tides of history and their conflicted belief systems. Through Elizabeth's desperate struggle to accommodate a failing mind and her daughter's quest for connection, the strong, brown arms of their caretakers hold both girls tight, whispering of love and acceptance, enduring their own broken hearts and unredeemable wrongs. Hudson has written a powerful Southern novel of the coexistence of good and evil, the heart of darkness confronted by decency and the birth of freedom. Luan Gaines/2005.ula Lura, the Lacey family cook, bears the weight of Ned's death, her devoted husband who was lynched, his body found mutilated one foul morning after a midnight fishing trip. Eula Lura knows the identity of the murderer, holding that information close to her heart, waiting for the time to set things right. It is Pinky who reaches out to Kansas, recognizing the same despair as in her mother's eyes. <br /> <br />On the cusp of the desegregation movement, the swaggering white men of Sumner brag of their exploits, the Ku Klux Klan blooming in the threat-laden atmosphere. It is in the midst of radical change that Kansas pieces together the fragments of her mother's life, the teasing, girlish insouciance that serves as a catalyst for so much violence, the Lacey family's murky past and the promise of a different future: \\"Kansas would think back on Southern Georgia's gathering swell of violence, when Schwerner, Goodman and Cheney ended up dead in the morally desolate Mississippi of Emmit Till's final summer.\\" <br /> <br />In beautiful, studied prose, Hudson weaves a web of insidious evil that permeates Sumner through these historic years, the characters subtle and complicated, caught in the changing tides of history and their conflicted belief systems. Through Elizabeth's desperate struggle to accommodate a failing mind and her daughter's quest for connection, the strong, brown arms of their caretakers hold both girls tight, whispering of love and acceptance, enduring their own broken hearts and unredeemable wrongs. Hudson has written a powerful Southern novel of the coexistence of good and evil, the heart of darkness confronted by decency and the birth of freedom. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-05-29
224567:US	51010391	RX6HP2YP7FUMG	0446612758	960521744	Brimstone (Pendergast #5)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A case of curiosities	It is amazing how quickly superstition can alter the attitudes of logical people, especially when the ultimate evil is invoked: the devil. When Jeremy Grove is found dead, burned from the inside out, a cloven hoof etched into the carpet at the foot of the bed, the public is shocked and curious. But when there is a second, shall we say pungent death, the curiosity turns to fascination tinged with fear.<br /><br />FBI Agent Aloysius Pendergast appears at the scene of the crime in Southampton, surprised to see Vincent D'Agosta, who worked two cases with him in New York. D'Agosta is now a Sergeant for the Southampton Police department after a couple of years devoted to writing crime novels. D'Agosta's police training renders him overqualified for his current position and Pendergast requests the former New Yorker be assigned as liaison to the FBI. The scene shifts to the site of a second, equally gruesome murder in New York, where Pendergast and D'Agosta make the rounds of possible suspects, all of whom are well-heeled with plenty of skeletons to hide. They include Lady Milbanke, a poisonous gossip, connoisseur of absinthe and tireless s&eacute;ance organizer; Maurice Vilnius, an abstract impressionist who Grove declared so untalented as to be considered brave; the obese Count Fosco with a family villa in Tuscany; and Jonathan Frederick, art critic for Art & Antiques Magazine.<br /><br />The detective follows the urbane FBI agent from New York to Florence, Italy, on the trail of a sinister suspect up to a bit of corporate espionage, at the very least. By the time of the third incendiary death, our heroes pursue the stone killer through a labyrinthine series of booby traps. While nurturing a potential romantic relationship back in New York, D'Agosta has no choice but to back up the intrepid Pendergast, in a truly Machiavellian conspiracy.<br /><br />Brimstone is characterized by a Byzantine plot that points to murders of a most unnatural origin, reeking of evil intentions and the blackened souls of devotees of the netherworld. Suspend belief for a bit, following Pendergast's lead and you're in for a strange journey into the realm of faith and damnation. Logic fails and the mind leaps to more superstitious conclusions, as the authors mix and match a variety of bizarre characters, from the super-rich and powerful to the fanatical disciples who believe the Rapture is imminent, from learned professors of the supernatural to Biblical verses of doom, frantic policemen from New York to Florence, the esoteric and the anecdotal, all in a fine stew of \\"what if\\".<br /><br />If at times too fantastic, the plot exposes concurrent activities, all wrought by the original murder, from a Messianic reverend to Satan worshipers, ageing monks and foreign assassins, all pursued by Pendergast with his usual aplomb, D'Agosta his faithful shadow. Always over the edge, Pendergast pushes the envelope one more time, dipping into a healthy serving of fire and brimstone, a fast-paced, if exotic adventure into another world. Luan Gaines/2005.and the blackened souls of devotees of the netherworld. Suspend belief for a bit, following Pendergast's lead and you're in for a strange journey into the realm of faith and damnation. Logic fails and the mind leaps to more superstitious conclusions, as the authors mix and match a variety of bizarre characters, from the super-rich and powerful to the fanatical disciples who believe the Rapture is imminent, from learned professors of the supernatural to Biblical verses of doom, frantic policemen from New York to Florence, the esoteric and the anecdotal, all in a fine stew of \\"what if\\". <br /> <br />If at times too fantastic, the plot exposes concurrent activities, all wrought by the original murder, from a Messianic reverend to Satan worshipers, ageing monks and foreign assassins, all pursued by Pendergast with his usual aplomb, D'Agosta his faithful shadow. Always over the edge, Pendergast pushes the envelope one more time, dipping into a healthy serving of fire and brimstone, a fast-paced, if exotic adventure into another world. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-05-28
228691:US	51010391	R1HUYJI62G0I4R	0970190719	82201476	The Tree	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Stunning and profound	The Tree is so beautifully illustrated that it is a book children will instinctively reach for on the bookstore shelf. The story is simple, but profound, the haunting song of an ancient Douglas fir, living its life-cycle in the Pacific Rain Forest, speaking to the connection between all things on Earth: \\"For eight hundred years I have lived here/ through the wind, the fire and the snow.\\"<br /><br />The sacredness of nature permeates this world, until the sound of encroaching bulldozers disturbs the quiet beauty of generations, threatening the destruction of a fragile environment. The sanctuary of young owls learning to fly, the roaming grizzlies and the lone wolf, all are threatened by the advance of civilization into the pristine forest. Watching all, the tree asks, \\"Who will hold that river's shore? And who will take refuge in my shadow, if my shadow falls no more?\\" In the end, the tree hears the voices of children, their hands circling its trunk, their feet climbing the branches to peer on the others below. And the tree believes \\"the wind may always carry my song\\".<br /><br />The most eloquent argument made for the preservation of the delicate forest environment is found in the beauty of that sacred place, nature's repository. And the stunning illustrations deliver that message, powerful in their subtle beauty, profound in the silence of centuries. Each page requires a quiet moment of reflection, gazing upon the wonders revealed, a lone wolf howling beneath a luminous moon, clouds scudding through a night sky, an eagle perched on a high branch, the sky fractured by bursts of lightning, frightened animals fleeing before the rampaging bulldozers.<br /><br />Rainforests are one of the most significant ecosystems on the planet, home to a variety of species and plants, cleaning the air and replenishing the water. The best way to teach our children to value nature's rich bounty lies in appealing to their hearts and minds, planting the seeds of appreciation for all the earth has to offer. In the most straight forward language, The Tree speaks the truth on every page, images that are striking and intense.<br /><br />In the back of the book, a page is devoted to the Pacific Rain Forest, explaining nature's delicate balance and some essential facts. In this manner, more information is available without spoiling the stark beauty and simplicity of the story. This remarkable book is essential to a child's nature library, the interest, curiosity and hope for the future of this planet. Luan Gaines/2005.l the earth has to offer. In the most straight forward language, The Tree speaks the truth on every page, images that are striking and intense. <br />In the back of the book, a page is devoted to the Pacific Rain Forest, explaining nature's delicate balance and some essential facts. In this manner, more information is available without spoiling the stark beauty and simplicity of the story. This remarkable book is essential to a child's nature library, the interest, curiosity and hope for the future of this planet. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-05-25
228778:US	51010391	R3BA23C5JOFYOJ	0743476638	191227344	Cold Case Squad	Books	3	1	1	N	N	(3.5) "The universe is going dark"	Miami is a hotbed of entrepreneurial crime du jour, general mayhem against the residents of a major city bedeviled by crime, corruption and the mentality of a banana republic. At any given time, the perps are assaulting the system with home invasion robberies, petty theft, assault and any number of creative, if illegal, diversions. Yet most of the city funds have been diverted to Homeland Security, leaving police agencies with critical shortages with no end in sight.<br /><br />Two murder/homicides, an accidental conflagration of a father of three and a series of serial killings targeting elderly women are the cases the Cold Case Squad is currently faced with, all apparently unrelated. As the detectives sort through the disparate clues under the watchful eye of KC Riley, they unravel some interesting coincidences.<br /><br />Sergeant Craig Burch and Detectives Stone and Nazario are the cops Kathleen Riley depends on, her detectives following through on the crimes that are all but impossible to solve. When two suspicious murders and a man's tragic death twelve years ago come across the squad's radar, the detectives sort through clues and unlikely bits of forensic evidence, discovering more than they bargained for, loose ends that lead to a surprising arrest in what is almost the perfect crime.<br /><br />Sergeant Burch avoids the marital problems that have followed him on the job, juggling his professional and private lives to pursue a case from Miami to the East Coast. Meanwhile, Detective Stone tackles the murder of an elderly woman, afraid his serial killer will strike again in Miami; Stone tries to balance discretion and the press, alerting the public without tipping his hand to the killer. Behind the scenes, Riley, fights for her squad against threatened budget cuts.<br /><br />Although this great city has an abundance of crime, it also has a million personal stories, each layer of society alive with criminals and good guys, the habitual raptors preying upon the innocent. And there are some interesting details unveiled during the investigative process, especially the forensic techniques used to identify crime scene victims. The details make a crime novel believable, as well as a realistic portrayal of the detectives, their job talk and personal relationships. Each of the cops holds his own, professional and quick to act in an emergency, a great team. After all, a crime novel is wedded to a formula, but this one is above average, a testimony to Buchanan's talent, well-researched and thoughtfully plotted. Luan Gaines/2005.reying upon the innocent. And there are some interesting details unveiled during the investigative process, especially the forensic techniques used to identify crime scene victims. The details make a crime novel believable, as well as a realistic portrayal of the detectives, their job talk and personal relationships. Each of the cops holds his own, professional and quick to act in an emergency, a great team. After all, a crime novel is wedded to a formula, but this one is above average, a testimony to Buchanan's talent, well-researched and thoughtfully plotted. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-05-25
228917:US	51010391	R31ZHGIOOOROI8	0935699236	842666121	One Smile	Books	4	3	3	N	N	"Pay it  forward"	There is a movement in the land that emphasizes \\"random acts of kindness\\". Much like the proverbial pebble thrown into still water, creating a series of ripples, any thoughtful gesture can have an effect on those around us. This is exactly what happens in One Smile, as a joyful little girl smiles at a discouraged young man sitting on a park bench. Little does the child know that her beatific smile will inspire the young man to start looking for a job.<br /><br />And so the story goes, the young man stopping to help a stranded motorist, the motorist leaving an extra tip for the waitress, the waitress taking her children on a picnic with the extra money, and so on. Everything comes full circle as the girl is able to attend her grandfather's birthday party. Her mother's car is ready for the birthday trip thanks to the young man at the garage who fixed it. And who might that now-employed young man be? Exactly.<br /><br />Using a simple story to illustrate a profound philosophy, the author plants a thought in the minds of young readers who can readily visualize the effect of this little girl's smile as she walks through the park with her mother. The author: \\"We often have no idea how our generous actions affect those around us.\\" The illustrations are rich, color-saturated images of everyday events, memorable because of the upbeat nature of the story. The illustrator: \\"I hope my paintings can offer a moment of transcendence, a place of light and beauty.\\" Children are naturally enthusiastic and One Smile affords parents an opportunity to reinforce this positive behavior.<br /><br />Concept and artwork are a winning combination in this uplifting children's book. The writing carries a clear message; combined with the brilliant watercolors, One Smile is an inspirational reading experience for youngsters. Coordinated with The Pay It Forward Foundation, the book includes a page of thoughtful questions for children to consider, relating positive actions to consequences, remembering each day to \\"pay it forward\\". Luan Gaines/2005.membering each day to \\"pay it forward\\". Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-05-25
229015:US	51010391	R27SM2I65GUTBC	0970190751	220666273	Inside Out	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A thoughtful story with beautiful artwork	Children are bombarded with images from an early age, made aware of how others look, how they look to others and how easy it is to get sidetracked by appearances. Wendy Stollan Halley addresses this common problem with her young protagonist, Carly, a happy little girl with an imaginary friend, Natasha. With Natasha at her side, Carly has wonderful adventures, jumping on clouds and walking on the moon.<br /><br />One day, while they are enjoying a tea party, Carly asks why no one can see Natasha. Is she a ghost? To which Natasha replies that she is not a ghost but a spirit \\"like an angel without wings\\". Natasha's hopes the little girl will always remember her message: \\"Your spirit is the most important part of you. It's who you really are.\\" She goes on to explain how Carly's spirit came to earth and became a human being. In fact, Natasha opines that Carly has \\"a beautiful, shining spirit made of love and light\\".<br /><br />Inspired by Natasha, Carly determines to always remember and cherish her spirit. But, being a normal, active child, she eventually forgets Natasha's message, turning away from new friends and spending her time alone, reading and making up stories, until \\"all the magic that had once filled her life was gone\\". Carly's dilemma requires another visit from Natasha, who shows the tiny girl a trick for remembering her spirit. Carly's life is magical once more.<br /><br />This concept story is especially appropriate for a particular age group of girls, from ages 6-10, when a strong self-image is critical in an ever-changing world. The text speaks to a child's ability to create an inner dialog, addressing the spirit in the context of everyday life. Complementing the writing, the illustrations, by Roberta Collier-Morales, are bursting with movement, swirling clouds, a brilliant sun, pages of rainbows. Carly is an illustrator's dream, her joyful face, rioting curly hair, bright clothing and a fanciful sprinkling of hearts. The momentum in the art brings the story alive, animating Carly's struggle to remain in touch with her spirit.<br /><br />The imaginary Natasha is a bit scary to this adult, but overall the images are stunning, deserving of many readings and thoughtful discussions. Inside Out is a joyful experience, one to be savored by young readers and their mothers. Luan Gaines/2005.the art brings the story alive, animating Carly's struggle to remain in touch with her spirit. <br /> <br />The imaginary Natasha is a bit scary to this adult, but overall the images are stunning, deserving of many readings and thoughtful discussions. Inside Out is a joyful experience, one to be savored by young readers and their mothers. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-05-25
232550:US	51010391	R3355FN0BW5UPX	0802170064	701439961	Bitter Fruit: A Novel	Books	5	12	15	N	N	The ever-turning wheel of history	As a young man, Silas Ali is a member of Nelson Mandela's African National Congress, but Silas' wife, Lydia, is unaware of the degree of his commitment. Early in their marriage, Lydia is raped by Lieutenant DuBoise, an Afrikaans officer who takes her with impunity before her helpless husband. Such atrocities are commonplace at that time, but the event remains a personal shame until twenty years later, when Silas encounters DuBoise in the street.<br /><br />South Africa is now awaiting the results of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, an attempt to make peace with the brutal excesses of the country's past. The chance meeting with DuBoise stirs up years of anguish and resentment for Silas and Lydia, throwing their troubled marriage into stark relief before their extended family, but especially their son, 19-year old Mikey. Used to his parents' lack of communication and marital idiosyncrasies, Mikey secretly reads his mother's diary, which holds stunning revelations, a shocking truth that will shake the foundations of Mikey's world.<br /><br />Silas has the task of informing Lydia that DuBoise has requested a public apology before the Commission and has named her as one of his victims. Although Lydia begs her husband to stop DuBoise, Silas cannot and their lives are clouded by this knowledge. Lydia watches as her husband becomes even more isolated, her son more distant: \\"She sees in Mikey an enslavement to another, more puritanical God: his will.\\" For his part, Mikey dismisses the older generation, with their need for \\"legacy\\", envisioning themselves as \\"heroes in the struggle\\". The nature of betrayal is exposed, leaving Silas, Lydia and Michael without framework as the past turns against the future, the truth destructive, shattering the fragile walls of family.<br /><br />Towards the end of the novel, Michael is told the story of his grandfather, a harrowing tale set in motion when the British occupied India, forcing European values upon their subjects, the seed of resentment planted in the early days of Imperialism. Much of the chaos unleashed has been years in the making. A product of the new South Africa, Michael reaches for the roots of his Muslim past, bringing him face to face with murder, both a personal and generational vengeance. The family, divided by self-interests, is a reflection of the country, factions oblivious to common ground.<br /><br />The novel is perfectly written, emotionally spare, yet with a subtle intensity that unveils the secret shame and hidden truths complicated by corrupt politics and the betrayals of power. Each character startles awake, as if from a long dream, able to survive only in another, freer identity. The true nature of change is abundantly clear and the enormous price it exacts. Dangor's story is personal, a reenactment of a familiar tragedy. Indeed, in his novel \\"rape is a metaphor for the abuse of ordinary people in South Africa.\\" In a world defined by Apartheid, newly released from its constrictions only to be cast into the nightmare of the AIDS epidemic, there is no voice for the anguish of imposed silence, many driven to act out their repressed memories. Beautifully understated, Bitter Fruit is a life-changing exercise of integrity and courage. Luan Gaines/2005.he seed of resentment planted in the early days of Imperialism. Much of the chaos unleashed has been years in the making. A product of the new South Africa, Michael reaches for the roots of his Muslim past, bringing him face to face with murder, both a personal and generational vengeance. The family, divided by self-interests, is a reflection of the country, factions oblivious to common ground. <br /> <br />The novel is perfectly written, emotionally spare, yet with a subtle intensity that unveils the secret shame and hidden truths complicated by corrupt politics and the betrayals of power. Each character startles awake, as if from a long dream, able to survive only in another, freer identity. The true nature of change is abundantly clear and the enormous price it exacts. Dangor's story is personal, a reenactment of a familiar tragedy. Indeed, in his novel \\"rape is a metaphor for the abuse of ordinary people in South Africa.\\" In a world defined by Apartheid, newly released from its constrictions only to be cast into the nightmare of the AIDS epidemic, there is no voice for the anguish of imposed silence, many driven to act out their repressed memories. Beautifully understated, Bitter Fruit is a life-changing exercise of integrity and courage. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-05-21
234442:US	51010391	R24URQ3FJLSOET	0151011281	906840932	Novel	Books	3	5	10	N	N	(3.5) Eccentrics, geniuses and rednecks	Upon the accidental death of Rebekah Aker's last surviving relatives, she uses the proceeds of the estate to start the business of her dreams, a weight-loss clinic, the Sneeze 'n' Tone, in Gruel, South Carolina, suggesting at the same time that husband Novel quit his job driving the Viper-Mobile. In this vehicle, Novel goes from town to town, displaying to interested parties a variety of reptiles. What Bekah doesn't know: Novel has a second job, writing speeches for politicians, notably lieutenant-governors. What Novel doesn't know: Bekah has a few secrets herself.<br /><br />The couple eventually separates and Bekah closes the Sneeze 'n' Tone, which Novel reopens as The Gruel Inn Writer's Retreat. The paying writer-residents are offered a complimentary continental breakfast from Maura-Lee Snipes, owner of the Gruel Bakery and a former successful client of the Sneeze 'n' Tone. Maura-Lee is doing well with her specialty bread prepared with Jesus crust. But Novel hasn't the patience for these pseudo-writers, continental breakfast aside, and closes down the Writer's Retreat to live there himself, working on his autobiography...but that's another story.<br /><br />When his writing experiment is less than successful, Novel accepts a position as the official Gruel Historian, working from his office at Gruel Normal School, a windowless silo filled with shelves of newspaper clippings. While doing his research, Novel addresses questions about Gruel that have nagged at his subconscious, but never imagines the whole picture. Then Bekah steps in, convincing her husband to protect his own self-interests.<br /><br />There is a cast of characters in this book that would shake any family tree to its roots: Bekah's parents, wealthy entrepreneurs who engineer a constant supply of industrious orphans; Larry and Barry, the town housepainter-geniuses; and James and Joyce, Novels' adopted siblings. Then there is \\"Jeff the owner\\", proprietor of Roughhouse Billiards; Victor Dees of the Army Surplus store; Novel's pot-smoking, yoga-practicing parents, Ted and Olivia Akers, who believe themselves infertile, and a variety of inter-related families: \\"Your family should have named you Short Story, if anything, or Poem\\".<br /><br />Novel is constantly distracted by a surplus of curiosity and paranoia concerning his Gruel neighbors, Singleton's protagonist the perfect foil for the quasi-nefarious dealings of Gruel, ever hopeful and disinclined to cynicism unless pushed to the edge of believability. It takes a vivid and warped imagination to create a tale with broad comic strokes, but more than enough humanity to make us root for these weirdos. Most families have skeletons in the family closet, but Singleton fearlessly rattles each and every one as they perform their macabre burlesque. Anything's possible in Gruel, South Carolina. Besides, any novel titled Novel, with a picture of a jackalope on the cover has to be worth the price of admission. Luan Gaines/2005.ctor Dees of the Army Surplus store; Novel's pot-smoking, yoga-practicing parents, Ted and Olivia Akers, who believe themselves infertile, and a variety of inter-related families: \\"Your family should have named you Short Story, if anything, or Poem\\". <br /> <br />Novel is constantly distracted by a surplus of curiosity and paranoia concerning his Gruel neighbors, Singleton's protagonist the perfect foil for the quasi-nefarious dealings of Gruel, ever hopeful and disinclined to cynicism unless pushed to the edge of believability. It takes a vivid and warped imagination to create a tale with broad comic strokes, but more than enough humanity to make us root for these weirdos. Most families have skeletons in the family closet, but Singleton fearlessly rattles each and every one as they perform their macabre burlesque. Anything's possible in Gruel, South Carolina. Besides, any novel titled Novel, with a picture of a jackalope on the cover has to be worth the price of admission. Luan Gaines/2005.  <br />	2005-05-19
236641:US	51010391	R254INNMYB9L83	0156030535	561302227	Broken Verses	Books	4	15	19	N	N	The Poet and the Activist	Aasmaani can`t let go of her history: fourteen years ago her mother, Samina Akram, a political activist, disappeared, assumed dead. Samina was the ardent follower of the Poet, Nazim, whose work reflected the injustices and excesses of the Pakistani government through various stages of social and political upheaval, civil war, repression and religious fanaticism. Aasmaani cannot, or will not, release her mother, a woman who moved in and out of the young girl's life, following the Poet into exile, living nearby when he was imprisoned.<br /><br />Now in her 30's, Aasmaani has begun work at a cable television network, where she is introduced to the handsome son of a famous retired actress, Shenaz Saeed. The actress is about to return to the screen in a cable soap opera. Another face from Aasmaani's past, Saeed was formerly a close friend of Samina`s, especially in the difficult years after the Poet's death. When the actress passes along a letter received from an anonymous fan, Aasmaani is shocked to find it written in the secret code used by her mother and the Poet. She is soon obsessed with the letters, translating and authenticating details, searching for remnants of truth: \\"He was still alive. Oh, dear God, he was still alive.\\"<br /><br />The novel works on two levels, the Poet's role reflecting the ills of a society in transition and a young woman's urgent need to unburden herself of lifetime of grief for a lost mother and father-figure. The novel speaks to the power of words in an age of repression, the character's actions cast against the turbulent history of Pakistan since its inception. The Poet is beloved because he dares tell the truth, a metaphor for democracy, holding society responsible for its actions. Samina is just as powerful in her role as an advocate for women's rights, her passion and integrity a valuable weapon against injustice.<br /><br />Aasmaani is in an untenable position as the daughter of such a woman, torn between the need for her mother and belief in the cause, always sharing her Samina, either with the people or the Poet. Aasmaani is fragile for most of her life, but this rite of passage calls her to recognize her true heritage, her own identity: \\"Sometimes I feel like I've spent my whole life missing Mama.\\" How does a daughter not resent living in the shadow of her mother's greatness and find peace with the memories she has left? Now Aasmaani is desperate to prove one of them alive, clinging to possibility.<br /><br />In the end, I am conflicted about this novel. I persevered through the author's lengthy political discourses and the esoteric dialog of the Poet and his lover, trusting the integrity of the characters, even the stubborn, if formidable Aasmaani, who exhausts everyone who loves her. Her psychological distance remains palpable, inaccessible. Aasmaani walks with the gods, refusing to acknowledge their humanity or her own. She has infinite passion for the Poet and the Activist, but no compassion, protected in the ivory tower of her intellect. Shamsie's protagonist has no tolerance for the flawed or the ordinary, yet the story's facile resolution is duplicitous, an author's conceit. Luan Gaines/2005.er and belief in the cause, always sharing her Samina, either with the people or the Poet. Aasmaani is fragile for most of her life, but this rite of passage calls her to recognize her true heritage, her own identity: \\"Sometimes I feel like I've spent my whole life missing Mama.\\" How does a daughter not resent living in the shadow of her mother's greatness and find peace with the memories she has left? Now Aasmaani is desperate to prove one of them alive, clinging to possibility. <br /> <br />In the end, I am conflicted about this novel. I persevered through the author's lengthy political discourses and the esoteric dialog of the Poet and his lover, trusting the integrity of the characters, even the stubborn, if formidable Aasmaani, who exhausts everyone who loves her. Her psychological distance remains palpable, inaccessible. Aasmaani walks with the gods, refusing to acknowledge their humanity or her own. She has infinite passion for the Poet and the Activist, but no compassion, protected in the ivory tower of her intellect. Shamsie's protagonist has no tolerance for the flawed or the ordinary, yet the story's facile resolution is duplicitous, an author's conceit. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-18
240080:US	51010391	R23F1KYSK1A8AE	1596921188	413550301	The Night Garden	Books	3	1	2	N	N	"I fooled around and fell in love"	Everyone harbors dreams when they are young, but time passes and accommodations are made, expectations shifting towards more realistic goals. Dawn has recently left her boyfriend of five years, an artist, setting up house with daughter, Jewel, in a new place, one with a room to let downstairs. Before the room can be rented, Dawn, an exterminator-cum-artist by trade, must first tame the weedy jungle that has filled the back yard, blocking the entrance to the rental unit. Meanwhile, nine-year old Jewel enjoys tunneling through the wild growth, exploring.<br /><br />Harlan and Macie have spent the last few years of their marriage in pursuit of parenthood, a quest driven by Macie's intense yearning for a child. Without realizing it, how-to videographer Harlan, who considers mid-thirties \\"middle-aged\\", has grown dissatisfied with their relationship and life in general. On a night out with his business partner, Jason, Harlan meets the ethereal Sophie, a dancer barely surviving on a limited income from the small gigs her agent arranges. Sophie offers an escape into romantic fantasy, her beauty and grace a powerful magnet to the disenchanted Harlan. Macie learns of the affair and Harlan answers Dawn's immediate need for a tenant.<br /><br />Everything coalesces around Dawn's place, where Macie and Sophie accidentally meet and Dawn and Harlan share long conversations about the direction of their lives, gardening under the light of the moon or in the early morning hours. Hence, the title, \\"The Night Garden\\".To be honest, this nice little story just manages to overcome the banality of the character's names and the predictability of their situations. The author focuses on the ordinariness of such crises, the commonality of relationship breakups and their aftermath, the need to sort through the obvious disappointments that come at a certain age and the grace to adapt and move on.<br /><br />Although Dawn appears to be the main protagonist, the novel is really about Harlan's dilemma, the affair that consumes him and the denouement of his marriage, complete with soundtrack, the melodies of his youth that fill his distracted mind: \\"I fooled around and fell in love\\". Where others experience the isolation of strangers in close quarters, Dawn and Harlan find camaraderie, creating an oasis of quasi-family/friendship. They forge new commitments to meet the challenges of the future and heal old wounds with forgiveness and reparation. In the end, everything fits perfectly into place, if realigned, couples coupled, all right with the world, neatly wrapped. It's all very well done, but the author stays well with in the comfortable parameters of her simple plot, avoiding conflict. Luan Gaines/2005.s dilemma, the affair that consumes him and the denouement of his marriage, complete with soundtrack, the melodies of his youth that fill his distracted mind: \\"I fooled around and fell in love\\". Where others experience the isolation of strangers in close quarters, Dawn and Harlan find camaraderie, creating an oasis of quasi-family/friendship. They forge new commitments to meet the challenges of the future and heal old wounds with forgiveness and reparation. In the end, everything fits perfectly into place, if realigned, couples coupled, all right with the world, neatly wrapped. It's all very well done, but the author stays well with in the comfortable parameters of her simple plot, avoiding conflict. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-05-15
241345:US	51010391	R3A0Y3JHTUAHSI	0385509480	906666482	Haunted : A Novel of Stories	Books	3	24	30	N	N	"Victims of ourselves"	In a sort of volunteer Lord of the Flies (albeit a bit of a stretch), an assorted group of the disaffected agree to live isolated from the outside world for three months, each limited to only one suitcase. The character's names are descriptive: Miss Sneezy, the Earl of Slander, Reverend Godless, the Matchmaker, etc., all indicative of their personalities or histories. The group plans to spend time writing and refining their stories, their destination a concrete building closed off from the world. They are willingly leaving no trace, disappeared.<br /><br />The experience is likened to that of the Villa Diodati, a summer house party in 1816, where a group of creative people are trapped by the rain in a house on Lake Geneva. To assuage their boredom, the residents begin telling scary stories, then write their own. The results: Mary Shelley's Frankenstein and ultimately Dracula. Laboring under similar pretensions, the more modern, if cynical, group labors under a similar delusion, failing to take into account their own human failings.<br /><br />Each new story in the twenty-three is prefaced by a poem, each progressively more violent, scarier, building a sense of repression and confinement, finally claustrophobic. The group eventually sets up the scene of their own tragedy, each destroying a Mylar package of whatever food they hate, creating a real food shortage, each day producing another act of self-destruction to crank up the tension, to bring drama to their faux Villa Diodati, but darker.<br /><br />The chaos and carnage is progressive, this bizarre adventure told around the stories prefaced by poems, essentially building two plots; the denouement of the group and its social contracts and the horror unfolding in the individual stories. The result is a bit disjointed, if creative, Palahnuik's penchant for the macabre evident, but lacking the continuity of his other work. Perhaps this two-in-one book might have fared better as a short novel and a collection, creating less dissonance for the reader, although the gore is way over the top, which might work in the appropriate circumstances, but here seems merely window-dressing.<br /><br />In any case, reading Palahniuk is an experience and hopefully this isn't the reader's first encounter. As the structure disintegrates, so does the novel, a feast of gore for anyone left standing at the end. This author is always edgy, but Haunted falls right over the cliff, plummeting into complete cannibalistic decadence: \\"The best story we'd bring out of this building was just that we survived.\\" Luan Gaines/2005.collection, creating less dissonance for the reader, although the gore is way over the top, which might work in the appropriate circumstances, but here seems merely window-dressing. <br /> <br />In any case, reading Palahniuk is an experience and hopefully this isn't the reader's first encounter. As the structure disintegrates, so does the novel, a feast of gore for anyone left standing at the end. This author is always edgy, but Haunted falls right over the cliff, plummeting into complete cannibalistic decadence: \\"The best story we'd bring out of this building was just that we survived.\\" Luan Gaines/2005.  <br />	2005-05-14
242279:US	51010391	R3V3NTJN216I8E	1932961062	435208102	Breath and Bones	Books	4	7	8	N	N	(4.5) The uncharted territory of passion and art	In Denmark in the late 1880's, Famke Summerfugl finds comfort in the arms of her English artist/lover, Albert Castle, posing for him in a shabby garret, transported by his adoration of her youthful charms. Born in Denmark, Famke is left as an infant at the Orphanage of the Immaculate Heart, an early victim of the consumptive lungs that plague the orphans in that cold climate. The child is favored by Sister Birgit, who is in thrall of the flame-haired child from the start. In her eagerness to feed, baby Famke bites off the glass top of her bottle, tiny shards of glass cutting her tender lips. Sister Birgit delicately removes each sliver, forging a bond with the child that will never be broken.<br /><br />A curious and feminine girl, Famke's precocious nature unsettles the sisters of the convent and they are happy to release her to work as a maid and goose girl. But Famke isn't meant for such a life and when she meets an artist, Albert Castle, she enthusiastically joins him as his model and lover. When Albert finishes his larger-than-life painting of the idealized beauty, he leaves for England, then later on to America. Waiting for Albert's return, Famke falls on hard times. When the opportunity arises, she follows  Albert to America. So begins a long and desperate search that takes her to Utah, Colorado, the New Mexico Territories, Hygeia Springs, California and finally, to San Francisco.<br /><br />Famke follows Albert's trail, always but a few steps behind, steadfast in her purpose. As the tale unravels, Famke is at the center of it all, suspected of cohesion with the infamous \\"Dynamite Gang\\", pursued by the Mormon man she marries, Heber Goodhouse, one of his plural wives, an enterprising yellow-journalist and a young man from her past at the orphanage, Viggo, a mortician's apprentice, who has been sent by Sister Birgit. Little does our heroine know that she is the object of all these searches, intent as she is on her own desperate quest.<br /><br />Only seventeen-years old, a wiser woman would be overwhelmed, but Famke is single-minded, bravely navigating uncharted territory in pursuit of her youthful fancy. Like a chameleon, she adapts to place and circumstance, but soon realizes the advantages of men, rather than an unprotected woman. Famke's drama unfolds as she travels America, leaving behind men who are obsessed with her, prostitutes who remember her in male disguise as Albert Castle's brother or the mysterious woman with the terrible cough of the tubercular, the bright red drops that spill from her fevered lips. The illness is part of the woman's unique attraction, emphasizing her delicate beauty, the contrast of white skin, fevered cheeks and titian tresses.<br /><br />Cokal has done a masterful job of blending the threads of Famke's life and love for Albert into an impressive canvas that covers the continents, from Denmark to the barren deserts of Utah and the pristine wilderness of the West, as it is eagerly subsumed by the advances of industry. The characters have not caught up to industrialization, mired in the past, save Famke, their Victorian morals grounded in the last century; Famke draws this disparate group in her wake. The ending is a shocking conflagration of misspent emotions, misguided intentions and the final fury of unrequited passion. The age of invention meets the Wild West in this outstanding Victorian drama. Luan Gaines/2005.br />Only seventeen-years old, a wiser woman would be overwhelmed, but Famke is single-minded, bravely navigating uncharted territory in pursuit of her youthful fancy. Like a chameleon, she adapts to place and circumstance, but soon realizes the advantages of men, rather than an unprotected woman. Famke's drama unfolds as she travels America, leaving behind men who are obsessed with her, prostitutes who remember her in male disguise as Albert Castle's brother or the mysterious woman with the terrible cough of the tubercular, the bright red drops that spill from her fevered lips. The illness is part of the woman's unique attraction, emphasizing her delicate beauty, the contrast of white skin, fevered cheeks and titian tresses. <br /> <br />Cokal has done a masterful job of blending the threads of Famke's life and love for Albert into an impressive canvas that covers the continents, from Denmark to the barren deserts of Utah and the pristine wilderness of the West, as it is eagerly subsumed by the advances of industry. The characters have not caught up to industrialization, mired in the past, save Famke, their Victorian morals grounded in the last century; Famke draws this disparate group in her wake. The ending is a shocking conflagration of misspent emotions, misguided intentions and the final fury of unrequited passion. The age of invention meets the Wild West in this outstanding Victorian drama. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-05-13
244100:US	51010391	R29RTIGI6GL11P	0385511647	929810862	Cuttin' Up: Wit and Wisdom From Black Barber Shops	Books	4	1	2	N	N	"The easy hum of men among men"	Thanks to the popularity of a recent movie, Barbershop, the public's attention has focused on the central gathering place for black men, the local barbershop. In an oral history that covers every aspect of community life, Marberry gathers stories from across the country, from \\"Detroit to Orlando, Brooklyn to Houston\\". This small gem, complete with black and white photographs, captures the wit and wisdom of barbers and their patrons, including a very select few women barbers who wield their scissors on this sacred turf.<br /><br />Albert Ghee, Jr., a customer, talks about Shorty, a midget with a shoe shine stand, who worked in the back of his uncle's barbershop in Farmville, Virginia. If you gave Shorty an extra dollar, he'd thump out tunes with his rag as he polished your shoes, \\"The Star Spangled Banner\\" or \\"Amazing Grace.\\" But Albert never enjoyed Shorty's unique rhythms until he was thirteen-years old; boys had to be teenagers before they were allowed to partake of the barbershop ambiance.<br /><br />Wheeler Parker, a barbershop owner, has a cautionary tale to share, a hard lesson forced upon young men in his day, white men terrorizing in the middle of the night. Parker wants more for the younger generation after all the suffering, all the lost opportunities of his youth. He wants them to remember his cousin's name, Emmett Till. \\"He had a short life. Fourteen years. But if we remember, then it wasn't a wasted life.\\"<br /><br />Betty Reece was the only other woman besides Clara Poke and forty men in barber school. Betty was so painfully shy that one of her instructors said she was \\"so slow, she would miss the boat and the bus\\". Betty never did overcome her shyness and sat all day waiting for customers, lacking the effusiveness to gather regular clients. Sometimes she never had a single customer: \\"Felt like I was watching hair grow.\\" She quit the business but still has her license and may go back to barbering one day.<br /><br />Omar Rasul is a barber who enjoys the camaraderie of the shop, always up for a few laughs, which he considers good therapy. He favors \\"cut down\\" sessions, where \\"you target a person's flaw and roll with it. It's all about making people bust out laughing.\\" On the other hand, the Reverend John C. McClurkin, a customer, likens the barbershop to the dinner table, a forum for family members to share stories and fellowship. The shop enjoys a similar dynamic, \\"except nobody's trying to hide their vegetables\\".<br /><br />There are a few barbershop rules: \\"comments must both entertain and enlighten, proverbs need punch lines and comedy needs a dose of the profound\\". This thoughtful and humorous collection offers a peek into the rarified world of the black barbershop, still as popular today as when it first began. There's a sound you can hear above the clip and buzz of scissors and clippers: \\"It's the easy hum of men among men.\\" Luan Gaines/2005.a barber who enjoys the camaraderie of the shop, always up for a few laughs, which he considers good therapy. He favors \\"cut down\\" sessions, where \\"you target a person's flaw and roll with it. It's all about making people bust out laughing.\\" On the other hand, the Reverend John C. McClurkin, a customer, likens the barbershop to the dinner table, a forum for family members to share stories and fellowship. The shop enjoys a similar dynamic, \\"except nobody's trying to hide their vegetables\\". <br /> <br />There are a few barbershop rules: \\"comments must both entertain and enlighten, proverbs need punch lines and comedy needs a dose of the profound\\". This thoughtful and humorous collection offers a peek into the rarified world of the black barbershop, still as popular today as when it first began. There's a sound you can hear above the clip and buzz of scissors and clippers: \\"It's the easy hum of men among men.\\" Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-05-11
246229:US	51010391	R3R4AO52TB5FGO	1596921161	642583994	The Great Inland Sea	Books	4	2	2	N	N	(4.5) A transcendent journey	Two women dominate this poignant novel: one is a ghost, a young boy's mother as she lives in his childhood memories, the second a wild young girl determined to be the first woman jockey. Day loves them both to distraction, Emily, the woman who slowly loses her wits in the barren landscape of Australia and the other, Callie, his constant companion in America. Both are unattainable, the mother because she now exists only in his thoughts and the other, who will not be tied down, following her dreams and determined wanderlust.<br /><br />Day's Australia is as palpable as his yearning for connection, as isolated as his loneliness, \\"the views, the shapes of the trees and the angular cattle, the smell of the clothes dried hard in the sun.\\" Day's father, Darwin, is a man of few words and cold comfort, a man who eventually ties his wife to her bed at night to keep her from wandering in her mental confusion. When Emily dies, Darwin wraps her in a rough sack, digs a grave and tosses her body in without a coffin, inscribing only her first name on the stone, \\"Emily-1947\\".<br /><br />Throughout his wandering from Australia to America and back, Day searches for bits of the past, the smells and colors of his youth, images of his mother sewing, digging in her garden, heavy with pregnancy. He remembers the man who came to visit the young bride and new mother. Dickie DelMar, an Argentinean horseman, takes the place of Darwin in Emily's affections. Questions weigh upon Day, no matter where he is, all that he wants to ask Darwin about Emily, so little kindness between father and son that they barely speak, \\"I've carried him with me like a stone in my shoe.\\"<br /><br />Then there is the enigmatic, unreachable Callie, who has stolen Day's heart without uttering a word, his soul mate, he thinks, although her cruel distance remains implacable, if finally explicable. On the wet sand of the Delaware shore, Callie rides her horse hard, out into the ocean, as Day watches through fog-shrouded binoculars. The horse won't turn back, keeps swimming out to sea, but Callie returns to shore. Later, when the dead horse washes up on the beach, Callie says, \\"He wasn't going to be an important horse.\\" Then walks away.<br /><br />From the first page the reader is assaulted with stunning images, the language perfectly phrased, forming pictures in the mind's eye: \\"her sun-scorched arms like long gloves pulled up to her shoulders.\\" There is a reckoning to be had in this sullen land of hard men and a woman too fragile to exist in their world, and a son who has known so little of love, that he chooses a partner as broken as himself, hoping the pieces will fit together. Until he unravels his conflicted feelings, Day is a prisoner of memory. But in the land of his childhood there are more answers than he ever dreamed. Luan Gaines/2005.ough fog-shrouded binoculars. The horse won't turn back, keeps swimming out to sea, but Callie returns to shore. Later, when the dead horse washes up on the beach, Callie says, \\"He wasn't going to be an important horse.\\" Then walks away. <br /> <br />From the first page the reader is assaulted with stunning images, the language perfectly phrased, forming pictures in the mind's eye: \\"her sun-scorched arms like long gloves pulled up to her shoulders.\\" There is a reckoning to be had in this sullen land of hard men and a woman too fragile to exist in their world, and a son who has known so little of love, that he chooses a partner as broken as himself, hoping the pieces will fit together. Until he unravels his conflicted feelings, Day is a prisoner of memory. But in the land of his childhood there are more answers than he ever dreamed. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-05-10
246453:US	51010391	R244595PFAV7CA	1400040450	221714677	Bangkok Tattoo	Books	4	57	62	N	N	"Killing customers isn't good for business"	Chanya, the most profitable lady at the Old Man's Club, is holed up with an opium pipe, her blood-soaked clothes decorating the stairs to her room. A couple of streets away lies is the mutilated corpse of a farang (foreigner) and a single rose in a plastic mug of water. The Thai Royal Police Colonel Vikorn dictates Chanya's statement, phrasing it in such a way as to cover all possibilities when blame is cast. Police Detective Sonchai Jitpleecheep artfully transcribes Vikorn's report, because that is how things are done here in District 8. Unfortunately, the mutilated corpse is CIA and the victim's ID carries inherent problems. The murder could be blamed on Al Qaeda, but how do you justify a terrorist/castration murder?<br /><br />In Bangkok, where pragmatism rules the day, the Colonel is also a gangster and the police often supplement their salaries by working in brothels. Such is Sonchai's case, policeman by day, dedicated papasan by night. Sonchai is following the path of the Buddha, but constantly challenged by Vikorn's manner of doing business. A Muslim shows up at the club where Sonchai is overseeing the girls as they attach themselves to customers. Disdainful, the Muslim, Mustafa, unfolds a picture of the dead man, then leaves his card. Mustafa's father is an imam, who welcomes the detective, explaining that his network has been tracking the CIA agent. Now the imam is worried about being blamed for the murder, a convenient answer to everyone's problems.<br /><br />What is so fascinating about this novel is the total immersion in Thai culture, from Buddhist practices to ancient rituals, alongside the very practical approach to the vagaries of human sexuality. This is a country that happily accepts all its differences, a finely tuned morality tempered with understanding for the many challenges that face the people who coexist in a difficult world. To read it is to think it, to experience life surrounded by the exoticism of Eastern values and thought processes. Throughout, advice is narrated to the \\"farang\\" reader, explaining the easy order of business in Thailand, \\"Farang, tell your evangelists not to bundle salvation with the work ethic. It really doesn't play in the tropics.\\"<br /><br />Bangkok Tattoo is a complicated slice of drama, an angst-ridden CIA agent hopelessly in love, tormented by his duty and religious beliefs vs. his amorous obsession; the Americans' interminable quest to tie every violent act to a subversive plot by Al Qaeda to undermine the moral of the American people; the naturally pragmatic and corrupt system of the accommodations of the Thai personality; and a group of Muslims trying to avert an excuse for war in their part of the country, hyper-aware that they are the bogeymen du jour. The ubiquitous Sonchai watches all unfold, reporting to Vikorn, yearning for Chanya, a dutiful son and conscientious policeman. Sprinkle in a Japanese tattoo artist, the community of katoeys (transsexuals-in-progress), a couple of gruesome murders that include castration and flaying, a dash of karma and mix well. This is the perfect recipe for a spicy Eastern mystery that is uniquely satisfying. Luan Gaines/2005.ought processes. Throughout, advice is narrated to the \\"farang\\" reader, explaining the easy order of business in Thailand, \\"Farang, tell your evangelists not to bundle salvation with the work ethic. It really doesn't play in the tropics.\\" <br /> <br />Bangkok Tattoo is a complicated slice of drama, an angst-ridden CIA agent hopelessly in love, tormented by his duty and religious beliefs vs. his amorous obsession; the Americans' interminable quest to tie every violent act to a subversive plot by Al Qaeda to undermine the moral of the American people; the naturally pragmatic and corrupt system of the accommodations of the Thai personality; and a group of Muslims trying to avert an excuse for war in their part of the country, hyper-aware that they are the bogeymen du jour. The ubiquitous Sonchai watches all unfold, reporting to Vikorn, yearning for Chanya, a dutiful son and conscientious policeman. Sprinkle in a Japanese tattoo artist, the community of katoeys (transsexuals-in-progress), a couple of gruesome murders that include castration and flaying, a dash of karma and mix well. This is the perfect recipe for a spicy Eastern mystery that is uniquely satisfying. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-05-10
249159:US	51010391	R13PY05P06347M	0374179956	8365110	Johnny Mad Dog: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A bitter struggle	This book graphically portrays the horrific ordeal of innocents caught in the crossfire of rebel factions in civil war-torn West Africa. Hordes of people leave their homes and are relentlessly pursued by the rebels, in this case a group called Mata Mata, the cause narrated by 16-year old Johnny Mad Dog. While marching his \\"men\\" from place to place and killing so-called traitors indiscriminately, the young men loot and rape with impunity, proud of their manly prowess and totally oblivious to those they destroy.<br /><br />With youthful hubris, Johnny Mad Dog considers himself an intellectual, but his arrogance far exceeds his native intelligence, as brutal a character as any seasoned veteran. He rationalizes his actions, spouting policy in rejecting \\"the previous government and its leader, enemies of the people and democracy, a genocidal regime... I think that's what we'd been told to say.\\"<br /><br />In sharp contrast, the 16-year old Laokole leaves her shabby hut with her brother and legless mother in a wheelbarrow, the children taking turns pushing. Along the way, the brother, Fofo is separated from his sister and mother. The mother's legs are a casualty of the last rebel rampage, when her husband was shot. Laokole thinks about the futility of their plight, danger at every turn, even \\"why a woman should limit the number of her own children: because the fewer children you had, the more easily you could flee in times of war and looting.\\" Nowhere is safe in this chaotic world, turned upside-down by the rebels, soldiers, bandits, all interchangeable, young and old pursued, \\"for no one is too old to flee death\\". Everyone carries their most prized possessions, for Laokole and Fofo it is their mother.<br /><br />By contrasting the lives of the two teenagers, Johnny Mad Dog and Laokole, the author paints a stunning picture of depravity vs. courage. Laokole is the voice of humanity, while Johnny Mad Dog is corrupted by power, depraved by senseless murders, excusing his own brutality: \\"I know, I know, my kind heart is going to get me in serious trouble.\\" In alternating chapters, the girl and the young man maneuver through the unremitting violence that is total chaos. The carnage is everywhere, death stalking the streets with each fetish-wearing youth with a rifle in his hands.<br /><br />The refugees look for their story to be told on the television, but nothing is mentioned on American TV. The European stations have some coverage, \\"images I've seen a thousand times on programs about Rwanda, Angola, Sierra Leone, Liberia, the Central African Republic and eastern Zaire\\". Africa is seen on the screen as a vast refugee camp, \\"the ragged, wandering hordes.\\" This painful, but important novel gives voice to the massacre of innocents, over 10, 000 deaths, half a million displaced persons and refugees, a humanitarian catastrophe. \\"How can you have hope in a country when the road to power is littered with corpses?\\" The haunting voice of this young woman tells the story of millions, abandoned to their fate. When will the world respond to this genocidal nightmare? Luan Gaines/2005.his own brutality: \\"I know, I know, my kind heart is going to get me in serious trouble.\\" In alternating chapters, the girl and the young man maneuver through the unremitting violence that is total chaos. The carnage is everywhere, death stalking the streets with each fetish-wearing youth with a rifle in his hands. <br /> <br />The refugees look for their story to be told on the television, but nothing is mentioned on American TV. The European stations have some coverage, \\"images I've seen a thousand times on programs about Rwanda, Angola, Sierra Leone, Liberia, the Central African Republic and eastern Zaire\\". Africa is seen on the screen as a vast refugee camp, \\"the ragged, wandering hordes.\\" This painful, but important novel gives voice to the massacre of innocents, over 10, 000 deaths, half a million displaced persons and refugees, a humanitarian catastrophe. \\"How can you have hope in a country when the road to power is littered with corpses?\\" The haunting voice of this young woman tells the story of millions, abandoned to their fate. When will the world respond to this genocidal nightmare? Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-07
249344:US	51010391	R1QXNOU9N5YBHC	0312424426	636714150	Signals of Distress: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A tragi-comedy of errors	As one ship lands and another flounders offshore, fates are entwined in the passengers of both and those waiting on the English coast for the storm to abate. There is only one inn in Wherrytown, so the sailors and survivors are housed together, sharing cramped quarters. One passenger, Ayer Smith, stands out against the rougher denizens, choosing a couple emigrating to Canada for his companions. Smith is a partner of Hector Smith and Co., the soap manufacturer that buys kelp ashes from the inhabitants of nearby Dry Marston.<br /><br />An officious busybody typical of his class and education, Ayer has come to inform the agent and kelpers that the company will no longer need their services. He plans to rectify the situation with a personal visit to each family. Espousing the philosophy of Skepticism, Smith is also an Amender; he believes that for every act of evil, he can perform a corrective act of charity. A bachelor and a virgin, Smith is so out of touch with reality that he cannot identify pragmatism. In such misplaced attentions lies chaos.<br /><br />Naturally Smith gets sidetracked by the beaching of the Belle of Wellington, particularly interested in an African slave, Otto, who is saved from the wreck, and the newlywed wife who shares his private quarters with her husband. It is through Smith's meddling that Otto is released, much to the consternation of Capt. Comstock, who locked him in the tackle room. As for the Captain, \\"hard winds, bad luck, a bar of sand had beached his ship. His masts were down, the cattle lost, the African set loose.\\" To add to his burden, snow has begun to fall and \\"every half-wit in the land\\" is staying at the only inn.<br /><br />The cast of characters is Dickensian, written with particular attention to their connections with the land from which they eke their livings, some well, many meager: Walter Howells, the agent who has his fingerprints on every transaction that occurs in Wherrytown, busy with the events of late (\\"Everyone would earn a decent crust. High tide, high times!); mother and daughter Rosie and Miggy Bowe, kelpers soon to be out of work, although Miggy has set her sights on one of the American sailors, Ralph Parkiss, though already courted by a local, Palmer Dolly; and the innkeeper, Mrs. Yapp.<br /><br />With the impetus of the priggish Aymer Smith, a series of events is set in motion, events that would serve as high comedy were they not so tragic. Referred none too kindly to as \\"old spindleshanks\\", Aymer realizes his flaws, determined to be more reticent, less interfering: \\"He would be reckless in his reticence, a pleasing paradox.\\" The passengers of the recovered ship sail off to what they hope will be a happy future, Ayer left watching. With one final, clumsy action, he takes his leave, returning to the world from whence he came, none the wiser for his adventures.<br /><br />Crace has written a comedy of errors with Ayer Smith the central player, a dangerous fool under the best of circumstances, confronted by the real world of Neo-Industrial England, where life is lived on the edge of the ocean in all its splendor and random brutality. Blissfully unaware, Ayer is adamant, \\"There was a calm to maintain between oneself and one's behavior\\". Luan Gaines/ 2005.ne would earn a decent crust. High tide, high times!); mother and daughter Rosie and Miggy Bowe, kelpers soon to be out of work, although Miggy has set her sights on one of the American sailors, Ralph Parkiss, though already courted by a local, Palmer Dolly; and the innkeeper, Mrs. Yapp. <br /> <br />With the impetus of the priggish Aymer Smith, a series of events is set in motion, events that would serve as high comedy were they not so tragic. Referred none too kindly to as \\"old spindleshanks\\", Aymer realizes his flaws, determined to be more reticent, less interfering: \\"He would be reckless in his reticence, a pleasing paradox.\\" The passengers of the recovered ship sail off to what they hope will be a happy future, Ayer left watching. With one final, clumsy action, he takes his leave, returning to the world from whence he came, none the wiser for his adventures.  <br /> <br />Crace has written a comedy of errors with Ayer Smith the central player, a dangerous fool under the best of circumstances, confronted by the real world of Neo-Industrial England, where life is lived on the edge of the ocean in all its splendor and random brutality. Blissfully unaware, Ayer is adamant, \\"There was a calm to maintain between oneself and one's behavior\\". Luan Gaines/ 2005.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-07
252623:US	51010391	RJ0XQFL8CR6Y3	1596921226	313643213	Old Mr. Flood	Books	3	11	13	N	N	A well-lived life	What kind of an eccentric would feast on an ancient Boston breakfast of fried cod tongues, cheeks and relish the sounds of gelatinous air bladders? Perhaps the inimitable Mr. Flood, an older gentleman determined to stretch his life to one hundred fifteen years on a diet that consists mainly of fish. Mr. Flood has no desire to meet his Maker and enjoy the fruits of his Baptist belief, because enjoys every minute of living. With a firm belief in the quality of a fish diet in prolonging life., Mr. Flood is frequently seen at the Fulton Fish Market picking out that day's fare, by now something of an icon, always precisely dressed and dapper, a man in his 90's who still has his own teeth and doesn't need glasses.<br /><br />Mr. Flood hasn't endured the discomforts of a cold since 1912. Not adverse to a few drinks of his favorite Scotch, he has been known to supplement his diet with such select spirits. And aside from the occasional hangover, he believes oysters can cure any ailment. Is Mr. Flood the real deal? Perhaps not in this incarnation, but the author has combined the aspects of several old gentlemen over the years, \\"truthful rather than factual\\", Mr. Flood's existence based solidly on fact.<br /><br />With anecdotal vigor, Mitchell documents a day in the life of the extraordinary Mr. Flood, perusing the New England world of a man who has seen much of history pass by, but isn't finished playing his part in the drama. The epitome of the independent spirit that characterized so many of his generation, Mr. Flood is the essence of Americana, an individual who is proud of his achievement, justifiably so. Old school plain-spoken, Mr. Flood is proud of his penchant for alcoholic comforts of an evening, part of a vanishing breed, a gentleman who serves as a reminder of a generation that asked for nothing, unafraid to toil for a living. His voice echoes through the years, a denizen of the East River Fish Markets and neighborhood pubs, satisfied to end each day well fed, determined to give as good as he gets, leaving his mark on the world he inhabits. This is a man who will not go quietly into that dark good night.<br /><br />This small, intimate book looks into the lifestyle of an old-style gentleman. Reaching the end of his life, he remains tenacious and determined, as dapper today as when he was a young man with a bright future ahead. Luan Gaines/2005.h day well fed, determined to give as good as he gets, leaving his mark on the world he inhabits. This is a man who will not go quietly into that dark good night. <br /> <br />This small, intimate book looks into the lifestyle of an old-style gentleman. Reaching the end of his life, he remains tenacious and determined, as dapper today as when he was a young man with a bright future ahead. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-04
253064:US	51010391	R19B8QVPXBKZG	1400042267	59870239	Lost in the Forest	Books	4	18	21	N	N	The parallel worlds of grief and love	Time after time, Sue Miller has proven herself a master storyteller, reaching into the heart of a tale and exposing the complicated reactions of a family in crisis. As in Lost in the Forest, no one is ever prepared for tragedy, yet it strikes randomly, altering lives in the wake of grief.<br /><br />For Eva and her three children, tragedy strikes on a quiet afternoon walk with her second husband, John, and their small son, Theo. John is suddenly struck by a car, killed instantly in front of wife and child. Mark, Eva's first husband, receives a call from seventeen-year old Emily, requesting that he come and get the children, but she doesn't tell him the reason until after they are safely ensconced at his house. Three-year old Theo may be too young to understand, but middle child, almost-fifteen-year old Daisy was particularly close to her stepfather, a gentle man who took the time to attend to her emotional needs. Eva is, of course devastated.<br /><br />Family and friends grope blindly through the following days in the beautiful Napa Valley wine country of the 1980's, seeking a return to some kind of normalcy and an end to their endless grief, the weight of sorrow almost a physical burden. Time passes and the family returns to a routine, but, of course, nothing is the same for any of them. Over the next few months, Mark imagines a life again with his former wife, although Eva is ambivalent, still reeling from the shocking loss of her beloved John. Aware of Eva's dilemma, Mark can't deny the fantasy that blooms in his imagination.<br /><br />Emily has begun to move away from the circle of family. The world calls her to her future. Young Theo has yet to comprehend that his father has gone forever, imagining he will see him in heaven soon. Surprisingly, it is Daisy, now fifteen, who suffers the most from John`s absence, the man who had so generously taken over the fatherly role Mark unwittingly abdicated. Given to a natural quiet and isolation, the formerly gawky girl is growing into her beauty, a fact that doesn't go unnoticed by one of their circle, an older married man.<br /><br />Like moth to flame, the vulnerable Daisy is seduced by the probing voice of experience, the worldly man who finds her so charming, so vulnerable. Open to his flattery, Daisy is transported into a private island of intimacy, an almost physical yearning like a healing balm for the almost fathomless grief she has endured since John's death. The terrible loss too large for her to manage, Daisy escapes into her romantic musings, stepping over the threshold of sexual maturity, still a girl but with the sensory awareness of a woman, unable to locate a moral compass for her burgeoning emotions.<br /><br />Miller handles the scenes of seduction with incredible grace, perfectly capturing Daisy's innocence, vulnerability and desperate need for comfort; the author's descriptions are weighted with poignancy, a melding of curiosity and satisfaction: \\"She felt he offered her a new version of herself, one she carried more and more with her into real life.\\" It is Mark and Eva's courage as parents that serves as a catalyst for Daisy's decisions about her relationship with the older man, who is actually a predator, as she will come to see years later. And it is Mark, Daisy's absentee father, who reaches out to his troubled daughter, offering her a healthy future and the promise of her youth.<br /><br />From a tangled web of emotional chaos, Miller creates a family in crisis who must learn to recover, adapt and make peace with the unalterable past, anchored by the overwhelming love of parent for child and the gift of forgiveness. Luan Gaines/2005.y girl is growing into her beauty, a fact that doesn't go unnoticed by one of their circle, an older married man. <br /> <br />Like moth to flame, the vulnerable Daisy is seduced by the probing voice of experience, the worldly man who finds her so charming, so vulnerable. Open to his flattery, Daisy is transported into a private island of intimacy, an almost physical yearning like a healing balm for the almost fathomless grief she has endured since John's death. The terrible loss too large for her to manage, Daisy escapes into her romantic musings, stepping over the threshold of sexual maturity, still a girl but with the sensory awareness of a woman, unable to locate a moral compass for her burgeoning emotions. <br /> <br />Miller handles the scenes of seduction with incredible grace, perfectly capturing Daisy's innocence, vulnerability and desperate need for comfort; the author's descriptions are weighted with poignancy, a melding of curiosity and satisfaction: \\"She felt he offered her a new version of herself, one she carried more and more with her into real life.\\" It is Mark and Eva's courage as parents that serves as a catalyst for Daisy's decisions about her relationship with the older man, who is actually a predator, as she will come to see years later. And it is Mark, Daisy's absentee father, who reaches out to his troubled daughter, offering her a healthy future and the promise of her youth. <br /> <br />From a tangled web of emotional chaos, Miller creates a family in crisis who must learn to recover, adapt and make peace with the unalterable past, anchored by the overwhelming love of parent for child and the gift of forgiveness. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-04
254919:US	51010391	R1HJLE3207Y44P	0385515316	723833150	The Inside Ring: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Kings of Impunity	\\"Eagle One is in danger... the inside ring has been compromised.\\" So states a note delivered to the Secret Service Director, Patrick Donnelly, who promptly ignores it. Now the President's best friend is dead and the President is wounded.<br /><br />Attorney Joseph DeMarco works exclusively for the Speaker of the House, John Fitzpatrick Mahoney, quietly cleaning up potentially embarrassing situations. Mahoney sends DeMarco to Andrew Banks, the current Director of Homeland Security. Banks is in possession of the mysterious note and hopes DeMarco can uncover evidence about the guilt or innocence of one of the Secret Service agents in the President's inner circle, Billy Ray Mattis. From the start, DeMarco is in over his head, but Mahoney is adamant,  expecting a blow-by-blow of every conversation. When things heat up, DeMarco enlists the aid of a Washington friend, Emma, a woman of extraordinary talents, possibly a former DIA operative, with access to protected resources and the attitude of a Washington survivor. As it turns out, Emma is DeMarco's most valuable asset in a series of harrowing adventures.<br /><br />When DeMarco has sufficient information to involve the resources of the FBI, he and Banks are ambushed by top officials in the administration, determined to hold to the current explanation of the assassination attempt, a lone shooter who kills himself, leaving a suicide note. Faced with the stubbornness of the Attorney General, the FBI and the Director of the Secret Service, DeMarco and Banks hit a wall. Undeterred, Mahoney pushes DeMarco into even deeper waters than the Washington bureaucracy, down south in Georgia, the home of the questionable Secret Service agent, Mattis.<br /><br />The cast of characters is endemic to place: in Washington, DC, the sharks are well-fed and pompous in the exercise of authority; in the south, things are more elementary, the small time graft of neighborly politicians, the strong-arming by locals because the boss owns the county; and there are generic killers-for-hire, men who carry out their missions without moral constraint, soulless pawns who murder for the highest bidder. In each of these arenas, the author navigates with ease, skillfully portraying Washington powerbrokers and those who do their bidding, as well as the honorable men who work for the good of the country, undermined by the machinations of those in high places; then DeMarco surfaces in an entirely different world, quiet, beautiful country where evil wears a friendly face but is no less deadly, subject to a master of deceit who manipulates the powerless and takes what he wants with impunity.<br /><br />Atmospheric and riveting, this terrific book jumps out of the gate and never loses pace. The obvious is turned inside out as the plot winds in a serpentine path to a nail-biting ending. The characters are completely realistic, especially the overwhelmed DeMarco, who finds himself out on a limb with slick Washington vipers and literally lost in a gator-infested swamp in Georgia, pursued by an ex-military sharpshooter working as a Park Ranger and a silent Indian with dead eyes. Life goes on as usual in the Okefenokee Swamp, \\"strong things killing weak things, fast things eating slow things. All things screaming in the dark.\\"<br /><br />The bottom line is the same, whether in the nation's capitol or in a rural county where a rich man wreaks revenge for a poverty-riddled youth, an entire town forced to do his bidding. The corruption is the same, absolute. In a devilishly complicated plot, the tentacles of greed reach back in time, to a long, lonely road in the middle of nowhere, resurrecting the past as an avaricious secret is born. Luan Gaines/2005.county; and there are generic killers-for-hire, men who carry out their missions without moral constraint, soulless pawns who murder for the highest bidder. In each of these arenas, the author navigates with ease, skillfully portraying Washington powerbrokers and those who do their bidding, as well as the honorable men who work for the good of the country, undermined by the machinations of those in high places; then DeMarco surfaces in an entirely different world, quiet, beautiful country where evil wears a friendly face but is no less deadly, subject to a master of deceit who manipulates the powerless and takes what he wants with impunity. <br /> <br />Atmospheric and riveting, this terrific book jumps out of the gate and never loses pace. The obvious is turned inside out as the plot winds in a serpentine path to a nail-biting ending. The characters are completely realistic, especially the overwhelmed DeMarco, who finds himself out on a limb with slick Washington vipers and literally lost in a gator-infested swamp in Georgia, pursued by an ex-military sharpshooter working as a Park Ranger and a silent Indian with dead eyes. Life goes on as usual in the Okefenokee Swamp, \\"strong things killing weak things, fast things eating slow things. All things screaming in the dark.\\" <br /> <br />The bottom line is the same, whether in the nation's capitol or in a rural county where a rich man wreaks revenge for a poverty-riddled youth, an entire town forced to do his bidding. The corruption is the same, absolute. In a devilishly complicated plot, the tentacles of greed reach back in time, to a long, lonely road in the middle of nowhere, resurrecting the past as an avaricious secret is born. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-05-03
257707:US	51010391	RMADINOILL12L	0151012016	914291055	Natives and Exotics	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A brief sojourn in paradise	Life goes on in a colonial city high in the Andes in the 1970's, regardless of military coup or Ecuadorian diplomatic tensions, the American Embassy overflowing with the usual parties and pulsing music. Nine-year old Alice Forder is torn open by the shocking beauty of the country, \\"all that light and color poured into her\\", mindful that all those who live within the embassy walls are guests in Ecuador, whether with the foreign service, USAID or with the oil companies laying pipeline.<br /><br />Yet everything is transitory, the lush beauty only hers to enjoy for a moment. In the mind of a nine-year old such a place is larger than life, exotic and impossible to capture for long. In her short time in Ecuador, Alice goes on a climbing excursion with a teacher and two other students, is taught the social pecking order of embassy children and camps in a tent on the beach with her mother a few weeks before the Forders are scheduled to move to another post. All too soon, the beauty of this haunting country is seen through the window of the airplane taking her away.<br /><br />In 1929, Vi Clarence is building a life in Australia with Alf, a rigorous life full of the satisfactions of hard work. Australia has only been settled for one hundred years and Vi is cognizant of the great breadth of this land, its potential and her family's future here. Pregnant with her first child, Vi is Alice Forder's grandmother, living out the rugged days of the early settlers: \\"She felt as if she kept flying free of her tether, or as if the center of things kept shifting\\"; she has to exert herself to stay fixed in one place. Suddenly she understands that \\"there was a thin strip of time belonging to her and the rest of it does not\\". Vi muses about her great grandfather's long journey from Scotland, a man who came to this land when it was first settled as a penal colony.<br /><br />Even earlier, in 1822, Violet's Scottish grandfather, George, endures the savagery of the Clearances, when homes are destroyed to empty the land for sheep, people pushed aside like so much refuse. Scots are shipped to North America, British convicts to New South Wales; ships wander the globe, carrying cargoes of people looking for a place to start over. Finally, landing in the Portuguese Azores, George is involved in the citrus trade on the island of Saint Michael. Deeply attuned to the planting in the orchards, George is designing a natural garden, dreaming of the island's promise, when political turmoil breaks out in the Portuguese ruling family. George understands that now there will be war, there is always war when empires are being forged from trade and opportunity. When the groves are destroyed by parasites, George moves on to southern Australia.<br /><br />Alison focuses on the human face of change, the individuals who value the fragile beauty of the earth, the vivid colors, the weight and texture of the soil, the promise of new growth. Going backwards in time, this elegant, intimate book possesses the air of discovery, whether through the eyes of a child, a pregnant young woman, or displaced settler in unfamiliar terrain. All is discovery, either personal or when the earth's landscape is still being shaped. Like Jodie Shield's The Fig Eater, this author has a talent for the quietly observed moment, the intimacy between nature and human, captured in a thought or feeling. The characters personify each era touched upon in the novel, the rapidly altering history of continents grappling with change, both political and economic. Each character is alive with the moment, attuned to the beating pulse of history. Luan Gaines/2005.nces, when homes are destroyed to empty the land for sheep, people pushed aside like so much refuse. Scots are shipped to North America, British convicts to New South Wales; ships wander the globe, carrying cargoes of people looking for a place to start over. Finally, landing in the Portuguese Azores, George is involved in the citrus trade on the island of Saint Michael. Deeply attuned to the planting in the orchards, George is designing a natural garden, dreaming of the island's promise, when political turmoil breaks out in the Portuguese ruling family. George understands that now there will be war, there is always war when empires are being forged from trade and opportunity. When the groves are destroyed by parasites, George moves on to southern Australia. <br /> <br />Alison focuses on the human face of change, the individuals who value the fragile beauty of the earth, the vivid colors, the weight and texture of the soil, the promise of new growth. Going backwards in time, this elegant, intimate book possesses the air of discovery, whether through the eyes of a child, a pregnant young woman, or displaced settler in unfamiliar terrain. All is discovery, either personal or when the earth's landscape is still being shaped. Like Jodie Shield's The Fig Eater, this author has a talent for the quietly observed moment, the intimacy between nature and human, captured in a thought or feeling. The characters personify each era touched upon in the novel, the rapidly altering history of continents grappling with change, both political and economic. Each character is alive with the moment, attuned to the beating pulse of history. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-04-30
258317:US	51010391	R1F1FWTEPW8MB6	0060721561	93856390	Falls the Shadow	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The law of unintended consequences	This was my first experience with Victor Carl, an admitted benefactor of his own self-interests and ambiguous values. He also possesses an amazing wit, ever at hand with a wry remark or trenchant observation. Thanks to the good nature of his partner, Beth Dillinger, Carl takes on the appeal of Franoise Dube, a man previously found guilty of murdering his estranged wife. When the lawyers uncover grounds for an appeal and Dube is granted a new trial, Victor is less than thrilled, although the delivery of a hefty retainer does much to improve his mood.<br /><br />The office is buried in case files as Victor and Beth prepare for a new trial. An assortment of bizarre characters await: the murdered woman's sister, Velma, who is bankrolling the appeal; Seamus Dent, an apparently not-so-innocent bystander who placed Franoise at the scene of the crime in the first trial; a hard-boiled but soft-hearted detective who tries to save one of the desperate souls in his path; Dube's former attorney, now so wrapped up in his own dance with death that he turns a blind eye to the truth; Horace T. Grant, a curmudgeonly old man who directs Victor on the path of righteousness; and the ubiquitous dentist, Dr. Pfeffer, whose tentacles are everywhere, a self-proposed do-gooder who has no personal constraint when manipulating the lives of others.<br /><br />There are some choice moments to savor along the way, like the three crones gossiping on their apartment house steps, cackling like the three witches from Macbeth, karaoke night at the Elvis bar, King's Dominion, Carl's out-of-body experience while enjoying a romantic dalliance with a beautiful woman whose directions are more like a game of Twister than affection and the attorney's assorted torturous ordeals writhing in the avid Dr. Pfeffer's dental chair. Lasher knows how to stage a scene, eccentric characters, moody atmosphere and all.<br /><br />This engrossing mystery is a microcosm of life in the real world, where money and power hold sway and the ill-prepared, under funded everyman is the lowest rung on the food chain. But this lesson is taught with great panache, subtle twists of fate that prove, again and again, how precipitous arrogance can lead to a long fall. A great sense of the humorous, edgy dialog and a dynamite plot with plenty of complications add up to a story well worth the price of admission. But if you haven't been to the dentist for a while, some of the gruesome procedures described may keep you away for a few more years.<br /><br />Lashner is a master of cunning and innovative plot twists; a defense attorney, the author well knows the intricacies of circumstantial evidence and facile testimony, the easy deception inherent in human nature. In other words, he writes what he knows so well, trial law: the good, the bad and the ugly, all together in this highly imaginative novel that will set your teeth on edge. Luan Gaines/2005.ower hold sway and the ill-prepared, under funded everyman is the lowest rung on the food chain. But this lesson is taught with great panache, subtle twists of fate that prove, again and again, how precipitous arrogance can lead to a long fall. A great sense of the humorous, edgy dialog and a dynamite plot with plenty of complications add up to a story well worth the price of admission. But if you haven't been to the dentist for a while, some of the gruesome procedures described may keep you away for a few more years. <br /> <br />Lashner is a master of cunning and innovative plot twists; a defense attorney, the author well knows the intricacies of circumstantial evidence and facile testimony, the easy deception inherent in human nature. In other words, he writes what he knows so well, trial law: the good, the bad and the ugly, all together in this highly imaginative novel that will set your teeth on edge. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-04-30
258555:US	51010391	R23JZIS66XPPQE	0375423044	13143420	The Language of Baklava: A Memoir	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A cross-cultural feast	The author's memoir, The Language of Baklava, is as rich and full-bodied as the pungent recipes that are peppered throughout the book, both sweet and spicy, a peek into bi-cultural life that is amusing and heartwarming. Abu-Jaber infuses her memoir with the joy of family and the love of food, meals shared with many because \\"you never know who's just come over from the old country\\". The old country being, in this case, Jordan.<br /><br />Her two novels, Arabian Jazz and Crescent, are filled with the kind of colorful personalities, both Jordanian and American, who have filled Abu-Jaber's life, the author drawing inspiration from a unique assortment of extended family and friends. In this flavorful book, she tells her own story, growing up a child of two cultures. Moving from America to Jordan and back, the young Diana absorbs everything around her, the people, events and aromatic dishes prepared by her father. She speaks to a personal experience of cultural ambiguity as a schoolgirl in America, with a father who has his own ideas about the behavior of adolescent daughters.<br /><br />Throughout, the author gathers the reader in, introducing her extended family in all their glory and eccentricity. The Abu-Jaber's are as generous and expansive as they are unconventional, drawing outsiders into their circle, unable to resist the tempting aromas that waft from the home. In one scene, the children are allowed to stay up all night on New Year's Eve. As the parents gather to talk of old times, the children enjoy their own adventures, let loose upon the midnight landscape, their imaginations wild with abandon until, one by one, they fall into sleep, exhausted by possibilities.<br /><br />Food, family and celebration go hand in hand, the rich tastes that bring back memories of Jordan, the flavors of home. Food is memory, triggering instantly the tastes and places of youth, familiar and comforting. In chapters that define growing up with the flavors and language of Jordan, but also the American experience of a lively family, Abu-Jaber forges the links between taste and emotion, captured in imaginative recipes: \\"Distract the Neighbors\\" Grilled Chicken, \\"Start the Party\\" Hummus, Lost Childhood Pita Bread, \\"Stolen Boyfriend\\" Baba Ghanouj and Chicken Msukhan for Richer or Poorer.<br /><br />Diana's connection to family is profound, especially the ties to an old-fashioned father, the product of an entirely different generation. Through the push and pull of young adulthood, Diana struggles for independence, a definition of herself as a woman and a writer, successfully navigating the dangerous waters of self-sufficiency: \\"A reluctant Bedouin- I miss and long for every place, every country I have ever lived.\\" With an abundance of grace, Abu-Jaber relates her unique story skillfully, blending the love, resistance, acceptance and bounty of a large multi-cultural family with room and heart enough for everyone. Luan Gaines/2005., but also the American experience of a lively family, Abu-Jaber forges the links between taste and emotion, captured in imaginative recipes: \\"Distract the Neighbors\\" Grilled Chicken, \\"Start the Party\\" Hummus, Lost Childhood Pita Bread, \\"Stolen Boyfriend\\" Baba Ghanouj and Chicken Msukhan for Richer or Poorer. <br /> <br />Diana's connection to family is profound, especially the ties to an old-fashioned father, the product of an entirely different generation. Through the push and pull of young adulthood, Diana struggles for independence, a definition of herself as a woman and a writer, successfully navigating the dangerous waters of self-sufficiency: \\"A reluctant Bedouin- I miss and long for every place, every country I have ever lived.\\" With an abundance of grace, Abu-Jaber relates her unique story skillfully, blending the love, resistance, acceptance and bounty of a large multi-cultural family with room and heart enough for everyone. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-04-30
259985:US	51010391	R34J55K9RLOCCP	0385512449	158497278	In the Shadows of the Sun	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A haunting portrayal of harrowing times	Executive Order 9029. This one order from the Federal Government displaces ranching leaseholders from their land in New Mexico, establishing the government's wartime authority to establish a test site on the land. With a war going on, there is no one to gainsay the right of the government to use the land in a manner that will aid the war effort. For those who must move from the land it is a wrenching, irrevocable order.<br /><br />The Strickland brothers are hard, proud men who have worked the land, making their living from it and raising generations of family and both Baylis and Ross fight against embitterment when their livelihood is taken away. Baylis's wife has long wanted to live in town, although her husband refuses to acknowledge her; Ross is the older, more stubborn of the two, still nursing a grudge after the accidental death of their father. Just before the Japanese bomb Pearl Harbor, Ross' son Jack enlists, but he refuses to say goodbye or wish him well. Not knowing the fate of his son since Pearl Harbor, Ross is smothered under his rage and general sense of injustice, while Baylis tries to make peace with the future.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Jack endures the agony of the Bataan Death March, living corpses plodding through an eternity of days to reach the end of their journey. As Jack's friends fall away by the roadside, the young soldier keeps moving, his youthful enthusiasm as a soldier pounded into painful monotony under the weight of unrelenting horrors. But Jack carries the blood of his family, determined to survive his ordeal.<br /><br />This unsparing novel of the high mountain desert of New Mexico and the jungles of the Philippines is as plain-spoken as the rugged country that requires all a man has to survive. While a young man wills himself to live and return home, his journey is made more poignant by the desperate straits of the Strickland's left behind. It would appear that there is little love in this family, what there is damaged by illicit romance and bitter regret, pitting brother against brother. But the love in this novels runs far below the surface; it is the deep-rooted affection of generations nurtured on their own land, the essence and endurance of family.<br /><br />In sparse prose reminiscent of Cormac McCarthy, Parsons paints a compelling portrait of a harsh land and the men it breeds, their loyalties and resentments, those who are the heart of this country. With images as powerful as the harrowing dust-bowl years of the Great Depression, the author's characters stand alone, proud and immutable, citizens of a world they have built with their own hands. Bleak and plaintive, the novel resonates with its own spare beauty. In a country devastated by a world war, two brothers are stripped and bared, their personal demons exposed. A son struggles far from home, his parents beset with inexplicable grief over his fate. Then finally, the great leveler is released, the awesome glare of incomprehensible destruction as the world watches, illuminated by the transcendent glare of the atomic bomb. Luan Gaines/2005.amaged by illicit romance and bitter regret, pitting brother against brother. But the love in this novels runs far below the surface; it is the deep-rooted affection of generations nurtured on their own land, the essence and endurance of family. <br /> <br />In sparse prose reminiscent of Cormac McCarthy, Parsons paints a compelling portrait of a harsh land and the men it breeds, their loyalties and resentments, those who are the heart of this country. With images as powerful as the harrowing dust-bowl years of the Great Depression, the author's characters stand alone, proud and immutable, citizens of a world they have built with their own hands. Bleak and plaintive, the novel resonates with its own spare beauty. In a country devastated by a world war, two brothers are stripped and bared, their personal demons exposed. A son struggles far from home, his parents beset with inexplicable grief over his fate. Then finally, the great leveler is released, the awesome glare of incomprehensible destruction as the world watches, illuminated by the transcendent glare of the atomic bomb. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-04-28
262892:US	51010391	R3U9HVRHFXOHTI	0385501625	981387135	Can't Get Enough: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Desperate rich housewives	Gucci. Prada. Jimmy Choo. All the right labels adorn the black \\"new monied\\" denizens of Silver Lake in Prince George's County, Maryland. For two of these ladies, Barbara Bentley and Jolene Brown, money is of no consequence. They have luxurious homes in the north Silver Lake district, the wealthiest black enclave in the United States. Jolene is newly divorced after a scandalous affair with Barbara's husband, Bradford, the summer before, but Jolene can't let a little social humiliation get her down.<br /><br />Then there is Pearl Jackson, also divorced, but residing in a less tony townhouse in Silver Lake. Pearl owns her own beauty salon and is the love interest of Patrick Brown, Jolene's ex-husband. Without the financial resources of Barbara and Jolene, Pearl has no problems with priorities. Even though Jolene wants her man back, Pearl is more than enough for Patrick, although his ex-wife cannot fathom the attraction. When a new mansion is built in Silver Lake, the streets are buzzing with curiosity and rife with rumor. A huge gala is planned at the newcomer's estate to welcome virtually all of the tight-knit community. Soon everyone wants to be the best friend of the newly arrived occupant in a virulent outbreak of status-envy.<br /><br />From expensive hair weaves to designer duds to clandestine affairs, Briscoe whips up a froth of feminine follies, not the least of which involves a handsome hunk with dreads who has to beat the ladies off with a stick, his eyes for one woman only. And she is already married. This is upscale Maryland society at its dishiest and the author knows how to capture a moment and a man, her feisty protagonists fighting for dominance. There's a lesson for all, but especially Barbara, who finds out the hard way that \\"the devil you know is better than the one you don't\\".<br /><br />If there is such a thing as literate chick lit, Connie Briscoe has cornered the market, \\"Sex and the City\\" sistah style, with an excess of panache and spirit to carry off the whole crazy romp. It may not be brain surgery, but the difference is obvious: this writer isn't just name-dropping designers du jour and indiscriminate sex, she is a skillful writer with a sense of timing, interesting characterization and believable plot development. Desperate Housewives, eat your hearts out. Luan Gaines/2005.to carry off the whole crazy romp. It may not be brain surgery, but the difference is obvious: this writer isn't just name-dropping designers du jour and indiscriminate sex, she is a skillful writer with a sense of timing, interesting characterization and believable plot development. Desperate Housewives, eat your hearts out. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-26
268572:US	51010391	RD82DCS7QMODF	0151010943	713922904	We're in Trouble	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The finality of death	The theme is death, its stunning finality, the one truth that is inarguable. Death comes in many forms, in carelessness, by accident, by design when living is no longer an option, always immutable. Its finality cannot be questioned, leaving an empty space once taken up by affection, as those left behind struggle to make peace with the aftermath of such devastation. Coake pierces the ordinary with the incisive blade of truth, nonjudgmental, people caught in the circumstances of their lives, laid bare before fate, defined by their responses. These are simple stories of complicated people confronted by their choices and their consequences.<br /><br />Set in the Midwest, snow is a common factor, the weight of it, the cold, the sharp etching of emotions, an acknowledgement of extremes. Each story posits a different situation, where death, or the possibility of it, plays a central role. In \\"Cross Country\\", a boy takes a single step into manhood, traveling with a man who may or may not be his father. The boy is tentative, wary, riding in a rattling truck from Illinois to Colorado. There are no answers in this story, only questions and the knowledge that this boy's life has altered course. In \\"Solos\\", a famous mountain climber's wife endures the familiar agony of waiting to hear whether her husband lives or dies in his quest of the mountain. She has made a terrible bargain by loving this man, the mountain a mistress she cannot fight, torn between love and rage.<br /><br />In \\"In the Event\\", a single young man is faced with raising the son of his best friends, just that night killed in a car accident, his life choices truncated without warning, as he grieves for the loss of the familiar while facing the challenge of the future. There are more such tangible dilemmas, a wife whose most intimate memory of her husband is his escape from immolation while dragging a woman from a burning car; two young adults trapped in a deadly snowstorm, one of them long-resigned to death, familiar with its weight; a sheriff's baleful memories of a murdered family, years after the event, his intimate knowledge of the people involved. It is the subtleties the author examines, the shaded emotions exposed by the response to tragedy. One by one, each story isolates a moment of clarity, a peek into this universe, so enormously complicated yet shockingly simple.<br /><br />It is obvious that this author is intimate with grief in all its morbidity, but as he explores its many faces, there is acceptance and a faint light of hope that finally surfaces after a black night of the soul, the brutal finality that is part of life, the alter-ego of bright days, laughter and the sweet infusion of devotion to another human being. These stories are wrenching, yet impossible to resist, Coake's talent palpable. He reaches into the human heart with both hands, sure as a surgeon, yet incredibly gentle with these fragile emotions. To read We Are in Trouble is to be changed, the world illuminated. Luan Gaines/2005.amiliar with its weight; a sheriff's baleful memories of a murdered family, years after the event, his intimate knowledge of the people involved. It is the subtleties the author examines, the shaded emotions exposed by the response to tragedy. One by one, each story isolates a moment of clarity, a peek into this universe, so enormously complicated yet shockingly simple. <br /> <br />It is obvious that this author is intimate with grief in all its morbidity, but as he explores its many faces, there is acceptance and a faint light of hope that finally surfaces after a black night of the soul, the brutal finality that is part of life, the alter-ego of bright days, laughter and the sweet infusion of devotion to another human being. These stories are wrenching, yet impossible to resist, Coake's talent palpable. He reaches into the human heart with both hands, sure as a surgeon, yet incredibly gentle with these fragile emotions. To read We Are in Trouble is to be changed, the world illuminated. Luan Gaines/2005.  <br /> <br />	2005-04-22
269847:US	51010391	R18SUQM23KF6RZ	0393060349	511808231	The History of Love: A Novel	Books	4	51	61	N	N	A poignant celebration of life and language	This remarkable novel is a paean to the strength of the human spirit, the nature of language and the yearning for connection. Leo Gursky has lived in stunning loneliness for most of his life. He has loved but one woman devotedly, a girl he grew up with in the old country. When she leaves for America, he stays behind to see his entire family annihilated by the Nazi's. Years later, after living as a refugee, he too comes to America, only to discover she has married, believing him dead in the pogroms.<br /><br />Leo has escaped through writing since childhood, stories of real people, of the impossible, pages that fill the long, quiet hours. He is an old man remembering his first book, lost along the way years ago. Now he craves only to be seen by others, to be acknowledged in the world every day: \\"All I want is not to die on a day that I went unseen.\\" With his damaged heart, Leo waits for the Angel of Death to appear and take him away.<br /><br />In New York, Alma Singer grows up adoring her father, but he dies of pancreatic cancer when she is only seven. The bereft family is three, Alma's younger brother, Bird, an increasingly religious child who believes he may be the Messiah and her beautiful mother who cannot recover from the loss of her beloved husband. Brilliant with languages, her mother spends hours translating books to support the family, never leaving the house, withdrawing into memories of her love: \\"She chose my father, and to hold on to a certain feeling, she sacrificed the world.\\"<br /><br />Alma is named after all the women in a small, but poignant book, \\"The History of Love\\". By some otherworldly coincidence, Alma's father gave this tome, written in Spanish, to her mother when they met. Now her mother has been commissioned to translate the book into English sending off a few chapters at a time. Alma surreptitiously reads the chapters before they are mailed, hoping for a clue to their benefactor's nature. The book is revelatory, written with exceptional insight and compassion, the lovely Alma at the heart of it: \\"Her answer was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering\\".<br /><br />As she reads the pages, Alma is transformed, awakening a deep yearning in her soul. She begins a search that will open the doors of the past, releasing years of loneliness and regret and reach across generations: from the pogroms of the Jews in their homelands to the cosmopolitan city in South America where the book is published; to America, where lost souls wander the streets, their quiet lives passing with sparse comfort, where fathers and sons never meet, where a woman grieves, a young boy prays to be the Chosen One and a girl finds her way to the one person who will extinguish the burning in her soul.<br /><br />Beautifully written, with exquisite sensitivity and compassion, The History of Love will open your heart, fill you with the bright light of understanding and leave you enriched for the experience. This gifted author has created something extraordinary, not a novel, but a journey into the chambers of the human heart. Luan Gaines/2005.en with exceptional insight and compassion, the lovely Alma at the heart of it: \\"Her answer was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering\\". <br /> <br />As she reads the pages, Alma is transformed, awakening a deep yearning in her soul. She begins a search that will open the doors of the past, releasing years of loneliness and regret and reach across generations: from the pogroms of the Jews in their homelands to the cosmopolitan city in South America where the book is published; to America, where lost souls wander the streets, their quiet lives passing with sparse comfort, where fathers and sons never meet, where a woman grieves, a young boy prays to be the Chosen One and a girl finds her way to the one person who will extinguish the burning in her soul. <br /> <br />Beautifully written, with exquisite sensitivity and compassion, The History of Love will open your heart, fill you with the bright light of understanding and leave you enriched for the experience. This gifted author has created something extraordinary, not a novel, but a journey into the chambers of the human heart. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-04-20
271350:US	51010391	R36P85290RLYHY	0060256532	582980871	Runny Babbit: A Billy Sook	Books	5	20	21	N	N	"A Billy Sook."	This crazy title gives some idea of what's going on between the covers of award-winning author/artist Shel Silverstein's bew nook, er, new book. You are now entering the backwards land of Toe Jurtle, Skertie Gunk, Rirty Dat and Dungry Hog, an imaginative series of adventures where all and sundry speak Runny Babbit talk.<br /><br />Each page has a new rhyme (rhew nyme?) and one of Silverstein's humorous and endearing black and white illustrations, lines guaranteed to keep your child guffawing with the silly sounds that come from saying things backwards:<br /><br />\\"When Ramma Mabbit started teachin'<br /><br />Runny how to eat,<br /><br />He ficked his pood up with his ears,<br /><br />He wasn't very neat.\\"<br /><br />There's the rhyme about \\"His Kajesty the Ming\\", \\"Runny the Fricken Charmer\\", \\"Runny's Garty Pames\\" and \\"Runny Shearns to Lare.\\"<br /><br />Runny discovers the library:<br /><br />\\"Runny lent to the wibrary<br /><br />And there were bundreds of hooks-<br /><br />Bistory hooks, beography gooks,<br /><br />And lots and lots of bory stooks.\\" (\\"Runny's Heading Rabits\\")<br /><br />A wild celebration of the antics of language run amok, Silverstein has created page after page of laughs for children to read, challenging their reading and comprehension skills, the reward an hour of giggles. The author must have realized we would have our favorites- he added a table of contents listing each of the silly titles. Don't forget to \\"Bead a Rook\\" with your kid! (For all ages, but especially for a hysterical time with a favorite grandchild.) Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-04-19
271538:US	51010391	R2K2RRI82YEZZ6	0312319169	863828045	Company Man	Books	4	3	6	N	N	No hiding place for "Nick the Slasher"	The Company Man is a successful CEO with a beautiful wife and two children, living in a gated estate, on top his game and on top of the world. Then his wife is killed in an automobile accident, his company is forced into massive layoffs to balance competition from China-based manufacturing and a stalker keeps breaking into his home, terrifying his children with the graffiti: \\"No Hiding Place\\".<br /><br />Nick Conover goes into survival mode, shutting down his emotions, ignoring his teen-aged son's cries for help and pretending life goes on as usual. Meanwhile, his world is falling apart, his son suspended from school, a nefarious plot afoot to unseat him as CEO at Stratton Corporation and the intruder is still threatening his family. All at once, Conover is slammed into one crisis after another, not the least of which is the murder of a man named Stadler, possibly the one responsible for vandalizing Conover's home.<br /><br />The second half of the novel is a race against consequences. Conover has started a relationship with the daughter of the murdered man, ill-advised, but she is wonderful with his children and makes Nick feel alive again. When a diligent female detective, with problems of her own, picks up the scent of the murder, it leads directly to Nick Conover. In spite of his current misnomer as \\"Nick the Slasher\\", Conover's position as CEO of Stratton Corporation is threatened by his fellow board members and Nick is in the fight of his life.<br /><br />While no John Sanford or James Lee Burke, Finder clearly has set his sights on the Grisham, Patterson track, besides which, this author has a killer PR instinct. In the same spirit as his previous novel, Paranoia, Company Man is the saga of one man pitted against the machinations of many. But this protagonist is more humanized, both in his role as \\"caring\\" CEO and father of a grieving family. Juggling too many plates in the air, Conover predictably stumbles, then spends the rest of the novel trying to make up for some devastating mistakes.<br /><br />Everything dovetails in one moment of realization when Conover must decide what he really values. This readable mystery/suspense novel (a little too lengthy) is ambitious, sprinkled with stereotypical characters, from corporate dollar-chasing flunkies to donut-eating, incompetent police, moody, pot-smoking teenagers and a middle-aged man who takes a giant-sized bite out of Eve's poisoned apple. Luan Gaines/2005el trying to make up for some devastating mistakes. <br /> <br />Everything dovetails in one moment of realization when Conover must decide what he really values. This readable mystery/suspense novel (a little too lengthy) is ambitious, sprinkled with stereotypical characters, from corporate dollar-chasing flunkies to donut-eating, incompetent police, moody, pot-smoking teenagers and a middle-aged man who takes a giant-sized bite out of Eve's poisoned apple. Luan Gaines/2005 <br />	2005-04-19
271633:US	51010391	R1O26X5HPY84OG	0385503628	50464028	In Dahlia's Wake	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A lesson in consequences	Grief is always an unwanted intruder. When Rick and Naomi's seven-year old daughter is killed in a freak automobile accident, they are overwhelmed with loss but unable to comfort each other, each bound up in a private world of pain. Instead of reaching out, they keep their feelings bottled inside and suffer the consequences of their lack of communication.<br /><br />Naomi volunteers her free time at the hospital where he daughter died, striking up a friendship with the Michael McBride, the doctor who informed her that Dahlia was gone. For his part, husband Rick escapes into an internet fantasy world, soon after beginning a flirtation with his attractive, divorced office manager. But both husband and wife are desperate to avoid their true crisis, a test of their marriage.<br /><br />The long-widowed Estelle Levine, Naomi's ageing mother, resides in an assisted-living home, struggling with the loss of her short-term memory and haunted by a child named Dahlia, not sure who the child is or why she feels such longing for the girl. But it is thanks to Estelle's blunt observations that Rick and Naomi are able to find purchase on their emotional distance, the old woman most incisive and helpful in resolving the contretemps between husband and wife. When the Estelle does connect with the here and now, she clearly sees Naomi's dilemma, how to get past her pain, forgive herself and her husband and move on.<br /><br />The main protagonists (Naomi and Rick, Estelle, office manager Lillian, Michael Mc Bride, the pediatrician, his daughter, Brooke) live in the present and each systematically reveals the past, chapter after chapter, an approach that somewhat flattens the plot line, save one shocking incident at the end of the novel. For all the extra-curricular grappling between the partners, there is a lack of emotional depth. The other characters caught in Naomi and Rick's search for comfort suffer as well, one in a particularly brutal manner. Other than this innocent, the adults get their just rewards in this tome of grief, infidelity and morality.<br /><br />For readers who appreciate the work of author Elizabeth Berg, this will be an enjoyable novel, peppered with grief, infidelity and the pathos of ruined lives. The characters are abundantly moral, yet humanly flawed,  equally willing to endure the difficult consequences of their impulsive actions. Although the plot is mostly predictable, the author serves up some intense drama at the end, putting considerable energy into the resolution of character conflicts.<br /><br />As Rick and Naomi blindly grope for a way back to each other, Estelle's presence is a constant reminder of the impermanence of life. The other characters face more challenging adjustments, proving that adversity breeds unexpected strengths. Change is inevitable and all those left In Dahlia's Wake are forced to embrace it, reaching toward a future free of past recriminations. Luan Gaines/2005.innocent, the adults get their just rewards in this tome of grief, infidelity and morality. <br /> <br />For readers who appreciate the work of author Elizabeth Berg, this will be an enjoyable novel, peppered with grief, infidelity and the pathos of ruined lives. The characters are abundantly moral, yet humanly flawed,  equally willing to endure the difficult consequences of their impulsive actions. Although the plot is mostly predictable, the author serves up some intense drama at the end, putting considerable energy into the resolution of character conflicts.  <br /> <br />As Rick and Naomi blindly grope for a way back to each other, Estelle's presence is a constant reminder of the impermanence of life. The other characters face more challenging adjustments, proving that adversity breeds unexpected strengths. Change is inevitable and all those left In Dahlia's Wake are forced to embrace it, reaching toward a future free of past recriminations. Luan Gaines/2005.   <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-19
271735:US	51010391	RE6ZTLK7YWX4S	0385513267	349532444	The Mourning Sexton: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A literate evisceration of legal deceits	The Mourning Sexton is an intelligent, provocative novel of suspense that tracks the death of a young woman, Judith Shifrin, a law clerk for the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, her mentor the Honorable Brendan McCormick. Virtually untouchable in his judgeship, McCormick is a contemporary of David Hirsch, the lawyer filing a civil wrongful death suit against the car manufacturer and other associated vendors of the automobile that potentially caused the death of the young woman one cold December night.<br /><br />A bit of an anomaly himself, Hirsch was once a high-flying trial lawyer, poised at the top of the legal food chain, with the hubris to prove it. Drawn into a clever embezzlement scheme, that very arrogance proves to be his undoing and Hirsch spends a number of years in Federal prison for his part in the crime, now reinstated in the practice of law under the auspices of long-time friend, Seymour Rosenbloom.<br /><br />Rediscovering his Jewish roots, Hirsch joins a group of men who pray together every morning at a synagogue near his home; hence the title, The Mourning Sexton, as these men, a minyan, recite prayers for the dead as part of their daily ablutions. One of these men, Abe Shifrin, convinces Hirsch to file the lawsuit on behalf of his daughter. Time is of the essence, as Shifrin has been diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, which is progressing rapidly, pitting Hirsch against the inevitable.<br /><br />What should be a relatively simple settlement case turns into something entirely different, as Hirsch uncovers documentation that Judith was onto some serious legal misconduct involving high-ranking figures in St. Louis's legal establishment. What appeared to be an accident may, in fact, be murder. Hirsch incorporates the aid of best friend, a public-spirited young woman who runs a legal clinic for abused women, and some behind-the-scenes expertise of a fellow con and computer expert, following the meager trail Judith left like scattered breadcrumbs in Hansel and Gretel's forest. But when everything adds up in a complex and intriguing mix of motives and sneaky machinations, Hirsch is holding evidence of a scheme to defraud that puts him imminent danger.<br /><br />The author, a lawyer writing under a pseudonym, dives into the world of legalities with gusto, Hirsch the underdog tacking corporate litigators that would intimidate a lesser man. Hirsch is set on his own personal atonement, former excesses and personal losses weighing on his soul, cognizant of the obstacles in his path, the enormous influence of corporate wealth and his threat to the status quo. As one high-powered, well-cushioned attorney says to Hirsch on the merits of his case: \\"We both know the existence of St. Louis juries is the reason why we have the court of appeals.\\" Undaunted, Hirsch makes his bid for personal redemption and a moral resolution to a young woman's senseless death, upsetting the carefully-laid plans of St. Louis's power brokers and proving himself a changed man in the process. Luan Gaines/2005.l Judith left like scattered breadcrumbs in Hansel and Gretel's forest. But when everything adds up in a complex and intriguing mix of motives and sneaky machinations, Hirsch is holding evidence of a scheme to defraud that puts him imminent danger. <br /> <br />The author, a lawyer writing under a pseudonym, dives into the world of legalities with gusto, Hirsch the underdog tacking corporate litigators that would intimidate a lesser man. Hirsch is set on his own personal atonement, former excesses and personal losses weighing on his soul, cognizant of the obstacles in his path, the enormous influence of corporate wealth and his threat to the status quo. As one high-powered, well-cushioned attorney says to Hirsch on the merits of his case: \\"We both know the existence of St. Louis juries is the reason why we have the court of appeals.\\" Undaunted, Hirsch makes his bid for personal redemption and a moral resolution to a young woman's senseless death, upsetting the carefully-laid plans of St. Louis's power brokers and proving himself a changed man in the process. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-19
272451:US	51010391	RE3SF1IDXMNU9	0393058743	762024019	Miss Manners' Guide to Excruciatingly Correct Behavior (Freshly Updated)	Books	5	50	52	N	N	Passes the white glove test	Times have changed. We're now in an age of technology with a whole new set of etiquette problems to solve. It seems as though people don't care about manners anymore, codes of conduct relegated to a lost century, like men sporting hats and women in white gloves. But Miss Manners (Judith Martin) is hanging tough, refusing to give in to such lackadaisical attitudes. She's dusted off that old rule book and swept away the cobwebs, offering humorous, often hilarious, common-sense advice to anyone seeking help.<br /><br />There is no topic Miss Manners won't discuss, although often with a quirky retort that makes you smile, as she tackles every possible topic, including children's manners, basic courtesy for all ages, conversation (especially on those ubiquitous cell phones!), houseguests, rites of passage, engagements and weddings, employment interviews, invitation etiquette, life after divorce and even bereavement. There is virtually no problem ignored and help for every etiquette concern. Let's face it, life has gotten complicated the last few years. It's a real comfort to have this impressive volume, over 800 pages, of Miss Manner's guidance on the family bookshelf.<br /><br />\\"Etiquette is not for amateurs\\" and Miss Manners is adamant about the difference between \\"being pushy and being a pushover\\". How do you respond appropriately when having lunch with a \\"friend\\" who talks on a cell phone all through the meal? Is it all right to send a thank you note via email? The truth is, we're all in this together. The only reasonable thing to do is treat each other respectfully and resolve those irritating little behavioral problems we all share. Like a favorite non-judgmental aunt, Miss Manners offers her insightful suggestions, guaranteed to save wear and tear on our already fragile psyches. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-04-19
272499:US	51010391	R1AH5OQ743YQH8	0892960078	467817701	A Confidential Source	Books	3	2	11	N	N	A reporter takes on the gambling lobby	Hallie Ahern is a former big city (Boston) newspaper reporter, newly arrived in Providence, Rhode Island. Her last big story in Boston was a career-booster, but her actions were unprofessional. She got romantically involved with her subject, who was later sent to prison. So Hallie is starting over with more humility and fewer pretensions, including a flirtation with a substance-abuse program. However, she is currently nursing a nighttime addiction to the local shock jock, Late Night Leonard, who hints of illegal machinations behind an upcoming election on casino gambling and suspicious lottery interests.<br /><br />A visit to the neighborhood market leads to another complication when the storekeeper is shot in the head and Hallie is a potential witness. Her first instinct is to write the story, even at the risk of incriminating herself. Besides, there is a promotion being offered at The Chronicle, an opportunity to escape from the satellite bureau where she now labors. Putting on her investigative journalism cap, using Leonard as a confidential source, Hallie sets out to uncover the graft and resuscitate her career. The intrepid reporter will have some close calls with unsavory sorts, do background \\"research\\" at local casinos, look into legalized gambling, crooked politicians, avid gamblers and witness a murder. When Hallie uncovers too much information, she becomes a target for the killers.<br /><br />For this reader, this is the little mystery that couldn't, although it tries really, really hard. But the author fails to deliver too often, not the least of which is the protagonist. Hallie can't decide if she is a grownup or a professional victim, vacillating between responsible reporting and compulsive behavior, a gambling jones that threatens her financial security and a 12-step program she blithely disdains. The characters are colorful, if predictable, the mystery ho-hum, the usual good guys (an attractive DA), bad guys and oversized thugs, Hallie running for her life at the end. This character has a lot more 12-step work to do before she takes on the world again. Luan Gaines/2005.lie running for her life at the end. This character has a lot more 12-step work to do before she takes on the world again. Luan Gaines/2005.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-19
274533:US	51010391	R3A6LAVTFA7IJE	0811846695	941307270	Little Miss Liberty	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The birth of Liberty	From the beginning, it is clear that Little Miss Liberty is a most unusual child. For one thing, she is partial to the color green. And she has a serious growth issue, gaining a foot or more of height each day. And as you can imagine, vast quantities of food are necessary to fill her up, a task that keeps Miss Liberty's parents hopping. Besides a decided penchant for the color green, Little Miss Liberty has quite an appetite for knowledge, reading everything she can, books, maps, cereal boxes and billboards. Even comic books. Because of her thirst for information, Little Miss Liberty is an excellent student, her hand raised high every time the teacher asks a question. But she is even more beloved, because Little Miss Liberty is a natural friend to all, especially anyone who feels different or misunderstood.<br /><br />Although she always loved the city of her birth in France, Little Miss Liberty felt she had a special place in the world. Of independent mind, she set out to find it. Yet no matter where she traveled, nothing felt just right until she found a pedestal near a brilliant city surrounded by water. Happily climbing on to the pedestal, Little Miss Liberty lifted her torch, held it high and settled in for a long stay. She was home.<br /><br />The story is illustrated by energetic drawings of Little Miss Liberty's astonishing birth and rapid growth, towering over her parents and other students, all in green. Sketches indicate the geography of other places, familiar monuments and terrains, the Eiffel Tower, Big Ben, the pyramids, as Liberty treads the earth in search of her true home. The bright colors and simple text are perfect for introducing children to the importance of the Statue of Liberty, where the statue originated and what Liberty symbolizes.<br /><br />This coming 4th of July will celebrate the 120th Anniversary of the Statue of Liberty, so this book is a wonderful introduction for a child's early knowledge of history. His drawings reminiscent of the Madeline books and Curious George, Robertson offers a compelling journey from the concept of freedom and independence to the reality of a national monument. Chronicle Books. (Age 4 and up.) Luan Gaines/2005.iniscent of the Madeline books and Curious George, Robertson offers a compelling journey from the concept of freedom and independence to the reality of a national monument. Chronicle Books. (Age 4 and up.) Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-04-17
274806:US	51010391	R2H8UBT6HKEK5Z	0811839737	325089526	Romeow and Drooliet	Books	5	11	11	N	N	"With a wag of the tail to William Shakespeare"	<br /> <br />Author/artist Nina Laden has written a new (children's) take on a familiar Shakespearean theme- true love won and lost, only for Romeow and Drooliet, the star-crossed cat and dog kept apart by a growling rottweiler, their astonished owners and the auspices of Animal Control, true love wins out in the end. <br /> <br />Cleverly writing in iambic pentameter, Laden structures a humorous, romantic tale of the lovers parted by circumstances (and snarling dogs) beyond their control. Parents will appreciate the Shakespearean rhythms, even if the children do not pick up on this connection. But the rhyme and meter are what make this book so enchanting, combined with dramatic, vividly colored illustrations, a celebration of the power of good literature to inform and endure, easily transformed for enjoyment by the younger generation. <br /> <br />The Cast of Characters at the beginning of the book hint at the hilarity ahead, the Felini's, a cat-loving family, the Barker's, dog lovers, Turbo, the Barker's guard dog (the infamous rottweiler) and Officer Prince, the Animal Control Warden. Look for such treats as the books on the Felini's coffee table, a paean to Shakespeare, \\"Much Ado About Napping\\" and \\"As You Lick It\\", or the phrasing of the lines spoken by the principals: \\"Oh Romeow, where is that fur-faced Romeow?\\" The happy couple is married by Mousignor Mouse, who pronounces: \\"You may now lick the bride!\\" <br /> <br />A quality hardbound book published by Chronicle, this charming and witty tale is a welcome addition to a child's library of favorites, a subtle introduction to iambic pentameter and rhyme, as well as the spirited retelling of a beloved tale, made child-size by this talented author/artist. (Age 8 and up). Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-17
279599:US	51010391	R2BGB5NTBOHN59	0743266927	420656326	Tenor of Love: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	(3.5) Larger than life, almost...	This novel is about the women in Enrico Caruso's life. A man of insatiable appetite, he surrounds himself early on with zaftig women for inspiration, to nurture his incipient genius, instinctively understanding the importance of unconditional love. When first he meets the Giachetti family, the older sister, Ada, is already married with a child. The younger, Rina, sets her heart on the aspiring operatic tenor only to be pushed aside by a determined Ada, who throws away her marriage to share the stage with Caruso. Once she bears him children, he prefers Ada remain at home in the role of wife, albeit without the benefit of legal marriage.<br /><br />By 1904 Caruso is making the majority of his income from recordings, enough to build Ada a fine house to raise their two sons. Meanwhile, Rina pursues her own singing career and by 1909 has spent ten years on the stage in Naples. But her heart belongs to Caruso (Rico). After Caruso breaks with Ada, Rina lives at his estate and raises his sons, thinking her chance has finally arrived. But he continues his schedule as before, spending only summers at home. True to form, refusing the reality that surrounds her, Rina lives in a world where she is Rico's beloved, anticipating marriage.<br /><br />Rina is disabused of her fantasy when Caruso marries an American, returning home to Italy with his bride. So begins Part II of the novel (\\"An American Fairy Tale\\") in New York in 1917. Dorothy is a simple woman with few pretensions, surprised that such a man has chosen her for a lifetime companion. Through Dorothy's eyes, there is more of a sense of the man and the force of his personality on those around him. Their marriage is happy, if short, as Caruso falls seriously ill. After only three years of marriage, their life together is over. But it is Doro's story that most humanizes the man and sheds some light on his astonishing charisma.<br /><br />The prose is flowery and detailed, yet oddly flat, lacking in passion, especially the grand passion one would expect from opera. I read about these characters but am not invested in what happens to them, such statements as: \\"The photograph in my hand was a poor facsimile of the woman I remembered\\", or \\"Then it was another summer again when sopranos and tenors must give way to the chorus of insects.\\"<br /><br />While the first half of the novel is flat, the second is far more interesting, the momentum of the plot carrying the novel to its natural conclusion, Caruso's personal relationship with his wife, his pursuit of her and their mutual attraction, although she is considerably younger, only twenty-eight when he dies. A man of copious tastes, Caruso freely plucks the willing women who attend his every need, larger than life, no doubt requiring far more from a relationship than a mortal man. Luan Gaines/2005.he grand passion one would expect from opera. I read about these characters but am not invested in what happens to them, such statements as: \\"The photograph in my hand was a poor facsimile of the woman I remembered\\", or \\"Then it was another summer again when sopranos and tenors must give way to the chorus of insects.\\"  <br /> <br />While the first half of the novel is flat, the second is far more interesting, the momentum of the plot carrying the novel to its natural conclusion, Caruso's personal relationship with his wife, his pursuit of her and their mutual attraction, although she is considerably younger, only twenty-eight when he dies. A man of copious tastes, Caruso freely plucks the willing women who attend his every need, larger than life, no doubt requiring far more from a relationship than a mortal man. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-04-13
279640:US	51010391	R21QC572M65G9S	0399152512	901590256	Two-Dollar Bill (Stone Barrington Novels)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Mr. Toad's wild ride	When Stone Barrington, an upscale New York litigator, takes on new client Billy Bob Barnstormer on referral, he is nonplussed by the loud Texan's brash manner, but willing to accept the $50,000 retainer. Soon vague alarm bells sound when a shot rings out as they get into Billy Bob's limo, although no one is hurt. There's something to be said for listening to instincts, a fact Stone discovers as Billy Bob turns into the client from hell and Barrington is the main suspect in a murder.<br /><br />Stone and his cronies meet often at Elaine's restaurant in New York, including Dino Bacchetti, the NYPD detective in charge of the 19th (Silk-Stocking) Precinct, which covers the Upper East Side. As the evidence further incriminates Barrington and exonerates Billy Bob, Dino is unable to help his friend out of a sticky situation. The circumstantial evidence is undeniable, although Billy Bob's actions belie his innocence. There is no lack of name-dropping, Mayor Bloomberg and Warren Buffett spicing up this stylish mystery. To add to the mix, the new US Attorney of New York is a looker who quickly hooks up with Barrington, filling their nights with extra-curricular activity.<br /><br />Billy Bob has the habit of leaving two-dollar bills as tips, a denomination that has been out of circulation for years. When Barrington requests an FBI check on one of the bills, he learns it was stolen in an unsolved robbery in the 50's, two people left murdered. Questioned by the agent, Stone is in a Fifth Amendment fix, unable to discuss the source of the bill, the infamous Billy Bob. Soon enough Stone discovers that Billy Bob is a con artist with more than one identity, a man not to be underestimated.<br /><br />In concurrent investigations, there is more than average interest from the FBI, NYPD and CIA, a number of aliases all belonging to Billy Bob, Stone's client and the agencies collide in a battle of one-upmanship, trumped by the CIA's urgent call for national security. Barrington is in the thick of things, hoping for a shot at Billy Bob himself, considering the trouble this client has given in their short-lived attorney-client relationship.<br /><br />The action speeds up and things suddenly get complicated, not to mention dangerous, Billy Bob involved in a nefarious plot that is threatening innocent victims in New York City, as well as Stone, his ex-wife and her young son. What started as the frustrating chase of a con man turns deadly, Billy Bob proving himself a formidable adversary, a man on a mission with a need to put a serious hurt on Barrington and the people close to him. The chase is on, the NYPD and the CIA always one step behind, badly underestimating Billy Bob's talents. Woods brings it all home with enough suspense and wild action to keep the pages turning, an awful reminder that nothing is what it seems. Luan Gaines/2005.in the thick of things, hoping for a shot at Billy Bob himself, considering the trouble this client has given in their short-lived attorney-client relationship. <br /> <br />The action speeds up and things suddenly get complicated, not to mention dangerous, Billy Bob involved in a nefarious plot that is threatening innocent victims in New York City, as well as Stone, his ex-wife and her young son. What started as the frustrating chase of a con man turns deadly, Billy Bob proving himself a formidable adversary, a man on a mission with a need to put a serious hurt on Barrington and the people close to him. The chase is on, the NYPD and the CIA always one step behind, badly underestimating Billy Bob's talents. Woods brings it all home with enough suspense and wild action to keep the pages turning, an awful reminder that nothing is what it seems. Luan Gaines/2005.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-12
283008:US	51010391	R293QB6IZ9OFU8	0151007276	989783215	The Optimists	Books	4	10	12	N	N	"Too much sorrow makes a heart like a stone."	Clem is a photographer, a maker of images. The horrors he witnesses in an African village are burned into his mind, indelible, so that even when he returns to London, he cannot erase such visions from memory. He walks in shadows, avoiding, unable to connect to anything or anyone, suspended in his discomfort without relief. Certainly, he's photographed tragedy before, in Desert Storm and other distant places, but this recent genocidal massacre has strangled his perspective.<br /><br />When Clem's sister, Clara, suffers a recurrence of her old \\"trouble\\", one that has not surfaced in twenty years, Clem instinctively understands that he is in no condition to help anyone else, that \\"his heart had locked fast the night he had straddled the dead with his lenses.\\" After a short visit to the sanatorium, he impulsively flies to Canada to meet with a fellow journalist, Frank Sullivan, the older man who shared his experiences in Africa. Other than communicating a similar struggle over what they have witnessed, the visit fails to resolve Clem's dilemma.<br /><br />Clem returns to Scotland to remove his sister from the facility where she is being treated, taking her instead to live for a time in a familiar childhood place, the country home of their aunt with a small cottage where they can stay. The time spent with the depressed Clare is a lesson in the complexities of brother/sister relationships, the love that ameliorates their days, Clem reaching into a distant place to find the strength to help his sister in her personal anguish. After his own recent emotional devastation, this is an act of extraordinary generosity, an attempt to reach out to another equally in pain.<br /><br />Miller's prose is luminous, his descriptions of place so fine that the sights take shape, the perplexed photojournalist as familiar as a dear friend or close relative, his psychological conundrum made real and imaginable. The author views all with a practiced eye, noticing subtle details others might overlook, the outrage of genocide, the shock of returning to a city mired in the comfort of daily routine, the desperate urge to make right terrible wrongs. The novel is profound in its simplicity and directness, the attempt to help Clare achieve serenity contrasted with Clem's ambivalence and occasional violent urges, a need to purge the outrage of injustice that fills him with disquiet. Brother and sister are guided blindly toward recovery, reaching for normalcy and a quieting of their personal demons.<br /><br />The plot is brilliant, contrasting the senseless massacre with the somnolent Somerset countryside, where Clare's mind is beset with its own indefinable shadows, leaving her as shattered in her ordered life as Clem in his pursuit of justification for the world's random carelessness. At the core is Clem's moral dilemma. If the monster who engineered the massacre is captured, what will the photographer do, how will he confront the loss of objectivity that has overtaken him since his return from Africa?<br /><br />Pushed from the quasi-safety of the sheltered days nurturing his sister to the real possibility of a contretemps with the engineer of death, Clem is confronted with the difficult choices of a man undone by atrocity, realizing that healing is possible, if not forgiveness. Tested to the depths of his soul, Clem wrestles with the resolution of past and present. In an astonishing denouement, the man with a compassionate, if damaged heart confronts the brutal reality of evil, his actions defining a future with the faint promise of hope. Luan Gaines/2005.ails others might overlook, the outrage of genocide, the shock of returning to a city mired in the comfort of daily routine, the desperate urge to make right terrible wrongs. The novel is profound in its simplicity and directness, the attempt to help Clare achieve serenity contrasted with Clem's ambivalence and occasional violent urges, a need to purge the outrage of injustice that fills him with disquiet. Brother and sister are guided blindly toward recovery, reaching for normalcy and a quieting of their personal demons. <br /> <br />The plot is brilliant, contrasting the senseless massacre with the somnolent Somerset countryside, where Clare's mind is beset with its own indefinable shadows, leaving her as shattered in her ordered life as Clem in his pursuit of justification for the world's random carelessness. At the core is Clem's moral dilemma. If the monster who engineered the massacre is captured, what will the photographer do, how will he confront the loss of objectivity that has overtaken him since his return from Africa? <br /> <br />Pushed from the quasi-safety of the sheltered days nurturing his sister to the real possibility of a contretemps with the engineer of death, Clem is confronted with the difficult choices of a man undone by atrocity, realizing that healing is possible, if not forgiveness. Tested to the depths of his soul, Clem wrestles with the resolution of past and present. In an astonishing denouement, the man with a compassionate, if damaged heart confronts the brutal reality of evil, his actions defining a future with the faint promise of hope. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-10
283404:US	51010391	R1NMWNOJBGQTZF	0151011729	627017574	A Factory of Cunning	Books	5	7	10	N	N	An 18th Century tour de force	Never has the war between the sexes been so cleverly writ, the debauchery and cunning of vice pitted against 18th century London's propriety, the vile odors of betrayal disguised by the pungent eau de toilette sprinkled on a lace-trimmed handkerchief . Which is London, the well-appointed and pampered halls of aristocracy or the bawdy houses and crime-riddled back alleys where theft and deceit thrive? The pages are cluttered with fops and cutpurses, carters and shopkeepers, all with an eye to survival, the language as ribald and colorful as the times, witty and detailed, a feast of linguistic legerdemain. In other words, it is all fabulously decadent, the reader immersed in the underbelly of London's scoundrels and purveyors of artifice in every form.<br /><br />Having fled France of necessity, then residing in Holland for two years, the dissolute and clever Mrs. Fox arrives on the slimy English shores with her servant in tow, determined to rebuild her fortune. Changing name and identity, the former Madame Combien (Mrs. How-Much) has every intention of setting up her business in London's bawdy section, having devised a successful formula for a house of ill repute in an elegant and exotic setting. To that end, she contacts persons recommended by her physician benefactor in Holland, Dr. Hubert van Essel, establishing her credentials in society.<br /><br />This is the era of Charles III,  the demimonde and a culture of excess, the language itself almost written in anecdotal code. Mrs. Fox's endeavors generate immediate interest, her very nature to cajole and find favor, but she makes one advance that may be her undoing, when she associates herself with the Earl of Much, a man reputedly unmatched in getting his way, fabulously rich and dangerously powerful. Mrs. Fox, however, perversely credits female ingenuity and natural instinct: \\"that twilit crossing between demi-monde and mondaine, where mysteries turn marvels and duchesses rise from doxies.\\"<br /><br />The plot plays out in a series of letters: Dr. Hubert von Essel, Mrs. Fox's protector and friend in Amsterdam; Mrs. Fox to her various pawns; Victoire the maid to her employer; the dandy Lord Danceacre; and, of course, the ultimate villain, the elusive Earl Much. The battle for submission is brilliantly engaged by Mrs. Fox and the Earl, a tour de force of machinations and cynical ripostes. Dr. van Essel has a personal stake in the encounter as well, albeit a matter he prefers kept private. The two foes engage in a duel of wits, the he and the she, each determined to best the other in a contest of manners and assignations, twisted deceits and double entendres.<br /><br />Stockley writes with fine craftsmanship and an impressive command of idiom, capturing the obsequious nature of the era in all its self-congratulatory grandeur. The letters of those concerned grow more agitated as the plot thickens, each determined to achieve satisfaction. Mrs. Fox's carefully laid plans backfire in the melee as the Earl does his evil best to outmaneuver her. Compared to Dangerous Liaisons, this novel does have much of the scandalous flavor of that story, but with an added twist or two and a more menacing villain, the narrative pitch-perfect, an enthralling account of perversity and self-indulgence, with a rare wit and elegant phrasing. All in pursuit of the intangible in the ultimate battle of the sexes, where Eve is determined to wrest her soul from Adam or die trying. If A Factory of Cunning isn't optioned for a movie, I'll eat my senior citizens discount card. Luan Gaines/2005.ot plays out in a series of letters: Dr. Hubert von Essel, Mrs. Fox's protector and friend in Amsterdam; Mrs. Fox to her various pawns; Victoire the maid to her employer; the dandy Lord Danceacre; and, of course, the ultimate villain, the elusive Earl Much. The battle for submission is brilliantly engaged by Mrs. Fox and the Earl, a tour de force of machinations and cynical ripostes. Dr. van Essel has a personal stake in the encounter as well, albeit a matter he prefers kept private. The two foes engage in a duel of wits, the he and the she, each determined to best the other in a contest of manners and assignations, twisted deceits and double entendres.  <br /> <br />Stockley writes with fine craftsmanship and an impressive command of idiom, capturing the obsequious nature of the era in all its self-congratulatory grandeur. The letters of those concerned grow more agitated as the plot thickens, each determined to achieve satisfaction. Mrs. Fox's carefully laid plans backfire in the melee as the Earl does his evil best to outmaneuver her. Compared to Dangerous Liaisons, this novel does have much of the scandalous flavor of that story, but with an added twist or two and a more menacing villain, the narrative pitch-perfect, an enthralling account of perversity and self-indulgence, with a rare wit and elegant phrasing. All in pursuit of the intangible in the ultimate battle of the sexes, where Eve is determined to wrest her soul from Adam or die trying. If A Factory of Cunning isn't optioned for a movie, I'll eat my senior citizens discount card. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-04-09
284998:US	51010391	R16M1UB4XL4A9H	057121780X	708922820	Minsk	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Sleek and uncompromising	Austere does not necessarily imply cool or aloof, but rather a refined sensibility for the elementary, the unadorned, to see more in less, to perceive truths with clarity. While prior works have been clean, almost scientific, Minsk, while exuding the chill of winter, is nevertheless a vehicle for fantasy, a dreamscape of an imagined land.<br /><br />In a thoughtful forward, Edward Hirsh discusses the direction of Greenlaw's poetry, her fascination with issues of time and space, but with secret electricity, a current of morality. He states that Greenlaw is a winter writer and her icy landscapes explore questions of place.<br /><br />Looking back, the past is examined, the bright promise of youth:<br /><br />\\"Did we not remember the curse of this place?<br /><br />How Sundays drank our blood as we watched<br /><br />dry paint or the dust on the television screen.\\" (Zombies)<br /><br />Intoxicated by the newness of the world, it is possible to believe in beginnings and ignore reality:<br /><br />\\"How people died bursting out of a quiet life,<br /><br />or from being written into a small world's stories.\\" (Ibid.)<br /><br />The poet's impressions allow us to reflect, to root around in memories sparked by a phrase, an image. Like art, good poetry is visual and Greenlaw's deft touch challenges form, stating bluntly that this is poetry, these are the words meant to be, in columns or sideways, pulled from the past or fresh as this morning. History and myth loom large, images of a lifetime ago, when stories passed by word of mouth, in rhyme, in song. Complex and stunning, Greenlaw has stepped further out on the ice-encrusted pond, daring it to hold:<br /><br />\\"They fold their robes, test each rung,<br /><br />half-enter a pool pinched in three feet of ice.<br /><br />Each swims a neat circle, wearing slippers and gloves.\\" (Steam)<br /><br />Minsk harkens the experience of untested territory, watching, measuring, feeling the cool fingers of winter, a creature walking the lands of myth:<br /><br />\\"All the small bones of feet and hands.<br /><br />What god is this we travel for hours,<br /><br />getting no further than the tips of his fingers?\\" (Vaeroy)<br /><br />Luan Gaines/2005.e lands of myth: <br /> <br />\\"All the small bones of feet and hands. <br />What god is this we travel for hours, <br />getting no further than the tips of his fingers?\\" (Vaeroy) <br /> <br />Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br />	2005-04-08
285060:US	51010391	R1HFQ9JTJPH1JD	0151010439	421481681	An Altered Light	Books	4	3	4	N	N	"If you can't say yes you have already said no."	An Altered Light is the thoughtful novel of a successful Copenhagen attorney of 56, Irine Beckman, who suddenly finds her marriage ending, confronted as well with questions about her past, a way of life that changes overnight. Irine has come to terms with her life, or so she thinks, an uneventful but pleasant marriage and the unavoidable ageing process: \\"She no longer believes the world will be better or worse than it is.\\"<br /><br />Martin Beckman doggedly pursues the young Irine when first they meet in Paris, years before. She is escaping the restrictions of small town life with a trip to the cosmopolitan city, never expecting to meet a man like Martin, who is unrelenting, determined that they shall be together. Eventually Irine succumbs to the weight of Martin's affection, drawn along by his surety. Still, years later, she is not surprised at his infidelity, only vaguely curious that she has not noticed. After championing wronged spouses as a divorce attorney, Irine finds herself in the unenviable position of the soon-to-be-divorced,albeit prepared to move on without recrimination.<br /><br />Not especially grief-stricken, Irine reminisces over the marriage, raising children, enduring the tumultuous 60's (\\"the tyranny of emancipated lust\\") without the need to participate in the sexual revolution. Irine is brutally honest with herself, her aspirations and shortcomings, setting the emotional tone for the novel. Visiting her ailing mother, Irine learns that some of her assumptions about the past are in error and the world she knows shifts beneath her, suddenly less predictable. Mother and daughter have never been close, but these new concerns open Irine's heart, allowing compassion for the mother she has judged and found wanting.<br /><br />Irine is forced into a rebirth, an awakening in late middle age, a vital search for the self she has so long ignored, if not entirely neglected. While this journey is painful, it is not without rewards, as this protagonist releases and embraces her authentic self, free of resentments. The author subtly reveals Irine's complexities, her clear-eyed approach to the world and her willingness to experience whatever comes her way, undiminished by a broken marriage or the failure of expectations. Tender and painfully honest, An Altered Light is a pathway to acceptance, the joy of unexpected rewards: \\"The sun is warm on her face and she fancies it is the future shining on her.\\" Luan Gaines/2005.s protagonist releases and embraces her authentic self, free of resentments. The author subtly reveals Irine's complexities, her clear-eyed approach to the world and her willingness to experience whatever comes her way, undiminished by a broken marriage or the failure of expectations. Tender and painfully honest, An Altered Light is a pathway to acceptance, the joy of unexpected rewards: \\"The sun is warm on her face and she fancies it is the future shining on her.\\" Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-04-08
287666:US	51010391	RQ7JE1TIHHWLJ	9085460093	515737541	Why Mister, Why? Geert Van Kesteren- Iraq 2003-2004 (Arabic and English Edition)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Every picture tells a story	Photographs of Iraq, 2003-2004. This extraordinary series of photographs was taken to document scenes of the war in Iraq, 2003-2004, each chapter dealing with an issue: \\"Iraqis Proclaim Victory as US Leaves Falluja\\"; \\"WMD Contradictions: Bremer and Blair at Odds\\"; \\"Who Was in Charge at Abu Ghraib\\"; and \\"Bush Says Terrorists Will Not Shake America's Will\\". The text is written in Dutch and Arabic in the copy I have, but explanations are unnecessary, thanks to the quality of the photographs.<br /><br />Whether tinted by night-vision goggles into an eerie bright green that gives a sheen of otherworldliness or the shadowy forms huddled in lamplight, the photographer has reached deep inside a country involved in turmoil, attacks and counterattacks, occupiers and insurgents. Most notable and heartbreaking are the faces of the children, always victims in this world gone awry, the desperation exposed to the camera's avid lens, hungry for the human face of war. There are pages of shabby rooms, frightened family members huddled in corners while soldiers search for weapons or explosives, the darkness shading everything more sinister, threatening.<br /><br />Soldiers stand in sharp contrast to the others pictured, weapons at the ready, their faces stoic, determined to complete an unsavory task without incident, children watching wide-eyed as their homes are ransacked, burqa-covered women staring at these young men in army fatigues searching under beds, behind curtains. It is clear that language is a barrier, wives pointing to the handcuffed male relatives, asking questions the soldiers cannot answer. Captive men stand against a wall, hands tied behind their backs, linked to one another, waiting patiently.<br /><br />There is no bias in this collection, at least none that I can see, since only the chapter titles are in English; I will leave it to those who read the small amount of text that accompanies the pictures to make that judgment. I prefer to make my assessment of the humanity in these photographs: careful, circumspect soldiers, men of all ages with identity tags duct-taped around their heads, all silent, hands bound. Family photos strewn over colorful patchwork quilts, the occasional soldier stopping to leaf through the album, perhaps with his own memories of family gatherings.<br /><br />Female soldiers hunker down next to their male counterparts, exercising, riding in Humvees on patrol, staring into empty pits where the earth has been blown out by bombs. Then there are the mass graves, row after row of bodies wrapped in sheets of plastic, tied with rope fragments, tagged with names when possible. Watching the soldiers, a group of children stand nearby, some faces shy, others smiling and curious, all dressed in mismatched, ill-fitted clothes, bright-eyed. Walls of buildings etched with bullet holes. Soldiers seek shade against rickety buildings in the desert heat, feet outstretched in the sand, scribbling letters to loved ones back home. A pile of abandoned, rusted artillery in the middle of a verdant palm grove, an anomaly.<br /><br />The photographer has done an exceptional job, using his talents to capture the harsh realities that seem so far away and are so seldom addressed in the media now that we have grown used to war once more, to soldiers sent across the world in our name. The pictures in this book speak volumes, addressing the nature of war and those who endure it, civilians and soldiers, the living and the lost, but especially the faces of the future, the children. Luan Gaines/2005.e humanity in these photographs: careful, circumspect soldiers, men of all ages with identity tags duct-taped around their heads, all silent, hands bound. Family photos strewn over colorful patchwork quilts, the occasional soldier stopping to leaf through the album, perhaps with his own memories of family gatherings. <br /> <br />Female soldiers hunker down next to their male counterparts, exercising, riding in Humvees on patrol, staring into empty pits where the earth has been blown out by bombs. Then there are the mass graves, row after row of bodies wrapped in sheets of plastic, tied with rope fragments, tagged with names when possible. Watching the soldiers, a group of children stand nearby, some faces shy, others smiling and curious, all dressed in mismatched, ill-fitted clothes, bright-eyed. Walls of buildings etched with bullet holes. Soldiers seek shade against rickety buildings in the desert heat, feet outstretched in the sand, scribbling letters to loved ones back home. A pile of abandoned, rusted artillery in the middle of a verdant palm grove, an anomaly. <br /> <br />The photographer has done an exceptional job, using his talents to capture the harsh realities that seem so far away and are so seldom addressed in the media now that we have grown used to war once more, to soldiers sent across the world in our name. The pictures in this book speak volumes, addressing the nature of war and those who endure it, civilians and soldiers, the living and the lost, but especially the faces of the future, the children. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-06
288932:US	51010391	R147PV3MRY7NHO	015101115X	89133611	Islands	Books	3	4	7	N	N	(3.5) Settling the South African continent	This is essentially a history of South Africa from the first Dutch outpost built to service their ships in post. It is a familiar story: civilization is rife with such tales, the indigenous lands overtaken by a superior force with the tools to outlast those who have depended on the land for their livelihood. When the Hollanders first arrive on the shores of South Africa in 1650, the natives are guided by their English-speaking Chief Harry (Herri), who interfaces with the Dutch for the benefit of the tribe, the Goringhaicona. The natives expecting the Dutch to sail away; instead they plant their flag, designating this place a Dutch port. The natives are expected to abide by the same law as the settlers, Haerlem's Law: work first, then eat.<br /><br />The pivotal character in the novel is Pieternella, daughter of a Dutch surgeon and a Hottentot woman, Eva (Krotoa), who lost the allegiance of her tribe by working for the newcomers on what was formerly grazing land. The surgeon, Peter Havgard, was attracted to Eva, renamed by the Hollanders. When Eva becomes pregnant with their child, she loses her place in both worlds, belonging fully to neither. In an effort to supplement their income, Peter goes on a series of expeditions to explore the South African land the Dutch are determined to make their own. The Dutch overcome the more primitive Hottentots after a few cruel winters, gradually wearing away their opposition, reducing their numbers by attrition, the usual manner one civilization usurps the lands of another.<br /><br />It falls to Pieternella to monitor the story of the following years, via her tangential relationship with various characters, contrasting the devastation of her own country with the success of the burghers, who continue to build upon the land, cultivate, breed cattle and establish a presence that overwhelms the few scattered tribes left to oppose the occupation.<br /><br />In excess of 700 pages, what begins as an interesting turn of history's pages is flattened by detail, in the retelling of a history that is devoid of passion. Perhaps it is the weight of the Dutch personality. With stubborn obsession, the Dutch, once determined upon a course, simply flattens anything that stands in the way. With typical European hubris, it is assumed that the settlers are superior to the natives, that one way of life must dissolve under the onslaught of another. There is a kind of avid brutality in these pages, the determination by the Dutch immutable and unchallenged by an inferior scattering of natives who lived in a simple societal structure. Instead, God and the Company rule this land from the first.<br /><br />As the various characters evolve in the novel, their voices are eerily similar, the Dutch determined, the natives bewildered and depressed, no one to challenge the might of God or Company. It is hardly shocking that this continent should suffer such violence and political upheaval in later years, finally raising up to challenge the first settlers who claimed the land, denying the rights of indigenous peoples. Luan Gaines/ 2005.istory's pages is flattened by detail, in the retelling of a history that is devoid of passion. Perhaps it is the weight of the Dutch personality. With stubborn obsession, the Dutch, once determined upon a course, simply flattens anything that stands in the way. With typical European hubris, it is assumed that the settlers are superior to the natives, that one way of life must dissolve under the onslaught of another. There is a kind of avid brutality in these pages, the determination by the Dutch immutable and unchallenged by an inferior scattering of natives who lived in a simple societal structure. Instead, God and the Company rule this land from the first. <br /> <br />As the various characters evolve in the novel, their voices are eerily similar, the Dutch determined, the natives bewildered and depressed, no one to challenge the might of God or Company. It is hardly shocking that this continent should suffer such violence and political upheaval in later years, finally raising up to challenge the first settlers who claimed the land, denying the rights of indigenous peoples. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br />	2005-04-05
289137:US	51010391	R3H6UA7PRPLFK3	0316830348	190026728	Misfortune	Books	4	12	15	N	N	The Rose and the Briar	An infant, the new Lady Rose Loveall is the answer to her father's dilemma, an heir to the Loveall fortune, Love Hall Manor and the prestigious family name, keeping all safe from disingenuous relatives. Distraught over the loss of his younger sister and boon companion, Delores, Lord Loveall names the baby Rose after his deceased sister, in spite of the fact that she is a he, a small impediment for a man who is used to having his every whim accommodated.<br /><br />Then there is the matter of the baby's origin: the infant is found abandoned on a trash heap in a London suburb, snatched up by Lord Loveall from certain death. The event is later the theme for a ballad printed in a popular broadsheet of the time, the tale of The Rose and the Briar. In a tizzy of delight, Lord Loveall returns home with the purloined bundle and plans for his family's future and secured inheritance.<br /><br />To give the appearance of propriety, Lord Loveall marries Love Hall's former nanny, now official librarian, creating an instant family for the new member of the Loveall dynasty, Baby Rose. Lord Loveall's wife is a devotee of Mary Day, a woman whose writing espouses the theory that the masculine and feminine are integrated in each person. In deference to the wishes of Lord Loveall, the family plays out the ruse that the child is a female, without much consideration for the long term effects of gender-confusion.<br /><br />Little Rose remains ignorant of her sexual ambiguity, acknowledging the truth only at her father's death bed. By then the child is comfortable in her compromised identity, although planning ahead toward an announcement of her true gender. Suddenly, all is thrown into confusion by events, the heir exposed, dispossessed of everything familiar. It is these new surroundings that challenge Rose's mettle, life in the real world and an adjustment to the difficulties of gender identification. The author tackles a difficult topic with compassion, creating a multi-dimensional protagonist beset with choices that are dangerous and frightening and seemingly impossible to resolve.<br /><br />Misfit or not, Rose is a sensitive, thoughtful person who has never harmed another, a creature caught in circumstances beyond her control. In Victorian London, Rose is indeed adrift in a society defined by moral rigidity, enduring contempt and scorn by those who are all too willing to judge.<br /><br />Misfortune struggles somewhat from its own identity crisis, drifting between fiction and fairy tale, as Rose's path veers from Mistress/Master to fugitive on the fringes of society. Through the skillful manipulation of facts, secrets long-hidden in the family tree are uncovered and Rose's future resolved. Patterned after the English adventure novel, Misfortune has all the drama, behind-the-scenes machinations and ill-fated, much-abused heroine/hero in a complex plot with an adequate serving of jealous, greedy relatives to usurp the family home. If a bit too long, the novel is the perfect stage for the tormented Rose, embattled, embittered and triumphant. Luan Gaines/2005.multi-dimensional protagonist beset with choices that are dangerous and frightening and seemingly impossible to resolve. <br /> <br />Misfit or not, Rose is a sensitive, thoughtful person who has never harmed another, a creature caught in circumstances beyond her control. In Victorian London, Rose is indeed adrift in a society defined by moral rigidity, enduring contempt and scorn by those who are all too willing to judge. <br /> <br />Misfortune struggles somewhat from its own identity crisis, drifting between fiction and fairy tale, as Rose's path veers from Mistress/Master to fugitive on the fringes of society. Through the skillful manipulation of facts, secrets long-hidden in the family tree are uncovered and Rose's future resolved. Patterned after the English adventure novel, Misfortune has all the drama, behind-the-scenes machinations and ill-fated, much-abused heroine/hero in a complex plot with an adequate serving of jealous, greedy relatives to usurp the family home. If a bit too long, the novel is the perfect stage for the tormented Rose, embattled, embittered and triumphant. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-04-05
289392:US	51010391	R19G4R9QNC28Z1	1596921129	251311202	The Bewildered	Books	3	4	5	N	N	(3.5) The disaffected search for direction	Rock has built an entire novel around a quote: \\"They created in a single night a new situation...For the moment their bewilderment was their only etiquette.\\" (Yukio Mishima, The Sailor Who Fell From Grace with the Sea)<br /><br />In Portland, the rural landscape has been encroached upon, the detritus of civilization littering the once pristine outdoors, garbage and decay tossed carelessly about. The characters are eclectic: a trio of gifted, edgy teenagers, looking for a new definition of a system turning sour before they have tasted much of its wealth; Natalie, an eccentric, probably unstable woman who hires the teens to steal copper wiring and collects 1970's pornography, stuck in the past with her own demons; and the world of the blind, as a peripheral character tries to adapt to the limitations of his girlfriend's blindness, to understand life without sight.<br /><br />Meanwhile, deep in Chinatown, someone is quietly tracking a group of people whose lives have changed irrevocably, those who exist in another reality than those around them. Not the elite, just the different, the \\"bewildered\\": \\"they are not a reflective people.\\" In a time ever more devoid of personal entanglements, the lack of connection wreaks its own kind of havoc, an aimlessness that infects the population caught in the currents of change.<br /><br />It is hard to tell whether this novel is truly sinister or only a little frightening. Rock writes with a kind of detachment, as though technology has already leached part of the life force from his characters, leaving them part-human part-techno. The loss of humanity in this subtly changed world is truly thought-provoking. Although the teens aren't slackers, they are disconnected from their earthly environment, already seeking an escape route from the future.<br /><br />The Bewildered posits a particular premise, but fails to sustain a strong plot, especially in the closing chapters. Rather, the characters touch briefly and tangentially before moving along, returning to their separate lives. This novel is a strange mix of fancy, misplaced experimentation and a peek into Portland's underground tunnels, a vast network of the unknown, where anything is possible, but misconception proves the rule. The Bewildered is innovative, but finally bewildering, a netherworld of transition into the dark side of the human psyche. Luan Gaines/2005.gentially before moving along, returning to their separate lives. This novel is a strange mix of fancy, misplaced experimentation and a peek into Portland's underground tunnels, a vast network of the unknown, where anything is possible, but misconception proves the rule. The Bewildered is innovative, but finally bewildering, a netherworld of transition into the dark side of the human psyche. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-04-05
289633:US	51010391	R3PX1ORK91P519	0811847004	845420822	Gigi and Zachary Go to Work (A Seek-and-Find Game)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Gigi and Zachary's excellent adventure	Gigi the giraffe and Zachary the zebra are off on an adventure, searching for the perfect career, each double page spread covering a different occupation, a series of seek-and-find games. There is a teacher nestled in her classroom, surrounded by items for a child to pick out and identify, a globe, library, map, slide, storyteller; or the service station, featuring a gas attendant, truck driver, vending machine and hydraulic lift; on the construction site there is a carpenter, a construction worker, crane, crane operator and a roofer; even a hospital, with a doctor, laboratory, operating room, scale, test tube and more.<br /><br />These gaily colored illustrations offer a humorous view of the world of choices for the future, identifying occupations and the objects associated with each occupation. Each two-page spread offers a new kind of career, multi-dimensional and varied. Visit a book publisher, construction site, fancy hotel, shopping mall, supermarket, even a rocket launching at the space center. This gaily illustrated book explores a myriad of possibilities, drawings of the many facets of life, choices of employment, both white and blue collar and the tools of the trades.<br /><br />The illustrations are primary colored and quirky, poised to stimulate a child's curiosity. The search-and-find concept challenges children to pick, identify and become acquainted with new words on each page. Bright and energetic, this book promises hours of fun for parents and children alike. Published by Chronicle Books, Gigi and Zachary Go to Work enjoys the same quality as the other Chronicle titles, full of ideas, the perfect gift for a favorite child. The book is labeled ages 9-12, but younger readers will enjoy this format as well, encouraged to increase their vocabulary and interest in reading. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-04-04
291088:US	51010391	R2OPNX79J955J	0151012148	323243870	My Noiseless Entourage: Poems	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A "Midnight Feast"	Simic's brilliant poetry is provocative, visual, casting thoughts like scattered jewels, begging to be picked up, examined, remembered. The title, My Noiseless Entourage, suggests the nature of this collection, shadowy thoughts that intrude to jostle the memory, like the ghosts of friends and neighbors walking one step behind on a long, winding country road with evening pushing in. These are the subterranean sounds no one acknowledges, but everyone hears, man and beast, the low-timbered groan of voices, shape-shifters seen from the corner of the eye.<br /><br />In \\"The Role of Insomnia in History\\", the personal coexists with the impersonal:<br /><br />\\"The mind is a palace<br /><br />Walled with mirrors.<br /><br />The mind is a country church,<br /><br />Overrun with mice.\\"<br /><br />Thoughts scurry around at will, ever busy, judging, weighing. At the same time, others carry responsibility, those who dwell in the security of power:<br /><br />\\"When dawn breaks,<br /><br />The saints kneel,<br /><br />The tyrants feed their hounds<br /><br />Chunks of bloody meat.\\"<br /><br />Addressing both the mundane and the metaphysical, everything is on the table for consideration: \\"In the graveyard where he collects the rent/ Or in the night sky/ Where we address our complaints to him.\\" (The Absentee Landlord)<br /><br />Self-examination is fertile ground when viewing the world, making sense of the ghosts that follow us through the years, the simple pleasures, the missed opportunities:<br /><br />\\"All I've ever done<br /><br />It seems- is go poking<br /><br />in the ruins with a stick<br /><br />Until I was covered<br /><br />With soot and ashes...\\" (December 21)<br /><br />The depth of Simic's creativity is inexhaustible, characters plucked from the bustling city, the rural farm, the past, words opening and reconfiguring themselves, settling on the page anew to prick the broken strings of memory: \\"The sun doesn't care for ambiguities,/ But I do. I open my door and let them in.\\" (Shading Exercise)<br /><br />Luan Gaines/2005.se) <br /> <br />Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br />	2005-04-03
291898:US	51010391	RL7X43X1L5DH6	0811846423	585226817	Postmark Paris: A Story in Stamps	Books	4	10	10	N	N	An artistic travelogue	Like most Chronicle books, Postmark Paris is an artistic adventure through the boulevards of Paris as described through a series of postage stamps, narrated by a nine-year old girl who navigates the city for the first time. It is a small, tidy book, journal-like entries opposite the postage stamps, each related through a memory or occasion, personalized by a thoughtful girl reflecting on her experiences in Paris. The girl's collection mirrors a world within a world, visiting the usual tourist sites, the Eiffel Tower, Notre Dame, Montparnasse, the twisting Seine.<br /><br />Timbres is the French word for stamps and the girl carefully pastes each one into her orange stamp album with transparent pages, stamps from every country imaginable, all colors and shapes, decorated with fruit, flowers and people. There is even an open-air stamp market off the Champs-Elysses, the vendors eager to share their wares with the neophyte stamp collector.<br /><br />The family settles in for their year in France, picnicking on balmy days, viewing the Luxumborg Gardens to see tulips and poppies, as well as the gardens of the Tuilleries by the Louve. They snack on fried fish, fritures, on the banks of the Marne River outside of Paris. As the year winds down, the girl bids adieux to her schoolmates, who line up to \\"pour faire les bisoux- to kiss me goodbye on the cheek.\\"<br /><br />Later, back home in California, the girl keeps her treasured book of collected stamps on a nearby shelf; whenever she grows nostalgic for those picturesque Parisian days, she turns the pages, reliving her adventures, each memory reflected in the stamp so carefully pasted on the page. This small, colorful selection is the repository for fond memories of a fascinating country, Postmarked Paris. Appropriate for child or adult, this whimsical book will most likely hold the interest of nine and up, the journal entries full of names and French phrases, the writing small and personal, family outings and details of this extraordinary city. Luan Gaines/ 2005.and details of this extraordinary city. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-03
293732:US	51010391	R3RUTIW9JFVPFB	0316058599	821110903	The Ice Queen: A Novel	Books	3	84	97	N	N	"Death by proximity and idle wishes"	Death is the subject. Not the kind that appears after years and years, almost welcome, but death that snatches loved ones away, leaving survivors to deal with the shock of loss. The girl in the story is eight when she makes her first fateful wish, resentful that her mother is leaving for the evening. The mother dies in an accident and the girl (who remains nameless throughout) believes she caused her mother's death. She turns herself into ice in an effort to avoid any more pain.<br /><br />Later, when the woman's brother, Ned, moves his sister to Florida from New Jersey, the thirty-something woman remains as frozen and isolated as a princess in a fairy tale. Carelessly, she makes another fateful wish, to be struck by lightning. Viola! Once more her wish is granted. Now a survivor of a lightning strike, like others gathered for a scientific study, the woman has great difficulty returning to a normal life. But this lady has already marked herself, believing she has the ability to wish away life or bring on a lightning strike.<br /><br />Through her meetings with other survivors, the woman, like a turtle, gradually pokes her head out to notice the others who inhabit the world, even in this bizarre situation. Piqued by curiosity about a man who is dead for forty minutes before returning to life, she follows an impulse to meet Lazarus Jones. They are opposites, he fire and she ice. They meet in the dark, igniting each other, a combustible romance that cannot last but is impossible to resist.<br /><br />The woman's long, slow awakening is the theme of the novel, her quest to understand death and free herself from the restraints that have turned her life into a hollow shell: \\"The way to trick death. Breathe in. Breathe out.\\" Unfortunately, there is no spark to ignite this tepid plot, although there is the occasional flash of brilliant language associated with this author's work. The problem lies not in the fable of the girl who turns herself to ice, but in the shallow characters. The woman is never more than one-dimensional, caught in her own childish egocentricity. It is hard to imagine why anyone would go to the trouble to wake up this sleeping, self-obsessed beauty. Even the fire and ice love affair is disappointing. What should be instant combustion produces mere puffs of smoke. How could anyone find relief or completion in this cold-hearted, distant woman?<br /><br />Hoffman is a writer of exquisite sensibilities, with a number of lyrical novels and a devoted following. The Ice Queen is an exception to the rule; Hoffman has a long list of powerful work to reward her readers. Luan Gaines/2005.t in the shallow characters. The woman is never more than one-dimensional, caught in her own childish egocentricity. It is hard to imagine why anyone would go to the trouble to wake up this sleeping, self-obsessed beauty. Even the fire and ice love affair is disappointing. What should be instant combustion produces mere puffs of smoke. How could anyone find relief or completion in this cold-hearted, distant woman? <br /> <br />Hoffman is a writer of exquisite sensibilities, with a number of lyrical novels and a devoted following. The Ice Queen is an exception to the rule; Hoffman has a long list of powerful work to reward her readers. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-04-01
293957:US	51010391	R3VNIV2TTSBOIH	0151011176	354022357	Lighthousekeeping	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A story within a story within a story	This small novel is a journey of shared illusions, melding the past with myth, overflowing with images: the moodiness of the distant moon, the leaden weight of night, the soft damp mist that fills every crevice of this sea-swept land, a place of dreams and stories on the Scottish coast of the Atlantic Ocean. All is image, blurred pictures of people long dead, a reminder that the past is not so far away.<br /><br />Silver is the narrator of Lighthousekeeping, her early life anchored to a seaward listing home that finally swallows her mother whole, a father never known. From the drab abode of Miss Pinch in the town of Salt, Silver is sent to live with old blind Pew, the lighthouse keeper of Cape Wrath, \\"home to gulls and dreams\\". Pew is a storyteller who teaches her the language of the sea and the soul, relating the tale of Babel Dark, a haunted figure, \\"not a man for good mornings and good nights\\", married to a woman devoid of curiosity, his wife nonetheless.<br /><br />Silver's life is part mistake, part madness, a m&eacute;lange of stories and impressions, anchored only by her affection for Pew and her security in the lighthouse. The pages are awash with vivid imagination, flying on the wings of language, the magic of myth, weaving stories like webs around the characters. Stories hover like shadows, shifting within the narrative, connected by a filament of truth, Silver's voice, Pew's memory, Dark's anguish and yearning for a life unlived, for years squandered.<br /><br />Like a dark prince, Babel Dark, he who lived a century or more before, wanders the cliffs in Pew's telling, galloping over the rugged terrain, his heart as wild as the countryside, unredeemed. Like the heroes of myth, Dark's passion is romantic, if embittered, just as Pew's tales are true, though impossible. And Silver takes it all in until the stories course through her body like blood and she cannot live without this precious fluid that rushes through her veins. Even when she must reinvent herself again and again, Silver is buoyed by Pew's \\"lighthousekeeping\\" lessons, the stories that sustain the heart.<br /><br />There are so many remarkable phrases, astute observations and insights that I read slowly, savoring the language, the ideas, evocative seafaring lore and doomed love, all reminders of the heart and its penchant for illogical attachments, for personalization. I gladly follow as Silver navigates through her days, from the mother swept away in the wind, the bed made of chairs at Miss Pinch's, the enchanted years at the lighthouse with blind Pew, Babel Dark's sad saga of unrequited love and sailors lost to a howling sea.<br /><br />Myth, memory and language combine, orchestrated into a symphony on the edge of the world, where life and death coexist, entwined for eternity. This prose/poetry holds a wealth of images, the warmth of infinite tenderness, bright splashes of sunlight, quiet interludes of thoughtful introspection. Lighthousekeeping is a lesson in reinvention, subtle directions in living the story, listening to the past and welcoming the unknown, the future. Luan Gaines/2005.f again and again, Silver is buoyed by Pew's \\"lighthousekeeping\\" lessons, the stories that sustain the heart. <br /> <br />There are so many remarkable phrases, astute observations and insights that I read slowly, savoring the language, the ideas, evocative seafaring lore and doomed love, all reminders of the heart and its penchant for illogical attachments, for personalization. I gladly follow as Silver navigates through her days, from the mother swept away in the wind, the bed made of chairs at Miss Pinch's, the enchanted years at the lighthouse with blind Pew, Babel Dark's sad saga of unrequited love and sailors lost to a howling sea. <br /> <br />Myth, memory and language combine, orchestrated into a symphony on the edge of the world, where life and death coexist, entwined for eternity. This prose/poetry holds a wealth of images, the warmth of infinite tenderness, bright splashes of sunlight, quiet interludes of thoughtful introspection. Lighthousekeeping is a lesson in reinvention, subtle directions in living the story, listening to the past and welcoming the unknown, the future. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-04-01
297357:US	51010391	RJN24193HZ4H3	0060195347	380627902	Ya-Yas in Bloom	Books	2	86	107	N	N	(2.5) Steel Magnolias redux	Ya-Ya's in Bloom is Well's third effort to place the quirky Southern ladies of The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood front and center. With a bit of background gleaned from both previous books, Bloom is instantly familiar through the antics of four little girls who become lifetime friends. Reintroducing their unique friendship, the Ya-Ya's stick to their loyalties through good times and bad. Vivi, Teensy, Caro and Necie first show up as toddlers in 1930, later as their older selves, along with a familiar \\"petite Ya-Ya\\", Sidda, Vivi's oldest daughter.<br /><br />In order to accommodate the plot line, a couple of strange characters, relatively speaking, are inserted into this rarified world, the prickly Mavis Spivey and her disgruntled daughter, Edythe. These two facilitate the plot twist that besmirches Well's Ya-Ya's impressive family album, so far filled with inter-family problems, untainted by the problems of others. Now Wells presents a quasi-mystery, one that tries to breathe life into the story.<br /><br />Unfortunately, this Cajun stew doesn't have the joy and spice of the Divine Sisterhood, though Wells gives it the old college try. Charming at their most powerful and eccentric, very real women hid a number of serious issues behind the cheerful facade of their bickering and teasing. There was a real sense of generational connectedness that spoke to women, north and south, of the relationship between mothers and daughters and why secrets are kept to protect the innocent.<br /><br />In their current Ya-Ya incarnation, the dialog, the story line and the characters have almost become caricatures, devoid of the soul that made them such fascinating creatures, warts and all. Even the element of suspense is Ya-Ya'd, turned into foolish ramblings and pale interactions. The once inherently charming now borders on the tedious as tales are rehashed in an effort to win a new audience. This is certainly a popular series that has garnered a devoted audience. But perhaps it is time for these Ya-Ya's to gracefully retire, making room for a new bevy of Southern characters. Haven't these ladies earned a well-deserved rest, permanent icons in a culture that has joyfully welcomed them? Luan Gaines/2005.perhaps it is time for these Ya-Ya's to gracefully retire, making room for a new bevy of Southern characters. Haven't these ladies earned a well-deserved rest, permanent icons in a culture that has joyfully welcomed them? Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-03-29
297662:US	51010391	R2OU075XVZH690	0393060063	106809186	Honey And Junk: Poems	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Sign language for the soul	Goodyear writes with a sting, bold, fearless, jabbing under the flesh, blood drawn as a reminder that this is real life and it hurts.<br /><br />\\"Mother was never in the same room with any of us.<br /><br />I think she was a hostess, in which case I should say,<br /><br />Thank you for having me.\\" (County Line Road)<br /><br />Like great art, subject to interpretation, these concise poems speak the language of the beholder. Certain phrases jump out, ringing familiar in the subconscious. Such a gift is hardly precocious, although the author is young; rather, Goodyear deftly manages the clumsy, inexplicable emotions that come to life in unexpected formations, the senseless rendered sensible, pricking the surface to disclose the bubbling stew that inhabits the mind. Stubborn, the mind refuses to yield until the poet's words demand an audience. Raise the lid of this Pandora's Box and see what baleful surprises await.<br /><br />\\"Is this more like a tripwire<br /><br />or a fuse,<br /><br />If I handle it right<br /><br />may I keep you?\\" (Message)<br /><br />There is nothing as satisfying as the well-written poem, the rush of comprehension that this poet delivers page after page. Goodyear's remarkable collection demands respect, as though for one quick moment everything is clear, the universe exposed, shocking, painful and tender. Language is magical in the right hands, both lyrical and haunting. Goodyear lets her genie out of the bottle, intentionally, as willful as a wild child, as precise as a surgeon:<br /><br />\\"life after death fingernails unfolding<br /><br />in the last mute wave of growing old.\\" (Old Saybrook)<br /><br />Change is unavoidable, as is pain, these poems filled with a sensual awareness of place, shifting memories, deep and inevitable loss, life on life's terms. If you love words, trust the sleight-of-hand of this poet, youthful yet ageless, painful yet precious as a last breath.<br /><br />\\"It doesn't take a genius to say<br /><br />Get out while you can.<br /><br />It takes an optimist.\\" (Safe House III)<br /><br />Luan Gaines/2005.<br />It takes an optimist.\\" (Safe House III) <br /> <br />Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-29
297883:US	51010391	R3ZQH0CALBEGP	0393327205	966020659	Ice Road: A Novel	Books	4	12	13	N	N	"...and all the world is buried deep."	In 1934, Irina Davydovna is sent on a fated Artic expedition, along the coast of Siberia and back. Trapped in the Arctic ice with her shipmates, the author perfectly captures Irina's sense of isolation, the eerie crackling sound of the ice floes pressing against the ship and the helplessness of their predicament in this frozen, indifferent world: \\"I have grown heavy with hope and with belief. I have dared to dream.\\" In an enormous rescue effort, most of the crew is saved, including Irina, although the ship is lost to the depths of the ocean.<br /><br />Later, Irina finds employment in the household of Anton Antonovich Abramov, once a close friend of Boris Aleksandrovich, and his adopted daughter. Although the orphan child, Anya, never warms to her more welcoming circumstances, Irina is content to have a place in the home of a respected man after the terrifying, near-fatal experience in the Arctic. Irina watches the metamorphosis of her nation, a woman given to obedience and respect for those in power. But these are dangerous times, neighbor spying on neighbor as those of questionable motives join the ranks of the disappeared.<br /><br />The vital Natasha, daughter of Boris Aleksandrovich Ivanov, is in love with Kolya and eager for marriage. Natasha is in the bloom of youth, beautiful and covertly watched by many male admirers, her father's favorite child. The couple is married and has a child, Katya, when Kolya is arrested.<br /><br />Natasha is bereft when Kolya is arrested, her life now precarious, a social outcast. Natasha marries the jealous, uninspired Dmitry Fedorovich, the epitome of an inflexible Stalinist regime, her one opportunity to secure her future and that of her daughter. Desperately unhappy, Natasha is riddled with questions about Kolya's fate, but fearful of her husband's power. In her distress, Natasha turns to her friend Irina, living alone with Anya since Anton's untimely death.<br /><br />As Russia hurtles towards its date with destiny, the Germans mass on the Russian border. Leningrad prepares for a devastating siege and soldiers desperately dig trenches to protect the city from assault. Hitler is eager to subdue this massive country, while a flustered bureaucracy is decimated by those who flee from the city. The great experiment is in turmoil, under attack and unprepared, without provisions in a brutal winter.<br /><br />With uncanny insight, Slovo defines society through the eyes of the women in this vast, white world where ideas are as rigid as the ice-covered terrain, proving there is room for passion, love and tenderness. It is the women who reflect the true changes in society, showing astonishing emotional growth, made stronger by their trials, losing the passive obedience of long habit. In spite of personal danger, Irina and Natasha form a bond that sustains them where others, fathers, husbands, have failed. Slovo's characters are surrounded by peril, betrayal and intrigue, but when survival is at stake, the women breathe life into the future, buoyed by loyalty and compassion. Luan Gaines/ 2005.e with destiny, the Germans mass on the Russian border. Leningrad prepares for a devastating siege and soldiers desperately dig trenches to protect the city from assault. Hitler is eager to subdue this massive country, while a flustered bureaucracy is decimated by those who flee from the city. The great experiment is in turmoil, under attack and unprepared, without provisions in a brutal winter. <br /> <br />With uncanny insight, Slovo defines society through the eyes of the women in this vast, white world where ideas are as rigid as the ice-covered terrain, proving there is room for passion, love and tenderness. It is the women who reflect the true changes in society, showing astonishing emotional growth, made stronger by their trials, losing the passive obedience of long habit. In spite of personal danger, Irina and Natasha form a bond that sustains them where others, fathers, husbands, have failed. Slovo's characters are surrounded by peril, betrayal and intrigue, but when survival is at stake, the women breathe life into the future, buoyed by loyalty and compassion. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-29
299685:US	51010391	R3D79PW8P21IM2	0152046399	8515039	zoo's who	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A tempting menagerie	In one of his most artful surprises yet, Douglas Florian has created another delightful, spine-tingling gaggle of animals, the usual tongue-twisting, alliterative troupe: the manta ray, the penguin, the bush baby, the bats, the slugs, the terns, the wallaby and, my favorite, the sloth:<br /><br />\\"Up a tree you slowly creep,<br /><br />The twenty hours straight you sleep.\\"<br /><br />The artwork in this latest collection is superior, art-iculate and gaily colored, sure to inspire young minds with fanciful thoughts, even singing the praises of the slug:<br /><br />\\"Slugs are ugly.<br /><br />Slugs are lowly.<br /><br />Slugs climb mountains<br /><br />Very slowly.\\"<br /><br />These simple poems alongside such quirky critters that leap from Florian's mind offer a world of adventure, a humorous peak into the lives of creatures great and small. With consummate skill, Florian has combined whimsy with some remarkable artwork, a book sure to be beloved of children and adults alike. If you're like me, you know a few \\"grownups\\" who will appreciate the wonderful illustrations in zoo's who. Who says we have to grow up anyway?<br /><br />\\"I wANTed to write<br /><br />A poem on an ANT.<br /><br />I'm frANTic-<br /><br />I cANT.\\"<br /><br />Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-03-27
303260:US	51010391	R1Z31EWE5XFV0J	0312331916	959762349	The Illuminator	Books	4	41	49	N	N	An artful tale of bittersweet regrets	In the 14th century, the Church's stranglehold on England is draconian, true believers held within the grasp of a greedy bishop who squeezes every serf and villein for their last coin to purchase the favors of God. Split between the factions of the Great Schism, the Italian Pope and the French Pope, citizens hope only to escape notice, to fulfill their duties without risking the wrath of Church or noblemen. While Sir John Wycliff surreptitiously copies the Bible into the language of the common man, the bishop's guards scour the countryside for heretics.<br /><br />A woman alone has no defenses in this man's world and Lady Katherine of Blackingham Manor is rigorously monitoring the fortunes of her twin sons, particularly Alfred, due to inherit in his father's name. Just as a usurious priest is breathing down her neck, extorting payment for the salvation of her soul, Katherine is sent a respite through the monks at Broomholm Abbey, an illuminator who will reside at her manor with his daughter while he completes his work, his board paid by the abbey.<br /><br />The illuminator, Finn, and his daughter, Rose, bring unexpected rewards to Blackingham, friendship for Lady Katherine and her younger son, Colin, but the times are increasingly dangerous given the political climate and unrest among the peasants, unfair taxation burdening their already meager incomes. Exposing the deficiencies of the feudal system, the author illustrates the travails of a population in support of nobility. In a class system that favors only the titled, everyone suffers the indignities of penury, the law and the Church harsh rulers of a people who have no hopes of ever bettering their circumstances.<br /><br />The characters could easily be from the Brothers Grimm: half-Tom, the dwarf who lives alone in the fens, Sheriff Guy, with an eye on Lady Katherine and her inheritance; Simpson, the ill-willed, thieving overseer; Bishop Henry Dispenser, \\"the warring bishop\\", who puts down the bloody Peasant's Revolt of 1381; John Wycliff, one of the first religious men to herald the Reformation; and Julian of Norwich, a holy woman who spends her life in prayer and meditation.<br /><br />The author illuminates the lives of her characters with as much artistry as Finn paints his calligraphed texts. The perfection is in the detail, the small but poignant connections between characters, the sweet bloom of first love and the surprise of romance found in the later years, a mother's affection for sons grown too old to comfort in her embrace, all of them ill-prepared for the world's cruel demands. When life intrudes, dreams are cast aside and youthful enthusiasm gives way to the harsh strictures of convention.<br /><br />The ending is chaotic and dramatic, the frenzy of a peasant uprising vs. the armies of the Crown, death and destruction sewn by years of hardship, as surely as if the gates of Hell had opened up, bodies strewn over the countryside in the wake of random violence, fields and manors burnt to the ground. Yet all is not lost, the fruits of love protected by the purity of good intentions, tied together by bonds of blood. Luan Gaines/2005.wn the bloody Peasant's Revolt of 1381; John Wycliff, one of the first religious men to herald the Reformation; and Julian of Norwich, a holy woman who spends her life in prayer and meditation. <br /> <br />The author illuminates the lives of her characters with as much artistry as Finn paints his calligraphed texts. The perfection is in the detail, the small but poignant connections between characters, the sweet bloom of first love and the surprise of romance found in the later years, a mother's affection for sons grown too old to comfort in her embrace, all of them ill-prepared for the world's cruel demands. When life intrudes, dreams are cast aside and youthful enthusiasm gives way to the harsh strictures of convention. <br /> <br />The ending is chaotic and dramatic, the frenzy of a peasant uprising vs. the armies of the Crown, death and destruction sewn by years of hardship, as surely as if the gates of Hell had opened up, bodies strewn over the countryside in the wake of random violence, fields and manors burnt to the ground. Yet all is not lost, the fruits of love protected by the purity of good intentions, tied together by bonds of blood. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-03-24
303422:US	51010391	R231FGL62AX04J	0393326063	649178718	A Murder in Virginia: Southern Justice on Trial	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Southern Justice on Trial	\\"Nothing could prepare a person for the stunning brutality\\" of another's death, but at 47, Mary Abernathy knew about long vigils watching over the dead. After the murder of a white woman, Lucy Pollard, Pollard's husband screamed robbery and lay all night by his wife's corpse. So did black neighbor Mary Abernathy, eventually the first to be arrested for the murder.<br /><br />In Lunenburg County, Virginia, 1895, the axe murder of a white woman comes at a time of great racial tension. Post-Civil War Reconstruction is under way, White Supremacists taking advantage of new opportunities to stir up hatred and fear and the rural folk of Lunenburg deeply resent the intrusion of the press and distant lawmakers in their private business. By the time the dust has settled, the event will generate interest beyond the borders of a town that eventually puts three black women on trial for the murder of Lucy Pollard.<br /><br />Mary Barnes, Pokey Barnes and Mary Abernathy are arrested and charged with murder in an era when racial tension hardly needs more attention to spur acts of violence. But contrary to common thought, the trial does much to turn expectations upside-down, as the black community gathers in support of the defendants and white farmers help deter others from burning the farms of black neighbors. The black coalition remains effective and viable throughout the trial, encouraging unanimity of spirit. That the three women are eventually released is even more amazing, again going against all notions of southern justice. (A second trial is convened, one in which Solomon Marable, a black man, is accused, found guilty and later hanged.)<br /><br />The impressive details and research in this book do much to inform a modern society of the legal machinations and emotionally charged narrative that imbued the Pollard trial. Using preserved documents, Lebsock recreates the historical perspective, personal detail and deeply-rooted racial attitudes beneath the surface of the post-War South. The simple lives of the accused stand in relief against the extravagant verbiage of lawyers and politicians carving careers for themselves.<br /><br />The author perfectly captures the fear, confusion and innate prejudice of the trial, but also the unexpected support for the three women and the against-the-grain actions of the whites in support of those charged unfairly. From the first page, A Murder in Virginia reads like an anecdotal novel, albeit factual, the drama and chaos of murder and courtroom drama from a historical perspective, a racial divide still searching for definition, where black and white connote a world of difference. Careers are made and lives are changed by the events surrounding Lucy Pollard's demise, which remains unsolved, a matter for history to unravel. Luan Gaines/2005.ost-War South. The simple lives of the accused stand in relief against the extravagant verbiage of lawyers and politicians carving careers for themselves. <br /> <br />The author perfectly captures the fear, confusion and innate prejudice of the trial, but also the unexpected support for the three women and the against-the-grain actions of the whites in support of those charged unfairly. From the first page, A Murder in Virginia reads like an anecdotal novel, albeit factual, the drama and chaos of murder and courtroom drama from a historical perspective, a racial divide still searching for definition, where black and white connote a world of difference. Careers are made and lives are changed by the events surrounding Lucy Pollard's demise, which remains unsolved, a matter for history to unravel. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br />   <br />	2005-03-24
303653:US	51010391	R2KCCI4WIF195P	0152588043	977521917	Orpheus	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The poignant retelling of myth	The Orpheus myth continues in many forms, theatrical, musical and artistic, retelling the ultimate loneliness of Orpheus after the loss of Eurydice. This allegory of grief is subject to many interpretations, but this particular book contains no controversy, rather a series of stunning illustrations that give voice to a man's grief in a manner that is evocative of the most basic human emotions. This is an accessible Orpheus, a man whose music was so exquisite that \\"mountains bowed and wild animals ceased their hunting to listen\\". Even the sea interrupted the dance of the waves, the trees bent to catch his plaintive notes, when the young Orpheus is rewarded by marriage to Eurydice, their brief happiness already foreshadowed by loss.<br /><br />After the death of his beloved, passionate wife, Orpheus is inconsolable, haunted by despair, the images stark, a man lost to his former self. Determined to bring Eurydice back to life, Orpheus takes leave of his senses, descending into the caves of the Underworld. Orpheus' lament touches even the cursed souls who dwell there, their faces distorted by desire. But Eurydice is never again to be part of his world. In baleful, sorrowful degrees, Orpheus sinks into his mute state, the divine music of his soul forever silenced, his discarded lyre the only symbol of a once enchanted life.<br /><br />Set against stormy, sky-darkened pages, the illustrations are exceptional, vividly colored, capturing in elegant line the demise of the tortured young man. Deeply shadowed, with hints of the orange-hued glow of the Underworld, Orpheus' human form struggles from page to page until his demise. This is a striking and imaginative take on a familiar myth, elegant in its simplicity, adorned with the power of lost love and the skill of an award-winning illustrator. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-03-24
305662:US	51010391	R34JMQMDYU44N5	0140544518	276032073	The True Story of the Three Little Pigs	Books	5	0	0	N	N	"Wolf's Honor!"	To think that all this time we've gotten it wrong! According to this tale in the very words of Alfred T Wolf, he has suffered for years under the misnomer \\"Big, Bad\\", when the truth is that the whole brouhaha is the result of a borrowed cup of sugar and a few random sneezes. (Sounds like the allergy alibi to me.)<br /><br />Apparently, Mr. Wolf is only guilty of trying to borrow a cup of sugar in good faith, caught in exigent circumstances beyond his control. That the first neighbor's house (Pig #1) was made of straw only occasioned a fit of sneezing, leading to the pigs demise, followed by an equally unfortunate visit to Pig #2, with similar results. And still no cup of sugar! By the time Wolf approaches Pig #3, the allergy excuse has worn thin and a fit of temper lands A.T. Wolf behind bars. Of course, the press makes a mountain out of a molehill, blowing the whole story out of proportion. Hence, the slanderous name of Big, Bad Wolf!<br /><br />This imaginative perspective on a familiar fairy tale is a delight to read, if a bit self-aggrandizing, the inimitable illustrations of Lane Smith making the case for one very misguided lupine, willing to go to any lengths for a little free press. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-03-22
306114:US	51010391	R1B88F9L3H31WD	0152022988	987197869	And the Dish Ran Away with the Spoon	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A runaway nursery rhyme	\\"Hey diddle diddle, the cat and the fiddle,<br />The cow jumped over the moon;<br />The little dog laughed to see such a sport,<br />And the dish ran away with the spoon.\\"<br /><br />Until this unique take on the well-known story, the tale has always ended the same, but suddenly there is mayhem in fairytale land when \\"They didn't come back!\\" as planned, beginning the rhyme all over again. So cat, dog and cow are off by the light of the silvery moon to discover the fate of the dish and the spoon before all the beloved nighttime stories are turned upside down. If this mystery isn't sorted out, who will ever be able to get a good night's sleep?<br /><br />Thankfully, the confused trio runs into Fork, who \\"makes a stab\\" at drawing a map, one that includes the homes of Little Miss Muffet, Little Bo Peep, Little Boy Blue, the Three Bears, the House That Jack Built and even Humpty Dumpty's wall. Lurching from one possible hiding place to the next, cat, dog and cow are soon frustrated, leaving Little Boy Blue behind in hopes of better information from Little Miss Muffet. The trio is fearless, even approaching the Big, Bad Wolf in their quest. Finally, in the most unimaginable place, dish and spoon come crashing into view, although a bit the worse for wear when dish goes all to pieces.<br /><br />The fanciful illustrations are energetic and humorous, tiny faces charged with the intensity of the hunt for the rest of their rhyme. With happy energy the thoughtful friends traipse all over the Fork's map, not content until reunited with dish and spoon. This colorful romp teaches more than one lesson as friends search for their missing pals: how to read a (scribbled) map, how to assess the intentions of others (like a hungry and devious Wolf!) and the importance of asking for help from others. Now that these enchanting, lifelike animals have intruded upon the kitchen, this particular children's rhyme will never be the same! Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-03-22
306155:US	51010391	R1RIJAHIRY790E	0385511809	740331338	Saturday: A novel	Books	5	132	156	N	N	The challenge of the professional reductionist	This day in the life of a moral, conscientious man serves as a metaphor for the quality of a man's life, how unexpected violence may disrupt and injure, but not destroy. London neurosurgeon Henry Perowne sets out on his Saturday with a full schedule and a brimming mind, much of his internal musing triggered by the events of 9/11, the incipient war with Iraq and a massive anti-war demonstration taking place that day to protest Bush's potential attack on Iraq: \\"Saturday's he's accustomed to being thoughtlessly content...\\"<br /><br />Perowne carries on an inner dialog made more complex by current events, though always engaged in thoughts of his patients and family, perhaps recently with a sharper edge, a poignancy, a nod to the random destruction that has become part of the new world landscape. A minor accident triggers a chain of events, so unexpected that Perowne is blindsided by his own lack of foresight. This one day becomes a metaphor for what has so recently stunned the world and left it shaken. Like a country attacked on a bright New York day, Perowne, and by extension his family, are briefly assaulted, then left to deal with the repercussions of violence.<br /><br />The well-trained, educated brain screams danger, but the acculturated man is still in shock, unable to adapt to quickly changing circumstances: \\"Questions of misinterpretations are not often resolved.\\" Facing imminent danger to himself and to his family, Perowne cannot make his precise mind plan, his mental calculations serving instead as stumbling blocks for extricating the family from a volatile situation.<br /><br />I find it fascinating that the author's protagonist is a neurosurgeon, for McEwan writes with the precision of a surgeon, his novel as brilliantly structured as Perowne's mind. In a world gone mad with terror and the quest for a semblance of its former identity, Perowne creates an island of objectivity, the thinking, civilized man recreating a sane world, albeit one forever altered by circumstances. The real test is in the aftermath of such an event, how one moves on the key to the quality of life desired, whether left helpless and raging or refusing to concede those small fragments of integrity that must be repaired, though imperfect, forever scarred with a hairline crack. Luan Gaines/ 2005.ne forever altered by circumstances. The real test is in the aftermath of such an event, how one moves on the key to the quality of life desired, whether left helpless and raging or refusing to concede those small fragments of integrity that must be repaired, though imperfect, forever scarred with a hairline crack. Luan Gaines/ 2005.  <br />	2005-03-22
306377:US	51010391	RRK2NUHRSK3V	0060092785	453948184	Autumnblings	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A children's poet for all seasons	Complementing Winter Eyes and Summersaults, Autumnblings is another of Florian's delightful poetic romps through the season, a series of silly poems accompanied by the usual quirky and humorous illustrations the author does so well.<br /><br />\\"Maple seeds in fall turn brown,<br /><br />then they fall off and all fall down-<br /><br />like fallicopters to the ground.\\"<br /><br />Florian is a personal favorite because his lively poetry and images stimulate young minds and plant the seeds of reading enjoyment. Learning is a positive experience in every book this author/illustrator contributes to young minds, a consistent energy that is engaging and fanciful, to be shared or read aloud.<br /><br />\\"The temperature falls<br /><br />Degree by degree.<br /><br />It falls through the air<br /><br />And lands upon me.\\"<br /><br />Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-03-22
311185:US	51010391	R1U6LY5AW9V52I	0385510349	315273625	Dating Is Murder: A Novel	Books	3	11	16	N	N	P is for Potential	This suspense-based LA novel is written in the insouciant manner of a young woman on the go, desperately trying to make ends meet when she finds herself in the middle of a quandary: what has happened to Annika? And why?<br /><br />Wollie Shelley takes whatever employment she can get, an artist and current game show contestant (\\"Biological Clock\\"), conducting a simultaneous search for Mr. Right (listening to the ticking of her own biological clock).  When Annika, a German citizen who also works for the Biological Clock reality show, drops out of sight, Wollie puts her considerable energy into tracking down her missing friend. A simple search becomes ever more complicated as Wollie traces Annika's last few contacts before her disappearance.<br /><br />Eventually, Wollie is forced to turn to the police, another source of frustration, and finds herself caught in an FBI drug cartel investigation. To make matters worse, there may be ties to contestants on Biological Clock, low-budget though it is. Wollie has gotten herself in deeper than intended, but is not of a mind to back out once her sleuthing curiosity is whetted. What's a little danger where friendship is involved? All the better, when \\"that man\\" appears in her life; if not necessarily good timing, Wollie isn't about to practice catch-and-release, although this particular man complicates things considerably.<br /><br />Kozak is an actor familiar with the LA scene, Topanga Canyon denizens and the atmosphere of television reality shows. She puts her experience to work in crafting a likeable character that is part bluff, part tough and seriously concerned for Annika's welfare. Like any well-meaning amateur detective, Wollie gets in way over her head, but is naive enough to remain unaware of the seriousness of her predicament.<br /><br />While Dating is Murder is no Sue Grafton mystery novel (as is suggested on the book jacket), it is entertaining light reading, LA style and the author shows potential. Everything works out in the end as Wollie's mistakes are artfully redeemed by the new man on the horizon. Half mystery, half chick-lit, this novel will find an audience willing to follow Wollie's well-intentioned exploits, not to mention some behind-the-scenes dish on reality TV. Luan Gaines/2005.tial. Everything works out in the end as Wollie's mistakes are artfully redeemed by the new man on the horizon. Half mystery, half chick-lit, this novel will find an audience willing to follow Wollie's well-intentioned exploits, not to mention some behind-the-scenes dish on reality TV. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-03-17
311491:US	51010391	R9LB75NQDA1RO	1931561990	488222727	Pinkerton's Sister	Books	3	31	32	N	N	(3.5) Diary of a "madwoman"	This is really an astonishing piece of work, weighty in the extreme and filled with literary references that evoke beloved classic masterpieces. From the first page, Alice Pinkerton muses about her life as a woman of the 20th century, still controlled by the rigid Victorian mores that govern every element of society. Likening herself to Rochester's wife, the madwoman in Jane Eyre, Alice is hardly mad, rather a lady of exquisite intellectual sensibilities who does not live incarcerated, attending church and performing other duties required by her station. Rather, it is Alice's mind that is imprisoned, for the entire work, takes place in the character's mind, segueing from one connection to another.<br /><br />Hers is a fascinating dialog, one that questions, pokes, prods and eviscerates the common mentality. Clearly, Alice is a woman born before her time. The forces that converge in Alice's thoughts, literary, musical, sometimes vaguely threatening, run from simple observations to more convoluted ideas. Were she a man, Alice would be considered a literary master of ideas and revolutionary concepts.<br /><br />That said, this is a stream-of-consciousness novel with Alice as the only character, driven by her own inner dialog, without the respite of other points of view. Although I tried, I could not continue the journey with Alice, eventually exhausted by the sheer force of words spinning through her intellect. This book is staggering in the number of pages and range of ideas, especially the literary references, which mine long-forgotten, if once beloved novels. I just could not continue past the first 200 pages. Alice proved too much for me.<br /><br />Such enormous energy is expended in the 727 pages that there must be a welcoming audience for this novel. I envision the author, churning out endless pages, falling deeper into Alice's mind and I cannot imagine that this literary monument should go unappreciated. There is an audience for stream-of-consciousness novels and I hope this one receives its share of applause. Luan Gaines/ 2005.nsciousness novels and I hope this one receives its share of applause. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br />	2005-03-17
311830:US	51010391	R2ABQVYYKMT800	0393059685	889448447	A Rare And Curious Gift	Books	4	10	12	N	N	"The perfect imperfection"	Sixteenth century Tuscany is aglow with artistic opportunity, painters, sculptors, artisans all enjoying and unprecedented flourishing of the arts. Even women are encouraged in the art of painting, though there are few with the courage to follow such a muse, one of the most notable Artemisia Gentileschi, who paints at a later date than this novel.<br /><br />The female artist of note in this era is Sofonisba Fabroni, a young woman trained by her father, although her talents actually surpass those of her teacher. Of independent mind, Sofonisba is absorbed by her work, floating on the wings of natural talent, intuiting the very nature of color, shape, form and emotion. With her father and a few other artists, Sofonisba attends clandestine anatomy classes at the home of Paolo Pallavicino, the resident artist of a local patron. In the dark of night, these artists sketch the wonders of the human anatomy as Paolo dissects cadavers by lantern light. Such things are forbidden, but the urge to discover the connections of body to spirit dominate the times, a furious quest to uncover the causality of life itself.<br /><br />This is not a good time for women, artists being the exception in a society that favors male domination in all its affairs. Unexpectedly, Sofonisba is the beneficiary of a gift, a piebald young slave girl, Chiara, whose skin is mottled with patterns of black and white, an object of curiosity and fear. In such superstitious times, the slave girl is looked upon with disfavor, the Devil's charge. After a tragic fire on the first day of an annual saint's festival, fingers begin to point at the slave, an omen of bad luck visited upon the town: \\"The wings of devils shall carry you to Hell. And the woman shall go first.\\"<br /><br />The confusion of the religious festival sets in motion a subdued violence, as the villagers perceive the need to set things right with God. This is the age of the Inquisition, a time of hangings and torture in the name of God, His majesty over the natural world. Sofonisba and Chiara are thrown into the maelstrom by circumstances beyond their control; at the heart of all is the lecherous Matteo Tassi, unable to govern his concupiscent acts or headstrong emotions. Like the fated Artemisia, Sofonisba will suffer for living freely in a man's world, despite the talent that is both her gift and cross to bear.<br /><br />The tapestry of characters is as rich as the story: Paolo Pallavicino, the old man who conducts secret dismemberments; Tassi, the master of depravity, who creates inimitable curiosities, but is driven to satisfy the needs of the flesh; Alessandro, hopelessly in love with Sofonisba, but never a candidate for her affections, reduced to walking about in garments made of human skin; Orazio, an artist whose ageing body is courting death, at odds with his own desires for his talented daughter; Sofonisba, the artist who lives for her work, but is taunted by Tassi's invitation to the joys of human connection; and Chiara, the piebald slave, doomed by her color, defined only by her appearance, an easy target for the rampant superstition of the times, where God is frequently at odds with the devil, signs everywhere to terrify the faithful.<br /><br />With agonizing precision, the author paints the images of her characters as cleanly as Sofonisba paints her own revenge for the injustice of the court, the ignominy of her own suffering. But even more, Holdstock exposes the carnal cruelty of men who believe they can access the union of body and spirit, their ignorance shielded by artistic endeavor that allows the egotistical destruction of simplicity they fail to comprehend. The pursuit of beauty and pageantry allows the acceptance of extreme behavior, all in the name of monstrous curiosity.<br /><br />This astonishing novel flays the hypocrisy of the artistic community and the religious leaders who create a society that demeans the worth of women and ignores licentiousness and lechery from men held inhigh esteem, in a quest for knowledge that destroys the beauty of nature in its hubris, a complete disregard for disvalued lives. In the same manner that cadavers are examined for their secrets, the author excises the shriveled hearts of ruthless men in pursuit of art. The novel is fascinating, complicated and shocking, a masterful rendition of 16th century society and the carnage of hardened, superstitious and carnal arrogance, the corruption of the intellect in pursuit of artistic curiosities. Not for the faint of heart, this novel will challenge your perceptions and prick your conscience, \\"as beautiful and terrible as the world.\\" Luan Gaines/2005.ry from men held in high esteem, in a quest for knowledge that destroys the beauty of nature in its hubris, a complete disregard for disvalued lives. In the same manner that cadavers are examined for their secrets, the author excises the shriveled hearts of ruthless men in pursuit of art. The novel is fascinating, complicated and shocking, a masterful rendition of 16th century society and the carnage of hardened, superstitious and carnal arrogance, the corruption of the intellect in pursuit of artistic curiosities. Not for the faint of heart, this novel will challenge your perceptions and prick your conscience, \\"as beautiful and terrible as the world.\\" Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-03-17
313839:US	51010391	R33OPWE2JGNM36	0688176941	405967579	Holy Skirts	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A precursor to the Dada Movement	Steinke's novel is a considerable achievement, a careful balancing of historical fact and fiction, the life of Baroness Elsa von Fretag-Loringhoven, a walking example of the Dada movement in the New York art scene.<br /><br />Eccentric even as a young girl, Elsa Ploetz runs away from her home in Swinemunde, Germany, to Berlin, where she gets her first job on the stage of the Wintergarten Cabaret. Her mother has died in an asylum and, unable to endure her new stepmother, Elsa seeks her fortune in the city, around 1907. Elsa revels in her sexuality, a favorite of the men who see her onstage and entertain her after hours.<br /><br />Ironically, it is Elsa's liberal attitude about men that brings her the most difficulty. Indiscriminate, she goes from man to man, enjoying the blush of youthful sensuality, her body tingling with expectations after each new amorous adventure: \\"I can never bow before men. I can only fling myself.\\" Drawn to an assortment of males, believing their promises and suffering the consequences, Elsa is unable to control her romantic fancies, even when reality strikes. It is simply Elsa's nature, this open-hearted acceptance of possibilities; Steinke captures this unique aspect of the woman's personality perfectly.<br /><br />Elsa's first marriage is to architect August Lydell, but she is a virago to him; he is afraid of what she might take from his creative spirit, unable to consummate the marriage. Eventually Elsa marries poet Franz Trove, pair touring Europe, as he follows his muse. World War I threatens and the couple moves to New York. Elsa writes her own poetry while living with a dissatisfied husband who finally abandons her. Then Elsa meets the most meaningful man in her life, the Baron Joseph von Freytag-Loringhoven, her soul mate. The Baron, a gambler, hopes to redeem his fortune in Germany while Elsa waits for him in New York and it is there, alone, that she makes her mark on the Greenwich Village society of artists and sycophants.<br /><br />Elsa fashions garments from the oddities she discovers when wandering the city streets, assembling a series of outrageous outfits, proclaiming herself an artist/poet. She gradually claims the notice of the Village avant-garde, unafraid to shock the pretentiousness of that society, whether wearing gentlemen's suits or a bustle with a blinking taillight. Ever more extreme in behavior and dress, Elsa becomes a friend and confidant of Marcel Duchamp and through him, finds entry into the rarified art circles. Filmed nude by Man Ray, Elsa is beyond the cutting edge of the New York scene.<br /><br />Steinke inhabits Elsa to the marrow of her bones, intuiting thoughts, dreams and motivations of this character. In a time of extraordinary inventions, the Baroness achieves notoriety while chasing fame, a fringe-dweller of repute in the art world. From youth in Germany to the mean streets of New York that Elsa wanders in a poetic fugue, Steinke has created a memorable portrait of an eccentric and a visionary, a new woman in a new century. Luan Gaines/2005.sycophants. <br /> <br />Elsa fashions garments from the oddities she discovers when wandering the city streets, assembling a series of outrageous outfits, proclaiming herself an artist/poet. She gradually claims the notice of the Village avant-garde, unafraid to shock the pretentiousness of that society, whether wearing gentlemen's suits or a bustle with a blinking taillight. Ever more extreme in behavior and dress, Elsa becomes a friend and confidant of Marcel Duchamp and through him, finds entry into the rarified art circles. Filmed nude by Man Ray, Elsa is beyond the cutting edge of the New York scene. <br /> <br />Steinke inhabits Elsa to the marrow of her bones, intuiting thoughts, dreams and motivations of this character. In a time of extraordinary inventions, the Baroness achieves notoriety while chasing fame, a fringe-dweller of repute in the art world. From youth in Germany to the mean streets of New York that Elsa wanders in a poetic fugue, Steinke has created a memorable portrait of an eccentric and a visionary, a new woman in a new century. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-03-15
314367:US	51010391	R2KC5E46CSAMVX	0385514077	815646746	Small Crimes in an Age of Abundance	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Brilliantly executed	Kneale captures average people with the dark sides of their souls exposed, caught in atavistic moments of primal impulse, stripped of everyday deceits and civilized behavior. Or maybe it is the inherent adaptability of human nature, that frail connection we all enjoy, our little secrets whispered in the dark. In any case, Kneale attacks these stories with impeccable charm, surrounding his characters with the world of mediocrity, lives lived down the middle of the road, until tearing off in a jagged pattern, control thrown to the wind.<br /><br />With each story, the tension of the collection ratchets higher as cultures clash, softly, in small explosions, to the inevitable outcome. The author makes subtle, significant observations, driving them home with fearless precision. This is a moral book of fictional tales, richly layered humanity at its best and worst, a collage of missed opportunities. The titles are singular: \\"Stone\\", \\"Powder\\", \\"Weight\\", \\"Metal\\", \\"Sunlight\\" and the shocking \\"White\\". There is a particular message in each small gem, a couple buying a villa while challenging each other's boundaries, a vacationing English family, smug in their pretensions until faced with the brutality of survival, an upwardly-mobile couple who believe evil can be controlled in small doses.<br /><br />There are no geographic or emotional boundaries, the human exploits covering the planet, from London to South America and the Middle East to your own back yard. The stories are remarkable, revelatory, making one think that the author has spent a great deal of time staring into people's souls, the haves and the have-not's, the greedy, the impoverished, the petty urgencies of acquisition that lap at the heels of civilization. Stripped of pretensions, there is such a hunger for connection, for quiet in an unquiet time that it is painful to realize how quickly we sell our souls on the common market.<br /><br />I have read many novels that I could not put aside until I had finished, but this is the first book of stories that has so captured my imagination and so brilliantly portrayed the heartbreak of a world gone mad with greed, exploitation and abandonment that I am absolutely enthralled. I highly recommend this extraordinary collection, an experience not to be missed. Luan Gaines/2005.hed, but this is the first book of stories that has so captured my imagination and so brilliantly portrayed the heartbreak of a world gone mad with greed, exploitation and abandonment that I am absolutely enthralled. I highly recommend this extraordinary collection, an experience not to be missed. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-15
316646:US	51010391	R2SYJNUDS3AAAK	0152013067	228146569	insectlopedia	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Pun-derful	Another in the series by this talented author/artist, Insectlopedia is a great adventure for adult and child alike. Children are encouraged to learn about the natural world in a series of poems and illustrations that are engaging, humorous and informative. Florian writes charming verse that informs, but even better, when read aloud, the tongue-twisting alliteration stimulates curiosity and laughter.<br /><br />\\"Mosquitoes are thin.<br /><br />Mosquitoes are rude.<br /><br />They feast on your skin<br /><br />For take-out food.\\"<br /><br />Insectlopedia is fun for beginning readers, certainly a bonus in engaging their interest in words and images. The nonsense menu includes: the dragonfly, the daddy longlegs, the inchworm, the walkingstick, the giant waterbug, the termite, the locusts and the ticks.<br /><br />As for \\"The Praying Mantis\\":<br /><br />\\"A caterpillar,<br /><br />Moth<br /><br />Or bee-<br /><br />I swallow them<br /><br />Religiously.\\"<br /><br />Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-03-13
317320:US	51010391	R22HBA8R18W7CG	0152017372	129094343	Beast Feast: Poems & Paintings	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A banquet of assorted beasts	This author/illustrator has a marvelous imagination, not to mention a knack for alliteration and quirky rhymes. As if the words weren't enough, the capricious illustrations add to the enjoyment of each page, each new \\"beast\\".<br /><br />The list is indeed a feast: the gamut of strange creatures, great and small, short and tall: the walrus, the anteater, the whale, the pigeon, the sloth, the toad, the kangaroo, mole and even the kiwi, each with eccentricities that engage and challenge children to learn about the variety of nature. And the creative rhymes (often producing unexpected giggles!) are accompanied by equally enchanting illustrations, colorful and humorous.<br /><br />\\"I don't claim to<br /><br />Love the pigeon<br /><br />But I like it<br /><br />Just a smidgeon.\\"<br /><br />Florian's wonderful poems and paintings are perfect for reading to a child at bedtime, especially when that boy or girl, stimulated by sounds and colors, blurts, \\"Let me read it!\\" Beast Feast, like all of Florian's imaginative, fantastic books is a treasure to own, a joy to read.<br /><br />\\"The kangaroo loves to leap.<br /><br />Into the air it zooms,<br /><br />While baby's fast asleep<br /><br />Inside its kangaroom.\\"<br /><br />Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-03-13
324221:US	51010391	R1LQUX796KW9ZX	0670033359	800694065	March: A Novel	Books	3	129	142	N	N	(3.5)A father's commitment to his "Little Women"	Taking a page from the classic Little Women, Brooks considers the possible fate of Mr. March, the father from Louisa May Alcott's novel, gone to the Civil War while his dutiful family waits behind. In difficult financial straights since an injudicious investment, March's family has adapted to their reduced fortunes, valuing the fruits of the mind over material possessions, all convinced \\"that the greater part of a man's duty consists in abstaining from much that he is in the habit of consuming.\\"<br /><br />A learned man who has traveled the country in his youth, Mr. March is later content to raise his four daughters in a pastoral landscape in Concord, Connecticut, with esteemed neighbors and fellow philosophers Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry David Thoreau. For her part, Mrs. Marsh (Marmee) is an abolitionist in spirit and action, while many northerners are still mired in discussions about the morality of slavery. A long-time member of the Underground Railroad, Marmee is fondest of her husband's nature when he supports her anti-slavery convictions with equal fervor.<br /><br />Although older than most Union soldiers, Marsh joins the war effort as a chaplain. Broad-minded to a fault, March extends comfort to the injured and dying, torn by the violence around him and the extreme youth of soldiers on both sides. While Marsh believes the war is motivated by the noble effort to free the slaves, he is not oblivious to other realities involved and many of the Union soldiers are there by conscription.<br /><br />The dialog is perfect, relative to the era and prone to prodigious verbiage. Nor is March suffering from a lack of moral persuasion, so conscience-riddled as to be a bit of a bore, rich in character if not in goods. However, excessive wordiness is also the flaw in this novel, an exercise in moral demagoguery that is appropriate to the age, but often tedious and lacking in passion. One wants March (and his beloved Marmee for that matter) to be a bit more human. For every flawed decision March agonizes over, he suffers equal self-flagellation. Even after a nearly mortal illness, March perseveres, pulling himself together lest his family be sullied by his faults.<br /><br />On the positive side, the naive beliefs of the abolitionists are examined, revealing the barbarism and sadism that exist in any war. There is profit to be made, exploitation of the unfortunate and greed in excess, regardless of noble intent. Prejudice is not constrained by geography, righteousness a flagrant cloak, frequently hiding the truth of war.<br /><br />Most of the novel is in first-person perspective, but final chapters are from other viewpoints, Mrs. March and the ex-slave, Grace Clement, where the novel finally comes to life. If only the entire book offered this occasional change of perspective. Instead, March carries the burden of the plot; unfortunately, it is the reader's burden as well. Brooks is an excellent writer, with the potential to enliven historical perspective. In future novels, I hope the author's characters are allowed to breathe humanity into the facts that cost the blood of thousands. Luan Gaines/ 2005.t more human. For every flawed decision March agonizes over, he suffers equal self-flagellation. Even after a nearly mortal illness, March perseveres, pulling himself together lest his family be sullied by his faults. <br /> <br />On the positive side, the naive beliefs of the abolitionists are examined, revealing the barbarism and sadism that exist in any war. There is profit to be made, exploitation of the unfortunate and greed in excess, regardless of noble intent. Prejudice is not constrained by geography, righteousness a flagrant cloak, frequently hiding the truth of war. <br /> <br />Most of the novel is in first-person perspective, but final chapters are from other viewpoints, Mrs. March and the ex-slave, Grace Clement, where the novel finally comes to life. If only the entire book offered this occasional change of perspective. Instead, March carries the burden of the plot; unfortunately, it is the reader's burden as well. Brooks is an excellent writer, with the potential to enliven historical perspective. In future novels, I hope the author's characters are allowed to breathe humanity into the facts that cost the blood of thousands. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br /> <br />	2005-03-07
324314:US	51010391	R32CJIV3486THG	0689801122	974756382	Sophie's Masterpiece	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A magical tale for children	Sophie is no mere spider, but an artist who spins from an imagination fueled by generosity. Even her spider mama predicts that one day Sophie will weave a masterpiece. When it is time to leave home and live on her own, spunky Sophie moves into Beekman's Boardinghouse. There Sophie spins her magic in an effort to please the tenants who live in the house, but her efforts are not appreciated by those who only see a troublesome and scary spider. After the landlady swats Sophie away, the little spider disappears into another room, only to be turned out again. An object of scorn, Sophie trudges up the stairs to fall asleep in a basket of yarn, inconspicuous.<br /><br />The years pass and Sophie grows old, but always awake to opportunity. Sophie's patience is rewarded when a young woman about to have a baby has no blanket for her newborn. With the generosity characteristic of her years in the boardinghouse, Sophie begins her greatest work, weaving in \\"strands of moonlight, snippets of fragrant pine and old lullabies\\". Most important, Sophie saves the last corner for herself, where, world-weary, she weaves in her heart. When the baby is born, the new mother reaches for the wonderful blanket, woven with love and good intentions, smiling as she covers her infant with Sophie's greatest masterpiece.<br /><br />Sophie's Masterpiece speaks the language of a child's world, the story spinning out the simple beauty of Sophie's life, her last act the most loving of all. The illustrations are enchanting, the soft-toned hues of Sophie's world hinting of the magical webs she weaves. The little spider who wears eight pairs of socks casts a long shadow, her last home the most wonderful, the place where she leaves her heart. The author's words and artist's visual imagination make little Sophie real and dear, reminding children of the myriad opportunities for thoughtful consideration of others. This is a children's book that will pass from generation to generation, beloved by all. Luan Gaines/ 2005.by all. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-07
324445:US	51010391	R15TR1HYZ1V4IE	0802138594	706565889	The Hiding Place: A Novel	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	(4.5) "Third degree damage"	\\"My father's love is chance.\\" Frank Gauci is a gambler of Sicilian-Maltese descent who has lost his half of a business and the decent home his family occupied. Now the family of two adults and six daughters live in a few crowded rooms in Cardiff, Wales, while Frank thoughtlessly loses the few possessions left and his wife, Mary, cope with what is left of her dreams. It is hard to imagine a more destitute world than that of the Gauci family.<br /><br />This is the story of poverty, of the loss of family and the respect of strangers, when the weight of an indifferent world presses against hope until it is extinguished, leaving only despair in its wake. Yet, even in this hollow den of few comforts, a mother's love for her children is indestructible. Delores is born in 1960, another disappointment to Frank, who wishes for boys, only to be denied. When the new baby is burned in a kitchen fire, her left hand permanently disfigured, the family is driven deeper into a black despair. Delores senses the rampant emotions in her house, particularly the anger: \\"I am breast fed: I get rage straight from the source\\".<br /><br />The few small rooms of their home are filled with growing bodies, with no hiding place. Tragedy strikes randomly, leaving all without privacy, sorting emotions that fly through the rooms with nowhere to land as the clamor of need presses the air from the dismal rooms. Four girls who sleep in one room with their mother know everything about each other, form alliances against the weaker ones, especially \\"the crip\\", and yearn for space. But even this desperate place is a home, where children form attachments and memories. A raging, cruel father is still a father, a mother meant to be a source of comfort, even as her mind is unraveling.<br /><br />Eventually, the mother breaks down and the girls are given into foster care, the young girls who crowded the small rooms scattered to the winds, disentangling from sisterhood. Their poor, rattled mother cannot save her daughters from the daily violence that weaves the fabric of their lives. Delores is marked for failure, the badly deformed left hand ruined by the fire; Fran's scars are self-inflicted, a continuation of the beatings that marked her childhood, a self-tattoo etched on the inside of her arm; Celesta rises above the past, her husband's wealth a key to forgetfulness; Luca and Rose are embittered allies with shared disappointments and Marina has long disappeared.<br /><br />\\"Children burnt and children bartered. Someone must be to blame.\\" Finally, the girls gather at the death of their mother, Dol in the lead, as they dredge up the pain of years of betrayal, exposing the withered heart of a selfish father and the desperate soul of a mother who could not protect her children. The past must be purged of secrets, harrowing images, lost childhoods, broken promises and heartless reality.<br /><br />This book is ferocious, unsparing in its honesty and relentless in search of the truth. The prose is adamant, impossible to ignore. That such a story can be told is a testament to the wisdom and courage of the author, her brilliant prose seductive, yet terrifying, awakening the monsters that root so easily in the soil of abject poverty. But the spirit of survival is not easily extinguished, the innocent, battered souls released to the light. Luan Gaines/2005.mother cannot save her daughters from the daily violence that weaves the fabric of their lives. Delores is marked for failure, the badly deformed left hand ruined by the fire; Fran's scars are self-inflicted, a continuation of the beatings that marked her childhood, a self-tattoo etched on the inside of her arm; Celesta rises above the past, her husband's wealth a key to forgetfulness; Luca and Rose are embittered allies with shared disappointments and Marina has long disappeared.  <br /> <br />\\"Children burnt and children bartered. Someone must be to blame.\\" Finally, the girls gather at the death of their mother, Dol in the lead, as they dredge up the pain of years of betrayal, exposing the withered heart of a selfish father and the desperate soul of a mother who could not protect her children. The past must be purged of secrets, harrowing images, lost childhoods, broken promises and heartless reality. <br /> <br />This book is ferocious, unsparing in its honesty and relentless in search of the truth. The prose is adamant, impossible to ignore. That such a story can be told is a testament to the wisdom and courage of the author, her brilliant prose seductive, yet terrifying, awakening the monsters that root so easily in the soil of abject poverty. But the spirit of survival is not easily extinguished, the innocent, battered souls released to the light. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-03-07
326863:US	51010391	R1PESXW2A4A1CT	1580175740	911403287	Dream Horses: A Poster Book	Books	5	37	38	N	Y	The stuff of fantasy	I ordered this book expecting a series of beautifully photographed horses, but was stunned by the creativity and exceptional quality of the 30 poster-sized images, the outstanding work of the leading equine photographer. Page after page of gorgeous horses are posed against backgrounds of air, water, sky and color. Each page is accompanied by a small amount of text, but I must confess that I was enthralled by the fantastical photographs.<br /><br />The animals appear as though in the land of myth, floating through the clouds or splashing in the foaming surf, their manes blowing, captured in each perfect moment, page by page. Whether the white horse rearing, or three black beauties at leisure, these pictures are the stuff of fairy tales. I keep expecting to see a horn, the hallmark of the mythological unicorn.<br /><br />I bought Dream Horse as a gift for a little girl who loves horses and was delighted by her response to this exploration of the beauty and fantasy of these animals. She fell in love with these portraits, urging me to look at each new image, her eyes sparkling with the joy of a new-found treasure. This book is an excellent gift, a combination of myth, fantasy and magical horses fit for a princess. Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-03-05
326905:US	51010391	RAY1QXWYRC2YO	015202591X	923441789	lizards, frogs, and polliwogs	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	The joy of imagination	This delightful book of strange things and clever rhymes is a joy to read. The rhymes are imaginative, instructive, silly and alliterative. This gem is appealing on many levels: the light-hearted poetry, the colorful, whimsical illustrations and nature's gallery of fascinating creatures to stimulate youthful curiosity.<br /><br />With a granddaughter in the first grade, I am always looking for books that offer attractive illustrations, but also incorporate ideas that lead to an appreciation of words. After reading each poem/page, my granddaughter was soon clamoring to read the rhymes herself: \\"But did you know that alligators/ Sometimes swallow second graders?\\"<br /><br />Suddenly, each page is her favorite, like \\"The Iguana\\": \\"I wouldn't wanna/ Be an iguana_\\" We choose from the skink, the gecko, the cobra, the Komodo dragon, the box turtle and even the polliwog: \\"We polliwoggle./ We polliwiggle./ We shake in lakes/ Make wakes/And wriggle.\\" By the time we reach \\"The Bullfrog\\", she has lowered her voice to copy the croaking bullfrog. This book is a delight to share with a child, an occasion for tongue-twisting rhymes and giggles. The highest praise I can offer is that I have ordered more of Florian's exceptional work. Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-03-05
327047:US	51010391	R4YH8XEILSRQ1	1566492564	252417826	Year the Colored Sisters Came to Town	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	(3.5) The colored sisters challenge the status quo	In 1957, the south is struggling with the Freedom Marches that have drawn the nation's attention to Little Rock, Arkansas, many still in denial that their way of life will be affected by the dreaded desegregation. In Cajun country, the little town of Ville de Angelle is rampant with gossip of the inevitable, still hoping \\"it won't happen here\\". But it's coming, sure as the end of summer; the question is what kind of trouble will be riding the coattails of change?<br /><br />Soon-to-be ten year-old Vivien Leigh (yes, named for the heroine of GWTW) has her ears fine-tuned to nuance, eavesdropping on her mother's conversations with relatives, the hired Thursday cleaning lady, Aussie, and even her younger sister, Mavis, best friends forever with Aussie's daughter Marydale. Vivien Leigh is on the edge of puberty, anxious for her grown-up self to emerge and paying close attention to the world around her.<br /><br />When Vivien Leigh learns that her aunt will be having a change-of-life baby, the pregnancy takes on mythic proportions, possibly altering the future for the Dubois family, even the small town she has known since birth, where \\"the colored know their place\\", black and white relations long constricted to particular conventions. For her part, Mavis isn't having any part of plans that will separate her from Marydale, in many ways more sophisticated in her approach to reality.<br /><br />There are two Catholic schools, one for white and one for black, but when two colored nuns show up in church one Sunday, the community is soon buzzing with speculation. The men, including Vivien Leigh's father, form a \\"Concerned Citizens\\" group in an effort to deny at least one of the new teachers her first-grade position. Nevertheless, once the colored sisters come to town, the rest of the world will not be far behind.<br /><br />Guidry isolates this small southern town with all its eccentricities, racial conventions and sense of security, noting the panic that quickly spreads with the advent of change. In the Dubois household, all is not lost, even though Vivien Leigh's father, Floyd Dubois, is the first to panic. Luckily, his wife is more reasonable about the meaning of change, including her years of friendship with Aussie. Yet significant progress is made person by person, as noted through Vivien Leigh's perspective, her opinions as yet unformed by the adults around her. Open to potential, questioning the old ways yet anxious about the future, Vivien Leigh is a child of her times, a few short years from the sixties. And the times, they are a'changin'. Luan Gaines/2005.quickly spreads with the advent of change. In the Dubois household, all is not lost, even though Vivien Leigh's father, Floyd Dubois, is the first to panic. Luckily, his wife is more reasonable about the meaning of change, including her years of friendship with Aussie. Yet significant progress is made person by person, as noted through Vivien Leigh's perspective, her opinions as yet unformed by the adults around her. Open to potential, questioning the old ways yet anxious about the future, Vivien Leigh is a child of her times, a few short years from the sixties. And the times, they are a'changin'. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-03-05
330488:US	51010391	R3A8B97VMEZCJR	0452283205	101423143	Falling Angels: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	"Neighbors in life as well as in death."	Like a Robert Altman film, Chevalier writes character driven novels, each voice contributing to the whole of the story. In 1901 London, Queen Victoria finally expires and the country is in mourning. Walking the cemetery, the young daughters of the Coleman's and the Waterhouses's, Maud and Lavinia, make the acquaintance of an apprentice gravedigger, Simon. The two families have adjoining family plots in a century that reveres death and its attendant grieving period.<br /><br />Soon after, the Waterhouse family becomes neighbors of the Coleman's, the girl's soon fast friends. There is a stark contrast between the beautiful Kitty Coleman, her affluent husband and dowdy daughter and the Waterhouse's attractive daughter Lavinia, whose incipient beauty separates her from her plain family. Over the years, the families grow more familiar, although the Coleman's are of a higher class in this status-conscious society. The girls continue their friendship, Lavinia tending toward the dramatic, Maud the practical. Meanwhile, behind the cemetery urns and angels, Simon watches the family visits, particularly drawn to Maud's elegant mother.<br /><br />Kitty develops an attraction to the director of the cemetery, John Jackson, showing up frequently for innocent liaisons with her romantic fixation, while the girls explore the grounds with Simon. But the intrinsically moral Jackson will not be dissuaded by Kitty's charms. Kitty has taken precautions to avoid further pregnancies and she and her husband are not intimate, except on New Year's Eve, when they exchange partners with others of like mind. Yet a dark night of the soul descends upon Kitty, causing a crisis of conscience that is staggering in its impact. The post-Victorian mores are just as rigid as in the prior century and Kitty's behavior bespeaks an unhappy, if outwardly conforming life.<br /><br />When she meets the leader of the suffragette movement, Kitty is renewed, throwing herself into the cause with unexpected passion. Richard Coleman is unable to control his impulsive wife, who is intoxicated with purpose, in thrall to new ideas that make her feel energetic for the first time in years. As the fates converge into one cataclysmic event that will change both families irrevocably, Chevalier deftly portrays the frustrations of intelligent women, ever more adamant that their opinions have validity in a male-dominated world.<br /><br />Falling Angels is the essence of women's struggle for equality, Kitty no longer constrained by convention, free to champion emancipation and the vote. Meanwhile, Gertrude Waterhouse watches from the safety of her home, trussed in convention, fearful of social change. The daughters reflect the differences in their mothers: Maud, wistful, yearning to be loved, watching for a sign of affection from the dedicated Kitty; Lavinia, ever the spoiled and self-centered object of her own obsessions; and Ivy May, the obedient, observant child, aware of more that she lets on. And the outsider, Simon, history's witness, his future already proscribed by class.<br /><br />With a precise eye, Chevalier creates another masterpiece of class struggle and the urgency of women's rights. Like an impressionist painting, the story fills up the canvas, each new chapter adding another dimension. Chevalier is a master of this subtle style, drawing all together to the climax, the piece de'resistance. Luan Gaines/ 2005.unexpected passion. Richard Coleman is unable to control his impulsive wife, who is intoxicated with purpose, in thrall to new ideas that make her feel energetic for the first time in years. As the fates converge into one cataclysmic event that will change both families irrevocably, Chevalier deftly portrays the frustrations of intelligent women, ever more adamant that their opinions have validity in a male-dominated world.  <br /> <br />Falling Angels is the essence of women's struggle for equality, Kitty no longer constrained by convention, free to champion emancipation and the vote. Meanwhile, Gertrude Waterhouse watches from the safety of her home, trussed in convention, fearful of social change. The daughters reflect the differences in their mothers: Maud, wistful, yearning to be loved, watching for a sign of affection from the dedicated Kitty; Lavinia, ever the spoiled and self-centered object of her own obsessions; and Ivy May, the obedient, observant child, aware of more that she lets on. And the outsider, Simon, history's witness, his future already proscribed by class. <br /> <br />With a precise eye, Chevalier creates another masterpiece of class struggle and the urgency of women's rights. Like an impressionist painting, the story fills up the canvas, each new chapter adding another dimension. Chevalier is a master of this subtle style, drawing all together to the climax, the piece de'resistance. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />  <br />	2005-03-02
332619:US	51010391	R2ZH6R4EZXS9FJ	0060721502	25320675	The Fool's Tale: A Novel	Books	4	11	16	N	N	"And the lion shall lie down with the lamb."	Returning home after a feast, armed with a note of safe passage, a group of Welshmen is attacked by the English soldiers of Roger Mortimer, who is constantly feuding with the Marcher lords. During the fray, the English assassinate the Welsh King, Cadwallon, while the royal child hides, his small friend waiting by the fallen King's side. At the mercy of the soldiers, Gwirion refuses to give up his Prince, although he is tortured, beaten and left for dead.<br /><br />Years later, Gwirion is rewarded for his valor by a grateful King, Maelgwyn op Cadwallon of Maelienydd. At Cymaron Castle, Gwirion is a constant companion to the King, as well as his best friend, maintaining pride of place even after Maelgwyn (known as Noble) marries the niece of Roger Mortimer in hopes of a temporary peace. The King realizes that the peace is only a ruse, but hopes to bear an heir with Isabel Mortimer. For her part, Isabel is a stranger in a foreign land, one more primitive and barbaric than her native England.<br /><br />Isabel makes certain assumptions as Queen, only to be humiliated before the Court time after time, often at the hand of Gwirion, who shows considerable enmity towards his rival, much to Noble's constant amusement. But the King keeps his own counsel, balancing Isabel and Gwirion as his pawns. Riddled with her own insignificance, Isabel's most natural response is to oppose the King's every wish, her stubbornness stimulated by a sense of powerlessness, although she is in thrall to his physical attentions.<br /><br />So much for window dressing. Galland manipulates some really spectacular plotlines, as her three protagonists act out their assigned roles: the King, more wily and Machiavellian than is first apparent; Isabel, suddenly in the midst of a more tribal civilization, drawn to her husband yet fearing him, hating Gwirion yet saving him from the King's ire; and Gwirion, tied to his role of King's fool, at first pleased to perform, but grown weary of eternal youth and endless machinations, unbalanced by Isabel's presence, yet indebted to her compassion. In a series of skillful maneuvers, the trio parries and feints, each contemplating their fate.<br /><br />Cymaron glows with the bonfires of barbaric feasts as the Welsh King fends off the English invaders, his fool entertaining the masses and the young Queen grappling with her helplessness as the wife of a brutal man, her naivet&eacute; both a weapon and the cause of her undoing. This excellent fictional adventure is based on fact, much of 1190's Wales as depicted. Sword-slinging, bloody, artfully romantic and complicated by human emotions, the story is fueled by love, jealousy and greed, Galland's characters animated and multi-layered. In this complicated web of twelfth century political intrigue, a marriage of convenience and friendship bound of honor, the plot propels toward a shocking ending that leaves the citizens of Cymaron Castle gaping in shock. Luan Gaines/ 2005.eternal youth and endless machinations, unbalanced by Isabel's presence, yet indebted to her compassion. In a series of skillful maneuvers, the trio parries and feints, each contemplating their fate. <br /> <br />Cymaron glows with the bonfires of barbaric feasts as the Welsh King fends off the English invaders, his fool entertaining the masses and the young Queen grappling with her helplessness as the wife of a brutal man, her naivet both a weapon and the cause of her undoing. This excellent fictional adventure is based on fact, much of 1190's Wales as depicted. Sword-slinging, bloody, artfully romantic and complicated by human emotions, the story is fueled by love, jealousy and greed, Galland's characters animated and multi-layered. In this complicated web of twelfth century political intrigue, a marriage of convenience and friendship bound of honor, the plot propels toward a shocking ending that leaves the citizens of Cymaron Castle gaping in shock. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br />	2005-03-01
332652:US	51010391	RU1B176SIQYH1	042518532X	104770935	Mirabilis	Books	4	11	12	N	N	An eerie tale of poverty, religion and superstition	Fall back in time, before the Enlightenment, the Restoration, to the mentality that surrounded the Inquisition, when the Catholic Church was immolating heretics and unbelievers, when myth and witchcraft are as familiar as fervently whispered prayers. In 1357 France, a small village is overwhelmed on every front, long under siege by the English, threatened by the Black Death that is decimating cities and subject to the fickle judgment of an angry God. This is a world of poverty, where people live by their wits, exchanging services for goods, coin a precious commodity.<br /><br />Shrouded in superstition cloaked in religion, Bonne Tardieu, daughter of Blanche Mirabilis (Blanche the Astonishing), ekes out a meager existence as a wet nurse, knowing that a patroness would change her world drastically. The illegitimate Bonne is used to life as an outcast, her once-sainted mother immolated in a church fire. Fate looks kindly upon Bonne, in the person of Radegonde Putemonnie, the town's wealthiest woman, who commissions Bonne as the wet nurse for her unborn child. Radegonde must carry this child to term in order to inherit her deceased husband's fortune, opening her opulent home to the wet nurse, providing for the breasts that will feed the coming baby.<br /><br />In a starving village, the young woman is an object of intense scrutiny as she is plied with food to enrich her milk. The bountiful Bonne, in an effort to assuage the villager's envy, allows them to nourish their starving bellies on her milk. Bonne develops an attachment to the woman who offers her this island of security, but gossip prevails. Eventually Bonne is hailed as a saint when a Madonna appears, bearing Bonne's likeness. Unfortunately, the town turns against Radegonde, proclaiming her for a witch.<br /><br />This is a fascinating tapestry of class differences and the rampant superstition of fourteenth century France. Both sensual and spiritual, the images are lush, filled with the contrasts of poverty and wealth as scandal spreads like wildfire, the village fueled by fear, tales of witchcraft passing from tongue to tongue. Cokal captures the iconic spirit of a Medieval French village, its population decimated by lack turned brutal, urged by primal needs more urgent than religion, an unstoppable force of mob mentality. All is chance if one is not born to nobility; Bonne Tardieu is the essence of fertility in this tapestry of primal needs, where salvation requires more than a willing back bent to hard work. This world requires good fortune for survival. Luan Gaines/ 2005.of poverty and wealth as scandal spreads like wildfire, the village fueled by fear, tales of witchcraft passing from tongue to tongue. Cokal captures the iconic spirit of a Medieval French village, its population decimated by lack turned brutal, urged by primal needs more urgent than religion, an unstoppable force of mob mentality. All is chance if one is not born to nobility; Bonne Tardieu is the essence of fertility in this tapestry of primal needs, where salvation requires more than a willing back bent to hard work. This world requires good fortune for survival. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br />	2005-03-01
342145:US	51010391	R30GXPYTNPG39K	0393057895	607241691	Johnny Too Bad: Stories	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A man, his dog and a quest for love	Dufresne is a master storyteller. It only takes a few pages to set the theme for this collection and to establish the author's credentials in \\"Lemonade and Paris Buns\\", as four memorable children disappear into a system that has no memory of them.<br /><br />This author has an extraordinary imagination, a whole world peopled by those who look like us, often verbalizing what we are unable to say, both the beauty and the dark heart of humanity: \\"Sometimes we`re better when we write.\\" Generously scattered among his characters, a number of animals inhabit this landscape, especially the inimitable Spot, reminding those around them about unconditional love.<br /><br />Dufresne mines his fertile imagination for ordinary citizens, old friends, murdering sociopaths, general miscreants and the hind-hearted folks who care deeply for their animals. But even here, there are aberrations, the man who puts his cancer-riddled dog down himself, the man who shoots his dog for disobeying. This is the territory of ordinary lives, where every day is filled with personal intimacies and dealings with strangers, every conversation an opportunity for another story, extrapolating on a theme, adding the details that ring true. The quirky, the odd, the unusual all mix with the mundane elements of life, the small moments that are memorable for their honesty and compassion.<br /><br />From the wealth of their experiences, Dufresne's characters make unexpected observations, reacting to the changing conditions of their lives, ambiguous and boring for some, taken from others through random events, like Richard, \\"a person whose dreams are real but his hopes are not.\\" Cancer is real and so is death; but then there are poignant introspections, islands of clarity in an often confusing world.<br /><br />The title story of the collection, \\"Johnny Too Bad\\", is by far the longest and most thought-provoking, a confusion of wants, needs and possibilities, where the protagonist questions his own motives in playing \\"the game of undermining my own emotional prosperity\\". There is continuity to these stories, a thread of connectedness that makes them all of a whole, Johnny, Spot and Annick showing up periodically to struggle with their relationship and the direction of their lives. All of a piece, the disparate tales form whole cloth, an examination of the foibles and heartbreaks that define humanity and the quest for happiness, or at least contentment. Luan Gaines/2005.his own motives in playing \\"the game of undermining my own emotional prosperity\\". There is continuity to these stories, a thread of connectedness that makes them all of a whole, Johnny, Spot and Annick showing up periodically to struggle with their relationship and the direction of their lives. All of a piece, the disparate tales form whole cloth, an examination of the foibles and heartbreaks that define humanity and the quest for happiness, or at least contentment. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-02-21
342758:US	51010391	R137F2YPUTGI6T	0670033898	212703178	The Lost Mother: A Novel	Books	4	25	27	N	N	In the name of love	It is the nature of childhood to view the world from an innocent perspective. When Irene Talcott abandons her husband and two children, Henry Talcott must leave eight year-old Margaret and twelve year-old Thomas with whatever family can temporarily care for them. Margaret is gregarious, with a constant need for attention, but her brother is not prepared to assume the role of mother. This Vermont family shoulders a familiar burden in the years of Great Depression, beset with the constant threat of poverty and homelessness.<br /><br />Leaving Margaret and Thomas at the homes of relatives, friends and neighbors until each becomes unbearable, the small family is faced with insurmountable problems: Gladys Bibeau loves the children, more than willing to help her lifelong friend Henry, but her senile father demands all of his daughter's attentions, jealous even of the children; Aunt Lena and Uncle Max depend upon Lena's income as a hairdresser to support them, her clientele become scarce as her daily drinking alienates even her husband and puts brother and sister in jeopardy; Mr. Farley, now the owner of the Talcott's farm, is happy to see Henry in reduced circumstances, but his wife, Phyllis, covets the charming and pretty Margaret, scheming for custody of the girl, while barely tolerating Thomas. The Farley's crippled son, fifteen year-old Jesse-boy, is delighted with the prospect of Margaret living in his house, his curiosity about the opposite sex bordering on the deviant.<br /><br />The children's naivet&eacute; contrasts sharply with the self-serving hypocrisy of Phillis Farley, a woman who sacrifices their fragile innocence for the satiety of her broken son, his mind as distorted as his invalid body. The good intentions of Morris' complex characters are warped by their selfish motives and innate lack of compassion, as the author deftly exposes the indifference of a bureaucratic system blinded to its own inadequacies. Brother and sister still reeling from the loss of their mother in this classic battle of good and evil, the ill-intentioned masquerade in sheep's clothing. Even in the most extreme conditions, Thomas and Margaret never lose faith in their father's love for them. Their mother, the beautiful Irene, is deeply flawed, yet even she is sympathetic, driven by longing for a better life than her marriage offers, crippled by guilt but incapable of giving her children the emotional security they deserve.<br /><br />Stunningly imagined, this chilling tale is consistently fraught with tension, the human condition this author's forte. It is impossible to imagine more frightening circumstances than those the Talcott children endure in the name of love, clinging to their faith in the one man who may avert a fate to terrible to bear. This extraordinary novel never misses a beat, rolling like a freight train towards its shocking conclusion, a novel that will not be quickly forgotten. Like the desperate boy and girl in The Night of the Hunter, Thomas and Margaret leave a lasting impression on the reader, a compelling glimpse into the dark heart of an indifferent fate. Luan Gaines/2005.the loss of their mother in this classic battle of good and evil, the ill-intentioned masquerade in sheep's clothing. Even in the most extreme conditions, Thomas and Margaret never lose faith in their father's love for them. Their mother, the beautiful Irene, is deeply flawed, yet even she is sympathetic, driven by longing for a better life than her marriage offers, crippled by guilt but incapable of giving her children the emotional security they deserve.   <br /> <br />Stunningly imagined, this chilling tale is consistently fraught with tension, the human condition this author's forte. It is impossible to imagine more frightening circumstances than those the Talcott children endure in the name of love, clinging to their faith in the one man who may avert a fate to terrible to bear. This extraordinary novel never misses a beat, rolling like a freight train towards its shocking conclusion, a novel that will not be quickly forgotten. Like the desperate boy and girl in The Night of the Hunter, Thomas and Margaret leave a lasting impression on the reader, a compelling glimpse into the dark heart of an indifferent fate. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-02-21
342965:US	51010391	R1Z5PCNHJWXPGZ	0345435168	878470234	Open House: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	11	11	N	N	(2.5) Trouble in paradise	Open House is categorized as \\"women's fiction\\" because it is written for a niche audience, life-lite for those who want to read a sad story, but not too sad. One with a happy ending: woman loses self, finds self, meets man, lives happily ever after.<br /><br />When Sam's husband tells her he wants a divorce, she is devastated and runs out to spend her rich husband's money as a panacea. Then she takes in boarders without checking their references, accepts a series of temporary jobs that pay minimum wage (she has a college degree) and meets lots of nice, friendly folks she never knew existed. On her agonizing journey towards self-discovery, Sam sheds a lot of tears, all for herself, her financial issues apparently addressed by the boarders. If this is a forty one-year old woman, she is living in the wrong century.<br /><br />I have no real issue with this book except that there is no challenge here for the reader and I believe that readers like to stretch their imaginations and broaden their horizons. My real concern is that the plot perpetuates the stereotype of the helpless damsel in distress, her husband the sole breadwinner (in this case some significant bread) and she just can't get her silly head around the issues she has to face. Of course, the heroine finds a man to save her, a kindly, gentle man to whom she turns for help constantly. A college degree is useless, apparently, for this woman is only willing to entertain temporary employment (giving change at a laundromat, wielding a hammer at a construction site, passing out samples at the supermarket) and rents rooms to strangers.<br /><br />If this is women's fiction, I'll eat my fairy tales. Most divorced women don't enjoy any of the luxuries of this lady. Most divorced women care for their children and hold fulltime jobs. This helpless victim serves no one's interests and doesn't reflect reality (except in those happily-ever-after fairy tales). I have nothing against escape fiction, but why not offer a protagonist with some guts, instead of this insipid, helpless female? No wonder women aren't taken seriously. What is Rapunzel to do? Luan Gaines/ 2005.gonist with some guts, instead of this insipid, helpless female? No wonder women aren't taken seriously. What is Rapunzel to do? Luan Gaines/ 2005.	2005-02-20
343040:US	51010391	R2J0X6I8VCWQLU	1931561923	14273706	Winners	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Culture clash and a basketball jones	Winners jumps into action, as chimney sweep/ pickup basketball player Shane McCarthy hits the courts in 1999 San Francisco, after a year of waiting on the sidelines from an injury. Other than his wife, Lou, who is working feverishly to score in the Silicon Valley jackpot, Shane is a happy guy, his job uncomplicated and satisfying, the future looming brightly on the horizon.<br /><br />The missing element is Sam, an astonishing young player who has suddenly dropped off the radar after five years of hoop games. Shane has been ferrying Sam's gym bag in his van for awhile, when he decides to track down the errant youth, Shane's brother Jimmy riding shotgun. The search takes them to the Potrero Hill projects, where Shane meets Debra, the mother of the missing player. Shane gets lost in another world, one far removed from the dot-com glamour of newly rich techies and their conspicuous consumerism. Caught in a culture clash of conflicting lifestyles, Shane moves between the shameless excesses of Pacific Heights to the threatening shadows of the crime-riddled projects.<br /><br />Lou is on the fast track, on the verge of the big break, but Shane is running in place, trying to make sense of chaos. Everywhere Shane sees the urban sprawl of decay, the detritus of an indifferent society where money is the only pass to the Emerald City. Shane enters a different, more dangerous reality, not the white-washed sitcom view of the good life, but the mean streets, where hustlers sell dope and everyone wants to escape from the third-world mentality of poverty. The chasm between the haves and the have-not's is painfully obvious, fragile borders breaking down as the structures of inequity collide. In his efforts to aid Debra, Shane comes face to face with life without hope, where predators roam in plain sight.<br /><br />Martin writes with vitality, his game larger than the basketball court, slipping from one part of the city to the next, from the gentrified yuppie renovations with their chrome and metal gyms to the projects, where real ball is played on the court, with attitude, as serious as death. This is great storytelling, Tom Wolfe without the pomposity, Brett Easton Ellis without the precocious self-aggrandizement. I care about these characters, especially Shane and Debra. I care about basketball (and I am not a sport's fan). And I get the significance of a society fueled by avarice, bulldozing everything in the path of economic cannibalism at its most virulent. Martin writes a vivid and engrossing novel, his protagonist a modern-day everyman with heart and a conscience in a greedy, greedy world, that rare author who cuts to the bone, not a word wasted and pitch-perfect dialog. Luan Gaines/ 2005.h their chrome and metal gyms to the projects, where real ball is played on the court, with attitude, as serious as death. This is great storytelling, Tom Wolfe without the pomposity, Brett Easton Ellis without the precocious self-aggrandizement. I care about these characters, especially Shane and Debra. I care about basketball (and I am not a sport's fan). And I get the significance of a society fueled by avarice, bulldozing everything in the path of economic cannibalism at its most virulent. Martin writes a vivid and engrossing novel, his protagonist a modern-day everyman with heart and a conscience in a greedy, greedy world, that rare author who cuts to the bone, not a word wasted and pitch-perfect dialog. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br />	2005-02-20
343688:US	51010391	R2ODRG710JAT34	156512393X	595041672	Confinement (Shannon Ravenel Books)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A painful transition	Arthur Henning comes to America after fleeing his native country, but loses his wife and baby daughter to the London Blitz. Nevertheless he remains hopeful, carrying his young son, Toby, and a battered suitcase to the United States, where it has been arranged for him to work as a driver for the wealthy Duvall's.<br /><br />Arthur's inner struggles are complicated by a recurring memory, an event he witnessed at the hands of the Nazi storm troopers, the brutal beating of a surgeon as bystanders watch, helpless to intervene. A lingering remnant of a disturbing past that tortures his mind, Arthur can never forget the nightmare of being Jewish in Hitler's Germany.<br /><br />Scarred before he ever sets foot in his new country, Arthur is hopeful, living a precise and guarded life devoid of complications, his spirit humbled by the loss of joy. The years pass and Toby grows up in his father's shadow, witnesses to the excesses of the Duvall's, a prosperity they will never enjoy. Agatha, the Duvall's daughter, a year younger than Toby, is frequently left in Arthur's care when her mother is indisposed.<br /><br />When a dismayed Arthur is ordered to deliver a pregnant Aggie to a home for unwed mothers, the humble Arthur is stunned by the Duvall's curt dismissal of their daughter; he makes it his personal mission to keep track of the baby, a boy, given up for adoption. Then he loses track of the adoptive family, thrown once more into despair, especially when Toby leaves home without a word. Years later, while driving through a familiar neighborhood, Arthur sees the child again, an experience that marks a new beginning, an opening of Arthur's long-stifled heart. Through the abiding friendship of Agatha, Arthur finds his way back to contentment.<br /><br />This is a story born of the loss of country and kin, the loss of a child and finally a grandchild. Bridging Hitler's Europe and the American dream as lived from the outside, looking in, Arthur eventually disentangles from the manacles of his own history, finding redemption in the unknowable future, one defined by a newly awakened personal freedom. What might have been an engaging novel, crumbles under the burden of weighty prose. The author's use of description is better than average, but consistently overwrought, making it difficult to separate one element from the story, or one time frame from another. All in all, this is an ambitious effort by the author of The Hatbox Baby, another novel that never quite reaches its potential. Luan Gaines/2005.disentangles from the manacles of his own history, finding redemption in the unknowable future, one defined by a newly awakened personal freedom. What might have been an engaging novel, crumbles under the burden of weighty prose. The author's use of description is better than average, but consistently overwrought, making it difficult to separate one element from the story, or one time frame from another. All in all, this is an ambitious effort by the author of The Hatbox Baby, another novel that never quite reaches its potential. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-02-20
346252:US	51010391	R11KOFNE0L42H	0670031771	529626293	Life Studies: Stories	Books	3	15	17	N	N	(3.5) Art imitates life	Much like Tracy Chevalier, Vreeland dips her pen into the palette of great art in search of human drama. An apt choice, for this is a novel filled with life, an emotional canvas as rich and varied as humanity itself. Instead of the obvious, the artists themselves, Vreeland writes about their contemporaries, the people around the genius of creativity, fleshing out the lives of her chosen artists, the Impressionists, Post-Impressionists, their lovers, children, neighbors and servants. These observers enjoy the most intimate knowledge of the daily struggles, the passion to create vs. the need to provide for families and how their behavior affects those around them.<br /><br />Beginning in France in 1876, we are introduced to Renoir, Claude Monet, Edouard Manet, Vincent Van Gogh, Paul Cezanne and Modigliani. In \\"Winter of Abandon\\", Claude Monet's wife dies, his children and those of his mistress stranded in the harsh winter, understanding that the lady must reclaim her family name at the thaw of spring. Meanwhile they cling to a world isolated from reality. The days are difficult for the wet nurse of the baby of Berthe and Eugene Manet (\\"Cradle Song\\") and her own child dies while she lives with the couple. Completely unaware of the heartbreak of the servant's life, the couple fixates on their own obsessions, including Berthe's attraction to her brother-in-law, Edouard Manet. And in \\"Olympia's Look\\", Suzanne Manet, widow of Edouard, enjoys the revenge of a lifetime.<br /><br />Vincent Van Gogh (\\"The Yellow Jacket\\") warns his subject, \\"You can ruin yourself in the night cafes\\", where the absinthe flows freely and muddles the senses. Walking the streets of Arles, Van Gogh stares raptly at the wonder of nature's colors. Curiously (for me), the stories I enjoyed the least were those about Van Gogh and Paul Cezanne; these have less of the emotional richness of the first stories. Yet, in the very next one, \\"A Flower for Ginette\\", the magic is back, the author's descriptions evoking images of the great paintings, made more real by the histories that surround them.<br /><br />In contrast to the historical stories at the beginning, separated by an enchanting travel tale, the second half of the book consists of more contemporary tales, people who inhabit the real world and their relationships to art. These tales provide the small intimacies that transcend the years, linking genius to humanity. This author is at her most confidant when speaking in the language of the artist, shaping images into words, painting stories for her readers. \\"All art is a matter of reception.\\" Luan Gaines/ 2005.s evoking images of the great paintings, made more real by the histories that surround them. <br /> <br />In contrast to the historical stories at the beginning, separated by an enchanting travel tale, the second half of the book consists of more contemporary tales, people who inhabit the real world and their relationships to art. These tales provide the small intimacies that transcend the years, linking genius to humanity. This author is at her most confidant when speaking in the language of the artist, shaping images into words, painting stories for her readers. \\"All art is a matter of reception.\\" Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br />  <br />	2005-02-17
348932:US	51010391	R1P3VR30CS6UV9	0385513666	294498202	Winslow in Love	Books	3	1	4	N	N	What's love got to do with it?	\\"We're moving to the North Pole.\\"<br /><br />\\"You're moving.\\"<br /><br />So begins Richard's Winslow's odyssey. A soon to be ex-wife, his reputation as a poet fallen into obscurity, Winslow is a man teetering on the brink of alcoholism. On the brink? Actually, well over the edge. What else can he do but accept a temporary teaching position at an obscure Montana college, currently the only game in town?<br /><br />Once ensconced with his new class, Winslow finds himself inordinately attracted to a student, the tattooed, pierced and anorexic Erika Jones, possibly the only potentially talented student in the class. They begin a flirtation, sipping drinks together over endless existential observations. When student and teacher embark upon a directionless road trip during school break, they drift from town to town, motel to motel, hangover to hangover. Winslow is happiest on the road with Erika, passing scotch whiskey back and forth, \\"It was the driving he liked, the beautiful in-between, neither here nor there, the sense of beginning.\\"<br /><br />Not completely divorced from reality, Winslow is aware of the impropriety of his actions, but so caught up in the moment that he cannot relinquish his fantasy. He makes peace with the fact that he is broken: \\"How many cast off selves he carried inside him.\\" This protagonist is never at a loss for excuses, his self-destructive behavior a magnet to the equally self-abusive Erika, theirs a slow dance of annihilation, both sinking toward oblivion and grasping at pseudo-love. This is essentially a nihilistic journey; the lie is in the facade of passion that masquerades as life, fleeting moments of emotional frisson merely window dressing.<br /><br />\\"He's drunk it's true. But the thing is, his feelings are true.\\" It is this kind of statement that belies the truth of Canty's novel. The author does make an effort to redeem his characters; certainly, Winslow is vaguely reaches toward the light, but is predictably defeated by his own hand. Perhaps Winslow does teach Erika something, sparking a latent curiosity about the world she inhabits. If so, it is more than he ever hopes to achieve, blundering about drunkenly. Erika is drawn to the hopeless, hapless Winslow as to a shadow self, albeit a much larger one, the reversed roles of Jack Spratt and his fairy tale wife.<br /><br />This journey has no destination, but, as fate would have it, two destinations are realized in a depressing trip across a desolate emotional landscape, each character reflecting the other, treading water until life intervenes, the poignant tedious after too many nights of oblivion. Alcoholism is a recurring theme in Canty's novels. Perhaps Winslow in Love will purge these demons for the next work of a talented writer. Luan Gaines/ 2005.n hand. Perhaps Winslow does teach Erika something, sparking a latent curiosity about the world she inhabits. If so, it is more than he ever hopes to achieve, blundering about drunkenly. Erika is drawn to the hopeless, hapless Winslow as to a shadow self, albeit a much larger one, the reversed roles of Jack Spratt and his fairy tale wife.  <br /> <br />This journey has no destination, but, as fate would have it, two destinations are realized in a depressing trip across a desolate emotional landscape, each character reflecting the other, treading water until life intervenes, the poignant tedious after too many nights of oblivion. Alcoholism is a recurring theme in Canty's novels. Perhaps Winslow in Love will purge these demons for the next work of a talented writer. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br />	2005-02-15
353374:US	51010391	R1TQHH8G7404GK	193296102X	301674753	The Distance Between Us	Books	4	5	6	N	N	"God and gunfire"	As a journalist covering the Middle East conflict, Caddie Blair is in the thick of the action, tracking the everyday violence around her. Convinced that her attachment to her lover, Marcus, is void of real commitment, Caddie assumes his compliance with her assessment. Before they have a chance to discuss their relationship, Marcus, Caddie and two others cross the border of Lebanon in pursuit of an interview with a Lebanese crime king. On that impulsive journey, Marcus is killed in an ambush. In this embattled land, death lurks but a step behind.<br /><br />The territory of grief and loss is as unfamiliar to Caddie as the terrain of war is familiar. Suddenly, there is no Marcus to balance her stories with his inspiring photographs, no more small moments of peace and intimacy in an island of unpredictable horrors. Living on the razor's edge of danger has lost its appeal, rendering Caddie more tentative in her work. Refusing to take time off as ordered, Caddie is trapped in the memory of Marcus, with his penchant for isolating the images of the eight and ten-year olds, whose faces tell the real story of the conflict. Struggling to remain objective, Caddie carries a rage in her heart, a need to avenge the loss of the man who humanized the inhuman in his sensitive, prize-winning photographs.<br /><br />The crux of the novel is Caddie's inability to cope with her grief and process the resulting anger. Haunted by that fateful day in Lebanon, Caddie is in flight, desperate for emotional purchase: \\"the turbulence of some gigantic machine careening forward at reckless, pointless speed\\". She has carved a niche for herself, an identity, objective journalist. Ultimately, what Caddie will realize is as familiar as her own breathing: that while these are her stories, to the people living this nightmare, these are their lives. When she meets an enigmatic Russian with his own sad tale, Caddie forges an emotional bond that allows her to confront the dark roots of her own psyche, though at first she confuses the Russian with Marcus' nascent goodness.<br /><br />Author Masha Hamilton (Staircase of a Thousand Steps), a foreign correspondent herself for ten years, speaks the language of a terrain too long littered with the corpses of Palestinians and Israeli's, arguably one of the most significant crises of this generation. Hamilton is unflinching in the face of such violence, providing searing descriptions of what humans do to each other in the name of God, as her protagonist is thrust into a world of absolutes, where lives are crushed with impunity. \\"She has, after all, a survivor's pact with this land: both are tainted now, but both will endure.\\" Luan Gaines/2005.r own psyche, though at first she confuses the Russian with Marcus' nascent goodness. <br /> <br />Author Masha Hamilton (Staircase of a Thousand Steps), a foreign correspondent herself for ten years, speaks the language of a terrain too long littered with the corpses of Palestinians and Israeli's, arguably one of the most significant crises of this generation. Hamilton is unflinching in the face of such violence, providing searing descriptions of what humans do to each other in the name of God, as her protagonist is thrust into a world of absolutes, where lives are crushed with impunity. \\"She has, after all, a survivor's pact with this land: both are tainted now, but both will endure.\\" Luan Gaines/2005.  <br />	2005-02-11
356982:US	51010391	R33DYGCXSYBPBH	076791676X	924240183	Tori Amos:  Piece by Piece	Books	4	50	57	N	N	A backstage pass	This book records an ongoing dialog between musician/songwriter Tori Amos (Little Earthquakes) and rockumentarian Ann Powers (Weird Like Us: My Bohemian America, Women Write About Rock, Pop and Rap. Through a variety of conversations, Amos discusses her music, her personal life and the direction of her career.<br /><br />With sensual and stunning lyrics, Amos is a presence to be reckoned with, a young woman on the cusp of a great musical career with seven successful albums already to her credit. It would be a mistake to misinterpret Tori's passion as an expression of sexuality: \\"for her it's claiming her sexuality and merging it with her spirituality.\\" Every performance is transformative, an expression of the immediacy of her emotions linked to the keyboard beneath her dancing fingers.<br /><br />Piece by Piece is an intriguing concept. Using a multi-part format, the authors draw from a number of sources, a collage of thoughts, past history and musical perceptions that give some idea of how involved the artist is with her work, her family, friends and life as a musician and songwriter. Every aspect of Amos' like is examined, the personal as well as the professional, because Amos uses all of her experience to inform her music, the passionate expression of a young woman with much to offer.  Amos imbues her work with the spirit of her soulful journey, cherishing her hard-one relationships with husband and child and the source of her creativity.<br /><br />Powers witnesses Amos' words, often expounding on the meanings in a broader context of artist in the world, adding another dimension to the musical achievement. Surprisingly complex, Piece by Piece brims with unexpected insights, musical interpretations and a view of the world through the eyes of an artist who is not intimidated by life. Archetypes loom large in the discussions between Amos and Powers, who frequently wax philosophical, drawing from the universality of human endeavors and the innate need for connections with the past.<br /><br />This is a woman who has chosen Mary Magdalene as her erotic muse. Looking to her own Indian American roots, Amos dips into the gospels and oral tradition for inspiration, a deep respect for the earth and a love of books, thanks to the profound influence of her mother. Myths and archetypes abound and women are central: the Native American Corn Maiden, Demeter and Persephone, Aphrodite and Venus, an appropriate counter-balance for Mary Magdalene. Amos views the challenge this way: \\"to be able to traverse pop culture's addictions to imaging, all the while infusing your pencil not with lead but with estrogen.\\"<br /><br />Both conversational and thought-provoking, the dialog is enhanced by a series of photographs and \\"song canvases\\", each detailing the evolution of a particular song. Published to coincide with Amos' new album, The Beekeeper, Tori Amos, Piece by Piece is the perfect complement to a body of significant work from Amos.  Whether read cover to cover or a few pages at a time, this inventive book speaks volumes on the nature of creativity and one woman's passion to speak her truth. Luan Gaines/ 2005.ections with the past. <br /> <br />This is a woman who has chosen Mary Magdalene as her erotic muse. Looking to her own Indian American roots, Amos dips into the gospels and oral tradition for inspiration, a deep respect for the earth and a love of books, thanks to the profound influence of her mother. Myths and archetypes abound and women are central: the Native American Corn Maiden, Demeter and Persephone, Aphrodite and Venus, an appropriate counter-balance for Mary Magdalene. Amos views the challenge this way: \\"to be able to traverse pop culture's addictions to imaging, all the while infusing your pencil not with lead but with estrogen.\\" <br /> <br />Both conversational and thought-provoking, the dialog is enhanced by a series of photographs and \\"song canvases\\", each detailing the evolution of a particular song. Published to coincide with Amos' new album, The Beekeeper, Tori Amos, Piece by Piece is the perfect complement to a body of significant work from Amos.  Whether read cover to cover or a few pages at a time, this inventive book speaks volumes on the nature of creativity and one woman's passion to speak her truth. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br />	2005-02-08
359396:US	51010391	R2BMUULSQNEF8	074325497X	200283186	The Marriage Bed: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	4.5 An enchanting blend of myth and marriage	McBride's female protagonists are exquisitely nuanced, their deepest longings and secret fears. They exist wholly-fleshed, surrounded by the turbulent beauty of the Irish coast.<br /><br />When orphaned Deirdre is delivered to the convent of Enfant de Marie by her grandmother, she is admonished to keep secret the true story of her parent's deaths, an incident Deirdre has pushed into her subconscious, burying emotions with memory. In that dank environment, with its shadowy candlelit corridors and prayerful murmurings, Deirdre is desperately unhappy, fourteen years old and far from anything familiar.<br /><br />Deirdre is fascinated by one of the other postulants, Bairbre McBreen, at Enfant de Marie to fulfill her family's obligations, an effort to appease a wrathful God after her mother leaves the convent to marry. In a blend of religious fervor and alchemic fate, the O'Breen's welcome their obligation to provide a son to the Church, an effort to repair past transgressions. Bairbre has come in lieu of her brother, Manus that he may marry and carry on the family line with sons of his own.<br /><br />This family forms their own Trinity, mother at the apex, as a lonely Deirdre imbues them with powers beyond their capacity. Hopelessly lost in her own imaginings of domestic harmony, Deirdre gravitates first to the ethereal Bairbre, another postulant, sensitive to each despairing sigh, \\"the sound of it cast a shadow like a bird that followed me along the corridor, then flew suddenly past\\". By marrying Manus, Deirdre enters into an unholy alliance, underestimating its power until her entire life is usurped by her mother-in-law's will, the marriage purged of its promising intimacy. Even the granddaughters are caught in the web, plucked from their mother's over-protective grasp.<br /><br />Only then does Deirdre accept her own complicity, hollow-eyed with grief at the loss of her daughters. In elegant, sweeping prose, Deirdre revisits the first days of her attraction to Manus, away from the penetrating gaze of Mrs. McBreen: \\"There was a dungeon in Manus's heart.\\" Everything leads her back to the source of her fears, the tragedy she cannot speak of, her desperate flight from reality into the waiting arms of a woman who uses her as a pawn, as Great Blasket Island calls Deirdre home to reclaim the self she abandoned. After years of bending to the wishes of others, Deirdre embraces her own past and with it the chance to reclaim her children, her life and the love of her husband.<br /><br />This elegiac novel touches a woman's interior, plumbing her secrets, the mysteries of religious devotion shrouded in piety and the softly murmured prayers of supplicants who harbor selfish intentions. The phrases spill like pearls: \\"I felt as if my body were comprised of hundred of subtler bodies thin as veils, but concentrated, all ignited and brushing at each other.\\" The McBreen mansion is of gothic proportions, lushly appointed rooms contrasting with dim, stone-walled corridors leading to an alchemist's retreat. And everywhere the sound of the sea, hurling itself against the land. Luan Gaines/2005.to Manus, away from the penetrating gaze of Mrs. McBreen: \\"There was a dungeon in Manus's heart.\\" Everything leads her back to the source of her fears, the tragedy she cannot speak of, her desperate flight from reality into the waiting arms of a woman who uses her as a pawn, as Great Blasket Island calls Deirdre home to reclaim the self she abandoned. After years of bending to the wishes of others, Deirdre embraces her own past and with it the chance to reclaim her children, her life and the love of her husband. <br /> <br />This elegiac novel touches a woman's interior, plumbing her secrets, the mysteries of religious devotion shrouded in piety and the softly murmured prayers of supplicants who harbor selfish intentions. The phrases spill like pearls: \\"I felt as if my body were comprised of hundred of subtler bodies thin as veils, but concentrated, all ignited and brushing at each other.\\" The McBreen mansion is of gothic proportions, lushly appointed rooms contrasting with dim, stone-walled corridors leading to an alchemist's retreat. And everywhere the sound of the sea, hurling itself against the land. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br />   <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-02-06
359664:US	51010391	RKDVSBUCB2L01	081296814X	633856845	Durable Goods: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	14	14	N	N	(3.5) Family matters	Berg focuses on a transitional period in the life of a twelve-year old (going on thirteen), Katie Nash. Her mother recently died from cancer and Katie lives with eighteen-year old sister, Diane, in a delicate emotional balance, avoiding the father, who has a volatile temper and frequently hits the girls. The violence is nothing new. Even when their mother was alive, the father took out his aggression on his daughters. Army brats, their lives are constantly in flux, moving whenever the father is posted to another base.<br /><br />The father's rage is a fact of life for his daughters, the family's constant preoccupation with appeasement common behavior, especially when the mother's death leaves each of them hollow with grief. Katie's best friend lives next door, a girl two years older who guides Katie through feminine mysteries and rituals defined by glossy magazines, endless grooming details that insure success with the opposite sex.<br /><br />Katie finds solace in her role models, sister and best friend, but has begun a solitary journey of self-discovery that is made more piquant by the inevitable yearning for her mother at this critical time in her young life. The best friend is predictable, but sister Diane is ready to break away from a life controlled by their father's narrow constraints and senseless rules. The sisters make a fateful decision, but it is tempered by Katie's shifting loyalties, her inability to make appropriate choices, given her vulnerability and immaturity. Grasping the familiar, Katie finds a new perspective on letting go and the chimerical nature of loss, that some things stay even when they're gone.<br /><br />Berg's plain-spoken narrative navigates an adolescent passage into the real world, where even forgiveness is possible and change hovers on the horizon. The simple prose belies the impact of grief and the complications of growing up, the profound juxtaposed with the mundane. If there is a flaw in Durable Goods, it is the dissonance of the father's habitual violence and his passive acceptance of changes wrought by his daughters' actions. That Katie clings to her father is natural enough, but his brutality is a serious issue. The victim returns willingly to her abuser, desperate for any emotional connection in lieu of none at all. Grief is no excuse: is the brute not still a brute? Luan Gaines/2005.e of the father's habitual violence and his passive acceptance of changes wrought by his daughters' actions. That Katie clings to her father is natural enough, but his brutality is a serious issue. The victim returns willingly to her abuser, desperate for any emotional connection in lieu of none at all. Grief is no excuse: is the brute not still a brute? Luan Gaines/2005.  <br /> <br />  <br />	2005-02-06
361184:US	51010391	RRZHR7WAG8WON	0525947671	7966085	The Lady and the Unicorn	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The great seduction of art and beauty	Chevalier is an author with an inventive eye for historical detail, choosing themes from the past, always with a connection to art, imbuing them with the lively interactions and complexities that bring history to life. In The Lady and the Unicorn, the author selects a set of 15th century tapestries created for a nobleman, Jean LeViste, who at first plans to adorn the walls of his elegant Parisian home with scenes of the Battle of Nancy.<br /><br />However, the cooler vision of his wife prevails and LeViste  commissions the artist Nicolas des Innocents to render a scene of a lady seducing a unicorn; later the paintings are adapted by a lissier and his staff in a Brussels studio, featuring the popular design of the times, the millefleurs, tiny flowers woven into the background, creating a field of color. Nicolas experiences some trepidation at his new commission, but is finally seduced by the promise of work and the beauty of one of LeViste's daughter's, Claude, a woman far above his social standing.<br /><br />In alternating chapters over a period of two years, from the first paintings to the weaver's workshop in Brussels, the story is told in a variety of voices, the protagonists: Nicolas des Innocents, the artist hopelessly enamored of the betrothed noblewoman, Claude LeViste; the lady herself; the family of weavers, Georges de LaChappelle, his wife and blind, but beautiful daughter, Alienor; and the man who has loved Alienor since their childhood, Philippe de LaTour.<br /><br />Two love stories unfold as the artist's paintings are transformed into the lush tapestries that capture the admiration of  Parisian nobility. From the larger-than-life architecture of Paris to the small Brussels studio where the tapestries are meticulously woven and the isolated convent where a young woman's virginity is protected from the intrusions of the world, Chevalier once again turns art into life, her characters brimming with the exuberance of love, tempered by the strict social mores of a highly structured society. The pieces depicting the lady's seduction of the unicorn become a vehicle for the thwarted passions of those fated to fall in love, weaving yet another contextual layer into an already magnificent work of art, threads that connect the lovers and bind them forever.<br /><br />Chevalier's m&eacute;tier is historical fiction, her deft prose juxtaposing believable characters with artistic endeavor. The author's vivid imagery is impressive, the scenes authentic and fine-tuned, the novel a small jewel that reawakens the past, restoring all to life before fading once more into the pages of history. Luan Gaines/2005.the strict social mores of a highly structured society. The pieces depicting the lady's seduction of the unicorn become a vehicle for the thwarted passions of those fated to fall in love, weaving yet another contextual layer into an already magnificent work of art, threads that connect the lovers and bind them forever. <br /> <br />Chevalier's mtier is historical fiction, her deft prose juxtaposing believable characters with artistic endeavor. The author's vivid imagery is impressive, the scenes authentic and fine-tuned, the novel a small jewel that reawakens the past, restoring all to life before fading once more into the pages of history. Luan Gaines/2005.   <br />	2005-02-04
364345:US	51010391	R3VQJBMG2X7XZV	0393058174	208305305	Sight Hound: A Novel	Books	4	37	40	N	N	A poignant love story	Animals bring out the best in most people, fostering a capacity for affection and tenderness that might otherwise remain inaccessible. Such is the case with Dante, an Irish wolfhound. When Dante loses a leg to cancer, he exhibits an almost Ghandi-like tolerance for pain, inordinately sensitive to the emotional needs of his owner, Rae. Dante's calm acceptance of his fate is critical, for he has much work to do with his human. While Rae covertly watches her pet, eyes darkened by the sadness of his imminent suffering, Dante gets along splendidly on his three remaining legs.<br /><br />Rae has known love before, each time believing this man is the one, but all leave eventually. In every instance, Dante is there to soothe his human, to comfort her and fill the empty spaces, his soulful eyes speaking volumes. Rae has enjoyed many friendships over the years, a decent income from work she loves and a ranch in one of the most beautiful spots in Denver, Colorado, God's country, where she can withdraw from the world when necessary to frolic with her animals and enjoy life on the land. Rae has pursued a career as a playwright because she is fascinated by the way people fail to listen to one another, including herself, the way most follow their own agendas: \\"History is a starfish that grows an extra arm no matter how many times the original limb is severed.\\"<br /><br />As the story evolves, each new chapter is written in the first-person voice of those who know Rae, lovers, confidants and friends who offer differing perspectives into the mind of an ambitious, sensitive and talented woman, her history complicated by fears and personal failings, the comfort of Eastern religions and an innate willingness to accept life`s challenges with her best friend, the noble Dante, at her side.<br /><br />It is Dante's task to help Rae bridge a paralyzing fear of his impending death, to accept love in all its forms and live each day in gratitude for the bounty she enjoys. Quite a task. But if any dog is up to it, Dante can pull off this assignment. Through the passage of time and natural disasters, like the wildfires that raged through Colorado threatening to decimate the landscape, the devastation of 9/11 and life's inevitable ups and downs, Rae and her eclectic assortment of friends and pets move from one year to the next, all watching Dante, waiting for the inevitable. Yet, on the ranch, everything speaks to nature's cycles, birth, death, rebirth. It is a land of many lessons and perhaps why Rae is so at home in this country.<br /><br />This is a love story, after all. The love of a woman for her dog, Dante, and that dog for his owner, a love that sustains them through a series of painful operations, that transcends time and place to teach Rae and the other humans a vital lesson: love conquers fear. People lover, dog lover, by description, Rae would have to be a Virgo, an earth mother, Dante her intransigent spirit guide. Luan Gaines/2005.nte can pull off this assignment. Through the passage of time and natural disasters, like the wildfires that raged through Colorado threatening to decimate the landscape, the devastation of 9/11 and life's inevitable ups and downs, Rae and her eclectic assortment of friends and pets move from one year to the next, all watching Dante, waiting for the inevitable. Yet, on the ranch, everything speaks to nature's cycles, birth, death, rebirth. It is a land of many lessons and perhaps why Rae is so at home in this country.    This is a love story, after all. The love of a woman for her dog, Dante, and that dog for his owner, a love that sustains them through a series of painful operations, that transcends time and place to teach Rae and the other humans a vital lesson: love conquers fear. People lover, dog lover, by description, Rae would have to be a Virgo, an earth mother, Dante her intransigent spirit guide. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-02-02
364363:US	51010391	R2MTAOJGEH291H	0151011354	724537047	Please Don't Come Back from the Moon	Books	4	38	39	N	N	A paean to lost fathers everywhere	As the economy worsens in Michigan, sixteen year-old Michael Smolij watches as father after father leaves town, the men unable to face their families with no jobs, dignity evaporating with every passing day. One by one, fathers spend directionless days in the local tavern before quietly disappearing forever. So many men leave the blue-collar neighborhood outside Detroit that everyone points to the disappeared as having \\"gone to the moon\\", wives left to carry the burdens of children and part time jobs, exhausted physically and emotionally by the dual role of mother and father.<br /><br />Ultimately the loss of their fathers breeds a twisted violence in the hearts of the sons left behind. With the abdication of the men, the boys are forced to become men prematurely and put away their childhoods; thus is born a smothering anger and an incalculable sadness that resides deep in their hearts.<br /><br />As Michael gets older, he tries to look out for his younger brother, Kolya, but acting tough has set Michael and his cousin Nick apart from kids with fathers, incipient \\"bad boys\\", distorting both Michael and Nick's views of the world and what it has to offer to fatherless sons. Drifting into a cursory education, Michael's curiosity is partially fueled by the young women in his life, who are attracted to the brooding sensitivity of the unhappy young man.<br /><br />This novel lays bare the broken hearts of desolate young men. Bakopoulos is unstintingly honest, unabashedly free with the emotional territory of abandonment, allowing a poignant view of a loss that is permanent, a tattoo on the psyche. Always they think of their fathers, remembering, wondering how they might have changed, if they are happy on the moon, if they have forgotten their sons.<br /><br />The prose is beautifully rendered, tender, innocent, bruised by reality, tinged occasionally with the angry bravado of something-to-prove. In the very city where their fathers worked on assembly lines for Ford and General Motors, the only employment for Michael, Nick and their contemporaries is found at the local shopping mall, as a failing economy grinds up any opportunity for a decent life of hard work like past generations.<br /><br />Please Don't Come Back from the Moon portrays the gradual unfurling of hidden promise in a life once destined for failure, haunted by the losses of the past. Yet fate intervenes for Michael Smolij. In a world where fathers, in their own distress, leave and take up residence on the moon, the sons fend for themselves, many lost along the way, casualties of society's neglect and disinterest. But Michael finds his voice, buried beneath the rage that has simmered since childhood. In sensitive and lyrical prose, with a surfeit of desolate images of towns and people forgotten, Bakoploulos delivers a thought-provoking and soulful novel on the pains of growing up fatherless, where dreams may still surface.<br /><br />Along with helpless anger lodges a seed of doubt, the potential of being like their fathers. And as adolescent boys become young men, marry and start families, they cannot bear to acknowledge their unspoken fears, the legacy of their fathers...a silent call to the moon: \\"Like an eye, the moon follows us wherever we go.\\" Luan Gaines/2005.lines for Ford and General Motors, the only employment for Michael, Nick and their contemporaries is found at the local shopping mall, as a failing economy grinds up any opportunity for a decent life of hard work like past generations. <br /> <br />Please Don't Come Back from the Moon portrays the gradual unfurling of hidden promise in a life once destined for failure, haunted by the losses of the past. Yet fate intervenes for Michael Smolij. In a world where fathers, in their own distress, leave and take up residence on the moon, the sons fend for themselves, many lost along the way, casualties of society's neglect and disinterest. But Michael finds his voice, buried beneath the rage that has simmered since childhood. In sensitive and lyrical prose, with a surfeit of desolate images of towns and people forgotten, Bakoploulos delivers a thought-provoking and soulful novel on the pains of growing up fatherless, where dreams may still surface.  <br /> <br />Along with helpless anger lodges a seed of doubt, the potential of being like their fathers. And as adolescent boys become young men, marry and start families, they cannot bear to acknowledge their unspoken fears, the legacy of their fathers...a silent call to the moon: \\"Like an eye, the moon follows us wherever we go.\\" Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-02-02
365467:US	51010391	R2MCLXSEC5ZBZC	0385508611	575990647	Suspect	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The dark night of the soul	Robotham tackles the mystery/thriller genre and puts a new twist on \\"the wrong man\\", as psychologist Joe O'Loughlin finds himself at the center of an investigation into the murder of Catherine O'Brien, a former patient. The dead woman, a nurse, developed an attachment to her psychologist, not an uncommon event in therapy, and harbored hurt feelings when he could not reciprocate her attentions. But that was years ago and when Catherine's self-mutilated body is discovered, O'Loughlin is forced to reveal the painful doctor-patient relationship to a very suspicious Detective Ruiz.<br /><br />Conscientious to a fault, O'Loughlin takes his role seriously, frequently helping his patients at his own expense. His actions are tempered with the knowledge that he has Parkinson's disease: \\"So here I am- not so much at a crossroads as a cul de sac.\\" The only certainty is that his body is deserting him by degrees at the age of forty-two.<br /><br />A new patient of O'Loughlin's, Bobby Moran, has been experiencing violent dreams, which have bled into his waking life, recently charged with an assault on a woman, a total stranger. Trying to navigate Bobby through a morass of complicated emotions, O'Loughlin is fearful of pushing Bobby's delicate psyche too far. At the same time, Bobby's behavior becomes increasingly more erratic and unpredictable, ranging from grief to sudden rage.<br /><br />Detective Ruiz demands cogent answers from the psychologist, but the evidence skews to point directly at O'Loughin, desperate by this time to prove that they are chasing the wrong man. Using limited resources, O'Loughlin does some sleuthing of his own, getting into a considerable amount of trouble in the process. Hampered by his disease, but believing he has a clue to the murderer's identity, the psychologist bumbles through a treacherous web of misinformation to uncover the real culprit.<br /><br />Suspect is well-written and engaging, Robotham's a fresh voice. The protagonist is personally flawed, immensely believable in his human inadequacies. Yet, O'Loughlin clearly has a good, if misguided heart. It is that very compassion for his patients that gets him into trouble in the first place, his compassion as a healer who cares deeply about his work. These are vulnerable people who require the psychologist's special skills to guide them through crises toward more viable lives.<br /><br />Even Inspector Ruiz is a quirky, cranky character, with his own set of idiosyncrasies, the perfect foil for the often too-cerebral O'Loughin. London and Liverpool are equally vivid in their differences, lifestyles and citizens. Robotham has created a malleable personality in Joe O\\"Laughlin, a man positioned for more such hair-raising tales. Luan Gaines/ 2005.onist is personally flawed, immensely believable in his human inadequacies. Yet, O'Loughlin clearly has a good, if misguided heart. It is that very compassion for his patients that gets him into trouble in the first place, his compassion as a healer who cares deeply about his work. These are vulnerable people who require the psychologist's special skills to guide them through crises toward more viable lives. <br /> <br />Even Inspector Ruiz is a quirky, cranky character, with his own set of idiosyncrasies, the perfect foil for the often too-cerebral O'Loughin. London and Liverpool are equally vivid in their differences, lifestyles and citizens. Robotham has created a malleable personality in Joe O\\"Laughlin, a man positioned for more such hair-raising tales. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br />	2005-02-01
370167:US	51010391	R3TA2N4QYKHLO3	0929701712	779768316	Beneath a Marble Sky: A Novel of the Taj Mahal	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Secrets of the Taj Mahal	Well-hidden behind her robes, an ageing but aristocratic woman rows in a boat with her granddaughters to a remote spot. There, when no one can overhear, she tells them a fantastic tale of her true identity and their heritage. The woman is Jahanara, daughter of Shah Jahan, a descendant of Emperor Jahangir, and the Emperor of Hindustan in the early 1600's, who built the Taj Mahal in memory of his beloved wife, Mumtaz Mahal.<br /><br />The last years have been the only peaceful ones Jahanara has know since her youth, forced to hide from her brother for many years. The brother, the Emperor Alamgir, \\"Conqueror of the World\\", would put his sister to death if he knew where to find her, as he did with his other brothers. As the oldest child, Jahanara is beloved, favored by both her parents for her beauty and her intelligence. She accepts the marriage her father arranges, although it is terribly unhappy.<br /><br />The Emperor Shah Jahan is obsessed with the Taj Mahal and asks his daughter to oversee the daily progress of the building; there she meets the love of her life, Isa. Through her father's machinations, Jahanara is able to spend private nights with her lover and bears him a daughter, convincing her husband the girl is his. With Isa and her daughter, life is bearable for Jaharana, although her husband beats her and her brother loathes her.<br /><br />Since the death of his wife, Shah Jahan is bereft and barely able to attend to the business of his kingdom, allowing his warlike son, Aurangzeb too much reign for his violent tendencies, but the Emperor intends the more compassionate Dara to assume the throne after he dies. Unfortunately, Aurangzeb (later known as Alamgir) becomes ever more powerful, eventually seizing the throne and  imprisoning his father, slaying any brothers who could claim the throne.<br /><br />So begin the years of turmoil for Jahanara, separated from her beloved and their daughter and finally imprisoned with her father. Through a series of twists and turns, the princess is fated to endure many years of hardship, betrayal and harsh imprisonment, although she uses her extraordinary guile to escape from her brother. She draws on the love of her mother and her memories of the early years when she is most desperate and fearful of surviving her ordeals.<br /><br />The prose ignites as the author contrasts the struggles of the princess to protect her ailing father, endure the distance of her lover and daughter and live with the constant acid of Alamgir's hate. Only with patience and cunning does she manage to survive every attack, both physical and emotional, learning the true nature of humanity with the unexpected aid of those who also loved her mother. Filled with the harsh beauty of the desert and the inimitable Taj Mahal, Shors guides the reader through the pages of history, the Sheherazade-like mysteries of the Middle East, the luxurious ambiance of the harem, the clashing swords of war and the ties of love that cannot be broken. Filled with a passion that transcends the ages, the daughter of Emperor Shah Jahan learns the true meaning of her heritage and the obligations of royalty. Luan Gaines/2005.ugh a series of twists and turns, the princess is fated to endure many years of hardship, betrayal and harsh imprisonment, although she uses her extraordinary guile to escape from her brother. She draws on the love of her mother and her memories of the early years when she is most desperate and fearful of surviving her ordeals. <br /> <br />The prose ignites as the author contrasts the struggles of the princess to protect her ailing father, endure the distance of her lover and daughter and live with the constant acid of Alamgir's hate. Only with patience and cunning does she manage to survive every attack, both physical and emotional, learning the true nature of humanity with the unexpected aid of those who also loved her mother. Filled with the harsh beauty of the desert and the inimitable Taj Mahal, Shors guides the reader through the pages of history, the Sheherazade-like mysteries of the Middle East, the luxurious ambiance of the harem, the clashing swords of war and the ties of love that cannot be broken. Filled with a passion that transcends the ages, the daughter of Emperor Shah Jahan learns the true meaning of her heritage and the obligations of royalty. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br />	2005-01-28
370569:US	51010391	R2GD46C283JLON	0099754010	739830078	Panther in the Basement	Books	4	3	3	N	N	"Anyone branded a traitor is a traitor forever"	The state of Israel created in 1948 has given birth to new warriors, to young men and women who refuse to entertain the annihilation suffered by their relatives led to slaughter. The land is in flux, anxiously preparing for the end of the British Occupation.<br /><br />Proffi lives in a time of epiphany, the fears and caution of his childhood soon to turn into self-reliance and pride. Proffi's summer is pivotal, the simplicity of childhood but a chapter in his life, a boy who already registers the nuances, the many facets of human behavior, even in the British occupiers.<br /><br />Surrounded by history, Proffi lives in an environment that venerates the written word, the accumulation of knowledge; his father's bookshelves reach to the ceiling, smelling of must and old paper, a most heady perfume. A solitary child, Proffi daily recreates great military battles, using whatever is handy to plan each new siege once his parents have left for the day. And every day, an hour later, Proffi's two friends, Ben Hur and Chita Reznik arrive to assist in strategizing campaigns and plan forays aimed at the British Occupation, the boys members of a secret organization, FOD, Freedom or Death.<br /><br />Life is good, Proffi's world defined by sundry battles and a newly awakened curiosity about the female sex, until he discovers an accusation painted on the wall: traitor. Required to appear before the FOD the next afternoon, Proffi must answer the serious charge. \\"Instead of a panther in the basement, they saw me as a knife in the back.\\" Indeed, the boy is guilty of fraternizing with the enemy, one hapless and friendly Sergeant Dunlop. Proffi and the soldier have been meeting at a local cafe, each learning the language of the other, a secret and innocent pleasure.<br /><br />This is a coming-of-age story set in the fulcrum of history, as a young boy navigates the mysteries of life in a world defined by the Holocaust and the reverberations felt around the globe from that infamous event. Proffi is confronted with the challenges of friendship in a new context, one that requires a different perspective, leaving childhood behind and ushering in a future defined by personal choices and a new-found sense of self.<br /><br />This small novel is a gem, the brilliant analysis of a pivotal moment in a boy's life caught on the cusp of past and future. The author's descriptions are lyrical and visual, both the emotional journey undertaken by Proffi, the familiarity of a home filled with row upon row of treasured books and a family who understands the impermanence of time. Life awaits, but childhood still beckons seductively. Luan Gaines/2004.from that infamous event. Proffi is confronted with the challenges of friendship in a new context, one that requires a different perspective, leaving childhood behind and ushering in a future defined by personal choices and a new-found sense of self. <br /> <br />This small novel is a gem, the brilliant analysis of a pivotal moment in a boy's life caught on the cusp of past and future. The author's descriptions are lyrical and visual, both the emotional journey undertaken by Proffi, the familiarity of a home filled with row upon row of treasured books and a family who understands the impermanence of time. Life awaits, but childhood still beckons seductively. Luan Gaines/2004.  <br />	2005-01-28
372860:US	51010391	R3NXWYTAL7ONNT	0156027283	275128337	Chasing the Devil's Tail: A Mystery of Storyville, New Orleans	Books	4	13	14	N	N	The slow demise of childhood dreams	Papa Bellocq's grainy photographs of \\"soiled doves\\", the rounders who gather for a few hands of cards, the working girls decked out for another night of pleasure, the plump madams with calculating minds, the rich and powerful men who take their profit...this is the sanctioned Louisiana district of ill-repute known as Storyville.<br /><br />Working for Tom Anderson, the King of Storyville, private detective Valentin St. Cyr trouble-shoots the moonlit streets of the District, reporting to his boss for special assignments. Of late, Storyville has gained notoriety for a new kind of music, the funky, low-down blues and wild disharmonies of Jass the black musicians have taken to heart, filling the nights with their soulful rhythms. Valentin's childhood friend, Buddy \\"King\\" Bolden, is in the forefront of the horn-blowing magicians, his reputation as a hard-drinking womanizer growing along with his fame as a musician.<br /><br />But something is on Buddy's mind, his drinking and drugging out of control, his magic melodies losing their edge. Whatever the problem, Buddy is keeping it to himself, which is all right with St. Cyr, currently engaged in solving the brutal slayings of ladies of the night, each body left with a souvenir, a black rose. The ladies are nervous and Anderson expects St. Cyr to produce quick results before business suffers in the District.<br /><br />Someone usually knows exactly what is going on in Storyville and the Black Rose Murders are no exception. While Buddy Bolden appears the obvious candidate, Valentin has more on his mind than his friend. Clearly, someone is also doing their best to keep St. Cyr off the right track. The recent violent murders of the women work on the detective, who is one step behind each murder, unable to put the mystery together; yet this isn't a man who gives up easily. When the violence hits too close to home, Valentin steels his resolve, reaching beyond the obvious to the dark mind that so casually disposes of human life. When his friendship with Buddy is threatened, the detective truly knows despair: \\"Valentin felt no relief, just a nagging emptiness, a vacant sorrow for all the ghosts, living and dead.\\"<br /><br />Fulmer's Storyville is richly atmospheric, recalling the ribald days when horns blared the new music and the night sparkled with the false histrionics of bright lights and the laughter of painted women. Long faded into the dusty pages of the past, for a short time Storyville comes alive with a vengeance in Chasing the Devil`s Tail. Luan Gaines/2005.life. When his friendship with Buddy is threatened, the detective truly knows despair: \\"Valentin felt no relief, just a nagging emptiness, a vacant sorrow for all the ghosts, living and dead.\\" <br /> <br />Fulmer's Storyville is richly atmospheric, recalling the ribald days when horns blared the new music and the night sparkled with the false histrionics of bright lights and the laughter of painted women. Long faded into the dusty pages of the past, for a short time Storyville comes alive with a vengeance in Chasing the Devil`s Tail. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-01-26
375324:US	51010391	R3HM67YBZJH8OC	0393059561	758830627	Jack And Other New Poems	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Of nature, the world and memory	A soft thump, the collision of nature's realities and a recognition of ageing. Kumin faces the truth that soon there will be a reckoning with the Grim Reaper. So begins the revelatory poetry of a woman dissecting her life, the recollections and reminders that spring to mind in the autumn years. In Magda of Hospice House:<br /><br />\\"I love my work as a specialist in easement.<br /><br />Death is the thing I know, its catch and gurgle.\\"<br /><br />Those of a certain generation are blessed with such reminiscences, be it yesterday or sixty years ago, each as fresh as the new morning. Perhaps this is the reward of old age, as visions spring complete from the mind, the passing years insignificant. But it is these memories that so endear Kumin's poetry, her incisive observations, without the taint of revision. In The Snarl, the poet reveals a bitter memory:<br /><br />\\"...one of the clique that had snubbed me down to the bone<br /><br />so that I ate my dry sandwich daily in a stall<br /><br />in the john after Latin class\\"<br /><br />The New England poet plants her feet squarely on the ground, knows her neighbor's names, takes nothing for granted and grapples daily with the disintegration of ageing bones. She gives no quarter and exposes her own foolish pretensions, bolstered by memories of old yearnings and bittersweet recollections. In sturdy Yankee phrases, Kumin writes of animals, dogs and horses as familiar as lifelong friends, their losses just as deeply mourned. In the title poem, Jack, Kumin writes of a long lost horse:<br /><br />\\"Oh Jack, tethered in what rough stall alone<br /><br />did you remember that one good winter?\\"<br /><br />The endless cycle of death and the nature of ritual are familiar topics on a New England farm and Kumin lives each moment of this world, on intimate terms with its comings and goings. The subtle strength of these poems reaffirm Kumin's tenacity and appreciation for the living beings that surround her, their spirits as beloved as friends and family. Certainly, the world intrudes, but not with such great import as to erode the precious rhythms of farm life: \\"Let them slip through my hands/ weightless as the wind and fugitive as a dream\\" (Crossing Over). She does not withdraw from the world, but occupies a place where comfort is found and life is undeniable. Luan Gaines/2005.as friends and family. Certainly, the world intrudes, but not with such great import as to erode the precious rhythms of farm life: \\"Let them slip through my hands/ weightless as the wind and fugitive as a dream\\" (Crossing Over). She does not withdraw from the world, but occupies a place where comfort is found and life is undeniable. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />	2005-01-24
379121:US	51010391	R1A9XFZ3IU27WQ	0306810735	385952671	The Leaf And The Cloud: A Poem	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A bittersweet taste of life	I received this small, but powerful book of poetry as a gift from a lifelong friend after the death of my mother. My friend wanted to express more than she found in a sympathy card and felt that this poet could bring me comfort, would speak to my soul. I have only now been able to read it.<br /><br />In \\"Flare\\" I read:<br /><br />\\"May they sleep well. May they soften.\\" I can allow my mother to leave without rage. Later, I can release her from worldly obligations:<br /><br />\\"But I will not give them the kiss of complicity.<br /><br />I will not give them responsibility for my life.\\"<br /><br />In words as soft as rose petals or the touch of a baby's cheek, Oliver invokes images that lighten the burdens of life, but tempered with reality, as quietly powerful as a balled fist. Oliver views everything around her from inside nature's world, where the dictates are profoundly simple, where lessons abound for the observant. As a guide, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author is sensitive to the reality of nature's cycles, the interconnectedness of all that surrounds us.<br /><br />In \\"Gravel\\", I found my own thought spoken:<br /><br />\\"This is the poem of goodbye.<br /><br />And this is the poem of I don't know.\\"<br /><br />Filled with beginnings and endings, I found myself thinking about the world more thoughtfully, grateful for its idiosyncratic beauty and finely wrought perfection, for its ability to guide birth, death and rebirth, a continuum of all life. \\"Maybe the real world, without us,/ is the real poem.\\"(From the Book of Time) Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-01-21
383028:US	51010391	R3NK0Y8FHN5M97	0385513585	226159598	Calamity and Other Stories	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Quiet observations of everyday life	A time of pure love seen through the eyes of others, the tragic loss of someone who has yet to experience life, the comprehension of some shameful deceit, promptly forgotten but seared on the soul, spontaneous laughter between strangers who will never become friends. Every life has its small moments, when the world opens wide for a split second and allows us to see inside. From childhood through adulthood, these sudden realizations strike and we save them, adding to a growing stock of understanding. These stories are about those introspective moments, the things that mostly pass unnoticed, until the psyche cracks open and lets in the light.<br /><br />In Calamity and Other Stories, Kalotay chronicles these insights, capturing the essential good intentions of humanity in the mundane activities we endure each day. These are often times of instant epiphany, registering the larger meanings behind tedium and obligation, the resplendent opportunities to understand others.<br /><br />The title story, Calamity, perfectly captures the spirit of the collection, an encounter with the quixotic nature of fate that awaits the willing, touching gently on the vagaries of the human condition. The sometimes recurring characters are often disappointed in life, a bit shocked at how wrong things can go, yet inherently hopeful. In fact, the simplicity of the prose and the themes of the short stories speak to this disappointment tempered with a vague optimism for the future. The randomness of everyday actions, the possibilities that lurk just around the corner and the subtle nuances of adaptability offer a sense of stability to these small, precise tales. Luan Gaines/2005.	2005-01-18
383331:US	51010391	R2FNK2RFKZ959E	0385513275	383057296	The Society of Others	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Attitude adjustment	A young English man, who prefers to remain nameless, is filled with ennui, content to languish in his upstairs bedroom, while the world moves on without him. No member of the immediate family can reach across the emotional distance that surrounds him. During a family get-together, the young man impulsively decides to take a trip, to wander freely with no particular place in mind and no expectations. He begins by hitchhiking and accepts a ride with a philosophy-spouting truck driver, not bothering to ask his destination. Upon reaching an Eastern European country, the truck is stopped by security police; the truck driver instructs the young man to jump from the truck and run for his life. From a safe distance, he watches as the truck driver is brutally murdered.<br /><br />Thus begins an existential journey in which the young man is challenged to use his wits for survival, in a dismal landscape during a punishing winter. This is a country in a constant state of emergency because of \\"terrorism\\", where people mind their own business, afraid to draw the attentions of the secret police. Cast into situations that demand a great deal of courage, the young man discovers a new appreciation for his former lifestyle and the people he left behind, desperate to escape this nightmarish paranoia, fear and incipient violence. Dropped like Alice down the rabbit hole, the young man is besieged with random brutality and ignorance, as well as the unexpected generosity of those willing to offer shelter and companionship.<br /><br />The journey becomes a personal metamorphosis, an opportunity to reach his finer self, to throw off the selfishness of youth. This extraordinary plunge into the unknown, the unpredictable, speaks of the consequences of actions, shattering his ignorance in a quest for survival. Terrifying helplessness is contrasted with elegiac music and the metaphysical dialog that reaches another plane of understanding, where the familiar coexists with the unknown.<br /><br />Much remains unexplained, though one could make certain assumptions. The dramatic ending is confusing, leaving me unsure if this is a Jacob's ladder conundrum or a psychological crisis. I feel somewhat ambiguous about the novel, unsure if it is significant or simply entertains aspirations without quite reaching the intended metaphysical goal. It may be a quandary that only the reader can determine. Luan Gaines/2005.nknown. <br /> <br />Much remains unexplained, though one could make certain assumptions. The dramatic ending is confusing, leaving me unsure if this is a Jacob's ladder conundrum or a psychological crisis. I feel somewhat ambiguous about the novel, unsure if it is significant or simply entertains aspirations without quite reaching the intended metaphysical goal. It may be a quandary that only the reader can determine. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-01-18
384854:US	51010391	R2QDOJALLGJLY9	0385510454	797048445	The Broker: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	The (Pawn) Broker	Joel Backman, ex-lobbyist and Washington power broker doing time in a Federal prison is pardoned after only six years of a twenty-year sentence by a one-term president at the behest of the CIA, hours before the inauguration of the new president. The theory is that many influential people want Backman dead (the Saudi's, the Israeli's, the Chinese, the Russian's...), that eventually one of them will take him out and the CIA will be privy to some long sought after information. Thus, the ex-power broker becomes a pawn for the government and the chase is on.<br /><br />The Agency drops Backman into Bologna, Italy, an entirely different culture where he must meld into the general population. This is what Grisham does best, establish a protagonist with the vast resources of power stacked against him, outwitting and, hopefully, outlasting. As in his first novel, the Firm, though the plot differs substantially, the theme is familiar, the underdog vs. the heavy lifters.<br /><br />In a vastly changed world of spy satellites and sophisticated electronics, each nation's gain can change the face of history. When Backman was brokering the satellite network deal that got him into trouble with the Federal government, he made some powerful enemies, not the least of which are in his own government, engaged in a never-ending technology race and looking for an edge. Now Backman is challenged to use his considerable resourcefulness, this time to keep himself alive.<br /><br />While not as tautly conceived as The Firm, Grisham inserts a lot of disparate details into the plot, leaving some unresolved questions, but he concentrates on Backman and his natural instincts toward survival, especially once his whereabouts is leaked to the interested parties. Once Backman is the focus of every assassination network, he needs more than luck to pull this one off. Whatever is lacking in plot depth, there is ample praise for the city's architecture, gourmet dishes and cosmopolitan citizens to pique the curiosity of travelers and epicures alike. Luan Gaines/2005.ique the curiosity of travelers and epicures alike. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br />	2005-01-17
386512:US	51010391	RZXY2CM1ICMT3	0156027100	927332338	The Company of Strangers	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	The deadly art of spy craft	World War II is a breeding ground for spies and double-agents leveraged to play both sides for profit. From bombed-out London to the doomed Hitler's Stalingrad headquarters to the icy landscape of the Soviet war machine, there is a constant shifting of allegiances and agendas.<br /><br />There is a certain pragmatism to war, once the outcome is understood, as both enemies and allies juggle for position, proffering deals in an effort to position themselves for surrender. The Germans fear the rise of the Russians under Stalin and his intentions for the rest of Europe and Seville is the only city with easy access to the Allies without government scrutiny. It is in Seville that British agent Andrea Aspinall meets German agent Karl Voss and they embark on a brief, torrid affair. But spying does not make for long associations and the couple is suddenly parted, Karl ominously returned to Germany. Andrea attempts a normal life after her short, but intense, work for the Company, but is unable to extricate herself from the emotional rush of the trade, induced to accept more assignments over the years.<br /><br />The story revolves around the lovers and their convoluted careers in a volatile, distrustful trade and the pivotal characters are by no means one-dimensional. Karl is inherently noble, from a family of soldiers who love their country, betrayed by Hitler's actions. Andrea is a young woman whose very foundation is built on lies, constantly redefining herself in relation to those around her, wary of personal attachments. Youthful vulnerability is a critical component of Andrea's evolving personality; she meets Voss when still a neophyte thrust into a nest of sophisticated operatives, essentially over her head. This is a world of few comforts and always questionable associates. For all the noble intentions of the lovers, they are deeply involved in secret plots driven by vested interests.<br /><br />Wilson assembles an impressive number of villains in the various agencies spread across the globe, hard men who often pursue private agendas and personal fortunes at the cost of national integrity. The author leads the reader through a post-war clandestine world that is impossible to navigate, a mine field of plausible intentions corrupted by darker motives. The all too brief moments of innocence burn, incandescent, before pitching headfirst into the effluvia of war and its aftermath in this morality play of human failings and betrayal. Luan Gaines/2005.n the various agencies spread across the globe, hard men who often pursue private agendas and personal fortunes at the cost of national integrity. The author leads the reader through a post-war clandestine world that is impossible to navigate, a mine field of plausible intentions corrupted by darker motives. The all too brief moments of innocence burn, incandescent, before pitching headfirst into the effluvia of war and its aftermath in this morality play of human failings and betrayal. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-01-15
392738:US	51010391	R2UC9G57K9Y8L3	0385499817	539486913	The Problem With Murmur Lee	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Searching for the great hereafter	Murmur Lee Harp is a true child of nature, who has inherited a home on the Florida coast that has been in the family for generations, content to appreciate the world around her. When she drowns unexpectedly in the middle of her third decade on earth, her friends and current lover are shocked and confused, especially since Murmur Lee was as comfortable in the water as on the land. This was an extraordinary woman who has suffered her share of tragedy but lived each day to the fullest.<br /><br />Murmur's connections to those she loved are examined in first-person chapters from the point of view of the dead Murmur herself, her close friends, Charleston Rowena Mudd, Lucinda, Dr. Z., Billy Speare (the last boyfriend) and Edith Piaf, an ex-Marine and transsexual at the age of 62. Each brings a personal perspective to Murmur's demise, the private moments of friendship that evolved over time.<br /><br />Murmur's chapters are confessional, brief glimpses into the memories and events that shaped her rebellious personality, including a large dose of religion. Motherhood looms large, the culmination of higher purpose in a once unfocused life. But Murmur is trapped in the here and now, not yet released to the world of the spirits, trying to make sense of this temporary state as she drifts from one state of consciousness to another.<br /><br />The inexplicable drowning leaves an enormous hole in the lives of Murmur Lee's friends, many of whom question whether the death was accidental or decidedly more sinister. All savor their memories of this rambunctious and irrepressible woman. Ferociously loyal, Charlee Mudd has the difficult task of closing up the beach house, reminiscing over the emotional tangle of her own impulsive decisions and the particular closeness that only best friends can enjoy.  Dr. Z is utterly bereft, having lost his wife scant months before Murmur died. In a concerted effort to comfort the eclectic mix of friends, Edith Piaf gathers them together for an evening of celebration, the resulting brouhaha worthy of Murmur's wildest adventures.<br /><br />The Problem of Murmur Lee is light-hearted, humorous and poignant. The reality of Murmur's death plays out against a canvas of nature's bounty, its rich excess contrasted against the complexities of human nature. This novel is vintage Connie May Fowler, a writer with an eye for the small details that often pass unnoticed, yet define so much of each day. Murmur Lee Harp's natural exuberance led to some volatile, even dangerous situations, but this woman joyfully embraced her home, her friends and her life with an endless capacity for love. It is those left behind who must make peace with this loss. Luan Gaines/2005.ogether for an evening of celebration, the resulting brouhaha worthy of Murmur's wildest adventures.  <br /> <br />The Problem of Murmur Lee is light-hearted, humorous and poignant. The reality of Murmur's death plays out against a canvas of nature's bounty, its rich excess contrasted against the complexities of human nature. This novel is vintage Connie May Fowler, a writer with an eye for the small details that often pass unnoticed, yet define so much of each day. Murmur Lee Harp's natural exuberance led to some volatile, even dangerous situations, but this woman joyfully embraced her home, her friends and her life with an endless capacity for love. It is those left behind who must make peace with this loss. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-01-11
395059:US	51010391	R2MTG59A3YHQY0	0972869204	388333248	The Vanishing Moon	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An impoverished past treads upon the future	At the beginning of the 20th century, family was the backbone of a country on the brink of industrialization; it was this very progress that eventually shattered the family unit, as children left their ancestral farms to find work in the cities. Propelled into a fast-moving future, men adapted to opportunities never before available. The whole structure collapsed for the working class with the onset of the Great Depression of the 1930's. Jobs were scarce, companies were forced to close their doors and unemployment rose. The families who clung to each other during the Depression determined never to know that bone-chilling fear again, forever haunted by their lack of security.<br /><br />Coulson reaches back into those desperate years, isolating one family and their travails to illustrate the hardships of working class Americans. The Tollman's have a home in Cleveland, but are forced by reduced circumstances to live in the country for a year. Ensconced in a tent, they are frozen by winter's chill, drenched by spring rain and anxious for relief. This is a pivotal time for the oldest Tollman boys, Phil and Stephen, as they wander the ice-crusted fields, climbing the barren trees of winter, burdened by the weight of a family touched by recent tragedy. By the time they return to Cleveland, their mother has gone blind and their father a mere shell of his former self.<br /><br />The dark and brooding Phil and light-haired, sensitive Stephen both fall in love with a vital young woman, Katherine Lennox, a pianist and social activist with an enthusiasm for life that draws both young men to her like moths to flame. Their fated triangle plays out, permanently changing all of their lives; a great lesson of the heart for Katherine; a plunge into unexpected waters for Phil; and a reality-check for Stephen.<br /><br />Phil, desperately unhappy, bludgeons his way through the following years, floundering in his discontent, while Stephen, a confirmed bachelor, remains in his brother's shadow, playing both a supportive and a taunting role. Their love-hate relationship is predominately founded on affection, the brothers tied inextricably to their past, unsettled by a future that covers five generations by the end of the story.<br /><br />The female characters are strong and sensitive, offering the young men guidance and approval; yet they cannot alter the father's abandonment or Phil's helpless rage against an unfair life. Yet the family endures, mother, sons, daughter-in-law and grandchildren, passing from one generation to the next, their personal stories lost in the progress of a rapidly changing society.<br /><br />This poignant novel about a family and a country coming-of-age is defined by the tragedy and foolish choices of their earliest years. The weight of the novel is redeemed through its poetic language and vision of a world as yet unsullied by disappointment and grief, by the innocence of two young boys who long to protect their mother and siblings from the encroaching poverty. The emotional trauma of the year of the tent has ill-prepared these young men for the challenges they will face in their lives, crippled by old resentments, yet dedicated to one another since boyhood.<br /><br />Coulson balances the heartbreak of reality with scenes of unearthly beauty, the trembling thunder of trains racing across the tracks, the tenderness and passion of first love and the impulsive yearning of young men for a world that has a place for them. The fully-fleshed characters remind us that the stories of our ancestors may be obscured by time, but are no less relevant today, that once they knew the bright promise of youth and paid the price of their dreams. Luan Gaines/2005.ns in his brother's shadow, playing both a supportive and a taunting role. Their love-hate relationship is predominately founded on affection, the brothers tied inextricably to their past, unsettled by a future that covers five generations by the end of the story.  <br /> <br />The female characters are strong and sensitive, offering the young men guidance and approval; yet they cannot alter the father's abandonment or Phil's helpless rage against an unfair life. Yet the family endures, mother, sons, daughter-in-law and grandchildren, passing from one generation to the next, their personal stories lost in the progress of a rapidly changing society.  <br /> <br />This poignant novel about a family and a country coming-of-age is defined by the tragedy and foolish choices of their earliest years. The weight of the novel is redeemed through its poetic language and vision of a world as yet unsullied by disappointment and grief, by the innocence of two young boys who long to protect their mother and siblings from the encroaching poverty. The emotional trauma of the year of the tent has ill-prepared these young men for the challenges they will face in their lives, crippled by old resentments, yet dedicated to one another since boyhood. <br /> <br />Coulson balances the heartbreak of reality with scenes of unearthly beauty, the trembling thunder of trains racing across the tracks, the tenderness and passion of first love and the impulsive yearning of young men for a world that has a place for them. The fully-fleshed characters remind us that the stories of our ancestors may be obscured by time, but are no less relevant today, that once they knew the bright promise of youth and paid the price of their dreams. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-01-09
399637:US	51010391	R3OADQ88BYBKBB	0156028808	76080055	The Blind Man of Seville	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	(4.5) The nature of pure evil	It is Semana Santa in Seville and everything is in a state of excitement, anticipating a full week of Easter processions, crowds of celebrants lining the streets in preparation. In the middle of the cheerful chaos, Inspector Jefe Falcon is chosen to investigate a gruesome murder case with implications of dark secrets and a long-buried history of brutality.<br /><br />Raul Jimenez surrounded himself with celebrity and the attendant bourgeoisie who made his life run smoothly. With a penchant for depravity, there was a discrepancy between his public and private lives, leading to speculation about the grotesque manner of the killing. As the case unfolds, something equally dark surfaces in Falcon's subconscious, a reawakening of memories tied to his own father, a famous artist of brutal intensity, Francisco Falcon. Living alone in his father's huge mansion, memory lurks in every corner; separated from his wife, Falcon is left confused and vulnerable.<br /><br />The Inspector seizes upon the idea that the murder is rooted somewhere in Jimenez' past in Tangier in the 1930's and '40's. Falcon, as is his way, leaves no detail to chance, not Raul's younger wife, his son from a prior marriage, nor previous nefarious business associates. Clearly a man of uninhibited tastes, Jimenez had an equally murky history in Tangier, long before attaining the social status of Seville, his peasant beginnings obscured by the sophistication of wealth and power.<br /><br />Falcon falls deeper into the mystery of his father's past, one that runs concurrent with that of Jimenez, confusing the Inspector's ability to separate truth from fiction. The artist's diaries rival Falcon's attention to his work on the case, as the Inspector becomes preoccupied with the history of the man who looms large in death as well as life. Beset with nightmares and unfathomable fears, Falcon encounters emotions he is ill prepared to comprehend.<br /><br />More than a clever storyline, the author reaches behind the complex emotions of shocking criminal acts, with complementary plot lines that propel The Blind Man of Seville, gradually revealing the identity of the man who carefully executes the torture of his victims and Inspector Javier Falcon's internal struggle with his personal life, exacerbated by reading his famous father's journal entries. Ultimately, the true nature of the artist is revealed, exposed by his own words, turning Falcon's interpretation of reality upside-down and intimating the killer's identity.<br /><br />Wilson's style of writing tunnels into the imagination, planting images, possibilities, and perverse thoughts that lodge in the mind. All in due time. The reader is complicit in the plot, a voyeur perched on Falcon's shoulder, privy to his musings and sharing his fears. This author has drawn me deeply into the subconscious texture of the plot, a willing victim. I read this novel compulsively, found it impossible to resist. Luan Gaines/ 2005.d the complex emotions of shocking criminal acts, with complementary plot lines that propel The Blind Man of Seville, gradually revealing the identity of the man who carefully executes the torture of his victims and Inspector Javier Falcon's internal struggle with his personal life, exacerbated by reading his famous father's journal entries. Ultimately, the true nature of the artist is revealed, exposed by his own words, turning Falcon's interpretation of reality upside-down and intimating the killer's identity. <br /> <br />Wilson's style of writing tunnels into the imagination, planting images, possibilities, and perverse thoughts that lodge in the mind. All in due time. The reader is complicit in the plot, a voyeur perched on Falcon's shoulder, privy to his musings and sharing his fears. This author has drawn me deeply into the subconscious texture of the plot, a willing victim. I read this novel compulsively, found it impossible to resist. Luan Gaines/ 2005. <br />	2005-01-05
400729:US	51010391	R3OX14LY9IJDCE	0060557540	5482241	The Known World	Books	4	4	5	N	N	(4.5) A landscape of moral ambiguity	This exceptional novel maps the deep roots of slavery, even as freedom skirts the edges of the institution, affecting generation who must navigate the ante-bellum south. As the storyline moves back and forth in time, it is sometimes disconcerting to know a character's fate, while he is still living, but such is the genius of the author- the broad perspective that gives the novel its authenticity.<br /><br />Henry Townsend is a black Virginia slaveholder who experienced his own years of servitude, until his parents were able to purchase his freedom. With all that Henry's parents taught him, they never thought to articulate their own beliefs, assuming their son understood that owning slaves was wrong, in fact, intolerable. Yet Henry's attachment to his white owner has prompted continued contact and advice on handling slaves. A convenient blankness settles over Townsend's conscience and he becomes one of the few black slaveholders in Virginia.<br /><br />After Henry's death, his wife, Caldonia, is left to sort her husband's affairs. There is a rigid code of behavior for slaveholders, but Caldonia blurs the lines, crossing boundaries and complicating the lives of those in her care. The social structure of the enterprise unravels, leaving both former slaves and owner adrift in moral ambiguity. The author's idiosyncratic prose illustrates the difficulties the characters face in navigating the moral conundrum of their emerging world.<br /><br />At the core of this omniscient novel is the simple humanity of those seeking a way through the turmoil of social change and constant upheaval. The rigid boundaries of race are challenged by the realities of daily living conditions; long-held beliefs are rendered insignificant in the face of survival.<br /><br />Jones's social masterpiece documents the changing face of a South perplexed by its own future, fighting to retain the old, while submitting to the inevitable. The characters are fully-fleshed, driven into the future by hope that often turns to despair. This remarkable novel speaks to the endurance and survival of those who are driven by courage and necessity. Luan Gaines/2005.to the future by hope that often turns to despair. This remarkable novel speaks to the endurance and survival of those who are driven by courage and necessity. Luan Gaines/2005. <br />	2005-01-04
404953:US	51010391	R5IE511GYLJ0I	0151011168	692955226	The Year of Past Things	Books	3	20	21	N	N	A New Orleans ghost story	The newly formed Randazzo family has been living on a diet of change. By the time Chef Phil Randazzo, owner of a trendy New Orleans restaurant, marries the widow of deceased Cajun musician A.P. Savoie, the artist's following has achieved cult status. Savoie  was tragically killed in an accident, leaving Michelle and her two children shocked and grieving.  Now Michelle believes marriage to the affable Phil will restore some degree of security to the children's lives. Randazzo's first marriage, this impulsive adventure is mined with booby traps, most notably a teen-aged son and his contemplative, artistic younger sister. Given time, Phil is determined to win both children over.<br /><br />Things would probably work out if only the dead would stay dead. Apparently, A.P. Savoie has no intention of remaining beyond the pale, appearing to Phil on the odd occasion, sending a message the new husband cannot fathom. Are these apparitions a warning or a menace? Circumstances go from bad to worse as the apparitions accelerate and the couple is frequently at odds, Michelle questioning the meaning of her past with Savoie and Phil wondering if his wife is really over her deceased husband.<br /><br />The author sets a series of bizarre occurrences in New Orleans, an apt venue for a ghost story, a city renown for mystery, superstition, beloved saints and obscure voodoo practices. With the escalation of random dangerous events, each family member is at risk and it is imperative that Phil and Michelle put aside their differences to resolve the mystery of the apparitions. If Savoie is trying to communicate from beyond the grave, is he threatening his wife's happiness or trying to warn of imminent danger. The spirit world exists on another realm, not accessible to a frightened couple, who need help but don't know where to turn, abandoned by belief and wary of superstition.<br /><br />Each family member narrowly escapes violence, fearful that the threat is out of control; circumstances force them to share personal experiences, secret thoughts and buried fears in an effort to unravel Savoie's cryptic message from the other side. If Phil and Michelle can put aside their own feelings to protect the children and the everyone will trust the good intentions of their new step-father, the family may yet save themselves from further catastrophe. Desperate enough to try anything and sensing that time is short, Phil and Michelle turn to spiritualists, prayer, priests and exorcism.<br /><br />This modern-day ghost story is as much a tale of acceptance and adjustment as it is an adventure into the unknown. M.A. Harper, in the Acknowledgments, confides that she cut her teeth on ghost stories, heard them whispered at parties all her life, as much a part of New Orleans as its music and ritualistic celebrations. New Orleans city coexists with the past and the present, the shadows of the dead never far away, either in loving memory or with malevolent intent. The Randazzo's fight the demons of the past to secure the present, reserving a place for a beloved, if flawed father in the hearts of his children. Luan Gaines/2005.rol; circumstances force them to share personal experiences, secret thoughts and buried fears in an effort to unravel Savoie's cryptic message from the other side. If Phil and Michelle can put aside their own feelings to protect the children and the everyone will trust the good intentions of their new step-father, the family may yet save themselves from further catastrophe. Desperate enough to try anything and sensing that time is short, Phil and Michelle turn to spiritualists, prayer, priests and exorcism. <br /> <br />This modern-day ghost story is as much a tale of acceptance and adjustment as it is an adventure into the unknown. M.A. Harper, in the Acknowledgments, confides that she cut her teeth on ghost stories, heard them whispered at parties all her life, as much a part of New Orleans as its music and ritualistic celebrations. New Orleans city coexists with the past and the present, the shadows of the dead never far away, either in loving memory or with malevolent intent. The Randazzo's fight the demons of the past to secure the present, reserving a place for a beloved, if flawed father in the hearts of his children. Luan Gaines/2005. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-01-01
406532:US	51010391	R2XDUFOKU211W7	0151010250	311200908	Jass (Valentin St. Cyr Mysteries)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A mix of murder, mayhem and music	In 1909, Storyville is filled with rounders and criminals of all sorts and musicians have been known to enjoy the natural vices of women, drugs and gambling as well as any man. Someone is systematically killing black \\"Jass\\" players in Storyville, the red-light district of Louisiana.<br /><br />When Jelly Roll Morton calls in Valentin St. Cyr, head of security for Tom Anderson, \\"The King of Storyville\\", St. Cyr doesn't attribute anything more cryptic to the deaths than a few musicians meeting an inevitable fate, engaged in dangerous pursuits. However, once Jelly Roll plants the seed of doubt, the former police detective monitors unfolding events with a nagging sense of unease. When all the musicians involved are connected to the same band and the only one still alive has gone into hiding, St.Cyr comes to the realization that something sinister may indeed be afoot. The detective digs in his heels, as is his nature, when both the police and the mayor demand that St. Cyr back off from the direction of the investigation.<br /><br />The author uses the vernacular of the early 1900's, describing the infamous Storyville with the colorful adjectives of dissolution, profit and notoriety that so define the District. St Cyr has compassion for the women who endure the rigorous nights of Storyville, a life that seduces the young and beautiful, but exists for the pleasures of men of power and wealth. In this world, the bright lights of revelry fade to the devastating poverty and rampant crime exposed in the light of day.<br /><br />Risk comes naturally to St Cyr, although he may have lost his edge lately, given to self-pity and too much drinking, personal relationships besieged with problems. But his well-honed instincts remain intact. Refusing to be intimidated by the easy violence of Anderson's rounders, the detective prowls the familiar alleys and bawdy houses, pushed to examine some of his own failings in the process. The bright lights and drunken laughter fade into the black depths of depravity as St. Cry uncovers some ugly truths that put his own future in jeopardy. The plaintive notes of musicians catch fire, as jass seduces the night, a plaintive refrain for senseless killings born of one fateful rampage, a heady mix of music, sex and drugs.<br /><br />This novel portrays Storyville at its height of notoriety, where graft and greed happily coexist with beautiful women of all hues, painted and gilded for men's pleasure, where every desire can be accommodated, even the oblivion found at the end of a needle. This is a society that exists with its own mores, its own rules of conduct. St. Cyr is familiar with these streets, well-known to the few who wield the power and protect the clandestine acts of murderers; the dark covers a multitude of sins. But more powerful and seductive than any vice, a new kind of music, jass, wails through the midnight hours, refusing to be silenced in the agony of birth. Luan Gaines/2005.St. Cry uncovers some ugly truths that put his own future in jeopardy. The plaintive notes of musicians catch fire, as jass seduces the night, a plaintive refrain for senseless killings born of one fateful rampage, a heady mix of music, sex and drugs.    This novel portrays Storyville at its height of notoriety, where graft and greed happily coexist with beautiful women of all hues, painted and gilded for men's pleasure, where every desire can be accommodated, even the oblivion found at the end of a needle. This is a society that exists with its own mores, its own rules of conduct. St. Cyr is familiar with these streets, well-known to the few who wield the power and protect the clandestine acts of murderers; the dark covers a multitude of sins. But more powerful and seductive than any vice, a new kind of music, jass, wails through the midnight hours, refusing to be silenced in the agony of birth. Luan Gaines/2005.	2004-12-31
407437:US	51010391	R3IYQ757AFZM1U	0151008418	163637184	The Vanished Hands	Books	4	6	6	N	N	(4.5 ) Sex, lies and videotape	Wilson is a master of convoluted suspense, where each detail is critical and nothing is as it appears. Falcon drops into the lives of residents of Santa Clara after a questionable murder/suicide and quietly begins his investigation. The main characters are deeply flawed, but living in great comfort, the past only a heartbeat away. In a mix of murder, wealth and sex, this plot takes mystery to another level, rife with ambiguous clues and the potential for more violence. Once Falcon resolves one crime, there is another to complicate the landscape of clues.<br /><br />Writing with the characteristic skill of The Blind Man of Seville, Javier Falcon returns to his investigative m&eacute;tier after a difficult case that has left him with considerable psychological damage. A thorough investigator, an honest man with an incisive mind, this is a man who refuses to accept the obvious. Experience has taught Falcon about the subtleties of human nature, the public vs. the private face of humanity.<br /><br />In the exclusive suburb in Seville, Santa Clara, Rafael Vega is found sprawled facedown, dead, as is his wife, upstairs in her bedroom. Is this a murder/suicide or something more ominous? In the rarified atmosphere of this rich development, most neighbors are isolated in their luxurious, air-conditioned homes, while outside the intense heat presses like a vice upon the city. One of these neighbors is Consuela Jiminez, an attractive woman from Javier's previous case; the Inspector is not unappreciative of the lady's charms, in spite of the tragic circumstances of her widowhood.<br /><br />Choreographing each detail, Wilson manipulates a complicated plot, drawing on a variety of individuals, from an actor to a photographer/voyeur/seductress to the CIA and the Russian mob. When more \\"apparent suicides\\" occur, Falcon strips away layer after layer, revealing a potential for scandal and depravity that may lead to important persons, those who prefer to remain out of the public eye.<br /><br />Expect to be transfixed by the elegant storytelling, lush detail, sensuous women, rough-hewn men and an abundance of lies. Falcon has returned with a vengeance, a little more tattered psychologically, but ever the intrepid detective, consumed by curiosity, unruffled by reality and with an astute eye for the untoward event. It is Falcon's capacity for compassion that makes him a beloved figure in a world often gone mad with its own compulsions. Luan Gaines/2005.by the elegant storytelling, lush detail, sensuous women, rough-hewn men and an abundance of lies. Falcon has returned with a vengeance, a little more tattered psychologically, but ever the intrepid detective, consumed by curiosity, unruffled by reality and with an astute eye for the untoward event. It is Falcon's capacity for compassion that makes him a beloved figure in a world often gone mad with its own compulsions. Luan Gaines/2005.	2004-12-30
409149:US	51010391	R2SI9W4TQBI0SJ	0156006308	739830078	Panther in the Basement	Books	4	5	5	N	N	"Anyone branded a traitor is a traitor forever"	The state of Israel created in 1948 has given birth to new warriors, to young men and women who refuse to entertain the annihilation suffered by their relatives led to slaughter. The land is in flux, anxiously preparing for the end of the British Occupation.<br /><br />Proffi lives in a time of epiphany, the fears and caution of his childhood soon to turn into self-reliance and pride. Proffi's summer is pivotal, the simplicity of childhood but a chapter in his life, a boy who already registers the nuances, the many facets of human behavior, even in the British occupiers.<br /><br />Surrounded by history, Proffi lives in an environment that venerates the written word, the accumulation of knowledge; his father's bookshelves reach to the ceiling, smelling of must and old paper, a most heady perfume. A solitary child, Proffi daily recreates great military battles, using whatever is handy to plan each new siege once his parents have left for the day. And every day, an hour later, Proffi's two friends, Ben Hur and Chita Reznik arrive to assist in strategizing campaigns and plan forays aimed at the British Occupation, the boys members of a secret organization, FOD, Freedom or Death.<br /><br />Life is good, Proffi's world defined by sundry battles and a newly awakened curiosity about the female sex, until he discovers an accusation painted on the wall: traitor. Required to appear before the FOD the next afternoon, Proffi must answer the serious charge. \\"Instead of a panther in the basement, they saw me as a knife in the back.\\" Indeed, the boy is guilty of fraternizing with the enemy, one hapless and friendly Sergeant Dunlop. Proffi and the soldier have been meeting at a local cafe, each learning the language of the other, a secret and innocent pleasure.<br /><br />This is a coming-of-age story set in the fulcrum of history, as a young boy navigates the mysteries of life in a world defined by the Holocaust and the reverberations felt around the globe from that infamous event. Proffi is confronted with the challenges of friendship in a new context, one that requires a different perspective, leaving childhood behind and ushering in a future defined by personal choices and a new-found sense of self.<br /><br />This small novel is a gem, the brilliant analysis of a pivotal moment in a boy's life caught on the cusp of past and future. The author's descriptions are lyrical and visual, both the emotional journey undertaken by Proffi, the familiarity of a home filled with row upon row of treasured books and a family who understands the impermanence of time. Life awaits, but childhood still beckons seductively. Luan Gaines/2004.from that infamous event. Proffi is confronted with the challenges of friendship in a new context, one that requires a different perspective, leaving childhood behind and ushering in a future defined by personal choices and a new-found sense of self. <br /> <br />This small novel is a gem, the brilliant analysis of a pivotal moment in a boy's life caught on the cusp of past and future. The author's descriptions are lyrical and visual, both the emotional journey undertaken by Proffi, the familiarity of a home filled with row upon row of treasured books and a family who understands the impermanence of time. Life awaits, but childhood still beckons seductively. Luan Gaines/2004.  <br />	2004-12-29
411722:US	51010391	R2SOSN2BY73GYR	0743256158	818080128	The Virgin's Lover (The Plantagenet and Tudor Novels)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	(3.5) An Elizabethan enigma	Gregory mines yet another fascinating aspect of the Tudor drama, an era that has captured historical imagination. In The Virgin's Lover, the author tackles the early years of Elizabeth's reign, when she is suddenly thrust upon the throne of England, an event Elizabeth has been waiting for all her life.<br /><br />Although Elizabeth has spent years at court, watching, waiting, planning for her future, by the time of Mary's death, the young woman has yet to act a significant role on that great stage and has few trusted counselors, save William Cecil and Robert Dudley. Not yet crowned, Elizabeth is beset by treachery, other legitimate claimants who would hold the throne for the Catholics and powerful bishops of the Church who fear the Protestant ways of Henry's rule will return. To make things worse, the deceased Queen Mary glutted the treasury, leaving Elizabeth without resources to protect her position or her country from attack.<br /><br />In matters of state, William Cecil is most knowledgeable and dedicated to his beloved England in the hands of the Protestant Queen. Yet the handsome Robert Dudley is enthralled with this queen as well, having experienced the same terrors of imprisonment in the Towers, his own father executed for treason ,as was Elizabeth's mother, Anne Boleyn. Robert and Elizabeth have a long history of loss, humiliation and fear, drawn together now in their affection for one another. Theirs is a perfect love, the virgin and the gentleman, save one impediment: Robert is married to a good woman who has waited patiently through all his travails, hoping that one day he will again find favor in the court.<br /><br />When Robert rushes to be at Elizabeth's side, Amy Dudley is torn between admiration for her husband's prospects and the realization that this queen requires her protectors to hover near, ever in need of reassurance. As the months pass and Lord Dudley, now Master of the Horse, fails to return to his wife, Amy blindly perseveres, refusing to acknowledge the rumors that come from London, the constant gossip of a love affair between the Queen and her Master of the Horse. The Church is outraged, the Privy Council is outraged and state affairs escalate to a point where Elizabeth's ability to rule is questioned. It is imperative that the Queen marry to stabilize the kingdom, but she seems unable to make critical decisions.<br /><br />This is a classic triangle, more fascinating because it is set against the turbulent background of Elizabeth's still imperiled reign. Cecil is determined to protect the Queen from her own desires, fearful for the future of the throne, while Dudley is so hopelessly in love that he allows himself to dream of sharing the throne. Elizabeth's court is rife with intrigue, whispers, unbridled gossip and treachery, as she is forced to consider war with France in Spain, yet terrified of making a mistake. Cecil and Dudley dance in attendance, each with a personal agenda, each a favorite of the Queen, the situation grown more untenable by the day.<br /><br />From the clever machinations in pursuit of power that surround the Queen, the Machiavellian plots to remove her from the throne and the threat of imminent war, the story flashes to the countryside where Amy Dudley languishes, her heart broken by the rejection of her husband, her stolid refusal to divorce Robert and her overly pious ways. The impediment refuses to be removed in an escalating drama where the Queen is central. Elizabeth cannot release her beloved Dudley, nor he release her, a captive of his own ambition. Caught between passion and duty, Elizabeth cuts her teeth on danger and indiscretion, emerging as one of the most popular and skillful politicians of the time.<br /><br />Gregory is a master of this genre, creating the turbulence and tension of a passion larger than life. With a brilliant sense of immediacy the author addresses a fundamental Elizabethan enigma, an unsolved crime of passion in a novel that shakes off themustiness of history, as vivid and ebullient as Elizabeth's reign. Finding the human frailties in a great historical figure, the author ponders the desperate decisions that confront a young and needy Queen who must accept her position in the world if she is to retain the throne. Luan Gaines/2004novel that shakes off the mustiness of history, as vivid and ebullient as Elizabeth's reign. Finding the human frailties in a great historical figure, the author ponders the desperate decisions that confront a young and needy Queen who must accept her position in the world if she is to retain the throne. Luan Gaines/2004 <br /> <br />	2004-12-27
416088:US	51010391	R2I5BIY971DNHT	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	3	11	15	N	N	An escalation of cyber-terrorism	Crichton consistently mines the scientific drama du jour for his subject matter, drawing from journal publications and adding the usual mix of characters to achieve his goals. This time Crichton has taken on the great myth of global warming. Even environmental agencies are not immune to the profit margin that allows them to function and, when lax oversight procedures permit, the agencies may outsource fundraising like other corporations who worship the bottom line. Money is power, after all.<br /><br />In a series of seemingly unrelated events occur in various parts of the world: a physicist dies suddenly in the arms of a beautiful woman, specialized high-tech activation equipment is ordered in Kuala Lumpur and a small submarine is leased for use in the waters of New Guinea. An intelligence agent in Tokyo is piecing together the connections of these activities. Moving back and forth across the globe, Crichton sets the stage for a thriller that mixes scientific fact with the fictional characters, in a drama relevant to some of the most serious environmental concerns we face today.<br /><br />Ecology has entered a brave new world, where global warming offers both economic opportunity and the threat of catastrophe. Anything environmentally-related is big business in a troubled economy, a new spending frontier that uses a huge technology market and endless research grants. Under the guise of fundraising, money can be shifted to more action-oriented agencies, the gremlins that infiltrate with a particular agenda, usually a dramatic climactic event. Sleuthing, at least on a global scale, has changed, an innovative way of tracking via the net. There is a plethora of information and disinformation, swaying public opinion through special interest lobbies, political agendas and huge corporate investment.<br /><br />The novel is packed with acronyms for various agencies, a tool for introducing scientific premises. Under the guise of one agency or another, climate theories are challenged, questioning some broadly held beliefs, what many people have accepted as common knowledge in the area of global warming. With a series of charts and diatribes, the position of the protagonists is clear, as they swim against the tide to uncover cyber-terrorists who have planned some major catastrophic events.<br /><br />The characters are completely in thrall to the plot, as is usual for this author. However, this is fiction; it is difficult to determine the accuracy of this contrarian position, especially if one isn't scientifically inclined. The characters are the usual good and bad guys without much nuance, but serve as excellent vehicles for life-threatening encounters with eco-terrorists in Antarctica, the southwestern desert and the Solomon Islands.<br /><br />The most cogent argument is clearly stated in the title: State of Fear. The American public has lived with the emotional pressure of escalating fears through our most recent history, a condition that renders us more pliable, willing to accept government restrictions. The final pages of State of Fear include an \\"Author's Message\\", listing the personal conclusions and concerns of the author, a subtle suggestion that we consider the evidence and do our own research before blindly chanting the usual misinformation, that we become a better informed public. Luan Gaines/2004,climate theories are challenged, questioning some broadly held beliefs, what many people have accepted as common knowledge in the area of global warming. With a series of charts and diatribes, the position of the protagonists is clear, as they swim against the tide to uncover cyber-terrorists who have planned some major catastrophic events. <br /> <br />The characters are completely in thrall to the plot, as is usual for this author. However, this is fiction; it is difficult to determine the accuracy of this contrarian position, especially if one isn't scientifically inclined. The characters are the usual good and bad guys without much nuance, but serve as excellent vehicles for life-threatening encounters with eco-terrorists in Antarctica, the southwestern desert and the Solomon Islands.  <br /> <br />The most cogent argument is clearly stated in the title: State of Fear. The American public has lived with the emotional pressure of escalating fears through our most recent history, a condition that renders us more pliable, willing to accept government restrictions. The final pages of State of Fear include an \\"Author's Message\\", listing the personal conclusions and concerns of the author, a subtle suggestion that we consider the evidence and do our own research before blindly chanting the usual misinformation, that we become a better informed public. Luan Gaines/2004,    <br /> <br />	2004-12-22
418083:US	51010391	R1M9UR7J538K0A	0425184234	814475128	A Small Death in Lisbon	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	"The obscure talent of wolfram."	In the 1990's a vile crime is committed in Portugal, a teen-aged girl brutally slain and discarded on a beach near the home of Inspector Ze Coelho. The Inspector is called to the scene, paired with a young officer, although there are few clues to begin the murder investigation.  Meanwhile the inspector and his colleague examine every fragment of evidence, tracking the final day of Catarina's sordid and misdirected life, her innocence destroyed by sex, drugs and emotional abuse.<br /><br />Then the story backtracks to Germany 1941, where evil prevails, in stark relief to the ambiguity of everyday violence in the 1990's. Unbridled power dominates the eerie blackness of the Reich years, unparalleled opportunity, greed, avarice and lust. Rendered more compliant after a few days of torture, Klaus Felsen, a successful factory owner, is cashiered into the SS. His job for the Reich is critical, purchasing or poaching a particular metal need by the Reich. Lisbon is his base of operations, near the source of the metal, wolfram. Clearly the corrupt fingers of the past reach out to poison the future, where Inspector Coelho has just begun gathering information for the case of the murdered girl in Lisbon.<br /><br />Wilson moves masterfully from one era to another, from modern-day Portugal to the great cataclysm of World War II and German mining interests. No sooner does he slip into Lisbon's heated rhythms and Coelho's unique style of detective work, than Wilson plunges back into the abyss of Felsen's nightmarish world, where brutality is a by-product of the Reich mentality. The dark mysteries of history are slowly revealed, depositing fetid secrets and infamous deeds into the present, emphasizing the need to disguise the truth behind a facade, a world hiding from its ugly past. The men who have survived and profited from the war years, now respectable, have much to fear and a serious mistrust of one another.<br /><br />As Coelho slowly unravels the complicated threads that link past actions to the murdered Caterina, the stark simplicity of practiced evil is shattering, repulsive and part of an ongoing human drama. In the clear light of day, the same parasites thrive on the underbelly of society, the same sick souls that inhabit every century. But the inspector has seen much of what life has to offer and is resolute, dogged even, in his pursuit of the truth. Nothing, absolutely nothing is what it seems. As Coelho discovers, there is always another layer, yet another level of mankind's depravity. We should learn through the repetition of our mistakes; Coelho understands: \\"It is a personal thing and people are vengeful creatures, which is why history will never teach us anything.\\"<br /><br />This is a remarkable and powerful novel, beautifully structured, with characters that make your skin crawl and others who inspire hope. The complicated series of events build to a satisfying resolution in a thoughtful novel that will stay in your mind long after the last page is turned. Luan Gaines/2004.ads that link past actions to the murdered Caterina, the stark simplicity of practiced evil is shattering, repulsive and part of an ongoing human drama. In the clear light of day, the same parasites thrive on the underbelly of society, the same sick souls that inhabit every century. But the inspector has seen much of what life has to offer and is resolute, dogged even, in his pursuit of the truth. Nothing, absolutely nothing is what it seems. As Coelho discovers, there is always another layer, yet another level of mankind's depravity. We should learn through the repetition of our mistakes; Coelho understands: \\"It is a personal thing and people are vengeful creatures, which is why history will never teach us anything.\\" <br /> <br />This is a remarkable and powerful novel, beautifully structured, with characters that make your skin crawl and others who inspire hope. The complicated series of events build to a satisfying resolution in a thoughtful novel that will stay in your mind long after the last page is turned. Luan Gaines/2004. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-12-20
420190:US	51010391	R2DDSS2QWZZRAO	0060596503	479838228	Whirlwind: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Outwit. Outlast. Outplay.	Everybody wants something in Washington. Charlie McKenzie, ex-CIA operative, wants his good name restored; the Director of the NSA wants Charlie to clean up a mess that will affect his future in politics; a mercenary special-ops team wants Charlie out of the picture after he leads them to the source of all their current problems: a young Russian spy who stumbles upon and steals material too valuable to leave the US.<br /><br />And nobody trusts anyone else, nor should they. McKenzie had years of service and a solid rep as the best in the business, until the Director of the NSA uses him as a cover for an operation gone wrong; to complicate matters, the security team hired by the NSA Director is as bad as they come, especially the leader, the sociopathic Schmidt, who wants the money but wants revenge on McKenzie even more. As for the Russian spy, she's caught in the jaws of fate once McKenzie locates her. In the most impressive intrigue of his long career, McKenzie lays it all on the line, because his good name was sullied for the benefit of others and he plans to even things out a bit.<br /><br />From Texas to Arizona to California, there is the hunter and the prey, each particularly well-trained to handle the most sophisticated possibilities. Things happen below the surface, just under the radar of local law-enforcement, who never knows violence is occurring until bodies litter the landscape, a bit of collateral damage in a very high stakes game. A combination of greed, pride, revenge and hubris, McKenzie tangles with everyone, from the White House to the mercenaries who kill for the highest bidder. Whirlwind lives up to its title, action-filled to the last page, as one ex-agent determines to have the last word and save his country from some serious evil. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-12-17
420904:US	51010391	R3DO0T0EYP13F6	0066209552	664157330	Courtesans: Money, Sex and Fame in the Nineteenth Century	Books	3	10	11	N	N	(3.5) The demimonde: flaunting the wages of sin	Hickman's study of five nineteenth century courtesans covers an era of particular interest, because these women, in spite of their notoriety and questionable morals, were a mainstay of French and English society, their favors, parlors, and assignations always in the public eye. Successful courtesans enjoyed an extraordinary freedom in a repressed society, flaunting their beauty and living in the most extravagant circumstances. These women were politically astute and intellectually curious, the salons drawing from all aspects of high society. The female wiles that restricted other women became a hidden asset for these clever ladies, who made and spent fortunes in pursuit of fame.<br /><br />The five women highlighted in the book illustrate the changes and adjustments these famous courtesans made as one century changed into another, old-fashioned manners and charming pretensions giving way to more socially sophisticated lifestyles. Sophia Baddeley was an untalented actress with a mercurial temper, who benefited from her father's connections to the theater. She had a voracious appetite for clothes, jewels and sexual liaisons to ease her boredom. Elizabeth Armistead was best known for her romance with the Whig, Charles Fox, assured a place in history by virtue of this great affair.<br /><br />Harriette Wilson began her \\"career\\" with Lord Craven in 1802, the beginning of a brilliant climb to success, her manner more brash than her eighteenth century sisters. Cora Pearl was a star in Paris, where English visitors luxuriated in her cosmopolitan charms. Cora was a blunt-spoken \\"professional\\" with a business sense, a quality lacking in most of her cohorts. Catherine Walters (Skittles) had a beauty that inspired hopeless romantic passion from her many admirers. An avid horsewoman, she lived a long life in the midst of her demimonde society and lived to be an old woman, ever the gossip, lover of all things equine and the attentions of famous men.<br /><br />A society is always curious about those who successfully break the rules, especially the notorious \\"fallen woman\\". Men have ever been willing to pay the price for a beautiful woman's attention, especially when watched with envy and avid curiosity by others. Using much anecdotal documentation, the author quotes publications and personal letters. Although frequently digressing on particular lovers and incidental courtesans of the day, Hickman paints a vivid picture of courtesan life, the glamour, the glory and the quest for fame of some extraordinary ladies who defied conventional propriety and mores, all to advance themselves in the rarified demimonde. Luan Gaines/2004.ety is always curious about those who successfully break the rules, especially the notorious \\"fallen woman\\". Men have ever been willing to pay the price for a beautiful woman's attention, especially when watched with envy and avid curiosity by others. Using much anecdotal documentation, the author quotes publications and personal letters. Although frequently digressing on particular lovers and incidental courtesans of the day, Hickman paints a vivid picture of courtesan life, the glamour, the glory and the quest for fame of some extraordinary ladies who defied conventional propriety and mores, all to advance themselves in the rarified demimonde. Luan Gaines/2004. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-12-17
427279:US	51010391	R1ZCI19W6QFUT9	0738208086	334819348	The Mapmaker's Wife: A True Tale Of Love, Murder, And Survival In The Amazon	Books	3	7	9	N	N	(3.5) An extraordinary adventure	In 1735 a team of French mapmakers began a scientific expedition to determine the precise size and shape of the Earth and recording plants and animal species that they encountered. They also encountered the brutality of the Portuguese and Spanish colonists, who abused the native population, turning them into free labor. Following the decade-long exploration, one of the party, Jean Godin, later met and married Isabel Gameson in 1741. Isabel was an upper-class educated Peruvian woman whose family was well off and owned considerable property. The couple spent their early years living near Isabel's family, losing a number of children in infancy.<br /><br />The couple planned to travel to Jean's native France and when the country began to feel less hospitable to the colonists, they decided that Jean would make the initial journey, to prepare the way for his wife to follow. In the course of events and political interference, the couple was separated for over 20 years, divided by a continent. Jean continued to sue the government for a passport, the means to retrieve his wife, but was unsuccessful year after year. Finally, a rumor reached Isabel, who had heard nothing from her husband, suggesting that Jean was indeed alive. In 1769, she made her way over the Andes and along the Amazon, a trek never mastered by a woman and only a few men.<br /><br />The rather naive Isabel began with more than adequate provisions of food and an excess of luxurious garments and jewels to take with her to France once reunited with Jean.<br /><br />Soon the jungle exerted it's dominance over the party, visiting all the rigors of such an endeavor on the travelers. After a series of unexpected misfortunes, Isabel found herself stranded deep in the Amazon, with only her brothers and nephew and no supplies. All were tragically lost through starvation, but for Isabel, who found an unexpected will to live and wandered for weeks in the jungle, while her village assumed her dead. She later stumbled into some friendly natives who rescued the destitute survivor; once she was able, along with some native guides, Isabel continued her incredible journey until eventually being reunited with Jean.<br /><br />There is an enormous amount of information in The Mapmaker's Wife, a number of maps and illustrations, as well as impressive published documents and letters. The beginning of the book hints at Isabel's coming ordeal, but carefully lays the groundwork for the prior journey by the French cartographers and the difficulties they faced. By the time Isabel's trek begins, the reader has ample evidence of the dangers confronting a lone woman who survives all the obstacles of the rugged jungle terrain. Luan Gaines/2004r stumbled into some friendly natives who rescued the destitute survivor; once she was able, along with some native guides, Isabel continued her incredible journey until eventually being reunited with Jean. <br /> <br />There is an enormous amount of information in The Mapmaker's Wife, a number of maps and illustrations, as well as impressive published documents and letters. The beginning of the book hints at Isabel's coming ordeal, but carefully lays the groundwork for the prior journey by the French cartographers and the difficulties they faced. By the time Isabel's trek begins, the reader has ample evidence of the dangers confronting a lone woman who survives all the obstacles of the rugged jungle terrain. Luan Gaines/2004 <br /> <br />             <br /> <br />	2004-12-11
427571:US	51010391	R1WHP06VID8NO3	0060088958	312063366	The Dark Bride: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Love and survival	Under a shining moon in the Columbian jungle, the shabby village of La Catunga transforms itself to a place of merriment, music and beautiful women under the colored lights that connote the ladies' different nationalities. These women nightly await the petroleros, men who work for the American-owned Tropical Oil Company, who toil in the hot jungle during the days and spend their evenings drinking and seeking the favors of the women of La Catunga.<br /><br />Columbia is the country of the Sacred Heart, common language peppered with references to a variety of saints, the Blessed Mother and the Sacred Heart; religion is wound tightly into a culture that must endure much and suffer greatly. Religion is hope, the promise of a better life after death. In sharp contrast to their religious beliefs, the women do what they must to survive and often all that is available to them is the sale of their bodies for the pleasure of men with a few coins in their pockets. These are businesswomen, who sell their bodies, rarely their hearts: \\"from the waist up is the soul, from the wait down is business.\\" For the few who lose themselves in dreams of romance, only heartbreak awaits.<br /><br />Sayonara arrives in the barrio with nothing but the clothes on her back. A cart driver delivers her to the door of the aging, but still beautiful, Todos los Santos, who takes the wild girl into her care, preparing her for a future as one of the most legendary of the women of the village; men will tremble with adoration at Sayonara's rare combination of helplessness and arrogance. Todos los Santos accepts the young girl willingly, recognizing the potential under the layers of dirt and wild blue-black hair that tumbles about the child, determined that this wild young creature might \\"prosper in the pursuit of survival\\".<br /><br />This is an impossible love story in a place where love is forbidden. Narrating as a reporter seeking to separate truth from rumor, the author delves into the history of the legendary Sayonara from those who know her best: the old woman who trains her for success in the life, the cart driver who craves her obsessively, but is unable to sort the girl of the day from the woman of the night and the petrolero who loves her, but has a past he cannot escape.<br /><br />Dark Bride is a compilation of memories, some truthful, some wishful, all contributing to the ultimate mystery of Sayonara, forever a creature of myth to the women of the village. Her power is their power in a world where simple survival exacts a heavy price and an incredibly lush jungle surrounds the most insidious poverty, juxtaposing the harsh realities of Columbia, where beauty coexists with despair and all is wrapped in the vague mysticism of religious belief. This is a land whose poor suffer deeply from the consequences of poverty, yet remain devoted to the religious convictions inextricably entwined with everyday life. The reader is drawn ever deeper into the small village of waiting women as the journalist unearths the truth of their existence in the dark of night, where fate rules with an unforgiving mien, but prayers of fallen women fill the skies on their way to a watching God. Luan Gaines/ 2004.o the history of the legendary Sayonara from those who know her best: the old woman who trains her for success in the life, the cart driver who craves her obsessively, but is unable to sort the girl of the day from the woman of the night and the petrolero who loves her, but has a past he cannot escape. <br /> <br />Dark Bride is a compilation of memories, some truthful, some wishful, all contributing to the ultimate mystery of Sayonara, forever a creature of myth to the women of the village. Her power is their power in a world where simple survival exacts a heavy price and an incredibly lush jungle surrounds the most insidious poverty, juxtaposing the harsh realities of Columbia, where beauty coexists with despair and all is wrapped in the vague mysticism of religious belief. This is a land whose poor suffer deeply from the consequences of poverty, yet remain devoted to the religious convictions inextricably entwined with everyday life. The reader is drawn ever deeper into the small village of waiting women as the journalist unearths the truth of their existence in the dark of night, where fate rules with an unforgiving mien, but prayers of fallen women fill the skies on their way to a watching God. Luan Gaines/ 2004.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-12-11
434852:US	51010391	R1M2MBEK6Q5IOM	039305862X	379507714	Tender Hooks: Poems	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	A fearless magic	Poet Fennelly's approach to motherhood is exquisitely intimate, yet accessible as she explores the deep emotions that burst free when a woman gives birth, defining the indefinable, expressing thoughts that most are afraid to acknowledge, let alone put into words.<br /><br />Truly, motherhood unearths a vast reservoir of visceral feelings, both familiar and unfamiliar; yet Fennelly writes in such a way as to expose that sensitive emotional underbelly suddenly made vulnerable. In language both simple and profound, these poems celebrate the joy of a child's complete dependency, the sensation of newborn skin and sharp pain at the merest thought of loss. This poet mines language until it serves up the desired effect, plunging into private thoughts and fears with a passionate intensity:<br /><br />\\"The great dramas all begin like this:<br /><br />a surfeit of happiness, a glass-smooth pond<br /><br />just begging for a stone.\\"<br /><br />Harrowing, erotic and blissful, Fennelly pushes beyond the sentimental into the bittersweet experience of new motherhood. The poet explores both joy and loss, birth and death, as she celebrates her daughter, Claire, yet grieves the loss of one she lost, another girl, probing those feelings like a tongue testing a tender tooth, aware that life's realities are not to be denied. Tender Hooks (a childish misnomer of \\"tenterhooks\\") fills me with images and awakened feelings, a quiet excitement at having found this wonderful poet. I cannot imagine that I might have missed this stunning collection. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-12-04
435690:US	51010391	RZGGVZ7NKKVKB	0375756485	614142742	Spilling Open: The Art of Becoming Yourself	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	An art journal that embraces life	By its nature, an art journal is an intensely personal foray into the creative mind of the artist who finds expression in the combination of art and language. Spilling Open offers page after page of collaged images, highlighted by the writing that explains, explores, questions and muses, in search of the inner self. Author/artist Sabrina Ward Harrison begins her very personal journey after an introduction by SARK that encourages readers to dive into these pages, give over to the adventure that awaits, to \\"see through Sabrina eyes\\".<br /><br />Indeed, there is much to see. Colorful splotches, photographs and ink drawings attract the eye to the hand-lettered text that personalizes the experience. Harrison shares her growing pains, the struggle to accept her own body just as it is and the heartbreak of lost love. Her self-expression is courageous and honest, constantly revelatory of an evolving self: \\"It's a mixture of speaking up and speaking in, reaching out and reaching in.\\"<br /><br />With more questions than answers in these years of early womanhood (eighteen to twenty-one), this imaginative map of the author's inner heart is an epiphany of sorts, one where Harrison defines her space as an individual, the bright, bold images as stimulating as her curiosity about the world that awaits: \\"Love it all...the whole process that's known as Life\\". Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-12-04
435719:US	51010391	R14GD28QV9G7SW	0385501420	935363509	The Blue Ribbon Day	Books	4	13	13	N	N	The courage to try something new	With a granddaughter in primary school, I am always on the lookout for books that will encourage a love of reading and spark her curiosity about the wonderful adventures that await in the world of books. To this end, I have found that rhyming stories add more fun to early reading.<br /><br />Couric uses this technique to tell of the latest adventures of Ellie McSnelly and Carrie O'Toole, as the two friends try out for soccer together. Unfortunately, only one of the girls excels in the sport and is chosen for the team. Not to worry; Couric has plans for Carrie and an important life lesson as well. With a little help from her friend Lazlo and her mother, Carrie learns to appreciate her own special talents, in this case a successful effort at an academic school competition.<br /><br />There is much to be learned in this lighthearted romp through the joys of girlhood; mostly, that each child is blessed with her own special gifts. The girls share in each other's endeavors and realize that different talents make life more interesting for both.<br /><br />The illustrations are bright and full of energy, the perfect complement to the optimistic rhymes that propel the story. Little girls are constantly beset with choices while making a place in the society of young girls. This enthusiastic approach to problem solving is a delightful read, with subtle lessons of acceptance for differences. Ellie McSnelly and Carrie O'Toole are perfect role models who take on the world hand in hand. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-12-04
443369:US	51010391	R7T7TRD2BDQ8U	0393058913	295250856	Alice Walker: A Life	Books	4	4	7	N	N	An intimate portrayal	If one were to ask, most people most closely identify Alice Walker with her extraordinary novel that was later made into a movie, The Color Purple. However, this complicated, deeply-intelligent child of southern roots has never shied away from controversial subjects in her writing, constantly tackling issues that call for attention. Often drawn to the rebellious factions of a changing society, Walker is fearless, throwing her considerable energy into ideas whose time has come, as well as important causes.<br /><br />The Georgia-born Walker showed her intelligence early, an avid learner who was drawn to educational pursuits and the written word. She has challenged racial, political and sexual boundaries, daring to bring such topics to light as FGM, aware that such practices cannot be eradicated until society as a whole acknowledges the horror of such acts perpetrated upon young African women. Yet Walker has tackled less predictable ground in her work as well, with more esoteric novels that envision a more utopian world (The Temple of My Familiar), giving reign to a creative vision that expands upon the conventional. Yet The Color Purple becomes the novel that defines Walker to most audiences.<br /><br />Walker has deep roots in the literary community and author Evelyn C White makes liberal use of quotations to illustrate Walker's impact on black literary society. As in life, these authors frequently draw strength and support from each other, breaking new ground and daring to speak about forbidden topics, family abuse, violence and the mutilation of women's bodies. In pursuit of an honest portrayal of the world she sees, Walker wields words as her most powerful tool.<br /><br />White has compiled an impressive biography, a fully-fleshed examination of Walker's life, both public and private, her personal struggles as a writer and her evolution as a woman. Walker is still an active writer, and, as such, a work-in-progress, with much to contribute as a female and an author who refuses to be intimidated or restricted by the world. In Walker's own words: \\"Love is big. Love can hold anger, love can hold pain, love can even hold hatred. It's all about love.\\" Luan Gaines/2004n author who refuses to be intimidated or restricted by the world. In Walker's own words: \\"Love is big. Love can hold anger, love can hold pain, love can even hold hatred. It's all about love.\\" Luan Gaines/2004 <br />	2004-11-27
443564:US	51010391	R9HHRXO95N218	1931561788	74377868	Stories from the Blue Moon Cafe III	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A taste of Southern comfort	Like the previous volumes of short stories by Southern writers, this anthology is packed with short stories and poems from below the Mason-Dixon Line. All of the stories have those Southern roots in common, the culture that influenced the memories and creative energies of these writers.<br /><br />Some of the authors are quite familiar, some not, but all have a truth to tell and most perform an admirable job of storytelling, selected through the diligence of editor Sonny Brewer, who offers an introduction that aptly sets the mood, as Brewer strolls the streets of New Orleans. At times uneven, the stories range from good to excellent. It is those small gems that jump out at the reader that make this anthology such a pleasure. All the stores are of above average quality, but there are a few that reach deeper, taking chances with the material.<br /><br />Because these writers are rooted in the South, race underlies everything, if not explicitly in the story, then through the scenes and dialog, the exchanges between whites and blacks. There is subtle acknowledgement that things have changed forever and there is no going back, regardless of nostalgia for the good old days. But the most attractive aspect of these stories is that each author speaks his truth unflinchingly, be it pleasant or ugly. Reality is not a commodity these Southerners fear; in fact they embrace it, truth a vehicle to understanding.<br /><br />Tales range from fading Southern belles to dirt-poor families who live from hand to mouth in the relentless grip of poverty, where lack breeds its own kind of discontent regardless of skin color; the inevitable loss of a aging loved ones, love's constant betrayal and the conflicts that arise in life's everyday challenges. Some stories are shocking and memorable, others, sweet vignettes of a past lost years ago, but all share the common values of ordinary people, both good and evil. In a paean to humanity at its best and worst with a southern twist, Stories from the Blue Moon Cafe III evokes a bittersweet angst of a way of life so deeply embedded in a culture that its memory shrouds the future still. Luan Gaines/2004from the Blue Moon Cafe III evokes a bittersweet angst of a way of life so deeply embedded in a culture that its memory shrouds the future still. Luan Gaines/2004  <br /> <br />	2004-11-27
448917:US	51010391	R3NCE7YPCNMN83	0312422881	679723679	A Change of Climate: A Novel	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Family secrets	Instinctively, people know that when a pain is too great to be endured, it is appropriate to wait until it can be more rationally confronted. But there is always the danger of pushing the pain so far away that it becomes inaccessible, if never, ever forgotten. \\"To some people great grief is an indecency...They blame the bereaved.\\"<br /><br />After a stunning tragedy in Africa, where Ralph and Anna Eldred have gone as missionaries, they return home, cautioning their family never to speak of the horror they have endured. It is relegated to the past, where it will stay. The Eldred's are compliant people, particularly Ralph, a man of good intentions who works for the family charitable trust, providing necessities, such as food, clothing and shelter for those less fortunate. But for their brief years in Africa and the trauma they suffer on the Dark Continent, the Eldred's personify the spirit of missionary life.<br /><br />Once again residing in England providing for the downtrodden, Anna and Ralph live out a self-effacing routine. As a Christian, Ralph believes in service, so compassionate that he cannot turn away from those in need. Covertly, Ralph is concerned that people will mistake him for a man who loves mankind in general, but not persons in particular. However, this is exactly how he is perceived, soldiering on for over twenty years after the tragedy, burying himself in the trivia of everyday obligations. His endless pursuit of virtue in hopes of atonement can never be realized.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Anna suffers grievously for Ralph's neglect, enduring a constant ache, her own survival defined by the ever-present needs of her four children. Anna has paid a terrible price for her silence all these years. Ralph grows more distant and preoccupied, Anna more edgy and neither expects the emotional eruption when Ralph falls into a romantic entanglement with a local woman.<br /><br />Mantel is gifted writer, dissecting her character's motivations with elegant precision, especially their great missionary hubris, the vagrant self-congratulatory thoughts that creep into even the most well-meant acts, as the couple seeks to bury the past under the weight of the present. Layer upon layer, the author builds a structure that appears sturdy but ultimately collapses under the weight of grief and silence. Whether the couple recovers will be determined by their spiritual strengths and human weaknesses, the delicate balance between expectations and reality. Luan Gaines/2004.precision, especially their great missionary hubris, the vagrant self-congratulatory thoughts that creep into even the most well-meant acts, as the couple seeks to bury the past under the weight of the present. Layer upon layer, the author builds a structure that appears sturdy but ultimately collapses under the weight of grief and silence. Whether the couple recovers will be determined by their spiritual strengths and human weaknesses, the delicate balance between expectations and reality. Luan Gaines/2004. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-11-21
449053:US	51010391	R2SN7OZZVW3B2B	0743243145	45031889	Where the Light Remains: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The melding of past tp present	This surprisingly well-written novel blends past with present, contrasting the married lives of two characters, Claira (1886) and Claire (1986). Set in Cornwall, England, there is a subtle, but important connection to the Newlyn School of Painting, as the author links her two protagonists through a painting.<br /><br />Claira's wedding day is the day of her father's death in 1886 and she carries a burden of grief into the union with the older Munroe, a strict Methodist. Given the climate of the times, Munroe understandably has little knowledge of his bride, but brings her into a household that is luxurious compared to the poverty of her youth. Their personal struggles as a married couple play out against an extravagant and dramatic landscape. The couple is brought closer by the attention of a famous local woman artist, who requests that Claira pose for a painting. After granting permission, Munroe watches as his young wife comes to life on the canvas, where her vitality and beauty are artfully mirrored.<br /><br />A century later, Claire and Howard purchase Trethenna, the same farmhouse once occupied by Claira and Munroe. Enchanted by the house and wooded surroundings, Claire is delighted at their discovery, Howard less so. Far removed from London, Howard must commute to see the family on weekends, but their two young sons flourish and Claire renews her own interest in painting, stealing quiet hours to work on her craft. But there is more in store for Claire and Howard than geographical change, as Claire finds herself confronted with difficult decisions and the need for serious self-assessment. She has found renewal in Cornwall, an interior life that has long been ignored.<br /><br />This portrayal of parallel lives is beautifully structured, the subtle threads of both personalities carefully woven together to bridge the years. A love of art, a lush landscape and the uncertain territory of marriage define their commonality, yet each woman shines with her own particular gifts and strengths. The past reaches into the present, leaving histories that endure in a turbulent and intense setting. Luan Gaines/2004.particular gifts and strengths. The past reaches into the present, leaving histories that endure in a turbulent and intense setting. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-11-21
449065:US	51010391	R3UXN7KFHT51LO	0066209447	722701151	The News from Paraguay: A Novel	Books	4	19	19	N	N	The mistress and the dictator	By the time she is nineteen in 1854, Ella Lynch, an Irish beauty, is divorced and living in Paris, ready for a new romance. She finds her next paramour in the unlikely person of Francisco Solano Lopez, better known as the infamous Franco, the future dictator of Paraguay. Stout, dark and hirsute, Franco is immediately attracted to the blonde-haired Ella and determined to win her affections, showering her with expensive gifts. When Franco leaves Paris to return to his native Paraguay, Ella is by his side, where she will remain for many years. Although they never marry, she bears him five sons, an extraordinary fecund consort for the dictator.<br /><br />Ella is a product of the Paris she so enjoyed, where she resided in elegant surroundings, spending her days at parties and royal fetes. For much of their time together, Franco is able to offer her much of the same, their days a continuous romantic adventure; never does she see him as the Emperor who has no clothes. Ella lives in a world of her own imagination, one of servants and plenty, her needs constantly attended, until Franco's war turns bad. Even then she follows him to the countryside until forced to flee for her safety.<br /><br />The author approaches her subject with an eye to historical possibilities, filling in the lapses with vivid imagination, recreating a place and time long lost to memory. There is no question that Franco is a greatly flawed leader, a despot who deprives his citizens of their livelihood in an effort to establish Paraguay as a military power. His hubris costs the lives of many young men; torture and starvation descend upon the survivors, while Franco skirmishes to the bitter end, his decimated troops dwindling before the advancing swords of the Brazilians.<br /><br />The author recreates the brilliant and exotic Paraguayan landscape, a lush background for the unfolding drama of an ill-conceived war. Tuck's Ella is a self-absorbed, spoiled woman whose beauty allows her to rise above the poverty and turmoil of ordinary life. She turns a blind eye to Franco's arrogance and destruction and never questions his ability to rule. This is a fascinating view of a couple who are defined by their physical differences, yet perhaps drawn together by their similarities. Tuck constructs a portrait of an exotic country, flourishing before it is gutted by one man's Napoleonic fantasies, his blonde, blue-eyed paramour proudly riding at his side. Luan Gaines/2004.the poverty and turmoil of ordinary life. She turns a blind eye to Franco's arrogance and destruction and never questions his ability to rule. This is a fascinating view of a couple who are defined by their physical differences, yet perhaps drawn together by their similarities. Tuck constructs a portrait of an exotic country, flourishing before it is gutted by one man's Napoleonic fantasies, his blonde, blue-eyed paramour proudly riding at his side. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-11-21
449405:US	51010391	RJV3T1J32B5AJ	031242289X	725218718	Eight Months on Ghazzah Street: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The dark at the top of the stairs	Frances Shore is a worldly, well-traveled woman, who would never entertain paranoia. When her husband is posted to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia in 1984, after their last few years in Africa, the couple has no idea of the cultural adjustments that await them, but look forward to a new city and its opportunities. In Saudi Arabia, the Europeans make a useful contribution to the infrastructure of a country with a surplus of oil and wealth. Happy to oblige for spectacular remuneration, the men are not nearly as constricted as the few wives who accompany their husbands.<br /><br />Living quarters are provided through the construction company Andrew Shore has contracted with, as well as a daily stipend and a set of rules unlike any in their experience.<br /><br />Before the journey, Frances educates herself about the country where she will reside, understanding the complex cultural and religious differences of this new posting. What she isn't prepared for is the emotional toll of living in a repressed society, the streets patrolled by vigilant religious police. Increasing her uneasiness, watchful, mocking eyes follow her every move. Curiosity is fleeting to those who live in the Kingdom; not all information is available, but foreigners will be told whatever they are allowed to know.<br /><br />Much is forbidden and it is imperative not to offend the host country. Their apartment complex is surrounded by walls blocking any view of the outside world; women cannot drive, but must be driven by a male. At the mercy of such restrictions, Fran draws inward, conscious of those who live in the building but are never seen, watching and listening. Thus begins an assault on Fran's senses; in her hyper-vigilant state, Fran becomes convinced that something sinister is going on in the empty apartment above theirs. \\"First unease and then fear become her habitual state of mind.\\"<br /><br />Mantel has masterfully created a psychological thriller that takes root Frances's first day on Ghazzah Street. Surrounded by oppressive silence and mysterious comings and goings, Frances Shore is more than a victim of her own fears and delusions, a reality that time and tragedy will bear out. It isn't that no one wants to listen to Frances' concerns; rather, they are fearful for their own safety, trying to maintain a delicate balance in a host country intolerant of Western arrogance, contemptuous of Western values. Eventually, even Andrew Shore is forced to admit that not everything is as it seems. The Shores have one last hurdle: no one leaves the Kingdom without permission. Luan Gaines/2004.et. Surrounded by oppressive silence and mysterious comings and goings, Frances Shore is more than a victim of her own fears and delusions, a reality that time and tragedy will bear out. It isn't that no one wants to listen to Frances' concerns; rather, they are fearful for their own safety, trying to maintain a delicate balance in a host country intolerant of Western arrogance, contemptuous of Western values. Eventually, even Andrew Shore is forced to admit that not everything is as it seems. The Shores have one last hurdle: no one leaves the Kingdom without permission. Luan Gaines/2004. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-11-21
464034:US	51010391	RA32OGXOE5POF	1590592387	537075618	Paint Shop Pro 8 Zero to Hero	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	Navigating the PSP 8 maze	This is one of the few specialty books that specifically addresses some of the image issues that I have found when using PSP 8: ie., the number of pixels per image when printing and using appropriate selection tools. As with other books written to solve some of the problems for users, not all issues can be addressed and the book covers what the authors feel is pertinent, facilitating user-friendly navigation of Paint Shop Pro 8. Be sure to read the Table of Contents to ascertain that this book covers your particular concerns.<br /><br />Zero to Hero offers a variety of websites for those seeking help or clarification and these sites can serve to further answer specific questions. This book is worth purchasing for these resources alone. The program is too complex for one book alone to cover all the aspects, but since each artist brings his own perspectives, often the basic knowledge offered is enough to point in the right direction. Zero to Hero also engages in troubleshooting issues, clarifying some of the complications.<br /><br />I buy these books looking for solutions when I can't seem to get enough information from the help section of the Paint Shop Pro program. That is where how-to books, like Zero to Hero, enable me to get past the problems with visuals that make more sense to me when I can see the process. Any book that offers solutions, like Zero to Hero, and I have bought many, complements some of the others in my growing library. In Zero to Hero the websites have been particularly helpful and I have accessed some, as well as received responses. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-11-07
464077:US	51010391	R7JZTNXNWPECQ	193156194X	458255387	Identity Theory	Books	4	17	17	N	N	(4.5) Be careful what you ask for...	I wanted to find a book so engrossing that I wouldn't want it to end and I certainly found it in Identity Theory. Dark Continents, Special Forces and spy networks in the age of electronic communication... all conspire to reveal death squads and mass murder in the name of peace and freedom. This is no plot for conspiracy theory junkies, but a believable network of things that go bump in the night, disgorging certain facts that are worth killing to hide. Anything to avoid international embarrassment.<br /><br />There is a video tape, the recording of a village massacre, in the hands of one man, a South African mercenary. When he tries to sell that tape, alarms go off around the world, particularly London, Germany and the United States. All this is past history, long considered safely buried and it is unacceptable that such images should reach a live audience. To this end, factions move to block that one South African mercenary, who gets lucky once too often.<br /><br />A newspaper woman in London wants to buy the tape; frustrated in her attempts, she doggedly pursues any leads. A purveyor of information supplies relevant data to clients, no questions asked as long as the client pays well. Until the long-forgotten past emerges and the pieces become too obvious to ignore. And the mercenary dodges and feints, avoiding discovery, but aware that the odds are against him. This is a world where collateral damage is as acceptable as income tax; a certain number of losses are expected and pass mostly unnoticed. When that delicate balance is disturbed and information leaks out, disparate forces unite to stifle those asking dangerous questions.<br /><br />This novel is a disturbing read, but it is not a book to be easily put aside. Temple builds the tension and ratchets up the action to the page-turning end, an excellent, well-written thriller that evokes malevolent shadows of intrigue and special ops. We all know these forces are at work out there somewhere. We just don't know the details or suspect the urgency of certain information. Temple reminds us that the surface has cracked; categorical denial by any government is imminent. Luan Gianes/2004.t know the details or suspect the urgency of certain information. Temple reminds us that the surface has cracked; categorical denial by any government is imminent. Luan Gianes/2004. <br />	2004-11-07
464309:US	51010391	R2IAG7RDGW998S	1931561850	968957064	The Seas	Books	4	10	11	N	N	"The ocean is full of everything, except mercy."	Sleeping in the bathtub on the third floor of the weathered house, where she can see the stars from the window above, a child pressed her ear to the drainpipe so she could hear her parents whispering all night. But one night, her father said, \\"I remember how the moon shines into the ocean and the pattern it makes on the sea floor\\" and her mother began to cry. She had never heard her mother cry before. Soon after, her father disappeared into the sea and mother and daughter spend their lives waiting for him to return.<br /><br />Even as a young woman, the daughter never forgets how her father once told her she was a mermaid, a gift from the sea. Clinging to this small fantasy, the girl spins out a story where she exists in a separate reality, in the blue cocoon of ocean that gave her life.<br /><br />An integral part of this intricate fantasy, the much older Jude steps out of the sea one day, almost a vision of her father, at least, close enough for an eighteen year old girl longing for his return. She, her mother and grandfather have kept a lonely vigil, waiting year after year for him to come home to them, unable to give up hope. Struggling to emerge from this still life as a mermaid, into a more functional reality, the young woman is beset on all sides by the presence and power of the sea, as it offers imprisonment or release. Propelled into her own future, the girl is at a critical impasse, brought about by her intense need for Jude to be all things, lover, father, savior, failure.<br /><br />The author has a remarkable talent for description, drawing the reader into her images, such as the strange sounds of the deaf world, the inner workings of a lonely woman's heart and the incandescence of hope on the horizon. Hunt spills words like breadcrumbs through the forest... impossible not to follow. This is fiction as it was meant to be, visually stimulating and deeply satisfying, with an understanding of the inner lives of others, the deepest chambers of the human heart. Luan Gaines/ 2004.ers of the human heart. Luan Gaines/ 2004. <br />	2004-11-07
470351:US	51010391	R2MESB5VTXFB1K	0151010617	492282640	The Courage Consort: Three Novellas	Books	3	11	13	N	N	(3.5) Human nature, fear and fantasy	Faber's latest work, the three novellas of The Courage Consort, is a far cry from his well-known The Crimson Petal and the White. From the minutiae of Victoriana to the sophisticated subtleties of personal relationships, Faber illustrates yet another aspect of his considerable talent. Each novella is a unique experience with a varied emotional landscape. Surprises await.<br /><br />The title story, The Courage Consort, is arguably a metaphor for the process of birth, as an a cappella consort isolates in the wilderness to rehearse the difficult composition of a postmodernist. Although the effort is met with intransigence and unexpected complications, the intense mix of characters creates a rich backdrop for the inevitable creative conflicts. Yet all are bound in service to the whole and find strength in their shared talents.<br /><br />\\"The Hundred Ninety-Nine Steps\\" exhibits a lonelier aspect, as well as a brooding air of suspense. Sian, an archeologist, is confronted by the vast territory of loss, albeit with the potential for hope; she literally stumbles through a present that has yet to address a tragic past, haunted by nightmares that hint of a terrible reality. Here again, Faber avoids the obvious, leading skillfully through the scars of war, an archeological dig, possible violence, an old mystery and a surprising denouement.<br /><br />The shortest of the three pieces, \\"The Fahrenheit Twins\\", also touches upon archeology, but with a twist, as two children, Tainto'lilith and Marko'cain, confront a different reality after the death of their mother. A New Age Hansel and Gretel, the children's burial voyage is transformative, the shedding of childhood illusions and the consequent discovery of an illuminated future.<br /><br />All in all, this carefully crafted trilogy proves Faber's skill as a writer, a distinctive talent with a singular voice. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-11-01
472410:US	51010391	RANC9VUOWO7XL	0618149147	798597356	The Empress of the Last Days: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	The once and future Queen	For her third novel of the historical trilogy (The Winter Queen, The Shadow King), about the clandestine 17th century marriage of Elizabeth of Bohemia and Pelagius Van Overmeer, a black slave of royal African lineage, the author attempts a different construct. Rather than follow the theme of her first two novels, the setting for The Empress of Last Days is the modern world of education, where researchers combine resources to uncover the true story of the secret royal marriage and its direct connection to the throne of the British monarchy.<br /><br />Tracking obscure religious and botanical tracts, as well as a play, the road leads to a mysterious young scientist in Barbados, Melpomene Paleologue. While Michael Foxwist, an Oxford don, is editing a play that suggests the original union of royalty to slave, a Dutch graduate, Corinne, works through the internet, acutely aware of the impact of the marriage on current affairs of state in England. A dedicated student of the web, Corinne will be organizing the information for dissemination to the public, with the concurrent need for academic integrity. It is Corinne who will be responsible for the quality of the search engine, site map, index and links to other sites, a huge undertaking, possibly the making of her career.<br /><br />Yet it is Foxwist who steps into the future, traveling to Barbados to pursue the last known person of Pelagius' genealogy. When Michael meets the young woman who could be Queen of England, he finds more than an interesting lineage; Michael falls in love. Yet he is not oblivious to the task ahead, including the blooming relationship with a young woman who has her own plans for the future.<br /><br />In her cleverly crafted final part of the trilogy, Stevenson approaches history with an engaging mix of personalities and possibilities. The novel is a study in the intricacies of academia, literature viewed in the context of real life, adding another dimension to the work. Clearly, Stevenson is comfortable in an educational milieu, her characters struggling for professional survival and personal fulfillment. At times mired in the jargon of academia, this is a multi-layered, densely-plotted novel. Not suited to all literary tastes, this book will definitely appeal to those who appreciate the import of the past on the present in an intellectual world where feelings still demand to be acknowledged. Luan Gaines/2004.s comfortable in an educational milieu, her characters struggling for professional survival and personal fulfillment. At times mired in the jargon of academia, this is a multi-layered, densely-plotted novel. Not suited to all literary tastes, this book will definitely appeal to those who appreciate the import of the past on the present in an intellectual world where feelings still demand to be acknowledged. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-10-30
473543:US	51010391	RWH0NH6ZF2PJT	193156177X	834266881	Torture The Artist	Books	3	26	30	N	N	Paradise Found. Paradise Lost.	A wealthy media mogul with too much money and little time left to live hatches an unusual scheme: to bring true creativity back in all art forms, writing, music, etc. Under the aegis of New renaissance, the company posits that a group of young creative geniuses can be isolated during their formative years and carefully educated in the arts, at the same time undergoing systematic deprivation of the happiness most people enjoy, resulting in a surplus of angst-generated creativity such as the world has never seen.<br /><br />Enter six-year old Vincent, one of 457 children chosen for the New Renaissance Academy. Each child is assigned a handler, a reverse \\"guardian angel\\"; Vincent's handler is Harlan Eiffler, a 28-year old cynic whose job is to thwart every opportunity for happiness and direct Vincent's creative flow. Vincent dances to the music of his puppeteer, churning out plays, screenplays, musical arrangements and novels, all well-received by the public. New Renaissance is making a fortune. Vincent's work is brilliant, even though his personal life is in a shambles, eventually reaching critical mass.<br /><br />But humanity is what it is and this is essentially an experiment fraught with pitfalls and doomed to fail. One day Vincent and Harlan find themselves staring across an abyss, face to face with revelations that change their relationship forever, bitter truths colliding after years of subterfuge and dishonesty. Paradise Lost.<br /><br />Torture the Artist is a difficult novel to describe. The closest I can come is a combination of incendiary superhero comics with subtle shades of pornography, along with the naivet&eacute; of childhood, the images as bold as the strokes of the cartoon artist's pen. Goebel attacks his theme with fervor and enthusiasm, daring the reader to ignore his radical ideas. Stuck in a jaded and sophisticated world, this young author strikes a blow for his own voice, load and clear, a cross between Boogie Nights, Animal House and Quentin Tarantino's limbic brain. Luan Gaines/2004.and Quentin Tarantino's limbic brain. Luan Gaines/2004. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-10-29
479388:US	51010391	R4683GI3JZ2RA	0393325776	512411880	Daughter of the Saints: Growing Up in Polygamy	Books	4	67	71	N	N	Daddy Dearest	This was obviously a difficult book to write after years of silence as a way of life for a woman who grew up in a plural marriage. Dorothy's father, Rulon C. Allred, believed he was called to live in the Principle of Plural Marriage, which was dissolved by the church elders in 1890. Dorothy is the twenty-eighth of forty-eight children and has a unique perspective, a child among many siblings with an intimate view of the daily lives of sister-wives, as the women called themselves. Sister-wives formed a mutual support system, sharing chores and the rearing of children, as well as their husband.<br /><br />Over the years, political pressure was put upon the Church of the Latter Day Saints to desist from plural marriages and confine their member to monogamy. Still, there were those who held to the fundamentalist tenets of a patriarchal religion that allowed a man more than one wife on his path toward sainthood. Eventually, many of these families were fragmented in order to avoid arrest; either that, or they moved where they would not be prosecuted, to such countries as Mexico. The Allred's fled to Mexico to avoid the law, but it was inhospitable, barely endurable for a growing tribe whose basic needs were barely met. Rulon would leave the family compound in Mexico, returning to Utah to maintain his chiropractic office with his one legal wife, who remained in Utah.<br /><br />This is an shocking story, as the author reveals the hardships endured by the extended families of men who practiced The Principle. Besides the fact that first wives agonized over whether to participate in the marriages, there was the human dissatisfaction of sharing a husband, although most sister-wives succumbed to intense pressure from the men. At least they had a choice in the matter. None of the children had a choice and it is the children who suffered from a lifestyle that forced them to lie about family circumstances and constantly uprooted them from place to place to avoid their parent's being sent to jail. This only made their lives more tenuous, both children and wives making money by whatever means possible.<br /><br />The author grapples with her love for her father and his complicity in causing such hardship for his children. While she faces most of the difficult truths, there is a constant tendency to rationalize Rulon's behavior, especially after he is murdered by another fanatical faction of polygamists. In the end, it is telling that Solomon chooses monogamy for herself, as do many of her siblings. However, the psychological damage to the children is immeasurable; such problems as incest and child abuse are virtually ignored, rather than bring attention to the family lifestyle. Yet Solomon is as rigorous as she is able in assessing her life in such an archaic arrangement, dedicated to speaking her truths and shining light into the darkness:\\" The family orchards are bearing their harvest and some of it is bitter.\\" Luan Gaines/2004.'s being sent to jail. This only made their lives more tenuous, both children and wives making money by whatever means possible. <br /> <br />The author grapples with her love for her father and his complicity in causing such hardship for his children. While she faces most of the difficult truths, there is a constant tendency to rationalize Rulon's behavior, especially after he is murdered by another fanatical faction of polygamists. In the end, it is telling that Solomon chooses monogamy for herself, as do many of her siblings. However, the psychological damage to the children is immeasurable; such problems as incest and child abuse are virtually ignored, rather than bring attention to the family lifestyle. Yet Solomon is as rigorous as she is able in assessing her life in such an archaic arrangement, dedicated to speaking her truths and shining light into the darkness:\\" The family orchards are bearing their harvest and some of it is bitter.\\" Luan Gaines/2004. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-10-24
479698:US	51010391	R26QOWY9SOHHOB	0393058484	497632681	The Annotated Brothers Grimm (The Annotated Books)	Books	5	136	142	N	N	An imaginative feast	Like the others in this series (The Annotated Wizard of Oz, The Annotated A Christmas Carol), this volume is beautifully illustrated and annotated with details that personalize the age-old tales, revealing original publishers names and themes, a behind-the-scenes peek at the historical background of those fairy tales we have loved since childhood.<br /><br />In a very personal introduction, A.S. Byatt speaks of her own yearning for myth and fantasy as a young girl: talking birds, unicorns, princesses, imps and spun gold, hair cascading down the length of a turret. Byatt cautions us to remember the violent nature of the past and that the acceptance of violence was a part of everyday life; hence, the physical became part of the narrative, public hangings common to the times. The beauty of fairy tales is that limbs grow back and the sleeper awakens, once more alive.<br /><br />The editor/translator has reassembled original Grimm stories in the order they were first seen by the public. There are the most familiar, Rapunzel, Cinderella, Little Red Riding Hood and The Golden Goose; but Tater goes even further, adding stories that were removed, most originally meant for adults, later considered too bawdy for the consumption of children. And Tater has another surprise in this volume: a biographical essay on the Grimm Brothers, their personal lives and political views, as well as the original prefaces.<br /><br />This book is a treasure on many levels, the early appreciation of fantasy read as a child, the historical implications of those tales, the psychology that underlies the power of story and man's need for images to act great battles of good and evil. Far deeper than mere storytelling, the Tales of the Brothers Grimm are the sturm und drang of the German culture, powerful and political, pagan and pure, complex and simple. Cultural complications aside, this tome stimulates curiosity at every turn, the beginning of a great adventure even adults can enjoy.<br /><br />These wonderful, familiar stories are brought to life by the exquisite illustrations, both black and white and full color, as well as the annotated remarks that add such flavor to the interpretation. A visual and intellectual treat, The Annotated Brothers Grimm is a feast of possibilities, fancies, fears and dreams. The impossible is possible. It is all a matter of imagination. Luan Gaines/2004.e wonderful, familiar stories are brought to life by the exquisite illustrations, both black and white and full color, as well as the annotated remarks that add such flavor to the interpretation. A visual and intellectual treat, The Annotated Brothers Grimm is a feast of possibilities, fancies, fears and dreams. The impossible is possible. It is all a matter of imagination. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-10-24
479987:US	51010391	R2L6WQMD0DN1I4	039305991X	265544382	North of Nowhere, South of Loss: Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Everything in its time	Hospital has created a book of interconnected short stories, not a happy ending in sight. Rather, she takes incidents from her character's lives, sometimes seemingly minor, other times desperately tragic, and weaves an unusual narrative that reaches past the obvious, into far murkier waters of love, obsession, loss and acceptance.<br /><br />Beginning in North Australia, the scenes redolent of that particular country and moving finally into the deep south of America, the author's sense of place defines each tale, the relative characters reflecting where each story takes place. Skillfully blending the present and the past, the innocuous becomes ominous, the innocent evil, never predictable, but surely representative of the intricacies of the human psyche.<br /><br />In a rush of characters across space and time, images flash by unheeded, yet noted. Pushing into the future, emotions accelerate in intensity, yet fall backward into the realm of memory. Throughout the chaos of the years, the complexities of relationships, the what-ifs, there is a great connectedness, an acceptance of what is.<br /><br />A genius of the impossible, Hospital rushes to the edge of the world and dares to look over. There are no happy endings because, basically, there are no endings, only the push toward freedom of one kind or another. Complex, challenging, North of Nowhere, South of Loss is an extraordinary experience in the realm of possibilities. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-10-24
484861:US	51010391	RJ760L0V0OCK	0385509782	724456285	Echo of the Spirit: A Photographers Journey	Books	5	6	6	N	N	"The Spirit informs my daily living."	Drawn to the powerful images of the Civil Rights Era, photographer Chester Higgins, Jr. had his own story to tell, one of positive change in the African-American community. While others photographed the great culture clash of the Civil Rights Movement, Higgins saw events from another perspective, images of triumph, joy and appreciation of a rich and varied culture. Alongside the violence and rage of the Movement, he portrayed the courage behind these efforts, the importance of family and a community commitment to the future of the next generation.<br /><br />Echo of the Spirit is a series of black and white photographs that are sensitively rendered by the author/photographer, his shared reflections adding to the rhythmic narrative. Higgins defines his personal journey in two parts: first, \\"Within the Blood\\", a retrospective from childhood that speaks to the cultural values of family and personal memories; and second, \\"Water of Change\\", the author's adult perspective, traveling through Africa, emphasizing the life-changing awareness of ancestry, his role as a citizen of the world.<br /><br />As a child preacher in Alabama, Higgins spoke his own spiritual language, his love of God evident in page after page of photographs, each enhanced by the intimate perspective of one man's role in a rapidly changing world. Higgins' prose is haunting, poetic, sharing his love of family through the stories he heard since childhood, surrounded by loving relatives. A guiding Spirit is elementary in Higgins' life. Although he ignored his calling for a few years, spirituality hovered nearby, waiting patiently for a reawakening. Through his art, these incredibly powerful photographs, Higgins \\"had become a different kind of evangelist on another kind of crusade.\\"<br /><br />The chapters that deal with the burgeoning Civil Rights Movement are painful, the narrative marked by the tension and fear endemic to any change in society. Yet, in contrast, the black and white photographs clearly witness the strength of a people determined to forge ahead, comforting one another through their trials.<br /><br />P.H. Polk, Arthur Rothstein, Cornell Capa and Romare Bearden were all influential as Higgins' career evolved, mentors, guides and friends, but the eye is distinctly that of the author, his images arresting for their exceptional quality and as a reflection of the humanity that imbues his work. Slowly redirecting his energies toward recognizing his African heritage, Higgins' body of work is transformed by his maturity, an understanding of all the facets of life today, personal memory as well as cultural identity. In the end, Higgins makes a \\"declaration\\" of himself and his place in the world, a visual history of all he has learned over the years.<br /><br />I cannot recommend this collection enough. It is a joy to leaf through page after page of evocative images, the beauty of landscape and ancestral recognition caught in the flash of a moment. The thoughtful personal commentary brings the spirit of this artist alive in a satisfying meeting of art and personality, a treasure of one man's commitment to his time on this earth. Luan Gaines/2004., the black and white photographs clearly witness the strength of a people determined to forge ahead, comforting one another through their trials. <br /> <br />P.H. Polk, Arthur Rothstein, Cornell Capa and Romare Bearden were all influential as Higgins' career evolved, mentors, guides and friends, but the eye is distinctly that of the author, his images arresting for their exceptional quality and as a reflection of the humanity that imbues his work. Slowly redirecting his energies toward recognizing his African heritage, Higgins' body of work is transformed by his maturity, an understanding of all the facets of life today, personal memory as well as cultural identity. In the end, Higgins makes a \\"declaration\\" of himself and his place in the world, a visual history of all he has learned over the years. <br /> <br />I cannot recommend this collection enough. It is a joy to leaf through page after page of evocative images, the beauty of landscape and ancestral recognition caught in the flash of a moment. The thoughtful personal commentary brings the spirit of this artist alive in a satisfying meeting of art and personality, a treasure of one man's commitment to his time on this earth. Luan Gaines/2004.  <br />	2004-10-19
488883:US	51010391	RLVU5UD0NNFGY	0892967935	362864667	Murder at the B-School	Books	3	2	4	N	N	(3.5) The enemy of my enemy	Harvard Business School is not a place one usually associates with murder. But when a very rich young man is found floating face-down in a campus hot tub, the Harvard administrators are anxious to keep a lid on any bad publicity. To that end, the Dean of the prestigious Business School personally appoints Wim Vermeer to interface with the police. Vermeer is a strange choice, far off the hot career track and probably not in line for tenure. With diminishing prospects, Wim, a distant relative of the artist, throws himself into the distraction of Eric MacInnes' death.<br /><br />Boston police captain Barbara Brouillard isn't sure if Wim is an asset or an impediment to her investigation, but decides he may be useful for now. She realizes that the hapless professor may have an inside track on the workings of the financial world, not to mention his willingness to cooperate.<br /><br />Things get more convoluted the more Wim uncovers and Brouillard intuits, both struggling to assemble pieces that never seem to fit together. Interested in the details of the MacInnes family fortune, Wim forms a quasi-alliance with the patriarch of the family, but the wild card is Eric's younger brother, James, who displays an excess of aggression. Just how James fits into the picture is one of those tantalizing questions.<br /><br />However, as the body count rises, Wim looks more and more suspect. Is he extraordinarily clever or is this a masterful setup? Although the reader has a good idea about the good guys, the bad guys are much more skillful at camouflaging the motives for murder. From Boston to New York to Puerto Rico, whoever is manipulating events has carefully planned his actions with no intention of getting caught. So much for best laid plans. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-10-15
492872:US	51010391	R18R8P392OXPWE	0316781487	223736820	Light on Snow	Books	4	25	27	N	N	The aftermath of grief	The tragic accidental death of Robert Dillon's wife and small daughter has irrevocably altered his life and left him literally staggering through the days in shock and disbelief. Twelve-year old Nicky wasn't home at the time of the accident, the effect on her as traumatic as anything yet experienced in her young life. Dillon's response is instinctive: he moves Nicky to rural New Hampshire, to a small house that is isolated from likely intrusion, effectively sealing off the family from the pain of the world.<br /><br />Because of her youth, Nicky is quicker to recover, awakening after the long months of grief to find that her father simply cannot shake the depression that weighs upon him. He is barely functioning, turning out simple furniture that provides them with a meager income. They establish a few new routines, afternoon walks and make mostly unsuccessful attempts to engage as a family, albeit a broken one.<br /><br />It is on one of their late afternoon walks through the darkening countryside buried in new snow, that they first hear whimpering. Finally locating the source of the cries, father and daughter discover a newborn baby, abandoned soon after its birth. After a harrowing ride to the hospital, the baby survives and the Dillon's return home, both in awe of what they have just accomplished. But while Robert ponders the kind of mother who could abandon her child, Nicky is harboring dreams of a changed family dynamic, one that includes the new baby. Robert disabuses Nicky of this idea, but a spark of rebellion has taken root in her soul.<br /><br />When the baby's mother shows up on their doorstep, both father and daughter are uncomfortable, but before she can leave, Charlotte faints, still weakened by the recent birth. With a terrible storm descending upon their home, the Dillon's give shelter to the young woman. With a confused and desperate Charlotte under their roof, Robert and Nicky are confronted with the personal difficulty of making judgments of others. And Nicky is drawn to the slightly older Charlotte, seeking comfort in the womanly attentions she has not experienced since her mother's death.<br /><br />Loss has taken a terrible toll on the Dillon family, but when Charlotte enters their lives, she brings a new awareness, challenging their complacency and willingness to bow to the grief that has so dominated their lives. In this small, deceptively simple story, Shreve addresses the important themes and critical choices that affect the three protagonists of Light on Snow. This intricate domestic drama is essentially a morality play; at the core of the novel is a simple theme of forgiveness and redemption. Luan Gaines/2004.of others. And Nicky is drawn to the slightly older Charlotte, seeking comfort in the womanly attentions she has not experienced since her mother's death. <br /> <br />Loss has taken a terrible toll on the Dillon family, but when Charlotte enters their lives, she brings a new awareness, challenging their complacency and willingness to bow to the grief that has so dominated their lives. In this small, deceptively simple story, Shreve addresses the important themes and critical choices that affect the three protagonists of Light on Snow. This intricate domestic drama is essentially a morality play; at the core of the novel is a simple theme of forgiveness and redemption. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-10-12
494581:US	51010391	RD335KL91AMY7	1931561737	307256914	Welcome to the Fallen Paradise	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The heart of darkness	Sherman speaks with a distinctive voice in a fiction genre that deals with the dark underbelly of life as it is really lived beneath the veneer of civilization.<br /><br />Returning home after a 12-year stint in the Army, Jesse Tadlock is looking for a place to settle. His mother recently died, and, although she possessed little in the way of material goods, she did leave her son a $30,000. life insurance policy the government couldn't touch. With a new job waiting in the Sheriff's Department of a nearby parish, Jesse is ready to begin the next phase of his life, purchasing a small parcel of land in Mount Olive. He scrubs the small house on the property, pleasantly anxious to begin his new job the following day. Everything changes in the morning, when Jesse is confronted by the wild-eyed Cotton Moxley, who informs the new owner he has 72 hours to get off the land. This is no idle threat.<br /><br />Jesse values two things above all: God and family. After a trip to the local church, Jesse retreats to his kin, who have a long history of things done in the name of family, violent and otherwise. Chief among the men is Uncle Red, a surrogate father to Jesse, since his father was killed in Vietnam when the boy was only three-years old. Uncle Red is a seasoned veteran of hardscrabble survival, a source of comfort and direction for Jesse, who is overwhelmed by the implications of what awaits him in the person of Cotton Moxley.  Moxley is both feared and hated throughout the state, but also a man with far-reaching influence.<br /><br />After Jesse loses his promised job with the Sheriff's department, no doubt because of Moxley's connections, continually harassed and threatened by Moxley, he realizes that the law can do nothing to protect his interests. Time turns back on itself as the Tadlock's find themselves returning to the bloody ways of the past, when men fought to protect their own and the law turned a blind eye, depending on the body count. Toughened by experience, Uncle Red knows people who can provide ammunition and information, while the Tadlocks prepare to battle a crazy man who has threatened their family and peace of mind.<br /><br />This is Tim Gatreaux and Tom Franklin country, two writers who have portrayed southern justice and the mindset that cannot and will not back down when honor is at stake. Speaking in the first person, Sherman's Jesse Tadlock steps into an unpredictable situation, a little unsure but learning as he goes, sparked by the outrage of the underdog. This isn't urban America, but the dark, deep heart of violence that lurks wherever men are willing to die over a disputed piece of land. Before it's over, blood will be shed. It's just a question of whose blood it will be. Luan Gaines/2004.ce, Uncle Red knows people who can provide ammunition and information, while the Tadlocks prepare to battle a crazy man who has threatened their family and peace of mind. <br /> <br />This is Tim Gatreaux and Tom Franklin country, two writers who have portrayed southern justice and the mindset that cannot and will not back down when honor is at stake. Speaking in the first person, Sherman's Jesse Tadlock steps into an unpredictable situation, a little unsure but learning as he goes, sparked by the outrage of the underdog. This isn't urban America, but the dark, deep heart of violence that lurks wherever men are willing to die over a disputed piece of land. Before it's over, blood will be shed. It's just a question of whose blood it will be. Luan Gaines/2004.  <br />	2004-10-10
496299:US	51010391	R27NC5PUKF34Z9	0393059618	56171111	Whirlwind	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Mother nature's wild ride	Lucas Prouty is a divorced, mid-30's weatherman at a small station in Bentleyville, North Carolina. So far Lucas has avoided loud neckties, plaid suits and cartoon characters, content to do his work without rocking the boat. Suddenly Lucas changes from obscure weatherman to national figure... and all it takes is surviving a hurricane that blows him away before the television audience watching his storm report.<br /><br />When Hurricane Isabel strikes the North Carolina coast, Prouty is out on assignment, covering the storm with his cameraman. As recently seen with the unprecedented series of Florida hurricanes, the weather forecasters put themselves in incredibly dangerous situations when reporting the ferocity of the weather. Every weatherman's fear comes true for Lucas, who is tossed and battered by the escalating storm, ending up in a dank corner of a demolished restaurant, clinging to life and sanity for nine long days. When he is finally rescued, Lucas suffers a variety of broken bones, but is very much alive.<br /><br />Life changes drastically after the rescue and the retiring loner, who nurtures a pervasive sadness over a personal tragedy, is forced into a limelight that would tempt any high-achiever. Therein lies the problem: Lucas has not really aspired to the success abruptly thrust upon him, or the fawning new admirers and opportunists who surf the wake of intense media saturation. Amid the material excesses fame affords, the mania of celebrity and an impressive New York job offer, Lucas reaches out to Kiki, a bartender/student back in Bentleyville, the one person who may keep him grounded in reality.<br /><br />Lucas is the media flavor-of-the-month, his amazing ordeal now part of weather mythology. But when the attention fades, as it will, Prouty will still be a guy on his own with some tough life-decisions ahead. Lucas loves his career, is basically an honest, hard-working man, if a little off track the last few years. In Whirlwind, Jaffe's writing is humorous and insightful, the hapless protagonist thrust from obscurity to the center of media attention. Lucas Prouty is a sympathetic character, with all the human flaws expected in a lonely young man with one foot on the ladder of success and the other in the past, anxious to forecast his own future successfully. Luan Gaines/2004.ting is humorous and insightful, the hapless protagonist thrust from obscurity to the center of media attention. Lucas Prouty is a sympathetic character, with all the human flaws expected in a lonely young man with one foot on the ladder of success and the other in the past, anxious to forecast his own future successfully. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-10-08
499460:US	51010391	R300VMBFFOGXS3	0385512457	435864139	America's Secret War: Inside the Hidden Worldwide Struggle Between the United States and Its Enemies	Books	2	46	138	N	N	(2.5) A slickly-packaged concept	This is a deeply disturbing book on many levels, the most obvious that Fortune 500 companies, news outlets and the US Government use a private intelligence agency because the old mechanisms, bought and paid for by the taxpayer, are now obsolete. We are literally outsourcing our intelligence service, according to Friedman. The question: is this obsolete intelligence network a planned event and who was poised to take advantage of the situation?<br /><br />Whatever military decisions are made, by whatever administration, are being made for us, the taxpayers, not by us. I find that a staggering revelation. All that aside, what is implied disturbs me more than what is spoken, particularly the Middle Eastern plan long underway pre-9/11 and the enormous toll on this country's resources. In pursuit of this \\"company\\" military expertise, the military-industrial complex clearly has its own agendas.<br /><br />Friedman's lack of bias is questionable, in an expositive book with a conspicuous lack of footnotes or referenced material. Also, given the timing of the presidential elections, as with books favoring a change of party, one has to question the motives of the author.<br /><br />To accept the premise of America's Secret War, it is necessary to swallow the myth whole, that we were surprised by the 9/11 attacks and had no inter-governmental warnings whatsoever, no Richard Clarke, no CIA intelligence. The plans to intercede in the Middle East were long in the making, thanks to the efforts of the neocons, but required a definitive moment for fruition. I find this the most disconcerting element of Friedman's book, that the attacks are used as justification for the war in Iraq, without questioning motivation or evidence.<br /><br />Above all, it is the nature of war as the first option that has distorted what this country's image as a democracy. War as the means to an end is a defeat, a last resort, when all else fails. What does violence beget but more violence? In his conclusion, Friedman suggests that Islamic nation-states have learned to use intelligence to defeat Al Quaeda. However, religious differences will only carry such actions so far. The time may come when people with the same cultural identity will cease killing each other as pawns of the interests of the United States, when race and common religion become identity and the Americans are viewed only as occupiers.<br /><br />Friedman bluntly states, \\"It is not the American people who cannot endure war, but the elite.\\" Seriously? Are we to believe that the ageing corporate CEO's and deferment-seeking Washington politicians would have ever put themselves in harms way? It is absurd statements like this that destroy any sense of balance this book might claim. Luan Gaines/2004.lence? In his conclusion, Friedman suggests that Islamic nation-states have learned to use intelligence to defeat Al Quaeda. However, religious differences will only carry such actions so far. The time may come when people with the same cultural identity will cease killing each other as pawns of the interests of the United States, when race and common religion become identity and the Americans are viewed only as occupiers. <br /> <br />Friedman bluntly states, \\"It is not the American people who cannot endure war, but the elite.\\" Seriously? Are we to believe that the ageing corporate CEO's and deferment-seeking Washington politicians would have ever put themselves in harms way? It is absurd statements like this that destroy any sense of balance this book might claim. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-10-05
501477:US	51010391	R2U2EWIZEU3IEQ	1931561729	484599755	How To Be Lost	Books	4	75	80	N	N	The geography of loss	There are many ways to be lost, even when a life is clearly defined by family and responsibilities. In her new novel, Ward tackles the kind of loss that tears a hole in the family fabric, even an already broken family, leaving it open and fragmented.<br /><br />The two older sisters, Caroline and Madeline, are protective of their younger sibling, Ellie, knowing instinctively that their home is in trouble, their father disappearing farther each day into an ocean of alcohol, where he floats alone. An inept, if beautiful, mother is inadequate, unable to curtail her husband's drinking, but too self-obsessed to see what is happening to her girls.<br /><br />For their part, the girls create their own private alliance, secretly planning to run away to New Orleans. When Ellie suddenly disappears, the family is caught in a time warp none of them can escape, blindsided by sudden catastrophe. From an upper-class New York neighborhood to New Orleans bars to the dank world of nighttime Missoula, Montana, the Winters family searches for identity in all the wrong places, hoping to fill in that empty place where once a happy child lived. But nothing they do geographically can heal the emotional damage of that loss.<br /><br />Caroline and Madeline drift apart, Caroline to New Orleans, where she drinks hardily, avoiding commitment and life choices, Madeline to marriage and life in the city. Their still beautiful mother never recovers from the loss of her youngest daughter, searching endlessly for leads. When Isabel is killed in an accident, Caroline and Madeline are confronted with their own harsh realities and the need for closure.<br /><br />This is a story about being lost and being found, sometimes without ever leaving home. Beautifully executed, the novel builds precisely to its denouement, a place where choice is inevitable and the past must be put to rest in service of the future. The prose is compelling, the characters as real as my own eccentric family and their dilemmas as familiar as any facing those who encounter tragedy, but must move on. Time is irrevocable but forgiveness is not. There is always a way home. Luan Gaines/2004.emmas as familiar as any facing those who encounter tragedy, but must move on. Time is irrevocable but forgiveness is not. There is always a way home. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-10-04
504220:US	51010391	R3N5DIO8SQ1XVO	0151011060	77924444	The Red Queen	Books	3	11	17	N	N	(3.5) Reaching across the centuries	Isolated from the rest of the world by choice, the Korea of the 18th Century is singularly insular, a structured society impervious to the evolution of the rest of civilization, although faint rumblings of The Enlightenment do reach the royal court<br /><br />In writing of her life, the Crown Princess Hyegyoung, wed at ten, spends her life behind palace walls; had she not wed so young, the Crown Princess might never have know her husband well, but circumstances conspired to put them together much of the time as children. Later, she is painfully privy to her husband's mental disintegration, ea condition exacerbated by his father, King Chongjo, who spends years denigrating his son and heir. Eventually, the Royal Grandson becomes the Grand Heir to the throne, his father having lost the ability to rule.<br /><br />This latest edition of the Crown Princess' memoir (there have been four previous works documenting her life) falls into the hands of Barbara Halliwell, a temporary professor at Oxford, who has traveled to Seoul for a conference. Someone has sent Barbara the memoir of the Crown Princess and her role in the royal court, where she is torn between love of son and husband and the difficulties of political survival. But why has the princess chosen professor Halliwell as her emissary in this new century?<br /><br />Halliwell is a methodical woman who always prepares for contingencies. Reading the memoir on her journey toward Seoul, Halliwell is overcome by the tale of this distant princess, enthralled by a life spent so enshrined in ritual, at a time when women are rarely viewed as powerful.  Throughout Barbara's time at the conference, the princess looms, as though perched on the professor's shoulder, whispering secrets, reminding, \\"Don't forget me\\".<br /><br />Drabble's tale of two women is contextually rich, layered with the weight of centuries and the interpretations of history. Clearly, the Princess refuses to be forgotten and desires that her story be kept alive in the popular consciousness. As Halliwell struggles with the losses and similarities of her own life, she is able to view herself differently, her own motivations, opening another door of personal awareness. Protocol and power dominated the Crown Princess' life. Oxford, as well, is ruled by propriety and custom, tradition obviously the common ground between the two women, structure as a means of social order.<br /><br />Essentially a story about the lives of women, love, loss and one's place in the world, The Red Queen reaches across the centuries to awaken long dormant memories for Barbara Halliwell. Through a renewed self-knowledge, Halliwell is able to envision a different kind of future, one greatly enriched with possibilities. The color red is a recurring theme throughout the narrative, one more thread of connection between culture and time. This fine red thread wraps each woman in her desires, looping past the men and blending the women through a conspiracy of passion, hope and dreams. Drabble's exquisite attention to this particular detail stitches lives together in a fine blend of literary fiction. Luan Gaines/2004.s. As Halliwell struggles with the losses and similarities of her own life, she is able to view herself differently, her own motivations, opening another door of personal awareness. Protocol and power dominated the Crown Princess' life. Oxford, as well, is ruled by propriety and custom, tradition obviously the common ground between the two women, structure as a means of social order.    Essentially a story about the lives of women, love, loss and one's place in the world, The Red Queen reaches across the centuries to awaken long dormant memories for Barbara Halliwell. Through a renewed self-knowledge, Halliwell is able to envision a different kind of future, one greatly enriched with possibilities. The color red is a recurring theme throughout the narrative, one more thread of connection between culture and time. This fine red thread wraps each woman in her desires, looping past the men and blending the women through a conspiracy of passion, hope and dreams. Drabble's exquisite attention to this particular detail stitches lives together in a fine blend of literary fiction. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-10-01
506285:US	51010391	R3EDK20NU1PH4J	0156029782	819027594	Pen on Fire: A Busy Woman's Guide to Igniting the Writer Within	Books	3	76	95	N	N	Learn-to-write-Lite	For this reader, this how-to book on writing is sufficient for anyone (particularly a woman) who aspires to Chic-Lit or magazine articles in women's publications, but this author's approach belies the serious nature of a woman who truly desires the discipline to write professionally. Starting with the obligatory 15 minutes a day suggested by most teachers, the groundwork for any writing is universally understood to be that critical designated amount of time.<br /><br />The author puts her finger directly on the pulse of the problem in the chapter on obstacles to writing. For example, she says that she had her cable TV removed from her home, because to have \\"a writing life\\", you must \\"spend all spare moments writing to get momentum going\\". This in itself is a major obstacle when for anyone with an active family.<br /><br />My guess is that few families would be willing to give up access to television for their writer-in-residence. That discipline may be up to the writer; certainly it is possible to write in a location that is far removed from the family entertainment center.<br /><br />DeMarco-Barrett also discusses the problem of housework vs. writing, but this, too is a specious argument. Add to this list the author's confessed addiction to email and whatever other incidentals interfere with the scheduled writing. It isn't helpful, once I am this far into the book, to address such issues so simplistically. The chatty format is user-friendly, but hasn't the weight of serious discussion, although I am aware that the author is appealing to her reader in this fashion by design.<br /><br />DeMarco-Barrett mentions such details as the importance of rituals, workspace, and the chapter-by-chapter reminder to \\"set your timer\\". Unfortunately, chapter after chapter is written anecdotally, with an abundance of personal information, what comes very close to a patronizing approach. The criteria for me: does this author inspire me to start writing, to make that daily commitment to the daily ritual that will yield the success I desire. If not, this isn't the book for me. This then is the key, for the reader: if this book inspires you, you are on target and will find the impetus to begin actively practicing the writing life.<br /><br />These are considerations each reader must decide. If writing is a new and tantalizing concept, this book can stimulate the reader to take the appropriate steps. For others, there are many other books to offer similar advice, albeit in a different format. In any case, writing is an intensely personal journey. We all need help, but at some point will have to fly alone. My one caveat: anyone can learn to write well, but not all of us are meant to be published writers. There is a real difference between good writing skills and the passion of the true writer. The point is not to be afraid, given the basic skills, to take the risk and find out. Again a very personal decision. Luan Gaines/2004.itment to the daily ritual that will yield the success I desire. If not, this isn't the book for me. This then is the key, for the reader: if this book inspires you, you are on target and will find the impetus to begin actively practicing the writing life. <br /> <br />These are considerations each reader must decide. If writing is a new and tantalizing concept, this book can stimulate the reader to take the appropriate steps. For others, there are many other books to offer similar advice, albeit in a different format. In any case, writing is an intensely personal journey. We all need help, but at some point will have to fly alone. My one caveat: anyone can learn to write well, but not all of us are meant to be published writers. There is a real difference between good writing skills and the passion of the true writer. The point is not to be afraid, given the basic skills, to take the risk and find out. Again a very personal decision. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-09-29
507054:US	51010391	R3JKB5N0AS9FJA	0393051390	279154392	Another Bullshit Night in Suck City: A Memoir	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Harrowing and honest truth	Nicholas Flynn is another young man in a long line of children who have lost a parent to the seduction of an alcoholic haze. Like others, Flynn had no intention of following in his father's footsteps, yet he repeats the same youthful indiscretions that lead to alcoholism, all the more anecdotal proof that genetics play an important part from one generation to another, given the right circumstances.<br /><br />The difference is that the son has found a powerful voice, one that his father aspired to, but lost in the bottom of a bottle. That young Nick nurtured this gift and eventually found his expression is both inspiring and painful, for Nick's own journey has been riddled by the legacy of the alcoholic: loss of identity, confusion, lack of opportunity or resources and the life of a fringe-dweller. This is the legacy of father to son.<br /><br />Maybe Nick's mother should have recognized Johnathan's flaws when they first met, but he had that charismatic charm so common among talented young men before they succumb to drink. Nick's values are essentially self-taught, a combination of his own escapism and an urge toward survival. No one would blame Nick if he turned away from his father forever, given only those few sparse words and fewer letters over the years. But Nick is not his father; he is a young man with a vast reservoir of compassion, coupled with that faint yearning every boy has to be acknowledged, even loved, by his father.<br /><br />Nick's journey is one that defies reason and speaks to the core of humanity; his trials are many and grievous, yet he avoids the steep downward spiral Johnathan chooses. One could argue that the path is the same, the son taking the longer road, but in the same direction. Yet Nick's accomplishments prove otherwise.<br /><br />Harrowingly honest, this memoir is a fast road into the mouth of hell. Many have traveled here to meet their demise, among the flotsam and jetsam of society's rejects. That both father and son remain close to their roots speaks to an early identification of youthful dreams. It is no accident that Nick works in a homeless shelter at a time when his father finally comes within reach. The shelter offers Nick a place to connect with his better self, skirting the edge of his fear of becoming one of these lost men, like Johnathan, whose dreams have turned from hope to lies and distortion.<br /><br />Nick's life journey is littered with landmines; that he has written such a remarkable testament to self-discovery and the inherent strength of the human spirit, no matter how deeply scarred. Both familiar and real, there are many who know Nick's story intimately. What is remarkable is that such an old tale of self-destruction and the annihilation of family can have a fresh voice to speak yet another truth. This memoir is a gift to others who struggle, like Nick, for a healthy life and family identification. Luan Gaines/2004.er and son remain close to their roots speaks to an early identification of youthful dreams. It is no accident that Nick works in a homeless shelter at a time when his father finally comes within reach. The shelter offers Nick a place to connect with his better self, skirting the edge of his fear of becoming one of these lost men, like Johnathan, whose dreams have turned from hope to lies and distortion. <br /> <br />Nick's life journey is littered with landmines; that he has written such a remarkable testament to self-discovery and the inherent strength of the human spirit, no matter how deeply scarred. Both familiar and real, there are many who know Nick's story intimately. What is remarkable is that such an old tale of self-destruction and the annihilation of family can have a fresh voice to speak yet another truth. This memoir is a gift to others who struggle, like Nick, for a healthy life and family identification. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-09-28
511549:US	51010391	RUN4OV688SB8I	0393060020	708846688	War And The American Presidency	Books	4	14	16	N	N	A critical and timely assessment	If the American public is suffering from a lack of information about the history of the presidency and the balance of power, especially prior to a national election, I don't see how a discussion of specific historical incidents can do anything but add to the lively debate in assessing the Bush presidency and the preemptive doctrine that occasioned the invasion of Iraq.<br /><br />In the current political climate, dissent is under fire, accused of increasing the danger for our troops in Iraq. Recent statements from Washington indicate that such dissent may border on the treasonous. Schlesinger's book is a timely response to such assertions, because the author sites specific incidents in American history, making a strong case for the necessity of open dialog in the service of the democratic process.<br /><br />The current preemptive doctrine is worthy of careful consideration. Schlesinger posits that military might is no substitute for wisdom and can only accomplish limited goals. Peace through the prevention of war is replaced with peace via preventive war, an entirely different prospect, with its own inherent problems. Even Truman opined the foolhardiness of a concept that war can only be prevented by war, \\"You can't 'prevent' anything by war except peace.\\"<br /><br />Preventive war depends upon accurate intelligence; certainly, it is human nature to guess the future from the experiences of the past. But do we use the historic perspective to create insight or justification for our agenda?  The future will not yield itself to the vision of one man or one nation; hence, extreme caution is imperative. We must constantly monitor the inherent dangers of power and the arrogance it breeds.<br /><br />Nixon was the last president to exercise the concept of \\"imperial presidency\\", when the balance of power is upset by the executive branch, via foreign policy decisions, with a lack of congressional oversight and the aid of the attorney general. But Osama bin Laden reopened the doors of imperial presidency for our generation, John Ashcroft at the helm, promoting the Patriot Act I and II, which must allow open debate by the Congress before any restrictions are made on the freedoms we enjoy.<br /><br />Certain question arise, in reading this book and considering the problems at hand; for example, if war does nurture the concept of the imperial presidency,  and certainly the events of 9/11 have made the public more vulnerable and willing to take direction from our leaders, do a democratic people have a moral obligation to stop dissent during wartime? Is this the example shown by our forefathers? And, in a nation born of dissent, what is the nature of patriotism? Schlesinger answers all these questions in detail. The answers are surprisingly informative, certainly worth consideration.<br /><br />Both popular and electoral votes were at issue in the last election and may be again, so the author includes the pros and cons of the arguments as the framers of the constitution grappled with the safest way to preserve the will of the people. There are also issues regarding the uninhibited pursuit of runaway capitalism and its inherent dangers, including the imminence of a complicated global economy.<br /><br />Religious fanaticism breeds terrorism, yet people are drawn together in the comfort of spiritual identity, searching for meaning in their lives, so how do we achieve a balance that allows belief systems to coexist, without taking advantage of the obvious fear or one \\"God\\" trumping another? It is critical that we refuse to allow fanatics to usurp emotion-driven decisions that cause violence in the name of God.<br /><br />These are difficult times with serious issues confronting the voters and debate is critical if we are to live within the intended framework of our democracy. \\"The great strength of democracy is its capacity for self-correction\\", whether in the global market, the pressures of race and assimilation or spiritual frustration causedby global anonymity. As citizens, we are intimately invested in a process that has so far been successful in safeguarding our values and democratic ideals, but we cannot avoid personal responsibility when electing those to best represent us.<br /><br />In the final analysis, history documents the nature of dissent in this country and the fact that no president has been sacrosanct, whether the country is at war or not, is well established. Dissent is viable in a democracy, dialog the lifeblood of citizenship and critical to voters. Schlesinger's book suggests an appreciation of our rich history of dissent and the valuable lessons of experience, positive and negative. Stimulating curiosity in pursuit of lively discussion is never a waste of time. Luan Gaines/2004.or spiritual frustration caused by global anonymity. As citizens, we are intimately invested in a process that has so far been successful in safeguarding our values and democratic ideals, but we cannot avoid personal responsibility when electing those to best represent us. <br /> <br />In the final analysis, history documents the nature of dissent in this country and the fact that no president has been sacrosanct, whether the country is at war or not, is well established. Dissent is viable in a democracy, dialog the lifeblood of citizenship and critical to voters. Schlesinger's book suggests an appreciation of our rich history of dissent and the valuable lessons of experience, positive and negative. Stimulating curiosity in pursuit of lively discussion is never a waste of time. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-09-24
512303:US	51010391	R3MVA2CIV63UX1	1592000975	816522487	Paint Shop Pro 8 Fast & Easy	Books	2	14	17	N	Y	(2.5) No fast and easy answers here	Whenever I buy a another book in an effort to unravel the Paint Shop Pro program I have yet to conquer, I have great expectations that this new one will answer the questions that plague me. I have searched through the help menu offered by the Paint Shop Pro 8, but need more visual aids.<br /><br />I paged through Paint Shop Pro 8, Fast and Easy, having ordered it online, going from chapter to chapter to see what problems are addressed in each part of the book, in more detail than was available online. I am already to Chapter 15 and still haven't come to the one area that is causing me trouble, editing and pasting from one raster image to another. Plenty of pages are allocated to vector images, but my goal in purchasing this book was simply to create a variety of collaged images, most of which would require raster images.<br /><br />If you are looking for information of text applications, Chapter 15-17 offers a variety of options, although none are particularly sophisticated or original, leaving you to experiment for more creative effects. By Chapter 17, we are on Web Page Components and I still haven't found a useful discussion of editing/pasting raster layers. (I realize that if you are a serious graphic artist, you won't even consider this book or this particular program. )<br /><br />Another issue that is relevant for me and not addressed is print resolution. I did look for solutions to setting the appropriate number of DPIs to the print an acceptable image, but there is little material on this issue. If the image has been saved as  JPEG or GIF, the image resolution lost cannot be recovered by changing printer settings. There seems to be an assumption that most are using Paint Shop Pro 8 for web images because there is virtually no information relative to printing problems or how to control the quality of the printed image.<br /><br />I was told that most problems can be traced to user error, but I think that the majority of these books make certain assumptions about the user, in the same manner that programmers fail to consider different levels of understanding on the part of the user. Perhaps the problem is in the program, rather than the attempts to provide answers, such as offered in this book. In any case, both are a disappointment. Luan Gaines/2004.mptions about the user, in the same manner that programmers fail to consider different levels of understanding on the part of the user. Perhaps the problem is in the program, rather than the attempts to provide answers, such as offered in this book. In any case, both are a disappointment. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-09-23
512418:US	51010391	R1XD4T1FEHQ63J	0385512821	472956853	The Finishing School: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Graduating with honors	Muriel Spark wields her observations of the world with the precision of a surgeon's scalpel, carefully isolating her subject and cutting incisively to the core of human behavior. Since her earliest writings, this impressive author has shown a particular talent for effortlessly reflecting our cultural anomalies.<br /><br />Rowland Mahler, the director of College Sunrise, an edgy finishing school for the very advantaged, is riddled with jealousy, anxious to finish his first novel but constantly distracted by the efforts of one of the students, Christopher Wiley, who is touting his own  efforts at historical fiction. Chris is the bane of Rowland's existence, interfering with the director's creativity and writing process, his very mission in life. Of course, the obsession with Chris' work may also serve as the perfect avoidance technique for a floundering project.<br /><br />The school itself is a vehicle for Rowland's future success as an author, the means to his intended goal, supported in kind by the efforts of his partner and wife, Nina. Like the life they lead at the school, everything is transitory, the curriculum, the students, Nina and Rowland's marriage, all moving toward the next adventure, nature in flux.<br /><br />Lively as ever, Spark's genius as a storyteller comes from her seasoned observations of human foibles, the obsessive attention to self-promotion that rearranges relationships to suit the moment, the attraction of opposites and a devoted denial of everyday reality. All is perspective, Spark perched above the foolish machinations of her characters, playing with their aspirations and imperfections, the subtleties of attraction that inform the clever dynamic of The Finishing School.<br /><br />None of these characters exist in a world even remotely realistic, each coddled by privilege and an existential class schedule, only affordable to those who are oblivious to price tags. With a practiced eye, Spark continues to satisfy, her wry commentary on lifestyle and hidden agendas another example of the self-absorption of modern life, where all is of the moment, disposable and replaceable, even emotional attachments. One can imagine Spark conceding with a wry smile, \\"Life goes on.\\" Luan Gaines/2004.on lifestyle and hidden agendas another example of the self-absorption of modern life, where all is of the moment, disposable and replaceable, even emotional attachments. One can imagine Spark conceding with a wry smile, \\"Life goes on.\\" Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-09-23
513617:US	51010391	R3V8TPP9FQLH9I	1931561834	22054775	Attraction	Books	3	0	0	N	N	(3.5) Love and the theory of relativity	Love. Passion. Jealousy. Confusion. Doubt. Mystery. The novels opens with an air of loss and personal anguish, as Jack Prentis Stone relates, bit by bit, the story of his life since meeting his wife, Anne-Marie. A talented artist, Anne-Marie moved to England with her mother, who abruptly left a philandering husband in France. As a consequence of their sudden departure, Anne-Marie struggles through a tortured, unresolved relationship with her father.<br /><br />From the start, there is an acute awareness of detail, short flashes of recognition, moments when early passion is cemented in the consciousness and attraction slides flawlessly into love. In the opening dialog, as Jack speaks of their early days of romantic bliss, there is an underlying element of confusion and a palpable sense of something gone terribly wrong.<br /><br />The story lurches back and forth in time, in the same way that Jack's mind deals with an ominous escalation of events that have spun out of control. At the core is his love for Anne-Marie, but after three years of marriage, they have drifted apart, victim to an insidious decay that allows busy people to ignore the signs of trouble.<br /><br />Because Jack is now in France, awaiting the arrival of an English inspector, we know that this marriage has suffered more than ordinary difficulties. Jack reveals his tangled memories in a mix of past and present, bright new love and the potent seed of jealousy that leads to tragedy. Perhaps it is the attraction of opposites, this marriage of Jack and Anne-Marie. As a student of science, Jack considers everything through a filter of scientific theory, the impermanence of matter in a constantly changing universe. Having difficulty separating reality from fantasy, he is beleaguered by time's imperfections, memory's own deception in service of self-protection.<br /><br />While Jack's actions are logical, Anne-Marie is less predictable, her emotional tensions denied through the years of her marriage, but certainly affecting her behavior and choices. A gradual erosion of communication creates opportunity and each party is dangerously susceptible to serious mistakes, misinterpretations of each other's motives.<br /><br />Jack orbits around his wife, the emotional center of the universe of a man raised by women, desperate to find his way back to their primary connection, recalling the simplicity and perfection of early love, their travels in the French countryside and joyful pairing as man and wife. At no time do we doubt the love of this couple, trusting Jack to come to the end of this psychological maze, driven deeper toward an awareness of what he holds most precious.<br /><br />In this compelling tale, perched on the dangerous precipice of love gone terribly wrong, a few moments of bad judgment throw all into chaos. Tension drives the story as the characters are propelled to their inevitable conclusion. Passion. Love. Betrayal. Murder. Luan Gaines/2004.ertainly affecting her behavior and choices. A gradual erosion of communication creates opportunity and each party is dangerously susceptible to serious mistakes, misinterpretations of each other's motives.  <br /> <br />Jack orbits around his wife, the emotional center of the universe of a man raised by women, desperate to find his way back to their primary connection, recalling the simplicity and perfection of early love, their travels in the French countryside and joyful pairing as man and wife. At no time do we doubt the love of this couple, trusting Jack to come to the end of this psychological maze, driven deeper toward an awareness of what he holds most precious. <br /> <br />In this compelling tale, perched on the dangerous precipice of love gone terribly wrong, a few moments of bad judgment throw all into chaos. Tension drives the story as the characters are propelled to their inevitable conclusion. Passion. Love. Betrayal. Murder. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-09-22
514011:US	51010391	R3OALFAW8MRQYF	0385503245	519479219	The Family: The Real Story of the Bush Dynasty	Books	4	31	43	N	N	A dynastic docu-drama	I am giving The Family 4 stars because the author accomplishes her primary goal: Kelley successfully portrays the evolution of the Bush family dynasty, that subtle combination of myth and reality that captures the imagination of the public, allowing the us to assume we \\"know\\" these people. There is a seductive myth at work here, a rich and powerful family dynasty, the embodiment of the American dream, their successes and failures played out on the world stage.<br /><br />Kelley makes two points that are important to note, if nothing else is gleaned from the book: first, this is one of only two families in American history that have placed two men in the White House, the Bush presidents within the same decade; second, both father and son have held the most prestigious position in public office, at the helm during successive wars in the Middle East.<br /><br />Using both named and unnamed sources, Kelley does what she does best, illustrate an overview of her subject and the ramifications of this dynamic at work in treacherous times. Researching the family tree, which is grounded in wealth and privilege, the Bushes have managed, through the last two generations, to capture the imagination of America, objectified as good old boys in cowboy boots. The reality is far more complicated. The majority of the chapters, certainly the most relevant ones, cover George H. W. Bush's rise to power as Director of the CIA, two terms as vice-president and one-term president, followed by the contested election of his son, George W. Bush.<br /><br />While Kelley humanizes the Bushes en masse, she does point a finger at the singular lack of vision or curiosity of both Junior and Senior Bush. While Reagan was acutely aware of the presidency in relation to the world at large, the Bush's motivation appears less visionary than one of personal aggrandizement. The family corporate ties are also worth mentioning. Family loyalty is critical; friends are rewarded in kind. In an age when corporations have usurped the power of the common man and a floundering middle class, the Bushes have been excessively tied to their lifelong corporate friends and mentors.<br /><br />In a country as polarized as this one, it is hard to imagine an unbiased reader, but Kelley is an inveterate storyteller, one of those women you lean closer to hear when she says, \\"One time...\\"<br /><br />Predominantly a sociological examination, Kelley lays out the pieces of a vast puzzle that, over the years, forms the public perception of an impressive family dynamic. She doesn't rely so much on individual issues, but the compilation of personal traits and Bush family ethics that offer us a perspective of the emergence of political dynasty, spawned by wealth, opportunity and political strategy. This family has had a profound effect on America's foreign policy; the direction this country takes in the next years will be critical to our security and prosperity as a nation. Luan Gaines/2004.ower of the common man and a floundering middle class, the Bushes have been excessively tied to their lifelong corporate friends and mentors.    In a country as polarized as this one, it is hard to imagine an unbiased reader, but Kelley is an inveterate storyteller, one of those women you lean closer to hear when she says, \\"One time...\\"    Predominantly a sociological examination, Kelley lays out the pieces of a vast puzzle that, over the years, forms the public perception of an impressive family dynamic. She doesn't rely so much on individual issues, but the compilation of personal traits and Bush family ethics that offer us a perspective of the emergence of political dynasty, spawned by wealth, opportunity and political strategy. This family has had a profound effect on America's foreign policy; the direction this country takes in the next years will be critical to our security and prosperity as a nation. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-09-22
519656:US	51010391	R3B48TS61XHMIZ	0385506821	668327263	Queen of Dreams: A Novel	Books	4	13	14	N	N	The power of the past to shape the future	From the domestic to the mystical, Divakaruni has a unique talent for blending the daily lives of Indian-Americans with the myths of a distant homeland.<br /><br />In a story that examines the relationship of a troubled young mother, in the middle of a divorce, with her own mother, a dream teller, we learn of the indecision and self-doubt that haunts Rakhi. Fascinated by her mother's past, the years spent in India training to counsel clients by reading their dreams, Rakhi is obsessed more with the known than the unknown, convinced that if she can solve the riddle of a distant mother, she will locate her own missing pieces.<br /><br />When Rakhi's mother dies in an accident, the daughter is left with a failing tea shop, her mother's Dream Journals and unresolved questions about her failed marriage. When even her painting hits a brick wall and inspiration disappears, Rakhi is bereft. But as Rakhi's father translates the dream journals, painful truths are revealed to father and daughter, bringing them closer in grief and understanding. The journals are an unexpected parting gift, an opportunity for Rakhi and her father to reawaken their long-dormant relationship and heal past misunderstandings.<br /><br />Through the journals, we learn of the despair of an intuitive Indian girl, forced to choose between her talent for dream telling and the love of the man she marries. The seemingly complacent wife, who has helped so many through difficulties, is a multi-layered, complex woman beset by her own inner challenges, searching for peace and contentment, faced with untenable choices. This mother is warm and accessible, her deep conflicts and passions revealed.<br /><br />While the attacks on 9/11 throw the Indian-American community into the same confusion as other American citizens, they are later attacked because they look like terrorists, outcast in their own neighborhoods.<br /><br />All of these things create the impetus that forces Rakhi into the necessary changes to get her life back on track. Questioning her most basic assumptions and motives, the true nature of love and the capacity to forgive, Rakhi makes an extraordinary journey, guided by the constant presence of her mother's loving spirit. Steeped in the ramifications of diversity, cultural identity and the importance of family, Divakaruni once more proves herself an inspiring and master storyteller. Luan Gaines/2004.r most basic assumptions and motives, the true nature of love and the capacity to forgive, Rakhi makes an extraordinary journey, guided by the constant presence of her mother's loving spirit. Steeped in the ramifications of diversity, cultural identity and the importance of family, Divakaruni once more proves herself an inspiring and master storyteller. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-09-16
522784:US	51010391	R182CAZ073R2G0	039305988X	136042020	Eve Green	Books	4	8	9	N	N	"Fear is the price we pay for love"	Fletcher is a first-time novelist of exceptional sensitivity, able to capture essential moments, so intimate that they become personal. With a keen eye, time and place take on substance, familiarity.<br /><br />Pregnant with her first child, the sights and sounds of childhood come alive once more for Evangeline Green, filling the long days of waiting. Looking back on her 8th year, the first in a new home after the sudden death of her mother, Evangeline recollects the scenes of childhood, the smells, favorite objects, and a comforting assemblage of oddities that make up a household. Transplanted from Birmingham to rural Wales, city lights and sounds are replaced by country noises, \\"straw, dung, petrol, the stench of dead water, the tang of wood smoke.\\"<br /><br />Surrounded by secrets, eccentrics and beloved grandparents, Evangeline's learns of ancient relatives, unexpected people and places, a first, headstrong love and abandonment. Desperate to know more about her father, although forbidden to speak of him, Evie has only a box of scribbling, fragments of handwriting, mementos her mother kept hidden. Gathering bits of fact like treasure, Evie hoards the scraps of paper, hints of a great, if short-lived love affair with a man who passed his bright red curls to his daughter.<br /><br />Evie has few friends in her new home, save Daniel, a farm hand, and Billy, a disabled man, who lives just out of sight, watching everything. Evie befriends Billy in spite of his reticence, gradually adapting to her strange new life. The small Welsh town roils with gossip and suspicion after the disappearance of Rosie Hughes, a beautiful, privileged girl who would have certainly become Evangeline's rival, had she lived. Someone must be held accountable. Through misguided loyalty, Evie commits an error of judgment, with consequences that will haunt her for years.<br /><br />No matter how old you grow, there are moments that remain, perfectly etched in time; Fletcher captures such images with perfect clarity, jagged shards once whole, the passage to memory. Near the end, I already miss Evangeline's tart, childish perceptions, her tragic misreading of the right thing to do and the comfort of the natural world that feeds the rhythms of her soul. I miss her incisive observations, her plague of red curls and freckles, her capacity for love, even her mistakes. I hope Susan Fletcher has already begun another novel and that I have the patience to wait. Luan Gaines/2004.res such images with perfect clarity, jagged shards once whole, the passage to memory. Near the end, I already miss Evangeline's tart, childish perceptions, her tragic misreading of the right thing to do and the comfort of the natural world that feeds the rhythms of her soul. I miss her incisive observations, her plague of red curls and freckles, her capacity for love, even her mistakes. I hope Susan Fletcher has already begun another novel and that I have the patience to wait. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-09-13
525812:US	51010391	R3H4JD0O4L6A68	1931561745	244540373	Off Magazine Street	Books	4	57	60	N	N	Desperadoes gone right	This genre-bending author enthusiastically attacks reality in a unique blend of anti-heroes, misfits and innocents, equally at home knocking back shots with Tennessee Williams or Ernest Hemingway.<br /><br />Byron Burns is one of the fair-haired boys of his home town, Eames, Alabama. Unfortunately, he becomes the proverbial black sheep of his family. Along with Bobby Long, another favorite son, the friends take the low road once they hit college: an indiscriminate feast of wine, women and song, inseparable on their long slide into oblivion.<br /><br />Now in late middle age, Byron and Bobby have spent so many years besotted that they have begun to act like the stumbling derelicts that litter the streets of every city, blacking out from one drink to another. Moving to New Orleans, the men are joined in their cheap hotel room by Lorraine, a grossly obese mental patient Bobby has known for years, years before she submitted to the comfort of food to fill an emotional vacuum. Lorraine's 16-year old daughter is not much better off, already pushed to the edge of an indifferent society.<br /><br />No one is particularly surprised when Lorraine dies, her larger-than-life heart strained beyond capacity. It is through Lorraine's death that Bobby and Byron's lives are transformed, in a subtle twist of fate, when her daughter, Hannah, appears on their doorstep, such as it is, with questions about her mother and not much hope to squander.<br /><br />Hannah's arrival sparks long-buried ideals that Byron and Bobby have so far successfully obliterated with an excess of alcohol and philandering. Content in their careless waste of days, the men are entertained by the literary fragments of their younger years as teachers, reciting poetry and reading long passages from beloved novels. Hannah is a source of intense curiosity, wrapped in her nubile innocence, especially for the outspoken Bobby.<br /><br />The ultimate transformation of these two men, the awakening of their abandoned finer selves, is something neither is prepared to acknowledge. Neither is Hannah thrilled by these middle-aged reprobates, although, given her lack of choices, they seem to be the only game in town.<br /><br />Hannah stays in New Orleans with Byron and Bobby, gradually drawn in by their ineptitude and seduced by the treasure of knowledge they men so generously share. Add in the neighborhood derelicts from \\"the outdoor living room\\" and the scene is set for an excess of debauchery, really just a bunch of lonely, misspent men who drift together, attracted like Bobby and Byron to the glow of Hannah's youth and potential.<br /><br />Like Eliza with her two Dr. Doolittles, the story unfolds in a series of drunken antics, but within the framework of family, albeit a highly unusual one. Not just a humorous tale of redemption, Off Magazine Street is a lesson in compassion. Judgment too easily rendered permits us to throw away those who have slipped from acceptable social mores. Ronald Everett Capps reminds us to look deeper, past the obvious, into that vast reservoir of humanity, where there is a home for all. Luan Gaines/2004.oned finer selves, is something neither is prepared to acknowledge. Neither is Hannah thrilled by these middle-aged reprobates, although, given her lack of choices, they seem to be the only game in town. <br /> <br />Hannah stays in New Orleans with Byron and Bobby, gradually drawn in by their ineptitude and seduced by the treasure of knowledge they men so generously share. Add in the neighborhood derelicts from \\"the outdoor living room\\" and the scene is set for an excess of debauchery, really just a bunch of lonely, misspent men who drift together, attracted like Bobby and Byron to the glow of Hannah's youth and potential. <br /> <br />Like Eliza with her two Dr. Doolittles, the story unfolds in a series of drunken antics, but within the framework of family, albeit a highly unusual one. Not just a humorous tale of redemption, Off Magazine Street is a lesson in compassion. Judgment too easily rendered permits us to throw away those who have slipped from acceptable social mores. Ronald Everett Capps reminds us to look deeper, past the obvious, into that vast reservoir of humanity, where there is a home for all. Luan Gaines/2004. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-09-10
532614:US	51010391	RRWNWGOXO2GVX	0151011095	997516388	If You Are Afraid of Heights	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A wedding of past to present	In the first prologue of two, Jha hints at the mysterious nature of the tales to come, a reminder that things are always more complicated than they appear and infinite layers reside between vision and reality. To get the full impact of this novel, one must suspend belief and heed the distant chords of memory.<br /><br />In a skillful blending of three interconnected stories of contemporary India, Jha's characters are beautifully nuanced: the man and woman who fall in love after he is involved in an accident, the female reporter in search of truth about the brutal murder of a young girl in a red dress; and finally, a young girl in a red dress, speaking from her own unique perspective. With elegant language that is both visual and visceral (\\"He tastes the taste of broken sleep\\"), the author is the pied piper of imagination, drawing concentric circles, attaching the characters within a fragile web of familiarity.<br /><br />This is a complex novel, written by a man who is not afraid to delve into the deepest recesses of the human heart, past daily facades, into the places where dreams dwell and fears bloom like dark flowers. Wealth alone provides safety from the world at large, while poverty waits patiently to strike the unsuspecting; survival is played out against a background of nature's excesses, a paucity of luxury and the infinite tedium of daily struggles.<br /><br />Jha peers into the teeming throng of humanity with an omniscient eye, carefully selecting his protagonists, intersecting the details of their lives, then merging into the unknowable. Memory mixes flawlessly with reality in this cautionary fable, where innocence is captured in the form of a young girl in a red dress, crying softly, poised on a precipice of poverty, fear and fate. Perhaps it is the incessant rain that so perfectly captures these characters, distorting their desires, reflecting them back to the world. The narrative is strangely comforting, a journey through life's corridors, sometimes nightmarish, often familiar with yearning and irrepressible shards of hope. Luan Gaines/2004.imes nightmarish, often familiar with yearning and irrepressible shards of hope. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-09-04
532778:US	51010391	R2HZ17M0S4TGZ3	1931561826	787563831	Hell's Half Acre	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Sex, lies and videotape	Writing with the gritty realism of Andrew Vachss, Baer has aptly titled Hell's Half Acre, a descent into darkness that requires a strong constitution, but is worth the effort. In this world, killers appear unannounced and strange men mutilate their bodies for kicks, cash can buy anything, no matter how obscene and death is always a heartbeat away. It takes a fertile imagination to construct the layers of this elaborate, unpredictable nightmare.<br /><br />Phineas Poe is on a strange trip, part psychological, part real. His first order of business is to track his girlfriend, the very tough Jude, trained by Special Forces and his former partner in crime-cum-romance. Jude and Poe's drug odyssey alone could cure a junkie. A violent act sundered their earlier cohabitation; since then, Poe's only mission is to find Jude. An ex-cop, Phineas Poe is an ambiguous character, following his more bizarre instincts, fueled by drugs but secretly nurturing a hopeful heart. Within the first couple of pages, Poe makes a fateful choice, when he notices the \\"thin shallow mouth of the alley my possible monster had come running from\\" and \\"I walked into that dark mouth\\". From that point on, the action only accelerates.<br /><br />Meanwhile, the pathological John Ransom Miller is planning his snuff film, starring Jude, Phineas and assorted others. Jude has revenge on her mind and Phineas wants to be there for her, drug-hazed but willing. To that end they step into some very dark places, assuming an escape route that never quite materializes. Miller has a propensity for life and death games, ratcheting up the danger with the addition of more mayhem to expand the film's appeal, setting the actors up like pawns in a rigged chess game. To say that most of these characters are cynical would be an understatement; however, in a city's netherworld, survival dictates a certain perspective. But Poe doesn't want to play anymore, pushed to the edge of his fragmented integrity.<br /><br />Reading this novel is like watching a triple X-rated movie, where all the X's are for violent acts. Pop culture seeps through the pages, images jumping out at random moments: Travis Bickle, the white rabbit. The novel is successful because it is never exploitative. Baer's dark journey of the soul, while tinged with excessive violence, is driven by an impressive imagination, as Poe masters the art of walking on the wild side, skirting the edge without tumbling into the abyss or accidentally slitting his own throat. Luan Gaines/2004.this novel is like watching a triple X-rated movie, where all the X's are for violent acts. Pop culture seeps through the pages, images jumping out at random moments: Travis Bickle, the white rabbit. The novel is successful because it is never exploitative. Baer's dark journey of the soul, while tinged with excessive violence, is driven by an impressive imagination, as Poe masters the art of walking on the wild side, skirting the edge without tumbling into the abyss or accidentally slitting his own throat. Luan Gaines/2004. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-09-04
533143:US	51010391	R3JNT82OKDFDC	1931561672	617963757	The Wreck of the Twilight Limited	Books	3	2	4	N	N	An assignation with fate	Behind every tragedy is a human face, as families lose loved ones and the immediate area is strewn with carnage that challenges the resources of the rescue personnel who deal with the consequences of such events.<br /><br />At 5:23 am, September 22, 1993, Amtrak's Twilight Limited derailed at Bayou Canot in Mobile, Alabama, killing forty-seven people as it sped across a bridge that was seriously damaged by a passing barge. On that fog-shrouded night, with virtually no visibility, the river traffic moved sluggishly, the great barges that ran incessantly up and down the river drifting blindly, the boatloads of goods intended for consumers, as regular as clockwork.<br /><br />When one of the barges slid into the bridge, the men felt the impact but had no way of knowing what they hit, certainly never imagining that it was a bridge. Nor could the Amtrak engineer know what to expect, guided by instruments long become routine, hurling through the night into tragedy.<br /><br />Trapped by the convergence of fate and timing that resulted in the aberrant crash of barge into bridge, the Amtrak flew across the bridge into disaster. Immediately, the men on the closest barges launched a rescue effort to save those thrashing about in the freezing water and clinging to remnants of the train. Soon after, the media descended upon the scene, their spotlights casting an eerie glow over the scene.<br /><br />First time novelist Formichella chose to highlight the human aspect of the disaster, the man at the wheel of the barge, certain passengers on the train and a fireman from the emergency crew sent in the aftermath with faint hopes of finding survivors. The man piloting the barge that night hadn't asked for the assignment was in fact uncomfortable manning the wheel in the fog; his life was shattered by the nightmare that changed his world in a split second. Some of the passengers were just beginning their lives, people we met and remembered for their little eccentricities, lost forever, while other inexplicably survived. Most touching is the fireman who tried so desperately to save the victims, haunted by the sights that he witnessed, the chaos imprinted night after night in his dreams.<br /><br />The author felt this was a story that must be told; he chose to do so in novel form in order to capture the human element, the natural, ungoverned responses to a life-changing event. In so doing, Formichella has given this tragedy the face of humanity. A reminder of our inevitable vulnerability to fate, the author also takes notice of the emotional remnants of such disasters, the broken hearts and lives that must carry the sad memories of a horrendous accident, an occasion of incredible, if unremarked, acts of heroism. Luan Gaines/2004.forever, while other inexplicably survived. Most touching is the fireman who tried so desperately to save the victims, haunted by the sights that he witnessed, the chaos imprinted night after night in his dreams. <br /> <br />The author felt this was a story that must be told; he chose to do so in novel form in order to capture the human element, the natural, ungoverned responses to a life-changing event. In so doing, Formichella has given this tragedy the face of humanity. A reminder of our inevitable vulnerability to fate, the author also takes notice of the emotional remnants of such disasters, the broken hearts and lives that must carry the sad memories of a horrendous accident, an occasion of incredible, if unremarked, acts of heroism. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-09-04
539421:US	51010391	R1BL1MLEWD82IC	0316741582	869065983	Soul City	Books	3	1	3	N	N	(3.5) Soulful fabulism	Cadillac Jackson is in Soul City to cover the debates in the upcoming mayoral election, where even partying is political. But deep in his heart, Cadillac dreams of writing the definitive book on this mecca of soul, where everything of color is glorified. Unfortunately, Cadillac can't seem to find the words for the larger-than-life spirit of Soul City, a phenomenon impossible to contain between the covers of a book.<br /><br />Emperor Jones, mayor for the last 12 years, is preparing to step down, a situation that requires considerable ceremony and, of course, partying. The newly elected mayor will then determine the kind of music played in Soul City for the foreseeable future. Citizens must choose wisely between candidates: the Jazz Party's Coltrane Jones, the Hip Hop Nation's Willie Bobo and Soul Music Party's Cool Spreadlove.<br /><br />Eavesdropping in The Biscuit Shop the next day, Cadillac makes a date with the DJ, Mahogany Sunflower, a fine woman in Jimmy Choo's who hates interviews but never turns one down. With Mahogany's help, Cadillac tours Soul City, but is unable to write a word to explain all that he has seen in the magical place. If Soul City was a utopia, words would flow; but, like life, there are two sides to the City, the beautiful and the ugly. Without inkling where to begin, Cadillac is wordless in a place that cries out for vivid description, the essence of Blackness, not just a silly parody of the culture.<br /><br />In Tour's metaphorical Soul City, a series of fables illustrate a culture that embraces joy, rhythm, belief in God, passion, a painful history, an appreciation of sexuality, social commentary and cutting edge style that others seek to emulate, but never quite capture. Regardless of how they are exploited, tempted or seduced, the bottom line is a moral code based on love and respect for tradition and family.<br /><br />This grown up fairy tale is built on solid ground, as Toure joyfully embraces the culture that makes his life so bountiful. No pale imitation of reality, Soul City is a blast of fresh air, inside a world that feels everything, pain, sadness and joy, but chooses the brightest colors, the hippest music and the loudest shout of \\"Amen\\". Luan Gaines/2004.ife so bountiful. No pale imitation of reality, Soul City is a blast of fresh air, inside a world that feels everything, pain, sadness and joy, but chooses the brightest colors, the hippest music and the loudest shout of \\"Amen\\". Luan Gaines/2004.                                                               <br /> <br />	2004-08-29
540753:US	51010391	RLQN0HV1NYO1L	0151010595	25054700	Madeleine Is Sleeping	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Fabulism: poetic, fragile and fearless	Sighing, rustling, the sounds of sleep; a torrent of sensations surround the reader from the start in this stunning fiction, a remarkable debut, assaulting with images of Reubanesque shapes, the sweet, slightly rancid taste of butter, \\"dirty children with fat melting in their fists.\\" It is poetry, barely disguised, metaphor unbridled.<br /><br />It is impossible to describe such a novel, draped with concupiscent women and gaunt saints, unabashedly erotic, cautionary and fearless, a celebration of inventiveness. All is larger than life, most especially flesh-draped bodies, but also the tragi-comedic range of emotions, of extremes. Myriad images and sensory impressions thread one to another, weaving fragments of thought into whole cloth.<br /><br />Imagination, morality, Eros and ambiguity lie side by side, contentedly coexisting. The uniquely talented Sarah Shun-Lien Bynam has given an hour or two the transcendence of immortality. Madeline Is Sleeping is a highly personal journey, one that can only be appreciated through the experience. If my words do not make sense, it is because they are mine; like a dream, each person must recognize his own reflection. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-08-28
540973:US	51010391	RQ1EPTQ4GNV8K	0151009430	505615120	Life Mask	Books	4	1	2	N	N	(4.5) A "World" of privilege and excess	Human behavior defines the essential values of any era and late 18th Century England is no exception. Rife with rumor, political plotting, extravagant spectacles and the contrast between wealth and poverty, Donoghue's characters act out their dramas on a world stage on the cusp of radical change, yet clinging to their traditional advantages of wealth and power.<br /><br />Public unrest in France, with its incipient populist revolution, exacerbates the uproar in Parliament. Even though King George tenaciously clings to power, his brain continually more addled, supported by the faithful William Pitt, there is ever more chaos among the conflicting ideologies of the Whigs and the Tories. The pressure of an oppressed population pushes against an indifferent upper class, most obvious in the blatant surfeit of the Beau Monde, who fancy themselves \\"the World\\".<br /><br />Donoghue's most impressive talent lies in her ability to inhabit time and place, and against this dramatic background, Donoghue illustrates the private dramas of three protagonists: Eliza Farren, a popular comedic actress, the Earl of Derby, her married suitor and Anne Damer, a widowed sculptor with vague hints of  sexual impropriety staining her impeccable reputation.<br /><br />When the Earl seeks to introduce the reputedly chaste Eliza into the rarified world of the Beau Monde, Anne Damer, his friend of many years, is the perfect guide through the dangers of high society. It is her own heart that Anne must protect, restricted by her woman's role in a male-dominated society. For her part, Eliza's position is precarious; a faux pas can merit expulsion from the inner circle she so desperately courts. Politically naive as well, Eliza is a willing pupil for Derby and Damer's Whig sympathies.<br /><br />The subtext in Life Mask is vintage Donoghue. While current events determine the impending changes in a rigidly structured society, Anne's struggles as a woman, both as an artist and in relationships, addresses the interior landscape of a complex, intelligent female, in a singular position in her social milieu. A woman of exquisite sensibilities, Damer possesses the compassionate eye of the artist and gives both Derby and Eliza an opportunity to enjoy one another's company under acceptable conditions.<br /><br />By the same token, Eliza is more than an actress who aspires to better her prospects in life; she is an outsider who positions herself as advantageously as possible, her future security at stake. The Earl of Derby introduces the roiling political upheaval in England, particularly London, his grasp of politics and the intricacies of behavior demanded by one of his stature often conflicting. Most fascinating is the Earl's devotion to the beautiful Eliza and his slavish attendance to her every whim.<br /><br />The prolific Donoghue has created an arresting work of historical fiction, carefully detailed, thanks to the impressive documentation, based on the actual lives of Farren, Damer and Derby, with other significant figures of the time playing appropriate roles, fleshing out this very complex and tumultuous period of history. The rigid, one-dimensional, boringly predictable Beau Monde restrict their interests to romantic assignations and the excitement of parlor games, content as long as nothing changes in \\"the World\\", only one aspect of this tapestry of personalities and lifestyles. Against broad panoply of humanity, Donoghue offers a glimpse into a past that eerily mirrors the present. Luan Gaines/2004.nships, addresses the interior landscape of a complex, intelligent female, in a singular position in her social milieu. A woman of exquisite sensibilities, Damer possesses the compassionate eye of the artist and gives both Derby and Eliza an opportunity to enjoy one another's company under acceptable conditions. <br /> <br />By the same token, Eliza is more than an actress who aspires to better her prospects in life; she is an outsider who positions herself as advantageously as possible, her future security at stake. The Earl of Derby introduces the roiling political upheaval in England, particularly London, his grasp of politics and the intricacies of behavior demanded by one of his stature often conflicting. Most fascinating is the Earl's devotion to the beautiful Eliza and his slavish attendance to her every whim. <br /> <br />The prolific Donoghue has created an arresting work of historical fiction, carefully detailed, thanks to the impressive documentation, based on the actual lives of Farren, Damer and Derby, with other significant figures of the time playing appropriate roles, fleshing out this very complex and tumultuous period of history. The rigid, one-dimensional, boringly predictable Beau Monde restrict their interests to romantic assignations and the excitement of parlor games, content as long as nothing changes in \\"the World\\", only one aspect of this tapestry of personalities and lifestyles. Against broad panoply of humanity, Donoghue offers a glimpse into a past that eerily mirrors the present. Luan Gaines/2004.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-28
548239:US	51010391	R200Y8AD8R4PWX	0316285013	828756865	Le Colonial: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The changing tide of history	While selecting missionaries to send to Annam, just below China along the edge of the China Sea, Monsignor Pierre de Behaine encounters a young artist, Francois Gervais, who begs to be allowed on the voyage. De Behaine is determined to teach the infidels of Cochin China about the true God, in a land where the Christian faith has yet to take root in 1773.<br /><br />Henri Jacques Monange is only fourteen when he makes his way to Marseilles, one step ahead of the law. Unable to find employment, Henri nearly falls into a life of crime when Francoise takes him under his wing, taking him as an assistant on the voyage across the sea, eventually rendezvousing with de Behaine in India. Thus the three men link their futures in a foreign country, only one of them with a real strategy to bring glory to their native France.<br /><br />Whatever their expectations, after more than 8 months at sea, none of those who have come in service of the missionaries of Monsignor de Behaine, including Henri and Francois, are prepared for what awaits them in this unfamiliar place. When civil war breaks out, all are caught up in a tidal wave of violence. After a series of harrowing events befall Francois and Henri, they are left in despair, wandering an indifferent city. For all they know, God has abandoned them in this vast, pagan land.<br /><br />Of course, the future is never predictable, and neither Henri nor Francois can predict their fate or when Monsignor de Behaine will come into their lives again. Warlords, kings, mandarins, peasants and natural disasters are all part of the strange world they have come to change; de Behaine has been there before, but the others have allowing their imaginations to construct a world that does not exist. In reality, they live in imminent danger of death or imprisonment.<br /><br />In Nguyen's beautifully rendered and violent novel, Pierre de Behaine would appear to be the spiritual guide, privy to the whispered instructions of God, certainly in pursuit of his own vision. But it is Francois Gervaise and Henri Monange who are the most complicated and humane characters. Francois follows an inner voice, but is beset by doubts. His choices greatly affect his survival, but, more importantly, his spiritual condition. A gifted artist, Francois is Godly man, with the spirit of true religious fervor, forged by experience.<br /><br />Henri is only sixteen when their most serious trials begin. Although he loves Francois, his teacher, he dearly misses his mother in France, whom he was forced to leave behind. Pulled in many directions by an innate sense of right and wrong, Henri is the most accessible and least ascetic of the three men. True to his youthful nature, undisciplined and given to anger, Henri also has the qualities that inspire trust in his judgment and sense of duty. Each of these men reacts differently to this constantly changing environment, where their fate can be altered momentarily by feast, famine or the whims of a king or warlord.<br /><br />Their adventures are extraordinary and exotic, far removed from the structured European values of their native France, as Christianity batters at the doors of the Far East, determined to infiltrate this land and claim their souls. In the late 1770's, change is wrought by men like these three Frenchmen, who cross cultural boundaries, their pale faces blooming among the crowds like strange flowers in a sea of others.<br /><br />By 1777, all three are living with factions of a government threatened by revolt and internecine war, their positions precarious. All of them are drawn into the folds of a slowly evolving cultural upheaval of peasants vs. nobility. Carefully tended, the seed of Catholicism continues to grow. Clearly, the political treachery de Behaine employs is necessary to accomplish his long range goals, but he is not a likeable character.<br /><br />This fascinating piece of pre-history, the arrival of the French in Cochin China, begins an era of political development in a country torn by dominance of one faction over another, an unending chess game with much at stake. Le Colonial is a portrait of a continent in search of peace and beset by exploitation. Luan Gaines/2004.of political development in a country torn by dominance of one faction over another, an unending chess game with much at stake. Le Colonial is a portrait of a continent in search of peace and beset by exploitation. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-08-21
550632:US	51010391	RWB159XDP9B3K	1931561796	41381804	The Alumni Grill	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The South rises again	Visceral. Evocative. Blunt. Vital. Erotic. Wise. Joyful. Painful. Fearless. These are but a few adjectives that apply to this remarkable collection of stories and poems by Southern writers, featuring such talents as Tom Franklin, Suzanne Hudson and Brad Watson. Here their work is brought together in an anthology that is an imaginative banquet of ideas and emotions.<br /><br />There are poignant stories of love gone wrong and the tender violence of strangers who meet in the night, as a young woman catches a thief and turns the tables to exact her revenge on a distant father; the loneliness between a childless woman and her husband; the unconscious cruelty of teenaged girls, too self-absorbed to recognize tragedy unless it directly touches them; the resurfacing memory of lust in a marriage gone brittle, weighted by a quiet desperation and hopelessness.<br /><br />In the first story, \\"Christians\\" by Tom Franklin (Hell at the Breech), an aggrieved woman begins a long journey of the soul in quest of a burying preacher, abandoned and bereft, her faith stronger than the harsh land that has taken both son and husband. Given the brutal nature of her reality, it is shocking that her faith survives at all. Poet Beth Ann Fennelly mines the secret heart of motherhood, the self-doubts and small jealousies that quickly surface and quietly dissipate. Her intimate poetry exposes the complex emotions of childbirth, that precious burden destined to weigh on the heart for a lifetime; at the same time, Fennelly embraces the deep eroticism of the mother-child connection.<br /><br />In a stunning tale of misshapen love, Suzanne Hudson portrays a severely dysfunctional family, acting out its small, painful drama, actions warped by generations of ignorance and nascent fear. Hudson addresses the tragic consequences of battered, barely redeemable lives; that the story was written 34 years ago is a testament to the power of Hudson's vision. Finally, in Brad Watson's haunting \\"Water Dog God\\", desecrated innocence finds release through the ministrations of a well-intentioned relative<br /><br />This is an exceptionally rewarding compilation of fresh work from accomplished Southern writers, each contributing a small jewel. In the introduction, Suzanne Kingsbury describes these stories as \\"grave markers where you stop and remember and again lift the stone and again are rebirthed\\". The Alumni Grill, An Anthology of Southern Writers is nothing less than a welcome feast for the senses. Luan Gaines/2004.ng \\"Water Dog God\\", desecrated innocence finds release through the ministrations of a well-intentioned relative <br /> <br />This is an exceptionally rewarding compilation of fresh work from accomplished Southern writers, each contributing a small jewel. In the introduction, Suzanne Kingsbury describes these stories as \\"grave markers where you stop and remember and again lift the stone and again are rebirthed\\". The Alumni Grill, An Anthology of Southern Writers is nothing less than a welcome feast for the senses. Luan Gaines/2004. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-19
550873:US	51010391	RY750YAAMXUW2	1931561761	98088860	Fruit	Books	3	6	10	N	N	(3.5) The teenage trauma of body image	Peter Paddington is not an ordinary adolescent, concerned about girlfriends and a few facial blemishes or whether to lose a pound or two. No, in Peter's little corner of Sarnia, Canada, he is worried about a boyfriend and fifty pounds (or more) and the fact that part of his anatomy has begun speaking to him (always giving bad advice, at that). Trapped in his corpulent body, when not binding his developing (and talking) chest with masking tape or examining the weird places where body hair has suddenly sprouted, Peter agonizes over ever having the courage to go on a diet and become \\"the new and improved Peter Paddington\\".<br /><br />Surrounded by an enabling, if well-meaning family, Peter's cause is hampered by an emotionally inept father and two older sisters, who heap scorn upon their younger brother. Unfortunately, each time Peter works up the determination to start a diet, he is sabotaged by the well-meaning efforts of a mother who whisper/screams and turns a blind eye to her son's problems. Every day filled with self-loathing, deprecation and humiliation, compensation is in order, hence Peter's imaginative \\"Bedtime Movies\\", little vignettes he imagines to lull himself to sleep.<br /><br />Peter's school has its own social hierarchy, specific groups like the Athlete Group, the Short group, the Geek group, the Goody-Goody Group, the Indian Group and the Banger Group. Peter is intimidated by most of these categories, especially the Banger group, who consider him an object for their amusement. Viewed metaphorically, Peter has a surplus of social adjustment issues.<br /><br />As he bumbles into his fourteenth year, Peter's overactive imagination comes in handy for strategizing a life plan, his greatest challenge hovering on the horizon. His incipient, life-altering sexual orientation at issue, this kid is nowhere near ready to be counted out; Peter Paddington is headed for a spectacular coming out. Luan Gaines/2004	2004-08-19
550911:US	51010391	R1Z86Z31440NAZ	0393020169	511044118	Little Things in a Big Country: An Artist and Her Dog on the Rocky Mountain Front	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A visual and spiritual feast	Hinchman's illuminated journal welcomes the reader with nature's vast palette in the Front region of Montana. An artist/writer at home in the natural environment where she lives, Hinchman has created a series of stunningly colorful and detailed illustrations, accentuated by hand-lettering throughout.<br /><br />With her Finnish Spitz, Sisu, at her side, Hannah roams the diverse flora and fauna of the Front, from the fields around her home to Tank Prairie, Redwing Slough, the Game Range and Double Creek. She stops in each place to draw and paint and annotate, her remarkable artwork is a delight, with its attention to minutiae, such as the difference between old snow and new snow, the leaf colorations that define their age, the hunting wasps and caterpillars, blooming wildflowers and artifacts found in the local meadow.<br /><br />Everything Hannah views with her artist's eye is rendered more accessible and alive. Her simple observations have a spiritual quality, touching on a grandeur that stuns the imagination. With Hannah, we observe the smallest of details, the changes in cottonwood bark, the flowers, spiders and insects of the grassland and even Augusta, Montana's infamous one-day rodeo, where everyone comes out to party.<br /><br />That Hannah Hinchman is an environmentalist and nature lover is clear in her exquisite artwork. In a town of locals who believe land was created solely for man's use, Hinchman is bound to have other ideas. But she has learned to coexist and make friends, the eccentric artist who minds her own business. She has obvious affection for the town folk and the friends she has made since moving to Augusta.<br /><br />The author's contribution to the genre of the illuminated journal is a small gem, a book to treasure and peruse, remembering the wonderful bounty of the wilderness. Little Things in a Big Country is reader-friendly, beautifully illustrated and stunningly visual. It serves as an excellent reminder to cherish those areas of the country that still retain their pristine beauty, before the onslaught of big-money backed resource development. In any case, this is the perfect gift, but make sure to save a copy for yourself. Luan Gaines/2004.those areas of the country that still retain their pristine beauty, before the onslaught of big-money backed resource development. In any case, this is the perfect gift, but make sure to save a copy for yourself. Luan Gaines/2004. <br /> <br />	2004-08-19
556487:US	51010391	RSAH9MLZO7PUY	0670032972	245906542	Emma Brown: A Novel From the Unfinished Manuscript by Charlotte Bronte	Books	3	3	3	N	N	(3.5) "...poverty is not short. It is long."	Stepping back into the Bronte era, Emma Brown is as familiar as any of the fiction of the Bronte sisters, although this novel is extrapolated from 20 manuscript pages into a full-length work of fiction by Clare Boylan.<br /><br />Capturing the sense of time and place, Matilda Fitzgibbon, a young lady of substance, is delivered into the care of the Misses Wilcox at their school by her father, Conway Fitzgibbon, Esq. When a letter to the school is returned to the headmistress, marked \\"no such address\\", inquiries are made. It seems that Miss Fitzgibbons is not a person of quality, after all, is, in fact, a fraud and most likely penniless. A local bachelor, Mr. Ellin, does his best to locate any clues about the unfortunate girl as a convoluted trail winds from fact to fact, connecting one part of the story to another.<br /><br />At the same time, we learn the story of the widow, Isabelle Chalfont, whose own young life was one of hardship, although she now lives comfortably as a widow of some means. Struggle is familiar with poverty as well and the loss of her love, who was sent away to separate him from her. The widow welcomes the child into her home, gradually uncovering a little information about her past, the girl's real name, at least, which is Emma. The widow determines to help the girl find her mother, when Emma disappears, running off to London to search alone.<br /><br />Thereafter, Boylan takes on the persona of a female Charles Dickens in a Victorian nightmare complete with starving orphans, children bought and sold as chattel, men with evil intentions and purveyors of every sort of disparagement. Before the tale comes to an end, the main characters have ridden an emotional roller coaster and Emma endures more emotional and physical torture than any child in the most heinous Victorian setting. Indeed, children living in poverty in London are fodder for any injustice, with few enough good-hearted people to care for them.<br /><br />I am reminded of the early black and white movies, before sound, when the squirming damsel is tied to the railroad tracks, nearly annihilated. Like the old broadsheet newspapers exposing social injustice with moral outrage, this novel is a stew of pitiful creatures in need of rescue. Will the train run over the fair damsel? Will Emma Brown ever achieve a life of peace and freedom from want? What does the future hold for this child full of grace and love that she makes the perfect Victorian heroine, embodying all the aspects of a virtuous young lady?<br /><br />While Emma Brown retains the tone and intent of a Bronte novel, to compare this work to Sarah Dunant or Susan Vreeland is a disservice. For Bronte fans, and I have loved Jane Eyre all my life, this is a sweet reminder of the talented Bronte sisters, but when compared to other recent historical fiction, it would be unfair to rate Emma with these accomplished authors. Still, Boylan is on the right track, succeeding in her intent and offering Bronte enthusiasts an unexpected treat. Luan Gaines/2004.minded of the early black and white movies, before sound, when the squirming damsel is tied to the railroad tracks, nearly annihilated. Like the old broadsheet newspapers exposing social injustice with moral outrage, this novel is a stew of pitiful creatures in need of rescue. Will the train run over the fair damsel? Will Emma Brown ever achieve a life of peace and freedom from want? What does the future hold for this child full of grace and love that she makes the perfect Victorian heroine, embodying all the aspects of a virtuous young lady?  <br /> <br />While Emma Brown retains the tone and intent of a Bronte novel, to compare this work to Sarah Dunant or Susan Vreeland is a disservice. For Bronte fans, and I have loved Jane Eyre all my life, this is a sweet reminder of the talented Bronte sisters, but when compared to other recent historical fiction, it would be unfair to rate Emma with these accomplished authors. Still, Boylan is on the right track, succeeding in her intent and offering Bronte enthusiasts an unexpected treat. Luan Gaines/2004.  <br />	2004-08-14
556514:US	51010391	R3DIZGHVNXLTK5	0393057518	88361465	The Lie That Tells a Truth: A Guide to Writing Fiction	Books	5	9	11	N	N	An essential guide for the willing	According to writer/teacher Dufresne, those who buy this book have the desire to write. In keeping with that premise, the author wastes no time and the reader is given specific directions, immediately assigned a writing exercise. Although geared toward the fiction writer, most of Dufresne's suggestions are applicable to any style.<br /><br />The following chapters are sprinkled with quotes, each of which can serve as the basis for another exercise and it is in the actual exercise, pushing past \\"the burn\\" that one becomes a focused writer, able to sit for long periods without exhaustion. Specific daily writing tasks serve to clear away emotional detritus and concerns, eventually allowing the writer to compose on a moment's notice. Two procedures are suggested for the first two weeks of the writing regimen and are non-negotiable: three pages of \\"morning\\" writing and fifteen minutes of writing by appointment (with yourself). These practices teach how to write, and, in the process, how to be a writer.<br /><br />The following are but a few observations, valuable notes that define the process: create powerful emotional moments to draw the reader into active participation; be comfortable with ambiguity; understand that writing demands limits and nothing paralyzes the imagination like too much freedom; don't break the seam in the reader's mind with bad technique; never use the words \\"once upon a time\\" or \\"they all lived happily ever after\\".<br /><br />This is no brief treatise on the art of writing. It is a thoughtfully structured lesson plan, fine-tuned to meet every situation, where the writer will experience by doing, each phase honing more skills, more refinement in the process. If you trust this successful author, and I do, by virtue of his simple approach, following direction will allow the writing experience to evolve.<br /><br />Peruse the chapter headings, which clearly lay out the path ahead into two main categories, the process and the product. Under the section dealing with the process, Dufresne walks the writer through the beginning pangs, the pitfalls and the too-easy solutions, stressing the importance of rewriting. The product section moves into the next important phase, the actual creation of plot, characters, dialog and point of view. The entire book, replete with quotes and writing exercises, is clearly a map toward successful, self-fulfilling creativity. Not to be taken lightly, this book is not a quick read, nor is it intended to be. The learning is in the doing and the author has taken the time to lay it all out, demystifying and personalizing an intimate process.<br /><br />Of all the books on writing I own, this is one of the few that has piqued my curiosity and awakened my interest. I plan on putting in my two weeks, one day (three pages plus fifteen minutes) at a time, with an eye toward finally reaching my goal. For anyone who has been intimidated by that blank page, this is the place to begin, with Dufresne as an encouraging, accessible guide. Time to get started. Luan Gaines/2004.oduct. Under the section dealing with the process, Dufresne walks the writer through the beginning pangs, the pitfalls and the too-easy solutions, stressing the importance of rewriting. The product section moves into the next important phase, the actual creation of plot, characters, dialog and point of view. The entire book, replete with quotes and writing exercises, is clearly a map toward successful, self-fulfilling creativity. Not to be taken lightly, this book is not a quick read, nor is it intended to be. The learning is in the doing and the author has taken the time to lay it all out, demystifying and personalizing an intimate process.  <br /> <br />Of all the books on writing I own, this is one of the few that has piqued my curiosity and awakened my interest. I plan on putting in my two weeks, one day (three pages plus fifteen minutes) at a time, with an eye toward finally reaching my goal. For anyone who has been intimidated by that blank page, this is the place to begin, with Dufresne as an encouraging, accessible guide. Time to get started. Luan Gaines/2004. <br />	2004-08-14
558605:US	51010391	RYTUEV6SA0IRC	0595663419	418583771	Camel Red	Books	3	5	5	N	N	(3.5)A paean to a genuine WWII hero	Recently, World War II veterans have been touted as \\"The Greatest Generation\\", but as more of them pass into history, the survivors are concerned, in a constantly changing world, that their deeds will be forgotten. At the time, everyone believed that the Second World War was \\"the war to end all wars\\", that never again would such numbers of young men be sent across the sea to fight for their country.<br /><br />Unfortunately, since 1945 we have known conflict in Korea, Vietnam and Iraq. These engagements have each reaped generational tolls, but none with such clear distinction and clarity of purpose; the soldiers who served in WWII produced innumerable heroes, one of who is memorialized in Camel red.<br /><br />An outstanding officer, with dreams of a future in professional football, Larry Heron of Hopedale, Massachusetts, was severely wounded and disfigured in an act of heroism that saved his men, but changed the course of his life. Heron was only 26-years old and endured over 26 operations to repair his face, but his eyesight was destroyed. A lesser man would have courted bitterness and self-pity, but this was no ordinary man. His life was lived painfully, but honorably, raising a family and contributing to the welfare of his fellow veterans in the local community.<br /><br />A newlywed when he was wounded, Heron's beloved wife was pivotal to his recovery. Even when she viewed his horribly disfigured face for the first time, Azelia never flinched, steadfast in her unconditional love for her husband. Before Larry's tragic disfigurement, the young couple exemplified the American family in the 1940's, grounded in their love of family, patriotism and religious faith. Equally important to Heron's continuing progress were the groups who offered both physical and emotional support: his fellow soldiers, the appreciative community of Hopedale and the tireless physicians who performed the surgeries to reconstruct Heron's face.<br /><br />Heron leaves a proud legacy, a man who stood for the best of his country, gravely wounded, fighting insurmountable odds to survive his injuries and take back his life. Certainly, Heron is one of his generation's exemplary heroes. In his writing debut, Gregory David Page does justice to Larry Heron's memory, a paean to a heroic life, well-lived. Luan Gaines/2004.proud legacy, a man who stood for the best of his country, gravely wounded, fighting insurmountable odds to survive his injuries and take back his life. Certainly, Heron is one of his generation's exemplary heroes. In his writing debut, Gregory David Page does justice to Larry Heron's memory, a paean to a heroic life, well-lived. Luan Gaines/2004.  <br /> <br />	2004-08-12
558825:US	51010391	R3D6IUJK073J58	0670032670	760845381	The Forest Lover	Books	4	15	15	N	N	An homage to an important female artist	Vreeland has a profound appreciation for art and the excruciating process involved in creativity, especially in the case of Emil Carr, an artist who painted with a spirit unrecognized by a priggish society. Vreeland's previous novels, including The Girl in Hyacinth Blue and The Passion of Artemesia, are indicative of the writer's respect for the artist's life.<br /><br />Vreeland's prose is rich with understanding: the nature of color, the way an artist views the world and the unavoidable drive to create that is the mark of a true artist. Emily Carr is one of those driven, compulsive painters whose life is defined by her art and her need to express her own vision.<br /><br />Carr, 1841-1945, is an original, an artist who visually defines a culture, seeking communion with her surroundings and the indigenous native population of British Colombia. Primitive in a way, Carr's vision exemplifies the simplicity of the native lifestyle, as well as the natural elements, so abundant in British Columbia. Of course, Carr is inhibited by the times and the role of women in Victorian society. She began painting in the traditional manner, using watercolors, severely restricted by that technique.<br /><br />However, after a year of study in a Paris still reeling from the Impressionists, Emily Carr began painting in oils, experimenting with color. Returning to her native Canada, her work was changed by the experience of France. Living as only serious artists do, Carr isolated herself, opening to the process, seeing with new eyes. When necessary, she resided at home with her sisters, but was constantly drawn back to the wilderness. Carr was endlessly fascinated by the totem poles representative of native experience and reflective of their disappearing culture.<br /><br />The more influence the missionaries in Canada enjoyed, the more they sought to change the Indians and their rituals. Precious artifacts, viewed as heathen, were destroyed, befitting the strict rules of a Christian God. As in other countries, the Indians suffered through the advance of civilization, doomed to extinction.<br /><br />Carr's work celebrates the power of the Indian vision of the physical world and the spiritual elements reflected in daily life. As a female artist, Carr struggled against prejudices not suffered by male artists. Yet she persevered, unstinting in her devotion and opening her heart to the innovations that so enriched her work.<br /><br />Emily Carr has left an extraordinary legacy to her country of origin and carved a place as an important artist. It is through Vreeland's meticulous research and love of art that this remarkable woman comes to life on the pages of The Forest Lover, the small, dumpy woman who rose above a difficult childhood and lonely years, searching for her voice. And find her voice she did. It is a shout for joy. Luan Gaines/2004tian God. As in other countries, the Indians suffered through the advance of civilization, doomed to extinction. <br /> <br />Carr's work celebrates the power of the Indian vision of the physical world and the spiritual elements reflected in daily life. As a female artist, Carr struggled against prejudices not suffered by male artists. Yet she persevered, unstinting in her devotion and opening her heart to the innovations that so enriched her work. <br /> <br />Emily Carr has left an extraordinary legacy to her country of origin and carved a place as an important artist. It is through Vreeland's meticulous research and love of art that this remarkable woman comes to life on the pages of The Forest Lover, the small, dumpy woman who rose above a difficult childhood and lonely years, searching for her voice. And find her voice she did. It is a shout for joy. Luan Gaines/2004	2004-08-12
561851:US	51010391	R1K18WFKIH12LJ	1931561710	572806251	Island of First Light	Books	3	8	13	N	N	Culture clash at the edge of the world	Gatreau's novel is a tale of the loss of identity of the racially dispossessed, the nature of loss and a woman's journey toward her authentic self, all set against a dramatic background on the coast of Maine. On Alabaster Island the ocean may appear quite placid, but without warning a storm can transform the blue horizon into icy cliffs, all but obscuring the surrounding islands.<br /><br />The heart of the novel rests with Freddy Orcutt, who, having lost his wife in the last few years, ruminates on the premature death of his son in a storm off Snagged Anchor Island and how this tragic event affected the remaining years of his marriage. His face lined and weather-beaten by years at sea as a fisherman, Freddy is rarely given to conversation, reminded daily of his loss by the presence of the adjoining cabin where his son and family lived.<br /><br />Too emotionally invested to sell Jimmy's place, Freddy at last works up the courage to rent the cottage. The new occupant, Caitlin Gray, is delighted with the stark view of the islands, in search of inner peace after her husband's suspected infidelity and the resurfacing dream of success as a writer. Caitlin has fond memories of her visit to Alabaster Island seventeen years ago, when she was engaged in a passionate summer affair and now hopes the isolation and harsh beauty of the environment will inspire her long dormant talent.<br /><br />Caitlin gives Freddy a wide berth at first, respecting his privacy and her own, until they are drawn together in the dawn of early morning, where they share quiet moments and occasional histories. Although she has a husband and two grown children, Caitlin develops an unexpected fondness for the stolid old man, a father figure that she has never known.<br /><br />Most of the island's revenue is from summer tourists and the island is quiet during the harsh winter months, filled with the usual assortment of eccentric characters. However, one woman, O'zalik Moseley, married to a local man, is a threat to the status quo of island life. As the only American Indian on the Island, the Passamaquoddy tribe, O'zalik is obsessed with locating the reputed ancient burial ground on Snagged Anchor Island.  Recently in possession of a journal that may authenticate the claim, O'zalik is determined to have the memory of her ancestors preserved and acknowledged.<br /><br />This small island population comes to grief over the next few months, as long-buried secrets are revisited and one way of life clashes with another, commerce vs. historical preservation. Also revisited is the unexplained disappearance of a young woman who has never been accounted for, part of the island's mysterious past. True to their characters, the citizens of Alabaster Island deal with their challenges in determined New England fashion.<br /><br />Never an effusive bunch, Freddy and his cronies accept life on life's terms, but when it is merited, step in to right the situation. But Caitlin Gray brings a breath of freshness to Freddy's stolid acceptance of his future, allowing his old heart to expand and embrace the coming years. Neither town nor inhabitants are ever very exciting, but move at nature's pace; at the end of the land mass, their days are reflective of the slower evolution of the physical world. Gatreau perfectly captures this struggle with the elements as a way of life, the fury and the bounty of the ocean and the tough, basically good-hearted folk who understand life at its most basic, New England core. Luan Gaines/2004.l man, is a threat to the status quo of island life. As the only American Indian on the Island, the Passamaquoddy tribe, O'zalik is obsessed with locating the reputed ancient burial ground on Snagged Anchor Island.  Recently in possession of a journal that may authenticate the claim, O'zalik is determined to have the memory of her ancestors preserved and acknowledged. <br /> <br />This small island population comes to grief over the next few months, as long-buried secrets are revisited and one way of life clashes with another, commerce vs. historical preservation. Also revisited is the unexplained disappearance of a young woman who has never been accounted for, part of the island's mysterious past. True to their characters, the citizens of Alabaster Island deal with their challenges in determined New England fashion.  <br /> <br />Never an effusive bunch, Freddy and his cronies accept life on life's terms, but when it is merited, step in to right the situation. But Caitlin Gray brings a breath of freshness to Freddy's stolid acceptance of his future, allowing his old heart to expand and embrace the coming years. Neither town nor inhabitants are ever very exciting, but move at nature's pace; at the end of the land mass, their days are reflective of the slower evolution of the physical world. Gatreau perfectly captures this struggle with the elements as a way of life, the fury and the bounty of the ocean and the tough, basically good-hearted folk who understand life at its most basic, New England core. Luan Gaines/2004. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-08
567803:US	51010391	R1XSRGJ6B85QS	0440241006	530810768	Persuader (Jack Reacher, No. 7)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Jack reacher, the ultimate &quot;Survivor&quot;	A Jack Reacher novel is always a roller coaster ride, one you can't get off once it's started. Persuader is in true Reacher form, from the first wild seconds of deadly gunplay and an aborted kidnapping to a race to avoid pursuing the cops.<br /><br />As an ex-military intelligence officer, Reacher knows everything there is to know about survival, handling sophisticated weapons and generally outsmarting his opponents. In Persuader, he uses all of his considerable resources to get out of a dangerous situation alive, against odds that would deter a lesser man. Reacher's world is one of absolutes: me or them. Decisions are fateful and final.<br /><br />After pulling off the wild rescue of a college student, Reacher is persuaded to drive the boy home, in expectation of gratitude and a monetary reward. He finds himself held in a fortress built at the edge of the ocean in Maine, a place that is virtually impenetrable and heavily guarded by steroid-popping giants. Obviously, the boy's father is up to something more illegal than the rug importing business he claims. Meanwhile, Reacher makes a deal with the FBI to retrieve an agent who has disappeared behind the fortress' walls.<br /><br />No surprise to Reacher fans, once committed to a task, that's it for this hero. Even thought the past reaches out and threatens to interfere with his survival instincts, Jack keeps his perspective, tough-minded and serious as death. Unfortunately, the body count rises with every day that he stays inside the fortress. But Reacher is on a deadline and time has run out.<br /><br />Blow by blow, the author reveals the usual assortment of nefarious characters, undercover FBI agents and innocent civilians caught in the crossfire, skillfully juxtaposed, all headed toward a violent showdown. And always one thought drives the intrepid Reacher on: them or me. Outthink. Outplay. Outlast. Jack Reacher is the ultimate survivor. Luan<br /><br />Gaines/2004.	2004-08-03
571566:US	51010391	R50S0886SZIXO	193156129X	986209690	The Anomalies	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A riff for the disenfranchised	This novel is an interesting exercise on two levels: first, because the author, himself quite a young man, has tackled a topic that requires extraordinary skill, observing the antics of a multi-generational group of characters; the second, the very diverse personalities themselves, who make up the meat of the novel.<br /><br />Goebel introduces an unusual gathering of friends who have come together as a rock band, determined that their music be heard and appreciated. They figure such a strange configuration of band mates should at least get them in the door. The group consists of an eight-year old girl and her babysitter, who happens to be a sprightly octogenarian, a young black musician with an explosive imagination and a vocabulary to match, a beautiful, wheel chair-bound Satanist and an Iraqi immigrant recently arrived in this country to enjoy the wonders of American life and to find an American soldier he wounded in the Gulf War. The burgeoning rock band is their blunt statement to the world.<br /><br />The world may not be ready for their message, but the musicians do have a small following as their sound improves with practice. Most important is their message: diversity is the future of America. Certainly the very identity of the group is an advertisement that cultural and racial differences can successfully coexist, even flourish. Like most ideas before their time, this band becomes a target for some misanthropic diversions, reminding us that the fickle finger of fate scribbles randomly, and then moves on, indifferent to the chaos left in its wake. Whether Goebel's characters can recover from their debut is the question. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-07-30
573392:US	51010391	R2JVR9H2BMZM7X	0393059251	635887556	Ophelia's Fan	Books	3	4	4	N	N	(3.5)Ophelia as muse for genius	Ophelia's Fan is quality historical fiction, written by a talented author, who skillfully brings the past to life in vivid detail; the contrast between poverty and wealth, the importance of education and humanity's impotence against the vagaries of an indifferent fate.<br /><br />Beautifully rendered, the novel traces the historical journey of Harriet Smithson, an eminent Shakespearean star, on the stages of London and Paris. Born in Ennis, County Clare, Ireland in 1800, Smithson is raised, at the request of her actor father, by an Episcopalian priest, given all the advantages of education so that she might better herself and the fortunes of her family. Thanks to the efforts of the Reverend, Harriet is saved from a life of poverty, but at a certain cost: she never really knows her parents or siblings intimately, having only the occasional visit until she begins her stage career ion London, just after her father's death. At that time, the support of the family falls to the young woman.<br /><br />With her family in dire straights, Harriet decides to take them with her to London, lest they parish in squalor and poverty. The time has arrived for Harriet to repay the family for her years of good fortune. Hardly glamorous, work in the theater demands long days of rehearsal and memorization, bleak and tedious endeavors. Young Harriet plays a series of numbingly similar female roles, constantly preparing for the few opportunities to play Shakespeare that come her way. Studying diligently, the beautiful actress is almost unaware when gentlemen flock to her side, but soon she is dreaming familiar scenarios of love and marriage.<br /><br />After some success in London, Smithson removes herself to Paris, where she expends her energies, much applauded for her depiction of Shakespearian heroines. It is in Paris that she comes face to face with her future, in the person of the composer, Hector Berloiz, who is obsessed with the actress as Ophelia, desperate to have her as his wife. The unworldly Harriet is carried away by the composer's unbridled passion, tricked by the dramatic emotional roller coaster of the courtship into believing such extreme feelings can sustain a marriage.<br /><br />The bulk of the novel concerns Harriet's life, pre-Berloiz, tracking her early years in Ennis, where she was saved from poverty, to the uncertain years in London, where she had difficulty attaining the start status that fills her dreams. Later, in Pairs, Smithson knows a few brief years of success. Through a series of letters to her son, an older, wiser Harriet tries to explain the circumstances of her marriage to Berloiz and their intense attraction to one another.  At the same time, she must confront the reality of their lives together. During her decline, acting and youth relegated to the past, Smithson has ample time to consider the harsh life she has led, with little enough choice, after all.<br /><br />Drawing from the few sources available, the author fills in the details of life in the theater, both the demands and the rewards. Smithson's blooming years are all too brief, but she does enjoy the accolades of her peers and the citizens of Paris for some seasons. Although the actress avoids poverty during her childhood, the family is dogged by a lack of adequate funds until her Parisian success. While the author portrays Harriet Smithson as Berloiz's muse, little is known of their lives together and whether she continued to inspire his music after their explosive and brief courtship. The letters to her son indicate the opposite. Still, this is a fascinating romp through the backstage door of theater life and the endless struggle for recognition. Perhaps as Ophelia, Smithson knows her finest hour. Luan Gaines/2004.s wife. The unworldly Harriet is carried away by the composer's unbridled passion, tricked by the dramatic emotional roller coaster of the courtship into believing such extreme feelings can sustain a marriage. <br /> <br />The bulk of the novel concerns Harriet's life, pre-Berloiz, tracking her early years in Ennis, where she was saved from poverty, to the uncertain years in London, where she had difficulty attaining the start status that fills her dreams. Later, in Pairs, Smithson knows a few brief years of success. Through a series of letters to her son, an older, wiser Harriet tries to explain the circumstances of her marriage to Berloiz and their intense attraction to one another.  At the same time, she must confront the reality of their lives together. During her decline, acting and youth relegated to the past, Smithson has ample time to consider the harsh life she has led, with little enough choice, after all. <br /> <br />Drawing from the few sources available, the author fills in the details of life in the theater, both the demands and the rewards. Smithson's blooming years are all too brief, but she does enjoy the accolades of her peers and the citizens of Paris for some seasons. Although the actress avoids poverty during her childhood, the family is dogged by a lack of adequate funds until her Parisian success. While the author portrays Harriet Smithson as Berloiz's muse, little is known of their lives together and whether she continued to inspire his music after their explosive and brief courtship. The letters to her son indicate the opposite. Still, this is a fascinating romp through the backstage door of theater life and the endless struggle for recognition. Perhaps as Ophelia, Smithson knows her finest hour. Luan Gaines/2004. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-07-28
580106:US	51010391	RWDBZO77SPYL7	1931561664	761099477	Beautiful Girls	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Poignant perspectives	An enlightening experience awaits the reader of Bauman's Beautiful Girls, tales both playful and tender. That they are so easy to read belies the careful structure and precise attention to detail, each vignette an imaginative take on the vulnerability of the human psyche.<br /><br /> The title story, &quot;Beautiful Girls&quot;, exposes beauty for its facile usefulness, a passport to places where less fortunate girls never go, but a road fraught pitfalls nonetheless, the too easy physical attractions, the cruelty of entitlement and the impulse to discard emotions as dispensable. &quot;Wash, Rinse, Spin&quot; is a deeply compassionate story of the last wrenching days between a daughter and her dying father, the hours thick with loss, regret and the reality of a world without him.<br /><br /> The author carefully arranges her scenes, story by story, from &quot;Eden&quot; to &quot;Wildlife of America&quot;, where images come to life, the sights and smells of clutter, yearning, discontent and abandoned hopes, as her characters stumble through the confusion of daily challenges. Bauman paints reality in exquisite detail, quirky and individual, yet somehow as familiar as a childhood memory. Her accessible style of writing taps into some well-hidden secret place, where mothers are unpredictable and fragile and fathers are embarrassing, where things go bump in the night and the child carefully monitors the behavior of the parents, caretaker of undisciplined adults.<br /><br /> Bauman's protagonists vacillate between loneliness and being alone, on the verge of that terrible isolation, but never falling into self-pity. Rather, each explores this territory, searching for a place of comfort, the accommodation of lonely vs. alone that so defines these characters and the author's fearless exploration of such feelings. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-07-22
581811:US	51010391	R3P6ATFS4IIKEX	038551123X	999297410	Darkly Dreaming Dexter: A Novel	Books	4	220	243	N	N	A murderously charming protagonist	Here's the deal: a good book writes its own review, triggering sufficient spontaneity to fill the page without reaching for bits of interest; this is one of those books, pushing aside all those mundane summer novels, leaving the reader with a satisfying, &quot;Ah.&quot;<br />The attractively ghoulish protagonist is a sociopath and a murderer, but one with a &quot;conscience&quot;, unfortunately an asset as manufactured as his other feelings. But Dexter does his best, given the circumstances. Brilliant and introspective, Dexter charms from the first page, even while distracted, dismembering his latest victim. What makes Dexter's extra-curricular activity bearable is the reason he kills: Dexter only chooses victims who have perpetrated foul deeds, those who would continue harming innocents if not stopped. To be honest, who hasn't secretly applauded the occasional vigilante who takes justice in his own hands, balancing the scales a bit?<br />Essentially passionless in his pursuit of evil-doers, Dexter is an elegant ghoul, fascinated by blood, the essence of human life. With the self-control of a  recently sated vampire, Dexter is intelligent and thorough in his murderous pursuits. Like Rice's Vampire Lestat, this more human predator has a dark, romantic appeal, his dispassionate regard for &quot;necessary&quot; murders seductive and curiously erotic.<br />Dexter spends his days as a blood spatter analyst for the Miami Dade PD, the perfect job for keeping up with current crime scenes and maintaining a cover, not to mention the chance to troll for other deserving victims. Lurking behind his public self, Dexter is as secure as a serial killer can be. Until another killer shows up, perfectly modeling Dexter's MO. Both anxious and intrigued, Dexter scents a challenge, another creature of the night that lives with a Dark Passenger, as he refers to his murdering alter-ego. But Dexter is torn; he covets this newcomer for himself, but has promised to help his half-sister policewoman solve the case in her bid to become a detective.<br />Suddenly events spiral out of control, Dexter's careless insouciance is a thing of the past, as he is pursued by dark dreams and chaotic nightmares. Like Alice in Wonderland lost in a psychedelic trance, Dexter tumbles down the rabbit hole. What he finds is completely unexpected, a twisted, deviant detour into horror, startling the man who has thought himself incapable of shock. One has to wonder about Dexter's powers of self-preservation, whether he is tempting fate and secretly wants to be caught.<br />Lindsay has delivered an inspired mystery, one that demands to be read, in one sitting if possible, the elegant Dexter speaking to the need for justice where often there is none. Can't help but smile at the young man's antics, dancing in the moon-drenched night with his own demons and skirting the edge of mayhem. With infinite grace, the author reaches into the dark heart of each of us, igniting atavistic memory, no doubt with a smile on his face. Luan Gaines/2004.ewoman solve the case in her bid to become a detective. <br />Suddenly events spiral out of control, Dexter's careless insouciance is a thing of the past, as he is pursued by dark dreams and chaotic nightmares. Like Alice in Wonderland lost in a psychedelic trance, Dexter tumbles down the rabbit hole. What he finds is completely unexpected, a twisted, deviant detour into horror, startling the man who has thought himself incapable of shock. One has to wonder about Dexter's powers of self-preservation, whether he is tempting fate and secretly wants to be caught.<br />Lindsay has delivered an inspired mystery, one that demands to be read, in one sitting if possible, the elegant Dexter speaking to the need for justice where often there is none. Can't help but smile at the young man's antics, dancing in the moon-drenched night with his own demons and skirting the edge of mayhem. With infinite grace, the author reaches into the dark heart of each of us, igniting atavistic memory, no doubt with a smile on his face. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-07-20
582430:US	51010391	R24UL79IBBPFTU	0385507615	400682657	Blackbird House	Books	3	22	27	N	N	(3.5) Place as a keeper of secrets	This is the kind of novel only Hoffman can write, full of mystery and the indelible images of people who spend their short time on earth stepping quietly into the pages of the past, as the years speed forward to embrace the future.<br />The epicenter of each family who lives there, Blackbird House knows each memory, the good and the bad, etched into time as it hovers at the edge of the earth at the Cape, only a mile from the ocean, in a fertile field of trees, wild berries and wildly growing vegetation. From the first family residing there and their travails, Hoffman never shrinks from the realities of life and death.  Rather, the house serves as an impassive witness to the fortunes and misfortunes of a succession of families. In such a harsh part of the world, where many men make their living from the sea, families endure their losses, accepting fate or despairing at life's cruelties.<br />Blackbird House seems to draw an inordinate amount of unhappiness, many lonely, desperate people; yet, in its quiet solitude, the house is an anchor, overflowing with wild growth as if nature would make up in abundance what people have lost. Certainly, there are omens, such as the return of the blackbird pet of a young boy lost at sea, the bird's once black feathers turned white. But omens are, after all, in the perception of the beholder.<br />Hoffman is an artist, a writer who cannot exist in a land without ambiguity. Her message is one of healing, no matter the damage and compassion for a world that often seems careless of human feelings. Blackbird House is a place of opposites, hope and despair, sadness and happiness and death and renewal. Years of disappointment witness the passage of time, ushering in a new day with the promise of tomorrow. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-07-20
582433:US	51010391	R3N5HBG5E8VM83	0385510497	611159149	Going East	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Fleet Street to the East End mean streets	When Mia Taylor loses her entire family in a horrific incident, she loses a way of life and her sense of identity. The well-educated, upper-class Taylors enjoy the best that London society has to offer, a golden existence. Mia could never have anticipated the demise of everything she holds dear, nor can she easily recover from such a blow.<br />In her mid-twenties, Mia moves to the East End to purge her past and start over in a life unconnected to her history. She spends her energies at a local charitable agency, trying to make a difference to the people who cross the threshold of her new employer. Eventually, of course, Mia will be forced to confront the horrors of the past and deal with the feelings she buried with her family.<br />Then things get complicated. Mia is challenged in ways she hasn't anticipated, as a voice from the past contacts her and a new romantic interest threatens to arouse her long-dormant emotions. Family history resurfaces with a vengeance and Mia's responds by shutting everything out, even her chance at romance, diving recklessly into the nightmare scenario of the accident, knowing that is where the answers lie. From the world of socialites and high-finance to the mean streets of the East End, Mia follows the meager clues as she uncovers them. It seems she hasn't hidden herself so well, after all, when her old acquaintances are able to track her activities at will.<br />The more the past encroaches upon the present, Mia is less able to deny the reality of her situation: the two worlds of her life are not nearly as separate as she believed.  For all its good manners, the upper-class indulges in the same vices as the poor, if with a bit more discretion. Subtlety not her strong point, Mia awakens some sleeping giants best left alone, sending a ripple of violence from Fleet Street to the mean streets.<br />The author surrounds the mysterious deaths of Mia's family with the trappings of class, either the lifestyle of her formative years or the more realistic drudgery and daily danger of those who coexist in poverty. But this plot is frequently implausible and loses direction midway through. Finally, the convoluted storyline is a bit tedious for all the sociological contrasts between rich and poor; even Mia's blundering attempts to solve a crime on her own is inordinately clumsy. Considerable effort goes into tying this story together, from MP's to common criminals and terrorists, a bit of romance interspersed to lighten the dismal atmosphere of Mia's world. The author's best intentions are obvious, but his protagonist cannot quite manage the weight of this plot, handicapped by her youth and consequent indiscretion. Luan Gaines/2004.more realistic drudgery and daily danger of those who coexist in poverty. But this plot is frequently implausible and loses direction midway through. Finally, the convoluted storyline is a bit tedious for all the sociological contrasts between rich and poor; even Mia's blundering attempts to solve a crime on her own is inordinately clumsy. Considerable effort goes into tying this story together, from MP's to common criminals and terrorists, a bit of romance interspersed to lighten the dismal atmosphere of Mia's world. The author's best intentions are obvious, but his protagonist cannot quite manage the weight of this plot, handicapped by her youth and consequent indiscretion. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-07-20
591582:US	51010391	R38QSQA4QH1S1M	0393059006	386183174	An Ornithologist's Guide to Life: Stories	Books	3	8	9	N	N	(3.5) Stunning moments of clarity	Hood is a consummate writer whose words and images create believable scenes of humanity played out in a variety of relationships. From the strange attraction of opposites to the complicated elements of friendship, Hood speaks with elegant precision, her description of place almost tactile. The stories cover all generations and experiences, as the characters struggle with issues that require courage and not a little resilience, each culminating in a moment of irrevocable truth.<br />Hood maintains a delicate balance in this impressive collection, selections that illustrate the disparate concerns of everyday lives. Without rendering judgment, each slice-of-life tale reveals real people with complex emotions, navigating through lives fraught with endless decisions; this series renders the commonplace extraordinary, suggesting the inherent danger in choices, given the inevitable consequences and those perfect moments of clarity that strike without warning.<br />I like the people in these stories, particularly the women, with their common yearning, their angst, in spite of a lack of safety in a constantly changing world. Most characters are relatively young and single, but the married ones juggle the usual concerns of family vs. self and the elderly the burden of too much familiarity with grief. All of them are processing emotions, losses, fears and the unreliability of dreams; in one particularly striking story, the perfect life is shattered by an action that will taint the future of those left in the wake of destruction.<br /> As the title intimates, the author is indeed an observer of behavior, in this case the human variety. Skillfully, the author arranges her protagonists so that they are illuminated, exposing the fragile undersides they try vainly to protect. The inevitable predator, reality, moves closer, the nest breeched and innocence flown, leaving only remnants of a comfort forever relinquished. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-07-13
594019:US	51010391	R15URPJQWBDXLQ	1931561621	318105314	Happy Baby	Books	4	9	11	N	N	The agonizing death of innocence	Theo is a young man of 36 years, returning from the West Coast to his roots in Chicago. These are not the same roots we normally think of, those of us who have known the security of family, parents, siblings, various eccentric relatives. But Theo's roots are misshapen, deeply twisted from the horrors of the child welfare system, the agonizing childhood of the dispossessed who are not visible in everyday society, except perhaps to one another.<br />Working backwards, Theo begins his story in the present, tortured days where his energy is absorbed by the need for the release of physical pain. His only safety is in familiarity and ritual, so he seeks those of similar needs, where days are measured by degradation and emotional anguish so deep it can only be temporarily expunged.<br />Growing up in the child welfare system in Illinois, Theo is thrown into a murky, indifferent world, one where soul-dead predators rule. The social workers, too over-burdened to be effective, have their enthusiasm crushed early on in this game, where the only way to survive is to ignore the chaos and violence. Good intentions are quickly reduced to a belief that these children cannot be saved, left at the mercy of their caretakers, who feed freely on the defenseless.<br />The power of Happy Baby is in its structure: Elliott throws the netherworld of sexual deviance in your face. If you don't like it, don't look at it...there is no lack of customers. The author peels away Theo's psyche like the skin of an onion, exposing each tender layer in the systematic destruction of an innocence most people take for granted.<br />Society doesn't like to examine its failures, let alone acknowledge them. Take a long, hard look at Theo's evolution into a tortured, barely-functional fringe-dweller whose sense of self is virtually non-existent, clinging to life by its lowest common denominator.<br />After reading this book, what I find absolutely stunning is the enormity of this self-perpetuating social issue that continues to deform and destroy the unfortunate children it purports to protect. Happy Baby is a painful read. While the story is neither comfortable nor entertaining, this author refuses to be intimidated by taboo or socially-unacceptable topics; rather, Elliott adds his powerful voice to the rising howl of outrage at the abused, disenfranchised and ignored wards of society. Luan Gaines/2004.ue that continues to deform and destroy the unfortunate children it purports to protect. Happy Baby is a painful read. While the story is neither comfortable nor entertaining, this author refuses to be intimidated by taboo or socially-unacceptable topics; rather, Elliott adds his powerful voice to the rising howl of outrage at the abused, disenfranchised and ignored wards of society. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-07-11
597132:US	51010391	R3Q5SPDMY2GIUO	0316935492	911796667	Heart of the Hunter: A Novel	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Inside the Chaos Theory	A man contacts an old friend asking for his assistance; with that one action, a government agency is set in motion, tracking all activity, assessing security and setting safeguards in place, so finely tuned as to be error-proof. In one simple act of acquiescence, lives are irrevocably changed.<br />A society is defined by the agencies that conduct the business of the people. Developed by the South African Presidential Intelligence Unit (PIU), designed from an intelligence-specific prototype, the Reaction Unit (RU) falls somewhere between a counter-terrorist organization and hostage rescue unit, similar to the British Special Air Services. The creators of the RU have dark dreams of redemption from a shameful past in South African human relations and, given an opportunity to prove the superiority of the unit, envision new beginnings for a country struggling to redefine its political and social systems.<br />Thobela Mpayipheli, a six-foot-three giant of a man with a gentle heart, has finally found contentment in his life, living quietly with his woman and her young son. A former member of Umkhonto we Sizwe (\\"the spear of the nation\\"), part of the black resistance when South Africa was fighting for racial balance and equality. Thobela, AKA Tiny, has made a covenant with himself and those he loves, putting the violence forever behind him. But when an old friend from the past makes a request, it is a call to honor that must be met. Thobela must act as his conscience dictates, aware of what is at stake when he allows his natural instincts to resurface. Tiny is the unknown quantity in the equation, the one man to test the raison d'etre of the RU.<br />Like all bureaucracies, once set in motion with agendas activated, everything proceeds as planned, inexorable. Regardless of nuance or human complications, these pseudo-machines are incapable of subtlety, or changing plans to adapt to exigent circumstances. Whatever and whoever is in the way is simply collateral damage.<br />\\"Contact. Action. Control.\\" Protect the State at all costs. The action man of the Reaction Unit is Tiger Mazibuko, who lives for the thrill of the chase and a worthy opponent. He's been training his team relentlessly, preparing for just such an opportunity. Mpayipheli is the perfect adversary, a man who challenges all the skills Tiger has honed. As long as Tiger's supervisor, Janina Mentz, dehumanizes Mpayipheli, Tiger can behave dispassionately, impossible to stop. Meanwhile, Mentz sits in the catbird seat, answerable only to her Director, watching the machinations as the RU goes into overdrive, tracking Mpaypheli. This is a high-stakes chess game, and it is deadly serious.<br />The contretemps between man and \\"machine\\" balances in fragile stasis before chaos erupts and the forces collide, uncontrollable. Special interests, driven by self-preservation and pride, are motivated by the arrogance bred of power, corrupted, a somnolent decay that destroys the integrity of the agency itself. Meanwhile Mpaypheli's only desire is to fulfill his mission and return home, but circumstances conspire to isolate him, returning him to that state of existence he inhabited when he was a killing machine.<br />Meyer's complex characterizations are excellent, introspective and compassionate, revealing the underlying humanity that is at war with rigorous indoctrination. These people are multi-faceted, troubled, dealing with the demands of  duty vs. personal integrity. Meyer uncovers the layers that form the whole of the human heart and the violence that destroys innocence, fomenting intolerance and distrust. Luan Gaines/2004.Contact. Action. Control.\\" Protect the State at all costs. The action man of the Reaction Unit is Tiger Mazibuko, who lives for the thrill of the chase and a worthy opponent. He's been training his team relentlessly, preparing for just such an opportunity. Mpayipheli is the perfect adversary, a man who challenges all the skills Tiger has honed. As long as Tiger's supervisor, Janina Mentz, dehumanizes Mpayipheli, Tiger can behave dispassionately, impossible to stop. Meanwhile, Mentz sits in the catbird seat, answerable only to her Director, watching the machinations as the RU goes into overdrive, tracking Mpaypheli. This is a high-stakes chess game, and it is deadly serious.<br />The contretemps between man and \\"machine\\" balances in fragile stasis before chaos erupts and the forces collide, uncontrollable. Special interests, driven by self-preservation and pride, are motivated by the arrogance bred of power, corrupted, a somnolent decay that destroys the integrity of the agency itself. Meanwhile Mpaypheli's only desire is to fulfill his mission and return home, but circumstances conspire to isolate him, returning him to that state of existence he inhabited when he was a killing machine.<br />Meyer's complex characterizations are excellent, introspective and compassionate, revealing the underlying humanity that is at war with rigorous indoctrination. These people are multi-faceted, troubled, dealing with the demands of  duty vs. personal integrity. Meyer uncovers the layers that form the whole of the human heart and the violence that destroys innocence, fomenting intolerance and distrust. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-07-09
598637:US	51010391	R1FJ2O80L5UKH3	0393058123	570668013	Country of Origin: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	(3.5) Lost souls in 1980s Tokyo	A young American woman is missing in 1980's Tokyo, set against the political backdrop of the Iran hostage crisis and the upcoming presidential election in America. The author positions his characters in a city filled with foreigners and entrepreneurs. That each of the important protagonists has identity issues to deal with adds a racial element to the plot.<br />Although Lisa is of mixed heritage, she appears white and is viewed as a gaijin. Like many other young women, she has come to Tokyo to earn enough money to solve her financial problems, with or without the appropriate papers. From the first, Lisa runs into problems, each step of her journey more difficult and dangerous, she is unable to make friends or hold a job.<br />Countryman's case is assigned to the US Embassy, specifically to Tom Hurley, of mixed lineage himself. Hurley pursues a life of few commitments, not too interested in the American's disappearance, other than as a way to maintain contact with his affair of the moment, a woman married to a CIA operative working undercover at the American Embassy. Hurley's contact with his liaison in the Tokyo police department introduces the most likeable character in Country of Origin, Kenzo Ota. The detective is divorced, a bit paranoid and insecure, his career on a fast track to nowhere. Using the few leads supplied by Hurley, Ito eventually blunders into solving the mystery behind Lisa's disappearance, changing the direction of the story.<br />The characters interact in an international, complex society, a city filled with energetic pursuit of enterprise. However, Americans are not particularly popular in Tokyo in the 1980's and there is a subtle indictment of the United States and the manner in which this culture permeates Japanese life, complete with rock music, clothing and the ubiquitous brand names that identify everything American.<br />The mystery is particularly intriguing because of the author's emphasis on personal isolation. Lack of identity breeds discontent, at least insofar as these characters fail to make peace with their mixed heritages, as personified by Lisa Countryman. Beginning with the missing girl, each person has personal demons, whether fear, lack of commitment or a sense of disconnection. Mixed racial identities complicate the protagonist's decisions, the need for acceptance vs. personal morality. Luan Gaines/2004reeds discontent, at least insofar as these characters fail to make peace with their mixed heritages, as personified by Lisa Countryman. Beginning with the missing girl, each person has personal demons, whether fear, lack of commitment or a sense of disconnection. Mixed racial identities complicate the protagonist's decisions, the need for acceptance vs. personal morality. Luan Gaines/2004	2004-07-08
611443:US	51010391	RARRT2VW9361D	015601131X	69918922	A Darkening Stain (Bruce Medway Mystery Series)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A cesspool of criminality	Picking up where Blood is Dirt leaves off, PI Bruce Medway is saddled with the unwanted attentions of Mafioso Roberto Franconelli; no longer in the Capo's good graces, Medway is still trapped in extenuating circumstances, instructed simply to locate a Frenchman, Jean-Luc Marnier and then fade quietly from the scene.<br />Circumstantially, five men are found dead on a boat owned by Marnier, bringing the noble Detective Bagado into the picture, the pivotal moral center of the series. Then innocent schoolgirls begin to disappear, an issue that stirs up enormous public fear. Medway, as usual, has his hands full, juggling villains and thugs, one step ahead of their evil intentions. When Bagado's daughter is one of the targeted schoolgirls, the action heats up and moves in a more violent and graphic direction than any of the previous novels.<br />Medway trolls the late-night dens of concupiscence, opening up another fertile area of the West Africa coast, the flesh trade, the same low form of the human species found everywhere, where nothing is sacred and everyone is for sale. In order to survive this new dimension, Medway must betray himself in a manner that may destroy everything he values in life.<br />At this point in the series, Wilson's protagonist is faced with an acute moral dilemma, slithering along the dark side with some of humanity's most despicable characters. Inspector Bagado has been a moral compass, tipping Medway back into reality, saving him from ambiguous circumstances time after time. Meanwhile, Medway's personal life has turned increasingly, well, personal, perhaps to more obviously identify him with recognizable humanity. But Medway's mid-life passion with his now-pregnant girlfriend only adds to the desperate emotional edge of the hard-drinking PI. Perhaps it is time, after all, for Medway to consider a career change. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-28
611541:US	51010391	R22HEGRWAZ80PO	0312422407	343676900	The Paris Review Book for Planes, Trains, Elevators, and Waiting Rooms	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Timely reading for the compulsive	Plimpton was on to something with The Paris Review, a fresh venue for new authors, as well as a series of incisive interviews with innovative perspectives and opinions on the writing process. Certainly The Paris Review anthologies are a logical extension of the magazine. This newest anthology is a perfect companion for filling quiet moments, sampling a literary banquet that can be enjoyed incrementally.<br />Previously, The Paris Review, a singular literary magazine, published a 50 year celebratory anthology, The Paris Review Book of Heartbreak, Madness, Sex, Love, Betrayal, Outsiders, Intoxication, War, Whimsy, Horrors, God, Death, Dinner, Baseball, Travels, The Art of Writing, and Everything Else in the World Since 1953. This first in the unexpected series was published prior to editor Gorge Plimpton's untimely death. The anthology was so well received, that Picador created a second volume in the Paris Review Book series, this one for those spare moments waiting for a train, plane, elevator, etc., when the avid reader might steal a moment of mental nourishment or a temporary release from boredom.<br />Tucked into a briefcase, this latest Paris Review effort is a welcome addition to reading-on-the-go, with stimulating short stories, poetry and even a novella. The selections are stimulating, carefully chosen and listed under the appropriate sections for each category: planes, trains, elevators and waiting rooms. Using the same premise and a variety of authors, Alice Munro, V.S. Naipaul, William S. Borroughs, Philip Roth and other luminaries that have graced the pages of the Paris Review over the years, the editors have created another unique grouping of talent, guaranteed to please the discerning reader.<br />Being a waiting room aficionado, I found enough choices to render me indecisive, reduced to picking favorite authors before experimenting with less familiar ones. I wasn't disappointed; instead, the stories piqued my curiosity and I began a list of authors for a few greedy hours of uninterrupted reading. If the Paris Review Book for Planes, Trains, Elevators and Waiting Rooms is any indication of the editor's picking up where the first anthology left off, I wouldn't be surprised if Plimpton was guiding their selections, no doubt smiling upon this latest creative endeavor. Luan Gaines/2004.a few greedy hours of uninterrupted reading. If the Paris Review Book for Planes, Trains, Elevators and Waiting Rooms is any indication of the editor's picking up where the first anthology left off, I wouldn't be surprised if Plimpton was guiding their selections, no doubt smiling upon this latest creative endeavor. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-28
613068:US	51010391	R1C6QTMHLJP3SK	0156011255	229542505	Blood Is Dirt (Bruce Medway Mysteries, No. 3)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	(3.5)Power and corruption on the Dark Continent	Private Investigator Bruce Medway's new client runs into an obstacle getting to the office: the neighbors are gutting a sheep in front of the building, a gruesome enough sight to almost run Napier Briggs off, but that's life on the coast of West Africa, at least in Medway's world. The prospective client makes it to the office Medway shares with his partner, the sage Bagado, a familiar character from previous books.<br />West Africa, especially where Medway does his business, is the Wild West fast-forwarded to a futurescape scraped raw by poverty and advancing ecological disaster. There's money to be made on every illegitimate enterprise known to mankind, but on the average, life is worthless. But all this is familiar to Medway in his line of work. This time he muddles through toxic waste disposal, black market nuclear weapons, money scams, Mafia killings, bribery of government officials and assorted thugs who delight in a little obscene torture before murder.<br />On the one hand, Medway and Bagado are investigating the existence of a toxic waste dump in Nigeria. At the same time, the intrepid PI is tentatively researching the gruesome death of his almost-client, Napier Briggs, for the man's surviving daughter. As luck would have it, the two issues are intertwined and it is in the unraveling that Medway skates along the edge of danger.<br />This is the third in Wilson's West Africa/Medway detective series and each book offers up enough villains, creeps and criminals to intimidate all but the faint of heart. While Medway works his way through the clues, the reader learns about the criminal-ridden coast of Africa, the spoilers and exploiters who live to plunder the unwary. The contrast between the elite, the ultra-rich power brokers and the people who struggle to survive day to day in Africa is stunning, an enormous division between the classes and implied corruptibility in the pursuit of power.<br />There is no shortage of stories or schemes on the African continent and Wilson proves, once again, that his witty hero loves this place in spite of the pitfalls, always ready for a new adventure and eager to make a buck. Wilson seduces with a plunge into the dark heart of violence, where conscience has no purchase; yet the often naive Medway, dodges through shadows, avoiding the lurking face of the Grim Reaper. Never a disappointment, Wilson has created a new mystery genre: African noir. Luan Gaines/2004.and Wilson proves, once again, that his witty hero loves this place in spite of the pitfalls, always ready for a new adventure and eager to make a buck. Wilson seduces with a plunge into the dark heart of violence, where conscience has no purchase; yet the often naive Medway, dodges through shadows, avoiding the lurking face of the Grim Reaper. Never a disappointment, Wilson has created a new mystery genre: African noir. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-27
614839:US	51010391	RHB634Y74EVF6	1400062217	791531418	The Laments: A Novel	Books	4	9	12	N	N	The misadventures of an aptly named family	A South Rhodesian couple, Julia and Howard Lament, trek across the continents in search of contentment, after a bizarre incident changes the course of their lives. When Julia gives birth to her first child, a beautiful baby boy, unexpected complications arise. The unorthodox circumstances set the tone for their marriage, haunting the years ahead with doubts and indecision. Consequently, the Laments' are curiously off-kilter, their misadventures proof that the family is aptly named.<br />Premature baby Will clings to life and to his new parents, inseparable from them. When the family moves to Bahrain for Howard`s new job, the first of many diverse employment opportunities, life is bursting with promise, adventures yet to be experienced. A fresh start is the answer to their doldrums. What better and more exotic place to move to than Bahrain? Unfortunately, the Laments find themselves emotionally overloaded in their new home; as is his habit during stressful times, Howard changes jobs, convinced that a fresh start cure their problems.<br />Later, Julia gives birth to twins, Julius and Marcus, and the family is hopeful once more as their lives take on another dimension. But the twins are wildly energetic and make their brother Will's days nightmarish; Will has the dubious task of riding herd on the little boys, whose daily activities are filled with mischief. At this point, Will begins to see himself as the odd one, the solitary son between two couples.<br />Another job for Howard, another change of address, this time in England, where Howard's minimal salary barely covers family expenses. Desperate financial circumstances strain the marriage as the Laments embark upon some difficult years. Once so full of promise, their days are spent struggling for survival in an unfriendly climate. Then, in an amazing stroke of luck, Howard is hired by an eccentric visionary who offers prospective employment in America. Ever the optimist, Howard renews his belief in the future and moves his family to America.<br />Howard's best intentions fail in America when his job fails to meet expectations and the family grapples once more with changing fortunes. Ever unpredictable, fate lurks in the wings, striking one more blow. Suddenly this new country, so full of opportunity, has turned as unfriendly as any other. But the Laments do what they do best, stick together, even though the fabric of the family is stretched cruelly out of shape.<br />Hagan brings together remarkable and spirited characters, who set upon life with a gusto that is undiminished, certainly admirable. Even when reality kicks in, this is a family of survivors, reinventing themselves as necessity dictates. The sturdy Laments are tested along the way, often harshly. Yet Julia and Howard pass on their boundless enthusiasm to their children, a testament to their remarkable qualities. In the end, it is simple affection, trust and family spirit that render the Laments unforgettable. Luan Gaines/2004.and moves his family to America.   <br />Howard's best intentions fail in America when his job fails to meet expectations and the family grapples once more with changing fortunes. Ever unpredictable, fate lurks in the wings, striking one more blow. Suddenly this new country, so full of opportunity, has turned as unfriendly as any other. But the Laments do what they do best, stick together, even though the fabric of the family is stretched cruelly out of shape.  <br />Hagan brings together remarkable and spirited characters, who set upon life with a gusto that is undiminished, certainly admirable. Even when reality kicks in, this is a family of survivors, reinventing themselves as necessity dictates. The sturdy Laments are tested along the way, often harshly. Yet Julia and Howard pass on their boundless enthusiasm to their children, a testament to their remarkable qualities. In the end, it is simple affection, trust and family spirit that render the Laments unforgettable. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-26
616744:US	51010391	R7DMCK144KN4Q	0066211115	10483428	Islands	Books	3	2	4	N	N	(3.5)T he high price of loyalty	Siddons has long used her intimate knowledge of Charleston's Low Country for her many novels. Her fiction has made an imaginative history of persons affected by the rituals and traditions of the Old South, especially those of a certain echelon of Charleston society, whose heritage has passed from generation to generation.<br />In Islands, the author introduces a &quot;newcomer&quot; into a group of islanders, a young woman who marries one of them. As Anny merges her life with this exceptional group of loyal friends, she is thrilled to feel herself part of family in a different context than she has ever experienced. Spending weekends at their communal beach resort, Anny cannot imagine anything ever changing. Of course it does, as the years pass and the group reaches the millennium, having lost only one of their number.<br />These friends have made a pledge while on one of their weekend retreats: no matter what happens, they will always keep the group intact, healing and comforting when spouses are lost, as of course must happen. And they do hold together through the most devastating and painful losses. When only a few are left, the commitment remains and the center of them all is Camilla. Earliest widowed, Camilla has been the strength that holds them together, these few dear friends from childhood and their spouses. The more fragile Camilla's health becomes, the concerns of advancing age and debilitation intrude. As much as friendship, Siddons writes of loss and the gradual attrition of the years.<br />Through it all, Anny clings to those who have been her family and given her the emotional security she has craved all her life. But Siddons hasn't mellowed all that much, planning a few surprises for her readers. The author's message is clear: getting older doesn't mean life is over. Nor is life ever as simple and uncomplicated as a group of old friends gathered around a cozy beach fire on a winter afternoon, pledging their undying loyalty. For some the heart is a place of thoughtless mischief, for others a well of generosity. For this author it is a source of endless inspiration. Luan Gaines/2004.ce of thoughtless mischief, for others a well of generosity. For this author it is a source of endless inspiration. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-24
616868:US	51010391	R4BA0LMRUZK95	0767913760	543858044	Invisible Eden: A Story of Love and Murder on Cape Cod	Books	4	17	28	N	N	A fascinating view inside a regional murder	I expected the formulaic true-crime format in this treatment of the murder of Christa Worthington in Flook's Invisible Eden. But the author shows a superior quality of writing from the first chapter. Flook isn't just reporting the facts; she is immersing herself in the life of a single mother, like herself, who lived not far away from Flook's own home.<br />The murder of Christa Worthington in 2002 remains unsolved. From a historical, wealthy but dysfunctional family, Christa's life was not made easier by the wealth that supported her lifestyle. As a New York fashion writer, the clever young woman moved in the esoteric circles of the fashion world, the rarified, if plastic life of image vs. reality. Not exactly the kind of work to enrich an already confused life, especially for a Vassar graduate of the 70's, with high expectations for herself.<br />Like the other women in her family, Christa had eclectic taste in men, but before her death in her mid-forties, Christa's most significant accomplishment was the birth of her daughter, Ava, whose father was a married man of Portuguese descent. The beautiful child was Christa's work-in-progress. Sadly, Christa gave birth soon after the death of her mother, having already been abandoned by Ava's father. The loss of her mother must have been exceptionally difficult for the pregnant Christa, holding vigil at the bedside of a critical, unhappy woman who had not done a good job of parenting her lonely, brilliant daughter. Neither Christa nor her mother is ever accepted by the Worthington clan, an iconoclastic group who writes their own rules in a closed society.<br />The crime occurred on the desolate dunes of Truro, a Cape Cod town best remembered as the setting for Bronte's Wuthering Heights, where nature rules with her own chaos, reminding the island inhabitants of their impermanence. There is a cast of the usual suspects: the men in Christa's life, father included, the wife of baby Ava's father, his daughter, son and son-in-law. Certainly there is no paucity of possible perpetrators. But as Flook so deftly illustrates, this is a crime of passion, a quick burst of rage against a young woman without moorings, save the little daughter she adored.<br />Perhaps the wildness of the locale contributed to the act; certainly passion at the edge of the world informed the senses of those involved in Christa's romantic dramas and inability to find purchase in a life spinning out of control. Her home as chaotic as her emotions, clearly Christa was struggling, little Ava the only tangible asset to her damaged and abandoned psyche. Christa is not just another of society's rejects, a single mother living in bewilderment, forging her own path and losing her way in emotional entanglements. One day her daughter will need to make sense of this brutal loss and this book may be a resource for unraveling the facts surrounding the senseless murder of Christa Worthington.<br />The impression I am left with is not one of judgment of Christa's lifestyle or choices, but rather a compassionate, honest appraisal of the facts as offered by extensive resources, friends, classmates and former business associates. Christa was a woman beset with the fears and insecurities of her childhood, never safe, always moving, even self-sabotaging. How shocking to realize that Christa was right, after all. She wasn't safe. Luan Gaines/2004.n-law. Certainly there is no paucity of possible perpetrators. But as Flook so deftly illustrates, this is a crime of passion, a quick burst of rage against a young woman without moorings, save the little daughter she adored.<br />Perhaps the wildness of the locale contributed to the act; certainly passion at the edge of the world informed the senses of those involved in Christa's romantic dramas and inability to find purchase in a life spinning out of control. Her home as chaotic as her emotions, clearly Christa was struggling, little Ava the only tangible asset to her damaged and abandoned psyche. Christa is not just another of society's rejects, a single mother living in bewilderment, forging her own path and losing her way in emotional entanglements. One day her daughter will need to make sense of this brutal loss and this book may be a resource for unraveling the facts surrounding the senseless murder of Christa Worthington.<br />The impression I am left with is not one of judgment of Christa's lifestyle or choices, but rather a compassionate, honest appraisal of the facts as offered by extensive resources, friends, classmates and former business associates. Christa was a woman beset with the fears and insecurities of her childhood, never safe, always moving, even self-sabotaging. How shocking to realize that Christa was right, after all. She wasn't safe. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-24
617992:US	51010391	RKMCJR5O5WD00	1565123875	765418048	Purple Hibiscus	Books	4	134	139	N	N	(4.5) A family torn by conscience and duty	In Purple Hibiscus, we listen to the plaintive voice of Kambili, whose skill at language does not extend to the spoken word, as those necessary words remain trapped in her throat, a girl who knows her place and keeps her silence. In Kambili's family, there are too many things \\"we never talk about\\". Growing up in the political upheaval of Nigeria, Kambili and her older brother, Jaja, are poster children for domestic violence, quiet, well-mannered, high achievers that their father points to with pride, \\"his\\" children: extensions of himself in the world. A generous man, beloved in their village, only Eugene Achike's nuclear family suffers his rages behind closed doors.<br />Jaja's emotions are closer to the surface, more accessible to his spirit of rebellion. But Kambili is her mother's daughter, cautious, constrained and eager to please. Her slow awakening is all the more significant because of the tremendous act of will necessary to break free of her conditioning. This experience is agonizing for Kambili, like the prickling of a limb that has fallen asleep. Her adolescent physical and emotional flowering enhanced by newly found self-expression and self-awareness, Kambili is a product of a world that leaves children unprotected, at the mercy of a merciless man. She is the observer, the reporter, emotionless as she describes the constant abuse. Like a sieve, Kambili filters every action, sorting, learning.<br />Eugene passes on the lessons he has learned in his own childhood, taught by brutal Catholic missionaries who used temporal punishment; the abused is the abuser. Rigid religious instruction, intolerant and unforgiving, is the tool with which this man terrorizes his wife and children. His wife is trapped by her husband's frequent beatings, but the children glean a different way of life in the home of their Aunty Ifeoma. A widow with three children, Aunty Ifeoma exists in borderline poverty, but teaches her children without dehumanizing them. Exposure to this loving family opens Kambili's heart, planting the seed of hope and the promise of a future that offers more than pain and self-discipline.<br />This powerful, yet subtle novel is striking on two levels: one is the subjection of society to the tyranny of the chaos that results from a political coup; the second is the role of family in the formation of children's lives, contrasting a monstrous discipline with the guidance of loving relatives. The political unrest and subsequent difficulties of daily survival are the canvas against which the author defines her young characters, especially significant because of the helplessness of a population ruled by intimidation.<br />In this exotic African setting, the author shares cultural differences, rituals and beliefs. She does so with great skill, describing luxury and poverty alike, the discrepancies of an unequal society. Adichie knows the language of the abused child and speaks simply, directly to her audience. Her native land is Nigeria, but this dialect is universal. She understands that to be heard, one must speak softly. Adichie garners an audience of survivors who respond to personal empowerment, wrapped in hope. Luan Gaines/2004.g family opens Kambili's heart, planting the seed of hope and the promise of a future that offers more than pain and self-discipline.<br />This powerful, yet subtle novel is striking on two levels: one is the subjection of society to the tyranny of the chaos that results from a political coup; the second is the role of family in the formation of children's lives, contrasting a monstrous discipline with the guidance of loving relatives. The political unrest and subsequent difficulties of daily survival are the canvas against which the author defines her young characters, especially significant because of the helplessness of a population ruled by intimidation.<br />In this exotic African setting, the author shares cultural differences, rituals and beliefs. She does so with great skill, describing luxury and poverty alike, the discrepancies of an unequal society. Adichie knows the language of the abused child and speaks simply, directly to her audience. Her native land is Nigeria, but this dialect is universal. She understands that to be heard, one must speak softly. Adichie garners an audience of survivors who respond to personal empowerment, wrapped in hope. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-23
618107:US	51010391	R25APT9BCIQ3M1	0060578769	869267913	Between Two Rivers: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	From mercy to mayhem	A young widow, tormented by her loss, surrounds herself with the exotic animals that remind her of the rainforest and the time she spent there with her husband on their idyllic honeymoon. That time out of mind, the intensity of experience cannot be regained once they return to the city, only remembered.<br />A plastic surgeon has the power to change lives. He loves his work, sculpting perfection into the human form. But, careful as he is, mistakes, misjudgments are made, the psychological sabotaging of the results of his scalpel. People are, after all, victims of their own perceptions, sometimes unable to allow themselves the joy, the opportunities of their new lives.<br />Part of the housekeeping staff at the Echo Terrace condominiums, Yesenia is only nineteen, her whole life yawning before her. One evening, lost in the dark beauty of the city, she waits too long to start home and darkness falls, rendering the streets more dangerous. She finds herself alone on the subway, a young man stalking her.<br />All of these people, and more, are part of the complex humanity of Echo Terrace, where Farro Fescu is the concierge, a Rumanian lover of lists. Disappointed in life, but burdened with a romantic soul, Fescu finds comfort and direction in his lists, a manner of managing chaos, keeping track of all his charges and their needs. Too easily he becomes mired in his disappointments; the lists soothe him, allow him to cease struggling.<br />Rinaldi's characters are complex, challenging stereotypes, full of the dichotomies that plague most people, the ambiguity of routine, the occasional prick of conscience, the distance of real passion or emotion; they act out their roles, playing the parts they are assigned, indistinguishable in this respect. But their interiors are jumbled and patched, unrecognizable from their everyday selves. Inside, reality plays havoc with their souls.<br />Those who live in Echo Terrace are well-off, urbane, and proud to be a part of the bustle of New York. Those who work there, the shadow-people, entertain more cautious expectations. In this place, the author has built a sculpture of personalities, each a new armature attached to the body that defines the form, like branches from a tree, interconnected. Just as people affect each other in immeasurable ways, this entity changes minutely, a living piece. If Echo Terrace is the matrix, all those who live there contribute to the dimensions. Finally, they are united in purpose, grateful to have survived their city on that terrible day in September that changes the world forever. Luan Gaines/2004York. Those who work there, the shadow-people, entertain more cautious expectations. In this place, the author has built a sculpture of personalities, each a new armature attached to the body that defines the form, like branches from a tree, interconnected. Just as people affect each other in immeasurable ways, this entity changes minutely, a living piece. If Echo Terrace is the matrix, all those who live there contribute to the dimensions. Finally, they are united in purpose, grateful to have survived their city on that terrible day in September that changes the world forever. Luan Gaines/2004	2004-06-23
618384:US	51010391	RZ3TD7DEDHM81	1931561699	629215104	My Wife and My Dead Wife	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An incorrigible humorist	The first thing Hamilton Ashe, Ham for short, makes clear in this book is that Renee is his girlfriend, not his wife. For some obscure reason, Renee has taken to referring to herself as Mrs. Ham Ashe and does so throughout most of the novel. Of course, as a curious reader, I want to know why the book has its title, My Wife and My Dead Wife and Michael Kun is such an entertaining writer that I keep reading until I have accomplished my goal.<br />It isn't that Ham, whose name Renee pronounces \\"Hay-um\\", and his girlfriend are star-crossed lovers. In fact, I think from the beginning that these are two very mismatched people. The problem is that Ham doesn't know it. Ham is a simple guy who just wants to be understood, to experience a simple existence, instead trapped by his own codependent nature. Kun has such talent with phrasing and wonderful sense of humor that it is hard to keep from smiling through the protagonist's romantic misadventures.<br />Ham tells the story of his relationship with Renee and her eventual decision to become a country-western singer, even though she doesn't really sing well and must take guitar lessons to accompany herself. Ham discusses his dead-end job in a tailor shop (how he got there is another story) and the boring days he spends at work listening to the incessant big band music favored by his boss, only to return home to Renee at night. Renee and Ham are financially dysfunctional, especially when Renee begins making purchases for her quasi-budding career. But Ham's lawyer brother, Carl, graciously writes out checks to tide his brother over until the next time.<br />Kun takes a little slice of a man's life, a young man with aspirations of happiness in conjunction with his job and his girlfriend, playing out an everyday routine. Carefully, the author twists and turns that life, small discomforts and complaints, minor irritations. He works on the intricate facets of a relationship, where the need of one is not quite answered by the other, until a nagging discontent unravels their domesticity. Women are from Venus and Men are from Mars and they can't bridge that distance if one holds back a vital piece of himself, a tiny wedge that ultimately drives them apart.<br />This is a story about communication, or the lack of it and one indiscreet, childish mistake that shadows every opportunity for happiness. The dialog is pitch-perfect and the characters are as familiar as friends. Through it all, there is a sense of yearning that is so endemic to human nature and therefore so illusive. After all, \\"life would be funny if it weren't so sad.\\" Luan Gaines/2004.ntil a nagging discontent unravels their domesticity. Women are from Venus and Men are from Mars and they can't bridge that distance if one holds back a vital piece of himself, a tiny wedge that ultimately drives them apart. <br />This is a story about communication, or the lack of it and one indiscreet, childish mistake that shadows every opportunity for happiness. The dialog is pitch-perfect and the characters are as familiar as friends. Through it all, there is a sense of yearning that is so endemic to human nature and therefore so illusive. After all, \\"life would be funny if it weren't so sad.\\" Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-23
623979:US	51010391	R1NPITS6V0KC7W	038551185X	608080240	Angels Crest: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The darkest hours of bereavement	This is a story about children, how some of them are lost and some found again. And about belief in God or the lack of it, learning to navigate the world with all its harsh lessons. It is a story about all the ways people get lost, from others and themselves, especially the parents.<br />Living so close to the realities of nature, the inhabitants of Angel's Crest face their days without the many distractions found in the city. But even in this pristine mountain town, there are many places to hide. It is almost hunting season and the enthusiasts are ready, the first snowfall fresh on the air.<br />After a bitter and costly custody battle, Ethan has won custody of his three-year old son, Nathan, a boy he thinks of as his \\"touchstone\\". Ex-wife Cindy, unable to control her excessive drinking, has finally relinquished her son to the care of his doting father. When Ethan stops his truck, leaving Nathan asleep inside, and follows the trail of two bucks, the young father never imagines that the hand of fate will strike so brutally. That night, the storm is bitterly cold and few hold out hope for the little boy, although no one dares articulate this forbidden thought, as nearly the entire town turns out for the search. A few careless moments change Ethan's world forever and cause the citizens of Angel's Crest to reevaluate their lives.<br />Schwartz's vision is multi-hued, a rainbow of emotions played out by her characters: Ethan cannot forgive his foolish lapse, the selfish moments that take away everything of meaning in his life; Ethan's best friend, Glick, shuts down his feelings altogether, losing even he memory of hope, while Cindy, broken, drowns her anguish in alcohol; George, the abandoned son of a local woman, clings to his rage, afraid to relinquish it, but is drawn toward forgiveness by his girlfriend, the ethereal, pregnant Melody. With estranged parent-child relationships, alternative lifestyles and intense media attention, the citizens of Angel's Crest are hard put to work through the life problems that have so entangled them.<br />Yet the real power of Angel's Crest is the power of forgiveness, the deft manner in which the author exposes the hearts of her characters, with their human flaws and disappointments, each carrying a personal burden so readily hidden from the outside world. In the sharing of their grief, in that community, there is healing and comfort. Blinded by pain, it is often impossible to believe the weight of tragedy can be lifted or even made bearable. Schwartz's characters have all entertained dark nights of the soul and found themselves wanting; but the innocence of children, the sweet need of dependence reminds them of the precious opportunities for love, the moments of epiphany, where the sky opens and the heart begins to heal. Luan Gaines/2004.rd put to work through the life problems that have so entangled them.<br />Yet the real power of Angel's Crest is the power of forgiveness, the deft manner in which the author exposes the hearts of her characters, with their human flaws and disappointments, each carrying a personal burden so readily hidden from the outside world. In the sharing of their grief, in that community, there is healing and comfort. Blinded by pain, it is often impossible to believe the weight of tragedy can be lifted or even made bearable. Schwartz's characters have all entertained dark nights of the soul and found themselves wanting; but the innocence of children, the sweet need of dependence reminds them of the precious opportunities for love, the moments of epiphany, where the sky opens and the heart begins to heal. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-18
629607:US	51010391	RXUXS8J9MHCM1	0393059243	281440138	The Turk and My Mother	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The pains and comforts of the past	Years ago, the radio was the centerpiece of the evening in American homes. Families gathered to listen to serials, news reports and movie gossip columnists. Many of the same families shared a valued tradition of storytelling, tales they brought over from \\"the old country\\", where generations shared births, deaths, marriages, joyful events and tragedies. These stories gave meaning and texture to their days, reminding the adults who told them and the children who listened, of their rich heritage in the world.<br />The Turk and My Mother awakens these memories, tales of adventure, danger and often romantic foolishness. Who would have thought a stubby little grandmother in a shapeless dress and babushka would have had romantic dreams of a man other than her husband? The children are fascinated, challenged to view their grandmother in a different light, as a girl entertaining the fancies of youth, when her husband was far away in America?<br />And who could guess how much was fable, how much was truth? What really happened to Uncle Marko and why did it take him 13 years to return from the war to his small Hungarian village, hoping to see his mother once more? What lies behind the story of the Polish vampire, how does removing a birthmark save a life? Can you learn to play violin from a blind musician? Would Marko ever imagine his mother, Agnes, nurtured romantic notions of a handsome Turk (who maybe wasn't really a Turk) before sailing away to find her husband Josef in America? And exactly how much did Aunt Madeline remember about the Turk who held her on his knee when she was five-years old?<br />Through the stories of this particular Milwaukee immigrant family, the Catholic Church weaves its constraints and conditions for acceptance, the priest a powerful figure. Sometimes alterations are called for, small changes to avoid God's judgment of all-too-human flaws. Heaven is the goal, after all.<br />Stefaniak writes of the rich cultural history that defines this country as the great melting pot. Our ancestors have come from all over the world, the \\"old countries\\" of Russia, Italy, Ireland, a Europe stressed by conflict and the rise to power of demagogues who changed the direction of politics. These are real people, once youthful and driven by dreams and expectation like any emerging generation. Their life experiences were defined by family long before this country created a history for itself. It is these transplanted hopes that they brought to their new country, where they bloomed again, creating a new cultural identity, whose roots are nourished by their ancestors.<br />The remarkable characters in this novel, from Grandmother Agnes and her mother-in-law, storyteller Staramajka, to the exiled Marko the shoemaker, bring another dimension to the family history. These stories are the framework of cultural identity, they way we envision ourselves in the past and the tales we whisper to our children before bedtime. Spoken history is a cultural treasure, a precious commitment to the continuity of ancestral folklore.<br />In the novel format the author has license to rewrite history, allowing relatives ample opportunity to change behavior, to forgive. Putting a human face on actions motivated by ignorance and fear, family is defined by its ability to comfort, to extend the welcome of belonging. And if reality is obscured by myth, who is to say which is true? Luan Gaines/2004.the great melting pot. Our ancestors have come from all over the world, the \\"old countries\\" of Russia, Italy, Ireland, a Europe stressed by conflict and the rise to power of demagogues who changed the direction of politics. These are real people, once youthful and driven by dreams and expectation like any emerging generation. Their life experiences were defined by family long before this country created a history for itself. It is these transplanted hopes that they brought to their new country, where they bloomed again, creating a new cultural identity, whose roots are nourished by their ancestors.<br />The remarkable characters in this novel, from Grandmother Agnes and her mother-in-law, storyteller Staramajka, to the exiled Marko the shoemaker, bring another dimension to the family history. These stories are the framework of cultural identity, they way we envision ourselves in the past and the tales we whisper to our children before bedtime. Spoken history is a cultural treasure, a precious commitment to the continuity of ancestral folklore.<br />In the novel format the author has license to rewrite history, allowing relatives ample opportunity to change behavior, to forgive. Putting a human face on actions motivated by ignorance and fear, family is defined by its ability to comfort, to extend the welcome of belonging. And if reality is obscured by myth, who is to say which is true? Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-14
631319:US	51010391	R141XXM0UQF0V3	0385511361	315387370	The Blackbird Papers: A Novel	Books	3	8	11	N	N	A mystery cloaked in a mystery	When Wilson Bledsoe, an eminent black professor at Dartmouth University, wins another prestigious science award, he is pleased, but more concerned with finishing his lab research, on the verge of a critical discovery. Heading home on the night of the award celebration, Bledsoe stops to help two men having car trouble. He never makes it home again.<br />The professor's body is found the next day, the all too familiar N-word brutally carved into his chest. The local police are inclined to view the murder as a hate crime, especially when two suspects are arrested who belong to a local militia group, the White Liberation Army. The college is anxious to put the bad press behind them as soon as possible and move on, welcoming the quick solution.<br />Not so fast. Sterling Bledsoe, the professor's younger brother, FBI agent and part-time teacher, steps into the picture, questioning the ease with which the crime has been solved. Determined to look deeper into the motives behind the killing and how such a violent act connects to his brother's cutting-edge research, Sterling pursues information with a vengeance, maintaining a low profile, while tapping into the FBI`s considerable forensic resources. When an obscure image of a man is found on a surveillance camera, Bledsoe has the film sent to the FBI lab for verification.<br />The heinous crime reawakens Sterling's dark childhood memories; as the youngest son, the FBI agent has long struggled with his sibling rivalry, unable to shake the shadow of his brilliant brother and his consequent feelings of inadequacy. As these personal memories resurface, Agent Bledsoe finds a way to integrate his perceptions with the reality of his brother's impact on the world at large. In a progressive college town, race issues may simmer below the surface, but Bledsoe believes the attempt to brand this a racially-motivated murder is a bit disingenuous.<br />Collecting evidence, Sterling waits patiently for the facts to talk to him, as they always do, but he can't be sure who can be trusted with the information he uncovers. Following his own cardinal rule, trust no one, Sterling is in a conundrum, unsure where to turn next. He is running on pure instinct, in danger himself the closer he gets to the motive behind his brother's death that is somehow connected a riddle. Central to understanding the cause and effect are the blackbirds the elder Bledsoe was studying in his experiments. Inadvertently, Sterling realizes just how much he has in common with the brother he resented for all these years, able to release old resentments and appreciate the qualities they shared.<br />The fast-paced, nowhere-to-run scenario at the end of the novel ties up a series of loose ends, revealing unexpected alliances and shocking betrayals. Sterling Bledsoe is a new character on the mystery/suspense scene, destined to stay around for some time to come. Luan Gaines/2004.s do, but he can't be sure who can be trusted with the information he uncovers. Following his own cardinal rule, trust no one, Sterling is in a conundrum, unsure where to turn next. He is running on pure instinct, in danger himself the closer he gets to the motive behind his brother's death that is somehow connected a riddle. Central to understanding the cause and effect are the blackbirds the elder Bledsoe was studying in his experiments. Inadvertently, Sterling realizes just how much he has in common with the brother he resented for all these years, able to release old resentments and appreciate the qualities they shared. <br />The fast-paced, nowhere-to-run scenario at the end of the novel ties up a series of loose ends, revealing unexpected alliances and shocking betrayals. Sterling Bledsoe is a new character on the mystery/suspense scene, destined to stay around for some time to come. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-13
632457:US	51010391	R1PA03CCFCLLQB	0743245431	829040287	In the Moon of Red Ponies: A Novel	Books	4	26	30	N	N	A modern morality tale	With his recent mystery novel, Burke is back! The last book I read by this author was The Last Car to Elysian Fields, a Dave Robicheaux novel, which I found a disappointment, to say the least. I was afraid the author had fallen victim to his publisher's  pressure to produce more novels than his talent could bear, as has happened with so many in this genre of late. I am happy to say that this talented writer has produced the kind of work that made me a fan in the first place. It's not so much the wild assortment of eccentric characters or the plot that so deftly layers complicated social issues, but the surety with which the author writes.<br />A good novelist tells a story, one that can inform and educate the reader on the vagaries of human nature. In this Montana-based suspense/mystery, filled with eccentric personalities, government drones and truly wicked people, Burke tackles the nature of good and evil. More specifically, the way the two intermingle in support of a cause, blurring the lines of what is acceptable behavior in achieving a goal, the age-old conundrum of whether the end justifies the means. Add in a liberal dose of the Patriot Act in law enforcement and the ubiquitous government agencies are involved in areas formerly restricted to them.<br />Burke constructs a folksy tale of honorable men versus miscreants in a setting as close to the primitive origins of the West as is possible to find today. Like the clever populist nursery rhymes of old England, political tracts in the guise of children's stories, Burke cloaks his morality play in the costumes of cowboys, FBI agents and mercenaries. When Billy Bob Holland, attorney and ex-Texas Ranger, undertakes the defense of a local Indian, Johnny American Horse, the case appears simple. But Detective Darrell McComb pushes the confrontation up another level, although Holland still believes the deal can be negotiated legally.<br />Circumstances are beset with ambiguity in the form of Wyatt Dixon, a nightmare from Holland's past; there is serious bad blood between the two men. As far as Holland is concerned, forgiveness is not an option. Unfortunately, Wyatt has been \\"saved\\", claiming he is a changed man on the path of righteousness. Knowing Wyatt's sociopathic nature, Holland can't digest the new image. Besides, Holland is fighting his own demons, coming to the realization that Johnny American Horse is the perfect fall guy for whatever nefarious activity is really going on. Strange bedfellows being what they are, Holland experiences considerable discomfort when Wyatt hovers on the sidelines, offering his help. Meanwhile the bodies pile up.<br />Burke is back in the saddle with this book and knows where he is going, never giving away too much information, but leaving breadcrumbs along the trail. Identifying all the players in this book may require a score card, but it is Burke's talent that pulls the novel together in an obscure but believable trek into the dark heart of the American wilderness, where greed eats away like acid at the last frontier. Luan Gaines/2004.from Holland's past; there is serious bad blood between the two men. As far as Holland is concerned, forgiveness is not an option. Unfortunately, Wyatt has been \\"saved\\", claiming he is a changed man on the path of righteousness. Knowing Wyatt's sociopathic nature, Holland can't digest the new image. Besides, Holland is fighting his own demons, coming to the realization that Johnny American Horse is the perfect fall guy for whatever nefarious activity is really going on. Strange bedfellows being what they are, Holland experiences considerable discomfort when Wyatt hovers on the sidelines, offering his help. Meanwhile the bodies pile up.<br />Burke is back in the saddle with this book and knows where he is going, never giving away too much information, but leaving breadcrumbs along the trail. Identifying all the players in this book may require a score card, but it is Burke's talent that pulls the novel together in an obscure but believable trek into the dark heart of the American wilderness, where greed eats away like acid at the last frontier. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-12
637722:US	51010391	R2JWXA0XTMCM5I	089296782X	280280079	Bury the Lead	Books	2	0	4	N	N	(2.5) A wise-cracking sleuth	Three women in the New Jersey are brutally murdered, strangled, with their hands cut off to further complicate the crime scene. The murderer has chosen a journalist, Daniel Cummings, as his contact, refusing to communicate with anyone else. Cummings acts as a liaison with the police until the last murder, when the journalist is arrested, charged with the killings and without an alibi.<br />Against his better judgment, attorney Andy Carpenter agrees to defend Cummings, even in the face of damning physical evidence. The case has all the earmarks of defeat, as Carpenter struggles with complex clues that lead directly back to Cummings. Sure, lawyer Andy Carpenter is rich enough to pick his cases and glib enough to offer a smart remark in every other paragraph, but I wasn't riveted by this mystery. An eccentric group of characters from ex-cons to hookers and mob figures spice up the menu, but Rosenfelt uses humor in an avoidance of a tight and suspenseful story.<br />There is a following for this writer's work; readers who enjoy the recent James Patterson novels, for instance, will enjoy this author. It's a matter of personal taste. Although I didn't find Bury the Lead particularly suspenseful, many readers will enjoy the caustic remarks that are Carpenter's penchant. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-08
637866:US	51010391	RZW4S6U2XI5D9	0739312537	283863984	A Pretext for War: 9/11, Iraq, and the Abuse of America's Intelligence Agencies	Books	4	115	133	N	N	An American horror story	Lest we forget, the first 60 pages of A Pretext for War give a harrowing replay of the hijackings of 9/11, as seen first from the Air National Guard's Northeast Air Defense Sector, tracking the planes on radar as they pursue their deadly course. The personal details, conversations and horror-struck impressions are a reminder of the shock felt by all caught in the glare of this monstrous enterprise.<br /><br />During the attacks on the World Trade Towers, President Bush remained in the classroom photo-op in Florida and General Myers, the acting military commander, spent forty-five minutes in the office of Senator Max Cleland, interviewing for the position of top brass in Cent Com, unaware that the worst attack in this country's history was occurring. The extent of our lack of preparation is shocking at this point, inexplicable. The missing third plane was not yet located. One hundred and ten minutes after takeoff, the forth plane, American Flight 11, came to a fiery end and the attacks were over at last.<br /><br />In the meat of the book, Bamford covers the spy apparatus in this country, from the Cold War efforts of the NSA to George Tenet's meteoric rise as the head of the CIA during the Clinton Administration and the importance of Presidential Daily Briefings. Piece by piece, Bamford builds a solid structure of information, moving toward his conclusion: we are not much better off now, two years later, in the area of surveillance in other countries. Then he segues into the parallel growth of Osama bin Ladin's efforts to establish an anti-American legion of American fighters, in spite of active interference by Saudi Arabia and the freezing of bin Ladin's assets. Critical to his cause is the continuing support of America for Israel's treatment of the Palestinians. The May 1996 Israeli \\"Grapes of Wrath\\" Invasion of Lebanon and the massacre at Qana gave bin Ladin his battle cry, but the incident was barely covered by the American press.<br /><br />This book addresses certain specific issues that are pertinent to the direction of the country since the Iraq War, namely the current condition of our government agencies: CIA, DIA, FBI, NSA, etc., and whether they have incorporated the drastic changes necessary since the end of the Cold War. Some of the topics covered, thoroughly, I might add, are: manufactured intelligence in pursuit of a vote for war in Iraq, bypassing Congressional oversight of major policy decisions, Chalabi's part in supplying information and the money he received for that information, the Niger uranium connection, the pro-Israeli Neo-Cons, Bush's connection with Sharon, and redrawing the geopolitical map of the Middle East.<br /><br />The COG, or Continuity of Government, has existed since its inception during the Eisenhower Administration. In its current form, a decision was reached not to reconstitute Congress, but to operate without this branch of government. A critical element in the balance of power, Congress is excised from the shadow government, including those next in line for succession, Majority Leader Dennis Hastert and President pro-tem Robert Byrd. Within a few hours after the decision, senior officials quietly disappeared from Washington, turning up in selected \\"doomsday\\" sites in Virginia and Pennsylvania.<br /><br />After carefully reading Bamford's A Pretext for War, my main concern is the balance of power between the branches of government. Without Congressional oversight, there is no release of public information and no control of abuses that may arise. There is still a credibility gap in terms of what public information is accessible. The condition of our intelligence gathering agencies is critical and if they have been inept or remiss, these problems must be faced, even if the agencies are exposed to public scrutiny. As well, the continuing lack of Congressional oversight is troubling.<br /><br />Bamford doesn't pull any punches in his assessment of the problems facing America in the currentstate of crisis. After reading Woodward's Plan of Attack and Dean's Worse Than Watergate, I am even more concerned about the state of our nation and the lack of transparency in the current administration. In addition, Richard Clarke and Paul O'Neill's assertions make more sense when viewed in context with all the information recently published. Certainly, 9/11 permanently changed our world, but the blanket use of discretionary powers to protect us from the terrorists has created a host of other issues that must be discussed and exposed to the light of day and the democratic process. Luan Gaines/2004.of Attack and Dean's Worse Than Watergate, I am even more concerned about the state of our nation and the lack of transparency in the current administration. In addition, Richard Clarke and Paul O'Neill's assertions make more sense when viewed in context with all the information recently published. Certainly, 9/11 permanently changed our world, but the blanket use of discretionary powers to protect us from the terrorists has created a host of other issues that must be discussed and exposed to the light of day and the democratic process. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-08
639919:US	51010391	R3RVMN0GMOV6Z	0151006679	12105090	Storm Rider (Yoshimora, Akira)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	(2.5) A man of two worlds with no home	After his mother dies unexpectedly, young Hikotaro expects great adventures when he joins his stepfather, who is captain of his own vessel. Later Hizoko, as he is nicknamed, transfers to another ship, training as a cook, learning the dangerous ways of the sailor?s life. Unpredictable weather is a common occurrence for the ships that sail near Japan?s coastline and the men accept this danger as the fate of seamen.<br />When the ship is caught up in a fierce storm and virtually destroyed after days of incessant pounding from the waves, the increasingly desperate crew is saved by an American ship sailing to San Francisco, in America. So begins Hikozo?s attempt to return to his homeland, a process that is thwarted both by world events and the seclusion policy of Japan. This policy forbids a man?s reentry into Japan after traveling abroad. The strict control is eventually loosened, but not for many years. Meanwhile, Hikozo cannot return to the land of his birth.<br />Hizoko?s experiences define his life between two continents: he is essentially a man of two countries, in the unique position of observing both, but unable to return to the land of his birth. Through Hizoko?s adventures, the author describes world events from the opening of trade with Japan in 1839 to the American Civil War, as well as the California Gold Rush. Eventually Hizoko does return to Japan, where he uses his Americanized name, Joseph Heco, but his American citizenship stigmatizes the rest of his life.<br />This novel is a translation of the original and, while historically precise, the reading can be dry and uninspiring. Whether this is due to the original manuscript or the translation is difficult to ascertain. However, this is a rich period in world politics, as America flexes its military muscle, forcing Japan to open to trade and the influx of opportunists who flock to California, infected with gold fever. With the advent of the Civil War, Hizoko chooses not to return to America; rather, he remains a man lost between cultures, a prisoner of history, denied a homeland that recognizes his identity. Luan Gaines/2004.mains a man lost between cultures, a prisoner of history, denied a homeland that recognizes his identity. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-06
640522:US	51010391	R2CENR3K2S5O64	1931561532	191190923	Sparrowhawk III: Caxton	Books	3	7	9	N	N	(3.5) Colonists on the path to revolution	The British-held colony of Virginia celebrates on a grand scale when France loses her hold on Canada in 1759. The Crown rules from afar and most colonists are content to operate under the arcane and ambiguous laws that govern their lives. The town of Caxton is growing to meet the needs of this new land, expanding to meet the future of with a profitable sale of their tobacco crops, as well as other trade goods. But the sound of freedom is in the air. Young Virginia landowners are questioning their obligations to a government that sees them as less than full British citizens.<br />Europe is experiencing an intellectual upheaval despite the Church's interference, as printing presses churn out work espousing new philosophies to the world at large, exploring innovative concepts that can potentially alter the opinions of the common man. Popular writers of the day are Voltaire, Rousseau, Hume and the Pennsylvanian, Benjamin Franklin. However, the planters of Queen Anne County consider themselves aristocrats of a sort, content with their lot, entrenched in their own comfortable bureaucracy.<br />New landowner Hugh Kenrick is one of these young colonial enthusiasts and has purchased a tobacco plantation that needs excessive restoration after years of mismanagement. His closest neighbor, Jack Frake, is of similar mind. Frake has maintained a low profile, keeping his political opinions to himself, but as relations with Britain are more strained, both Frake and Kenrick find themselves allies. It is up to Jack Frake and Hugh Kenrick to lend their resources to the changes they envision, as America moves towards its eventual separation from England.<br />The third volume in the Sparrowhawk series, this is American history as lived by Frake and Kenrick. Book III: Caxton is about life in the colonies, on the irrevocable path toward the American Revolution. This is rich episodic history from Cline's viewpoint, with a wealth of details. The two pivotal Sparrowhawk characters come together, leading the charge, finally challenging British taxation and regulation. Luan Gaines/ 2004.gether, leading the charge, finally challenging British taxation and regulation. Luan Gaines/ 2004.	2004-06-06
640582:US	51010391	RBGU2FXV7PR4V	0767909054	655574149	Ship Ablaze: The Tragedy of the Steamboat General Slocum	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An inferno of catastrophic proportions	I was unfamiliar with this historic tragedy, the fire on board the steamboat General Slocum in 1904 that cost 1,300 people their lives, on a church-sponsored outing on a popular venue that delivered charters to Long Island Sound for one-day excursions. The emotional devastation brought on by this horrendous event changed Germantown forever.<br />The author puts a human face on the group that participated in the outing, an annual event that offered a welcome respite to daily lives filled with drudgery. Although only a one day event, for the many residents of Germantown, the outing was equal to the two week vacations gaining popularity with working class New Yorkers, certainly as close as these day-trippers would get to any kind of leisure. The outing was carefully planned, tickets sold and whole families dressed up in their Sunday best.<br />In 1904, fire was a fact of life for New York City, especially along the waterfront. In fact, mandatory inspections were made of such vessels by special governmental oversight agencies; however, in the case of the General Slocum, the inspector failed to note the deterioration of the life preservers or fire hoses that were the original ones installed thirteen years prior. When the fire raged out of control, people were without any means of escape. Even the life boats were wired in place and could not be released.<br />The fire spread unchecked as passengers realized they were in mortal danger, smoke obscuring their vision. The crew made no effort to fight the flames or assist the desperate passengers, a factor that turned crisis into catastrophe. Most of the passengers couldn't swim and were further weighted by their clothing. Rotten life preservers turned into 20 pounds of dead weight as those who wore them jumped into the water, never to resurface.<br />When is was all over, 1,300 people had lost their lives, many of them children, too often all the children and mother in a family, most fathers staying home to work. Row upon row of hastily assembled coffins lined a makeshift morgue as relatives searched for loved ones. Public outrage was immediate and an inquest was called to deal with the aftermath of the fire. Someone needed to be accountable, but as so often happens in these things, the real culprits, the owners of the General Slocum and the inspectors, were well insulated by teams of lawyers. As weel, time was on their side, a fact they understood well.<br />O'Donnell has written a well-documented and moving account of a tragedy that stunned the city of New York on that June day in 1904, when a merry group of church-goers meant to enjoy their annual outing, only to have their vessel burst into flame around them, not far from shore. The decisions made in the moment of crisis only added to the numbers marked for death. The author introduces captain, crew and passengers in the moments before the horror began, then describes the chaos that ensued when the flames raged around the unsuspecting victims.<br />Above all, the people of New York City, especially the decimated population of Germantown, needed to know that a special commission would prevent another accident like this. But the public memory is short; by the time of the Triangle Shirt Factory fire, people had, indeed, forgotten about the General Slocum. All but the inhabitants of Germantown, who lost loved ones that were never recovered and those who stood over row upon row of tiny coffins, knowing they would never see their children again. These people never forgot the day they lost so many of their community, an event that changed the terrain of their lives forever. Luan Gaines/ 2004.of hastily assembled coffins lined a makeshift morgue as relatives searched for loved ones. Public outrage was immediate and an inquest was called to deal with the aftermath of the fire. Someone needed to be accountable, but as so often happens in these things, the real culprits, the owners of the General Slocum and the inspectors, were well insulated by teams of lawyers. As weel, time was on their side, a fact they understood well.<br />O'Donnell has written a well-documented and moving account of a tragedy that stunned the city of New York on that June day in 1904, when a merry group of church-goers meant to enjoy their annual outing, only to have their vessel burst into flame around them, not far from shore. The decisions made in the moment of crisis only added to the numbers marked for death. The author introduces captain, crew and passengers in the moments before the horror began, then describes the chaos that ensued when the flames raged around the unsuspecting victims.<br />Above all, the people of New York City, especially the decimated population of Germantown, needed to know that a special commission would prevent another accident like this. But the public memory is short; by the time of the Triangle Shirt Factory fire, people had, indeed, forgotten about the General Slocum. All but the inhabitants of Germantown, who lost loved ones that were never recovered and those who stood over row upon row of tiny coffins, knowing they would never see their children again. These people never forgot the day they lost so many of their community, an event that changed the terrain of their lives forever. Luan Gaines/ 2004.	2004-06-06
646481:US	51010391	R9WEJTPKIOYU8	031610910X	387490548	1: Great Tales from English History: The Truth About King Arthur, Lady Godiva, Richard the Lionheart, and More	Books	4	38	42	N	N	A fascinating expose of best-loved tales	Robert Lacey has compiled a chronicle of anecdotal English History from 7150 BC through Richard II's reign in AD 1381, when the first faint rumblings of democracy spread across the land, as well as an awareness of the economic opportunity that sometimes arises from the misfortune of others. In this compact tome, Lacey tackles some of the stories that have been cloaked in mystery and mythology, told and retold over the years, exposing obvious fallacies and offering more sensible, if less colorful explanations for such phenomenon as Lady Godiva's naked romp, King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table and the true adventures (?) of Robin Hood, who \\"stole from the rich to give to the poor.\\"<br />By demythologizing history, Lacey breathes life into pivotal characters, placing them in an appropriate context from which we can view their exploits with a grain of common sense. Of even greater value and a welcome addition to this slim volume are the bibliography and source notes provided at the back of the book. Lacey takes advantage of the electronic age, offering a series of internet sites where the reader may indulge his curiosity for English history in general, or individual stories as listed in the Table of Contents, whether it be Henry I and the tragedy of The White Ship, The Domesday Book or The Fair Maid of Kent and The Order of the Garter.<br />Myriad small, but important details abound: once the Romans left Britain in 410 AD, written records of civilization were not kept until nearly 600 AD because the Anglo- Saxons did not keep recorded accounts; the Venerable Bede was the first real English historian and it is he who tells of the insults passed between the Irish and the English, the first documented poet, Caedemon, the popular disciplines of science, mathematics, astronomy and poetry and the process of AD dating; after the battle of Hastings in 1060, William the Conqueror introduced the element of the people's consent into governance, hence the phrase, \\"Long live the King!\\"; the White Ship incident was the Titanic of the Middle Ages, carrying the heir of Henry I, as it tragically sunk with the hopes of the future and the lack of an heir led to the first prolonged civil war; and the first anti-Semitic atrocities were committed during the reign of Richard the Lionheart, heir of Henry II, who did his best to stop the attacks, but later went on Crusade to Palestine, where he showed no mercy in the slaughtering of Muslims.<br />Certainly, you can research your favorite stories or indulge in a great historical romp through the centuries, beginning with the bones of Cheddar Man. I wasn't sure which route to take, but once I started with Cheddar Man, I just kept reading, tracking the evolution of civilization until I reluctantly came to the end of this volume. At that point, I carefully read the chapter notes and made a list of topics that especially piqued my curiosity. No Condensed Reader's Digest this, but a concise, brilliant compilation of facts guaranteed to spark any reader's interest. Luan Gaines/ 2004.ive the King!\\"; the White Ship incident was the Titanic of the Middle Ages, carrying the heir of Henry I, as it tragically sunk with the hopes of the future and the lack of an heir led to the first prolonged civil war; and the first anti-Semitic atrocities were committed during the reign of Richard the Lionheart, heir of Henry II, who did his best to stop the attacks, but later went on Crusade to Palestine, where he showed no mercy in the slaughtering of Muslims.<br />Certainly, you can research your favorite stories or indulge in a great historical romp through the centuries, beginning with the bones of Cheddar Man. I wasn't sure which route to take, but once I started with Cheddar Man, I just kept reading, tracking the evolution of civilization until I reluctantly came to the end of this volume. At that point, I carefully read the chapter notes and made a list of topics that especially piqued my curiosity. No Condensed Reader's Digest this, but a concise, brilliant compilation of facts guaranteed to spark any reader's interest. Luan Gaines/ 2004.	2004-06-01
647233:US	51010391	R2ZXBHK4ND7EHD	1931561680	883366820	The View from Delphi	Books	3	8	9	N	N	A contrast in black and white	After running away from her poverty-stricken, hardscrabble family life in the rugged Appalachia mountains, Hazel Ishee finds employment in a drug store, until she meets her future husband, a young man from a similar background, with dreams of his own. The industrious Floyd sells machinery all over the Mississippi Delta, eventually realizing his aspirations, when he moves his family into the upper-class neighborhood he covets, anxious to belong in that society. Meanwhile, Hazel struggles with overwhelming feeling of inadequacy that leaches the enjoyment from her comfortable days. Even their two sons cannot relieve Hazel`s downward spiral, which is only alleviated by the alcohol she drinks excessively. The drinking brings a whole new set of problems for a woman unprepared to deal with a successful marriage and comfortable lifestyle.<br />Vida's disillusionment is of another kind. A young girl from a prominent black Delta family, Vida gives birth at fifteen to the child of a white man, tormented by her sense of  disgrace she brings to her family. Vida's father is the local preacher, full of fine words, until faced with the reality of his daughter's illegitimate child. When the biological father of Vida's baby is appointed sheriff he wants the child out of sight, afraid of the damage to his reputation and his political aspirations. Vida's family's fortunes fail and she is haunted by the loss of her baby. She and her brother are forced to work the land they once lived on.<br />The years pass, and Vida is hired as a maid to the incompetent Hazel, who has also lost a son; Vida's primary duty is giving Hazel the medication that sends her spoiled charge spinning into oblivion every morning, yet the two women's mutual need is the closest thing either has to friendship. Hazel's remaining son lurks in the shadows, spying on Vida and yearning for the attentions of his self-absorbed mother.<br />Author Odell concocts enough twists and turns to stand the Mason-Dixon Line on its head as Civil Rights comes to the South; just as the movement begins with Rosa Parks' rebellion, circumstances shift in subtle ways for Vida and Hazel and the two enemies eye each other warily, establishing a shaky friendship. Bone-tired and heartsick, each of them has struggled alone for far too long. Their strange relationship turns into an unexpected bonus for women who are unused to friendship or trust.<br />The View from Delphi is well-intentioned, with liberal use of local dialect and the colorful phrasing of the Delta, as well as the fallout from years of racial abuse and discrimination. Reminiscent of Tademy's Cane River, this novel has the same folksy dialog, if a few too many too many rambling conversations. Doubtless, this novel will have a popular following, with its unusual assortment of eccentric characters and the historical import of the Civil Rights movement. Luan Gaines/2004.ad as Civil Rights comes to the South; just as the movement begins with Rosa Parks' rebellion, circumstances shift in subtle ways for Vida and Hazel and the two enemies eye each other warily, establishing a shaky friendship. Bone-tired and heartsick, each of them has struggled alone for far too long. Their strange relationship turns into an unexpected bonus for women who are unused to friendship or trust.<br />The View from Delphi is well-intentioned, with liberal use of local dialect and the colorful phrasing of the Delta, as well as the fallout from years of racial abuse and discrimination. Reminiscent of Tademy's Cane River, this novel has the same folksy dialog, if a few too many too many rambling conversations. Doubtless, this novel will have a popular following, with its unusual assortment of eccentric characters and the historical import of the Civil Rights movement. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-06-01
653711:US	51010391	R162PZXIN4JJ3K	0810151502	743017663	Florida	Books	5	35	39	N	N	A rite of passage	In blissful prose that demands attention, Schutt is ruthless, brutal and passionate, as she tells the story of a motherless daughter. From the beginning I am in tears, so deeply does this small novel reach into the hidden places of my heart. Even while the author's transcendent words fill me, my mind reaches to my own mother, in her final days railing against a world she refused to relinquish.<br />Alice, namesake daughter, is a child born to survive her environment, with a mother who seeks emotional safety in confinement to a sanatorium. There follows a series of homes, but never one of her own and a need to find comfort in a world bereft of comfort, after her father's death and mother's virtual abandonment.<br />In her ensuing sleep-over life, little Alice must always ask, \\"may I...?\\", remain unobtrusive, be pliant, flattering. Moving from her Uncle Billy and Aunt Frances' possession-filled, strict-ruled, child-proofed home to her Nonna's luxurious estate, Alice spills her heart out to an old woman who can barely move, rendered speechless by a stroke. Her sleep-over life motherless and rudderless, Alice grows up with a vengeance, scraping a private existence from the leftovers of others.<br />Meeting her mother again later in California, the two women move cautiously around each other. In prose that reads like poetry, Alice describes this mother in a series of stark, hurtful observations and the realities of her own life as the generations turn full circle, Alice the woman, a mother almost indistinguishable from the silent Nonna.<br />Women of a certain age, and there are many, will find this part of the novel exquisitely painful, full of recognition. Florida reflects a validation of women, their ability to survive the direst of circumstances. Here is understanding for the terrible errors made by family, both intentional and unintentional. In the end, Alice's mother is \\"an old woman, made innocent\\". So are they all, their frail bones leached of ill intentions, forgiven by years of attrition. This slight book contains the experience of a lifetime, ridged with sorrows and shallow joys too meager to squander. Florida is a rite of passage and an exorcism of grief; I am in awe of this author`s talents. Luan Gaines/2004.given by years of attrition. This slight book contains the experience of a lifetime, ridged with sorrows and shallow joys too meager to squander. Florida is a rite of passage and an exorcism of grief; I am in awe of this author`s talents. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-05-26
657471:US	51010391	R1Y55S35CVXEL7	031600023X	827119224	Worse Than Watergate: The Secret Presidency of George W. Bush	Books	4	40	47	N	N	The new Watergate	It is John Dean's contention that only \\"ignorance or bliss\\" could create the kind of atmosphere that gave birth to Nixon's secrecy and the Watergate Scandal. Over the years, he has changed his mind, finding the activities of Bush and Cheney both careful and calculated. If we accept that corruption thrives in secret places, it is impossible to deny the potential for abuse that now exists.<br />Including detailed documentation, footnotes and chapter notes to support his accusations, Dean clearly does not doubt the integrity of the president or vice-president, but fears their excessive zealotry. Like Nixon's, the administration spends considerable time on the presidential image and reelection as opposed to attending the business of the people; one important difference: Dean views Cheney as a co-president, unheard of in modern politics.<br />Dean addresses the atmosphere of secrecy that surrounds the current administration, the careful shielding of the president from random questions by the press with carefully scripted events that show him in the best light. This is a collaboration from the top down, with Cheney standing willingly behind the scenes; everything is carefully engineered to place Bush in the best possible light for the greatest effect. Unlike his father, who was disinclined to manage his press conferences, speeches, etc., the younger Bush is more comfortable when his people have crafted each scenario.<br />Even the Thanksgiving visit to the troops in Iraq was prearranged and carefully vetted, Bush carrying a large tray of fake turkey to serve the soldiers. As viewers, we are innocent of such trappings, more likely than not to believe the images we watch on our television screens.<br />Regarding the 9/11 Commission, Dean posits eight questions, the answers to which would do much to dissipate the proliferation of conspiracy theories that have circulated since the White House has blocked an open dialog about the attacks.<br />Other serious considerations covered in Worse Than Watergate are executive privilege, congressional oversight, sealing presidential papers, the continuity of government following an attack, secret and repressive law enforcement and deceiving Congress. The reader is prompted to draw his own conclusions, but there is a wealth of material that warrants consideration.<br />Dean approaches the subject with the eye of a lawyer, juggling legal ramifications and extrapolating possible consequences. He is able to project the intentions behind the secrecy; the potential for serious damage to the democratic process is truly frightening. The author is in a unique position, having served in one of the most secretive administrations in recent years, certainly cognizant of the opportunities for abuse. Fear can make is cowards, fear of consequences, fear of creating controversy and certainly, fear of the answers. But in order for a democracy to function, the hard questions must be asked and reasonable answers demanded. Dean is asking the questions and it is our task to determine the veracity of the answers.(...)red in Worse Than Watergate are executive privilege, congressional oversight, sealing presidential papers, the continuity of government following an attack, secret and repressive law enforcement and deceiving Congress. The reader is prompted to draw his own conclusions, but there is a wealth of material that warrants consideration.<br />Dean approaches the subject with the eye of a lawyer, juggling legal ramifications and extrapolating possible consequences. He is able to project the intentions behind the secrecy; the potential for serious damage to the democratic process is truly frightening. The author is in a unique position, having served in one of the most secretive administrations in recent years, certainly cognizant of the opportunities for abuse. Fear can make is cowards, fear of consequences, fear of creating controversy and certainly, fear of the answers. But in order for a democracy to function, the hard questions must be asked and reasonable answers demanded. Dean is asking the questions and it is our task to determine the veracity of the answers.(...)	2004-05-23
661933:US	51010391	R2XT0RE4ZSRV2Y	0393058700	528773866	The Perfect Age: A Novel	Books	3	4	8	N	N	(3.5) Difficult transitions	Given Skyler's refreshing prose, the summer heat of Las Vegas is pivotal in The Perfect Age, the cauldron from which a family is shaped and reshaped, changing their dynamic in unexpected ways.<br />At fifteen, Helen is on the cusp of that youthful clumsiness that gives way to feminine grace, her angles smoothing into curves, intuiting her power over men and the youthful sexuality that draws male eyes to her lithe beauty. In the short months until Helen turns eighteen, every important issue of her young life surfaces, challenging her perceptions of the world as she has  known it. Kathy, Helen's mother, has a beauty of her own, not yet a distant memory, but already tinged with a profound sadness. Carefully noting the changes in her daughter, Kathy knows a similar unrest, bored with her comfortable marriage to a predictable man.<br />Helen is experiencing physical love for the first time and the complexity sex adds to a relationship, the separation from her mother as protector and the safe cocoon of family are unsettling, leaving her edgy and unsure. Helen's boyfriend, Leo, a seventeen-year old drummer, senses this new found elusiveness, at once desperate to possess her and conscious that she is already slipping through his fingers. Over three summers, Helen sloughs off her youth, struggling to define boundaries with Leo, both drawn to and repulsed by their new intimacy.<br />Helen and Kathy are exquisitely vulnerable, Helen for her trusting innocence, Kathy for the sweet nostalgia of time passing, beauty fading with the years. The author captures their transitions perfectly, mother and daughter cautiously watching each other, unsure how to interpret their tender sexuality. They sense a profound alliance as females, delicate and fragile in this phase of their relationship.<br />This family drama, played out against an exotic setting, presents the usual problems, boredom, the gradual diminishing of passion, teen-age angst and mid-life crisis. The temptations are familiar, anything to avoid reality; yet the author allows her protagonists their small personal flaws, the imperfections that humanize them. As Helen embraces young womanhood, mother and daughter confront the core of their hostilities and Kathy searches for the strength to allow her daughter's first tentative steps into adult life. Skyler has her finger firmly on the pulse of this family, sensitive to the unnerving upheavals they experience over three significant summer seasons that spell an end to innocence, the beginning of a more imperfect, if more livable peace. Luan Gaines/2004.iar, anything to avoid reality; yet the author allows her protagonists their small personal flaws, the imperfections that humanize them. As Helen embraces young womanhood, mother and daughter confront the core of their hostilities and Kathy searches for the strength to allow her daughter's first tentative steps into adult life. Skyler has her finger firmly on the pulse of this family, sensitive to the unnerving upheavals they experience over three significant summer seasons that spell an end to innocence, the beginning of a more imperfect, if more livable peace. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-05-19
662454:US	51010391	R375DGT79MU33Q	0156029650	72335378	Midsummer	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Undercurrents	When five Manhattanites rent a luxurious estate on the Hudson River for the summer, the lazy weekends stretch ahead of them, relief from the city heat.<br />Friends since their days at school, Kay and Susie are the first to arrive. The plan is Susie's and Kay cooperates gladly, planning to spend the entire summer at the estate, her Monday through Friday solitude graced by lively weekends with the others. There is Dodge, an artist, Ron a comedian cum college drop out and Elise, a sculptor about to have her first significant show, all arriving within hours of each other. Kay's twenty-something son, Billy, rounds out the eclectic mix.<br />The weekenders are inordinately preoccupied with sex, in thought if not in deed. Awash in expectations and unrequited fantasies, they indulge in a series of quasi-connections, acting out small dramas as if practicing for real life. Kay is unexpectedly attracted to Billy, a situation she finds appalling, although he is quite willing, tempted by the siren call of the older woman. Yet neither is prepared to face their exquisite dilemma or its ramifications. Elise, the resident neurotic with her innate paranoia, circulates, drawn to the others as if in search of rejection, her abrasiveness a catalyst on the household dynamic. Meanwhile, Claudine, the exhibitionistic au pair from next door, drops in to swim and play tennis.<br />As the summer wears on, the weekenders indulge in personal angst, questioning the future and the nature of loneliness at a certain age, marriage, divorce and children already behind them; but on Friday evenings, as the sun sets on the ethereal beauty of their vacation estate, the roommates toast to another weekend of relaxation and whatever adventures await them.<br />These long summer weekends present unique opportunities, challenging these New Yorkers to overcome their innate ambivalence long enough to take action. Their uncertainty is key to the plot, missed opportunities that are more memorable than actual experience. The estate has the charm of a doll's house, the rooms at once bright and merry with laughter, and then quickly cast into darkness with the onset of boredom.<br />Clements captures the yearning, the faux adolescence for all but Billy, who is delighted to be released from his own awkward youth. Prematurely adopting middle-aged attitudes, the housemates barely ripple the surface of the summer, a time-out from real life, proving, once more, that you can't go home again. Luan Gaines/2004.xperience. The estate has the charm of a doll's house, the rooms at once bright and merry with laughter, and then quickly cast into darkness with the onset of boredom. <br />Clements captures the yearning, the faux adolescence for all but Billy, who is delighted to be released from his own awkward youth. Prematurely adopting middle-aged attitudes, the housemates barely ripple the surface of the summer, a time-out from real life, proving, once more, that you can't go home again. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-05-19
670192:US	51010391	RBFVM8LQ2BJ6B	0375500200	307996488	Women	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Image as Everywoman	Fiction is my preference when writing book reviews, because I love the complexity of words, stories, and the vagaries of human nature with its endless permutations. But when I received Leibovitz's astonishing compilation of photographs as a gift, I thought I might attempt an impression of page after page of females, as seen through the professional eye of one of the most important photographers of our generation.<br />Who has not gazed in awe at Leibovitz's unusual perspective, the beautiful made even more so? But I want real women with wrinkles and dirt under their fingernails, the kind of women overlooked in the rush to worship human perfection. I want to see if there is a balance, not just the too thin, too gorgeous, too self-indulgent. In that regard, I believe Women contains a preponderance of well-groomed elegance, albeit impressive, for instance a breathtaking portrait of Gwyneth Paltrow and her mother, Blythe Danner. This particular image contrasts a young woman in the blush of her feminine power with the graceful progression of years that adds to a woman's complex attraction. To be sure, there are folios of celebrities, socialites, all those who live in the rarified strata of entitlement.<br />While not as numerous, the presentation of real women like me, those who inhabit my world, are so powerful as to diminish the bland compositions of society's darlings. The studies of abused women jump off the pages, eyes glazed, the immediacy of domestic violence tattooing their faces, staring into a future devoid of hope; a remarkably insightful photograph of Ellen DeGeneris, virtually unrecognizable under a layer of cracked white greasepaint; two pre-adolescent girls in the back of a pickup truck, displaying a row of leggy blonde Barbie's, with Ken in a faux high school letter jacket, his plastic Prom Queen sporting a crown atop hair that cascades down the length of her body; three young Latino women glare accusingly at the lens, displaying gang colors with pride, ambiguously dangerous; the lines of age score lived-in faces, eyes shadowed by years of struggle, etched finally by the exhaustion of daily survival. For me, these pictures contain the essence of womanhood, untainted by ubiquitous vanities.<br />In all, Leibovitz \\"sees\\" these women, their strengths, frailties and vulnerabilities. This series of images is a walk through the multi-hued, textured world of women, esoteric, generous, often brutally honest and unflinching. Luan Gaines/2004.mbiguously dangerous; the lines of age score lived-in faces, eyes shadowed by years of struggle, etched finally by the exhaustion of daily survival. For me, these pictures contain the essence of womanhood, untainted by ubiquitous vanities.<br />In all, Leibovitz \\"sees\\" these women, their strengths, frailties and vulnerabilities. This series of images is a walk through the multi-hued, textured world of women, esoteric, generous, often brutally honest and unflinching. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-05-13
671024:US	51010391	R2YAGTCU28RVM3	074325547X	828250107	Plan of Attack	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Great expectations...	Bob Woodward first entered my life in the early 1970's, along with Carl Bernstein and Watergate. Over the years, Woodward has honed his reporting skills, establishing himself as a journalist with integrity. In Plan of Attack, Woodward addresses the meetings and historical decisions that resulted in America's war to depose Saddam Hussein. Other than Operation Desert Storm, a great cable event, this conflict has brought the reality of war into the American consciousness in a manner unseen since the tortuous debate over the Vietnam conflict. Needless to say, considerable media exposure has attended Plan of Attack, prompting hours of media discussion and panels of political experts pro and con. It is time to decide for myself the spirit of Woodward's book and how it has come to mean different things to opposing points of view.<br />Success is the only option in all aspects of planning the invasion of Iraq; and only success is acceptable. To that end, the focus is on the broad view, the outcome, with the assumption that logistical issues will be dealt with in context. The flaw appears in the lack of planning for a variety of outcomes, including the aftermath of the war, once the country is secured and the mission accomplished.<br />Doubtless there will be more legalistic documents that consider the historical perspective, though it is hard to imagine a more engaging style than Woodward's; he is inside the very personal conversations and momentous decisions, allowing an insight into the personalities involved. These conversations are telling, intimate revelations in planning the war and the move toward the democratization of Iraq. Hussein is a figurehead, but only a focus for public debate; beyond that there is a master plan to affect the direction of the Middle East.<br />Nuances are lost in Bush's overview, which nurtures a vision of freedom. Naysayers are not tolerated and their views must correspond to the party line. The most obvious example is Secretary of State Colin Powell, constantly out of step and herded back by means of convoluted semantics. Powell is consistently outflanked and outmaneuvered by the concentrated efforts of Cheney and Rumsfeld. But intelligence is not fact. One could call the administration Machiavellian, except that the details are so transparent, given the hindsight of Woodward's reporting. More an act of will than a clever manipulation, there is a feeling of predestination and inevitability, given the mindset of the top dogs in the Bush Administration.<br />In Plan of Attack, Woodward references a series of extraordinary events: the planning of the Iraq invasion so soon after the tragedy of 9/11 under the blind eye of Congress, the dynamic duo of Blair and Bush, Powell's ambivalent dance with the United Nations, the shocking influence of Prince Bandar of Saudi Arabia and our striking lack of reliable informants inside Iraq. Without this critical intelligence there is no counter-balance, no facts to refute the assumptions of the Administration. Once God nods His seal of approval on Bush's mission, the deal is done. Continuing inspections, the reality of weapons of mass destruction? In Woodward's book, such issues occupy the public and the media far more than the Oval Office.<br />The burden is ultimately Bush's, but he is Reagan-like in his approach to it all, taking the long view and leaving the micro-management to the more detail-oriented. Given current events, Rumsfeld's position is telling; the Secretary of Defense performs his duties dispassionately in contrast to Cheney's \\"fever\\" and Rice's hovering. Viewing the removal of Saddam and the freeing of the Iraqi people as a \\"blueprint for future actions\\", Bush's willingness to open his office to Woodward is a bold move, validating his determination to change the course of history and, consequently, the president's place in the grand scheme of things. He is absolutely without doubt. Is there a price for being wrong? Luan Gaines/2004.in Powell, constantly out of step and herded back by means of convoluted semantics. Powell is consistently outflanked and outmaneuvered by the concentrated efforts of Cheney and Rumsfeld. But intelligence is not fact. One could call the administration Machiavellian, except that the details are so transparent, given the hindsight of Woodward's reporting. More an act of will than a clever manipulation, there is a feeling of predestination and inevitability, given the mindset of the top dogs in the Bush Administration.<br />In Plan of Attack, Woodward references a series of extraordinary events: the planning of the Iraq invasion so soon after the tragedy of 9/11 under the blind eye of Congress, the dynamic duo of Blair and Bush, Powell's ambivalent dance with the United Nations, the shocking influence of Prince Bandar of Saudi Arabia and our striking lack of reliable informants inside Iraq. Without this critical intelligence there is no counter-balance, no facts to refute the assumptions of the Administration. Once God nods His seal of approval on Bush's mission, the deal is done. Continuing inspections, the reality of weapons of mass destruction? In Woodward's book, such issues occupy the public and the media far more than the Oval Office.<br />The burden is ultimately Bush's, but he is Reagan-like in his approach to it all, taking the long view and leaving the micro-management to the more detail-oriented. Given current events, Rumsfeld's position is telling; the Secretary of Defense performs his duties dispassionately in contrast to Cheney's \\"fever\\" and Rice's hovering. Viewing the removal of Saddam and the freeing of the Iraqi people as a \\"blueprint for future actions\\", Bush's willingness to open his office to Woodward is a bold move, validating his determination to change the course of history and, consequently, the president's place in the grand scheme of things. He is absolutely without doubt. Is there a price for being wrong? Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-05-12
671191:US	51010391	R2IAXRXQI883VE	0701175168	919631242	The Hamilton Case	Books	4	21	21	N	N	"Obey by name, Obey by nature..."	Sam Obeysekere seems never to entertain a moment of self-doubt or humility, defined by his embrace of everything British, raised in a country whose values are dictated by the strict conventions and morality of a race affronted by the inherent messiness of Ceylon (Sri Lanka).<br />Educated at Oxford, Sam fashions himself in the English image he covets, given his race; he practices law in Ceylon with typical pompous satisfaction, the same air of conceit that marks him by classmates at school, \\"Obey by name, Obey by nature\\", a phrase that haunts his life. As the protagonist, Sam critically examines those around him, yet he is emotionally in thrall to his beautiful mother, frightened, simpering sister and later, his wife, a woman he treats with unbelievable disdain. Sam's marriage is one of convenience, his wife a pawn for his entrenched beliefs about women and his scorn for the weaker sex. This is a man who exists isolated in the world, his days carefully constructed in the English manner, rigid and unbending; late in life, alone and estranged from his son, Obeysekere is given to some introspection; it occurs to him that everything could have been different.<br />Early in his career, when a planter if sound murdered, Sam is given the assignment as prosecutor. The Hamilton Case should be a career plum, an opportunity for Obeysekere to display his mastery of the courtroom, yet the case is fraught with contradictions from the beginning. Rather than believe natives could be the perpetrators, Sam prosecutes an Englishman, a friend of the murdered man. Confident he has presented the perfect scenario, Sam has nevertheless created a conundrum for himself: a white man accused of a crime against a man of color in a country ruled by British vanity and arrogance. Obeysekere's misperception of the true nature of the task is a metaphor for his life, his name forever attached to a convoluted confusion of mores, suspicion and racial innuendo, a case that is discussed for years without satisfactory conclusion.<br />Whether he is a victim of the British Empire, albeit a willing one, or an emotionally inept young man starving for peer acceptance, Obeysekere surrounds himself with curt denial of family and country, isolated by childhood distortions that reach like tentacles into his adult life. Every thought paraphrased in English vernacular, Sam is a product of his particular generation, as this foreign mentality usurps an entire culture for over a century. When the English finally desert the continent, Sam is adrift in a civilization that has little relevance to the Ceylon of his imagination.<br />Kretser's extraordinary gift shines in her translation of the ubiquitous Brits into the very marrow of certain personalities, jolly good fellows like Sam Obeysekere, shadow images of themselves. Kretser's language is otherworldly and transcendent, nuanced by time and place; this is a precise and penetrating vision of social hypocrisy against a remarkable canvas of profligate island beauty, laced with the imminence of decay. A kaleidoscope of shifting colors and shapes, The Hamilton Case is a heady mix of mystery and myth. Michelle de Kretser guards her secrets carefully, Obeysekere's raison d'etre based on a faulty premise, resulting in a life slightly skewed and greatly distorted. Although compared to Ishiguro's Remains of the Day, I found The Hamilton Case more reminiscent of C.S. Godshalk's Kalimantaan for its wealth of lush images and the contrast of Victorian convention in tenuous coexistence with a violent culture. Luan Gaines/ 2004.satisfactory conclusion.<br />Whether he is a victim of the British Empire, albeit a willing one, or an emotionally inept young man starving for peer acceptance, Obeysekere surrounds himself with curt denial of family and country, isolated by childhood distortions that reach like tentacles into his adult life. Every thought paraphrased in English vernacular, Sam is a product of his particular generation, as this foreign mentality usurps an entire culture for over a century. When the English finally desert the continent, Sam is adrift in a civilization that has little relevance to the Ceylon of his imagination.<br />Kretser's extraordinary gift shines in her translation of the ubiquitous Brits into the very marrow of certain personalities, jolly good fellows like Sam Obeysekere, shadow images of themselves. Kretser's language is otherworldly and transcendent, nuanced by time and place; this is a precise and penetrating vision of social hypocrisy against a remarkable canvas of profligate island beauty, laced with the imminence of decay. A kaleidoscope of shifting colors and shapes, The Hamilton Case is a heady mix of mystery and myth. Michelle de Kretser guards her secrets carefully, Obeysekere's raison d'etre based on a faulty premise, resulting in a life slightly skewed and greatly distorted. Although compared to Ishiguro's Remains of the Day, I found The Hamilton Case more reminiscent of C.S. Godshalk's Kalimantaan for its wealth of lush images and the contrast of Victorian convention in tenuous coexistence with a violent culture. Luan Gaines/ 2004.	2004-05-12
680732:US	51010391	R61RBEMIJ30EO	0393325547	944793671	Crescent: A Novel	Books	5	21	23	N	N	"A crescent moonexquisite in its incompleteness"	Abu-Jaber's latest novel, Crescent, is a lyrical tale of love, family and tradition, peopled with characters of Arabian descent, who live in an enclave in the heart of Los Angeles, California. Whether Iranian, Lebanese, Iraqi or Jordanian, all have in common the longing to return to the homelands of their youth, impossible given the socio-economic and political changes of the last decades.<br />The author speaks particularly to the Iraqi exiles, in a poignant portrayal of their memories, folktales and family connections. She does so in poetic phrases that remind this reader of the prolific Alice Hoffman, as page after page is filled with such deeply moving images, sounds and smells that Crescent redefines cultural stereotypes, allowing each individual his/her own identity.<br />The most important ingredient in this tasty concoction is the Arab-American Sirine, a master cook of ethnic delicacies at Nadia's Caf&eacute;, a Lebanese establishment, where students and other patrons gather to enjoy familiar dishes and discussions of their native countries. While current events swirl around her, Sirine blithely attends to the meals she lovingly prepares, stirring long-buried memories of her childhood longing for absentee parents, who travel to distant lands in an effort at humanitarian aid. When, finally, her parents fail to return home, Sirine quietly closes her heart against further loss.<br />When an exiled Iraqi professor of literature catches Sirine's eye, she is unable to resist, suddenly vulnerable to the characteristic emotions of incipient romance, the excitement and passion of the moment. The charismatic Hanif Al Eyad introduces reality into the developing love affair; Han has a past as an exile from Iraq in his early twenties, a past that Sirine must acknowledge if they are to progress toward the necessary intimacy of a meaningful relationship. The tender love scenes have subtle touches of eroticism, a heady mix of that wonderful confusion of the first days of love. But Sirine resists asking about Han`s life before her, only begrudgingly admitting the importance of his past on their future.<br />An Arab-American, Sirine struggles with Han's attachment to the history that defines him, the siren-song of exile that was once irresistible, but has now cut him off from the beating heart of his country. With innate instinct, Sirine treads carefully in this vulnerable place, exquisitely aware of the delicate balance of the relationship. Once Sirine opens her heart to Han's story, the weight of the novel moves from the euphoria of beginning love to the revelation of faults and flaws, the human frailties that allow forgiveness. Her innocence shattered, Sirine learns the import of emotional commitment, the balance between pleasure and pain; through this experience, she becomes a more fully-defined woman.<br />Many reviews hail Crescent as an erotic, sensual love story, but Abu-Jaber has written more than a simple romance, drawing the reader beneath the surface of the Arab community. With myriad complexities and allegiances, the idiosyncratic characters bring their experience, memories and family stories to Nadia's Caf&eacute;. With passionate longing, they examine life in exile from beloved countries of origin, a universality of experience: \\"When we walk away from home, we fall in love with our sadness\\".<br />Abu-Jaber's prose is transcendent, as rich as the pastries Sirine serves to her customers; with bits of spice and sugar, the phrases meld together, fable and truth creating memory. We struggle to understand cultural and ideological differences in a world made smaller by communications, yet obscured by the barriers of language and tradition. Abu-Jaber welcomes us inside spice-scented, fragrant rooms where families gather for comfort, much the same as early American immigrants from Ireland and Italy, sharing familial traditions and hopes for the future. Crescent offers a rich, exuberant experience, one that leaves this reader as satisfied as an exotic meal topped off with a serving of vanilla ice cream, the perfect combination of the unexpected and the familiar. In a blend of cultural diversity and the banality of daily life in America, this author invites us to the bountiful buffet of humanity, a feast of the best we have to offer. Luan Gaines/ 2004.an exotic meal topped off with a serving of vanilla ice cream, the perfect combination of the unexpected and the familiar. In a blend of cultural diversity and the banality of daily life in America, this author invites us to the bountiful buffet of humanity, a feast of the best we have to offer. Luan Gaines/ 2004.	2004-05-04
680853:US	51010391	RSDSZF291JKW0	0967370108	423453786	The Beggar's Throne	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Families divided, royal and commoner	The infamous Hundred Years War devastates medieval England, pulling desperately needed resources and men into a vortex of war, as the House of York and The House of Lancaster engage in Machiavellian scheming for dominance. The needs of the country are secondary to the struggle for the throne.<br />The author includes a family of millers in the context of the greater drama, as two brothers find themselves on opposite sides. The younger brother, Samuel, is a trained archer and, like his elder brother, a Lancastrian. Once engaged in battle, Samuel's allegiance changes, as he questions the motives of those he follows and he offers his talents to The House of York. The resulting rift between Samuel and brother, Christopher, costs Samuel the support of his family. Truth be known, he misses them terribly.<br />Samuel's simple soldier's life is constructed around the loyalties that bind men-at-arms together. Inevitably, Samuel falls in love with a serving maid who is actually a well-bred lady in disguise, hiding a damning document from the Queen and her followers. Unable to confide her secret to Samuel and his family, Kate haplessly drags them into the ensuing conflict, putting them all in danger.<br />The first half of the book addresses the eventual denouement of The War of the Roses, the historic and complicated details of conflated loyalties, nobility and greed. Meanwhile, the Miller's are motivated by their need to repair familial connections and live free of strife. To this extent, Falconieri cannot quite get his footing; however, the author's knowledge of subject is impressive, although his challenge is the melding of the commoner's concerns and the eventual termination of the war with an acceptable king, intact on the throne.<br />The Beggar's Throne has moments of excitement, the vitality of fighting for a cause, even if it is on opposite sides. In any case, the tedium of the world grinds on. Those who rule reap the benefits and the foot soldiers lose their lives in endless scenes of carnage. The Miller family exemplifies the commoners, struggling to survive daily needs and to improve their lot. These are the soldiers left lying on the fields of war, strewn across history, leaving wives and children, dreams and ambitions behind. Power and intrigue are the issues that form the crux of The Beggar's Throne, the nature of war and it's victims. Luan Gaines/ 2004.n endless scenes of carnage. The Miller family exemplifies the commoners, struggling to survive daily needs and to improve their lot. These are the soldiers left lying on the fields of war, strewn across history, leaving wives and children, dreams and ambitions behind. Power and intrigue are the issues that form the crux of The Beggar's Throne, the nature of war and it's victims. Luan Gaines/ 2004.	2004-05-04
681244:US	51010391	R2WI1AJ284I6WY	0385506708	740970669	Death Match: A Novel (Child, Lincoln)	Books	3	2	9	N	N	(3.5)The perfect love match, with a few minor glitches	For his solo novel sans writing partner Douglas Preston, Lincoln Child tackles computer matching services, the latest cyber-world craze. In our current multi-tasking society, people are turning more frequently to computers, with their immediacy and convenience. Stepping off from this premise, Child takes it one step further: suppose a company, dedicated to matching the most compatible couples, was so successful that they could afford to charge $25,000.00 for their services?<br />Entrepreneur and child genius Richard Silver, the founder of Eden, Incorporated, appears to have met this daunting challenge with brilliant success. After years of refining the process and adding to the base of his super-computer, nicknamed \\"Liza\\", Silver charges this exorbitant rate simply because the end results are so remarkably successful.<br />The process is exhaustive, but well worth the investment, as new subscribers line up for consideration, checks in hand. Eden has its standards as well, with substantial testing before accepting candidates. Inside the company, the buzz is all about the so-called Supercouples, a small percentage of almost-perfect matches that are the darlings of the system and a great source of pride for Eden, Inc. Imagine the chagrin when the very first Supercouple commits double-suicide. Eden is willing to do whatever it takes to get to the bottom of this shocking anomaly and blight on their perfect record.<br />Enter Dr. Christopher Lash, formerly an FBI profiler, now in private practice. If Lash has a few skeletons in his closet, he doesn't believe there are any obstacles in locating the systems error that resulted in the tragedies. As an independent contractor and in an effort to replicate the Eden experience, Lash undergoes the same testing process as the other successful applicants, seeking specific flaws in the system. Then things get dicey as yet another super couple self-destructs.<br />Meeting with Richard Silver, Lash is impressed with the man behind Eden's success, and the computer Silver painstakingly put together over the years. Lash is struck by Silver's genuine altruism, concern for the couples who are matched via the company. But Lash is shocked by the intrusiveness of Eden's testing procedures, both psychological and physical. The data retrieval alone suggests interfacing with computers that the general public could never access, a fact that raises Lash's suspicions.<br />Lash has immediate results in his investigation, confident he has located the person behind the suicides of the Supercouples. Unfortunately, complications arise and Lash finds himself on the defensive, with dangerous implications for his personal safety. He is in a desperate race to remove the sudden suspicion cast on his motives and the revelation of his questionable past history.<br />Childs proves himself a capable writer in this singular effort. In this cutting-edge techno-mystery, Childs finds his Crichton-esque voice, pulling out all the stops, projecting the complexities of a world run almost exclusively by technology. In Death Match, Child steps comfortably into his m&eacute;tier as a mystery novelist. Luan Gaines/2004.n's success, and the computer Silver painstakingly put together over the years. Lash is struck by Silver's genuine altruism, concern for the couples who are matched via the company. But Lash is shocked by the intrusiveness of Eden's testing procedures, both psychological and physical. The data retrieval alone suggests interfacing with computers that the general public could never access, a fact that raises Lash's suspicions. <br />Lash has immediate results in his investigation, confident he has located the person behind the suicides of the Supercouples. Unfortunately, complications arise and Lash finds himself on the defensive, with dangerous implications for his personal safety. He is in a desperate race to remove the sudden suspicion cast on his motives and the revelation of his questionable past history.<br />Childs proves himself a capable writer in this singular effort. In this cutting-edge techno-mystery, Childs finds his Crichton-esque voice, pulling out all the stops, projecting the complexities of a world run almost exclusively by technology. In Death Match, Child steps comfortably into his mtier as a mystery novelist. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-05-04
693058:US	51010391	R1E7G3MWGXNB0F	000716131X	577942460	The Lucky Ones: A Novel	Books	3	13	16	N	N	(3.5)&quot;The threat of eternal redundancy&quot;	The author of The Lucky Ones tackles relationships, particularly between parents and children in this series of interconnected stories sharing common characters. With incisive prose, Cusk addresses the lost opportunities that plague everyday life. Each new tale builds upon the prior one, adding characters and events, until she exposes the fragile fabric of their lives.<br />The first story sets the stage for the ongoing drama as a young woman grapples with the impending birth of her child, how the delivery will destroy the intimacy she has treasured throughout the pregnancy. Carrying a child has allowed her to pretend an emotional distance from undesirable surroundings. With the birth, she will be thrust into reality.<br />In another tale, we meet the acerbic Mrs. Daley, a woman engaged in an adversarial relationship with one of her children, Josephine. Mrs. Daley is offended daily by Josephine's choices, her unmarried state, current pregnancy and her paucity of worldly goods. Mrs. Daley is incensed by Josephine's lack of engagement in the one-sided battle for dominance. Lacking a sense of the fragility of others, Mrs. Daley builds her days around such small dramas, a petulant woman terrified of confronting her own shortcomings.<br />In yet another small drama, a group of friends go on a skiing vacation, forced to endure accommodations that are clearly unsuitable. Thrown together randomly, they muddle through the holiday barely connecting, ruminating privately over their personal accomplishments and disappointments, the drastic changes wrought by marriage and parenthood. They are virtual strangers, sleeping under the same roof by night, flashing down the icy slopes by day.<br />The author casts a discerning eye on the human condition, the choices that people make and then regret and the subtlety of ego, as each yearns for a comfort zone from which to address the rest of the world. No characters are ill-intentioned; they simply disregard the feelings of others while meeting the daily demands of busy lives.<br />Most striking in The Lucky Ones is the contrast between the characters' interiors and exteriors. Most of them construct elaborate interior lives to cope with the banality of marriages gone stale, irritating children clamoring for attention and a general disharmony that can be defined as unhappiness. The author's female characters are by far the most complicated, not particularly warm or considerate of one another, almost dispassionate in their treatment of friendships: \\"Vanessa imagined Serena's mind to be like the nest of some thieving, clever bird, lined with stolen fragments.\\"<br />With its abstract, observant view of married couples and their relationships to each other and their children, this novel is vaguely reminiscent of The Ice Storm, with a similar construct of externals that highlight the emotional vacuum of disconnected lives. The author examines the absence of emotional commitment, reflecting a certain reality, a chill that hands like a pall over The Lucky Ones. Luan Gaines/2004.meeting the daily demands of busy lives.<br />Most striking in The Lucky Ones is the contrast between the characters' interiors and exteriors. Most of them construct elaborate interior lives to cope with the banality of marriages gone stale, irritating children clamoring for attention and a general disharmony that can be defined as unhappiness. The author's female characters are by far the most complicated, not particularly warm or considerate of one another, almost dispassionate in their treatment of friendships: \\"Vanessa imagined Serena's mind to be like the nest of some thieving, clever bird, lined with stolen fragments.\\"<br />With its abstract, observant view of married couples and their relationships to each other and their children, this novel is vaguely reminiscent of The Ice Storm, with a similar construct of externals that highlight the emotional vacuum of disconnected lives. The author examines the absence of emotional commitment, reflecting a certain reality, a chill that hands like a pall over The Lucky Ones. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-04-25
698326:US	51010391	RASXGCQ3G9WVS	0007170580	139515558	Mortification: Writers' Stories of Their Public Shame	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Telling Tales	In a must-read compilation, Editor Robin Robertson has selected an impressive group of writers, sharing in a public dissemination of the humiliations that serve to remind us of our humanity, with or without the trappings of success. I could not put down this unique anthology. Story after story reveals the writers' foibles and missteps, usually tinged with humor rather than regret. A pithy addition to an already enjoyable read, each excerpt is prefaced by an apt quotation.<br />Since Margaret Atwood offers the first story, I began at the beginning. I found myself compulsively turning pages, stopping frequently to smile at the absurd image of a writer's state of mortification. Bernard Maclafferty's piece is so visually ripe that I can sympathize with his means of escape...the red wine offered by his host. On the other hand, demon rum is frequently the primary contributor to the unraveling of events, certainly setting the stage for complications.<br />The book reading/signing is a common venue for humiliation, where victims are subjected to an assortment of difficulties, from flawed PA systems to rude spectators to an audience in the single digits. Simon Armitage, with time to spare before catching his train home after one such disappointing evening, finds a copy of one of his earlier works in the trash, signed in his own handwriting, &quot;To Mum and Dad.&quot;<br />Beneath it all, there is real experience, albeit \\"character building\\".  This is the same blind courage that propels a novelist, poet or musician toward the creativity that encourages him to stand at the mercy of an audience of one or many. Who can deny the the need for applause a reading may occasion, even with the realization that Murphy's Law prevails? Luan Gaines/2004	2004-04-21
698480:US	51010391	R1AE4ZGGRMYQSE	0385510519	359977933	The Pearl Diver: A Novel	Books	3	24	28	N	N	(3.5)The small dignities of a loving heart	In this quietly moving novel of a young woman's life on the leper's island of Nagashima, Talarigo speaks of horror with tenderness, of dreams interrupted, families who disown the contaminated, condemning them to a slow death in isolation. Even though a cure is found in the 1940's, the officials refuse to release those patients whose disease can be controlled, fearing a public outcry. Consequently, the lepers remain on the island, sharing their stories, skills and incredible generosity. Voiceless in a society that will not hear them; the lepers comfort each other, compassionate in a world that has none for them<br />The story begins on the leper's island of Nagashima in 1948, where a young woman stands at the base of the suicide cliff. There desperate bodies have cast themselves into oblivion rather than face the empty years ahead. She looks across the sea, where the pearl divers begin their daily diving adventures, a life she once shared. Her disease has not progressed; in fact, there is medication to impede the progress of the disease. Still a young woman, \\"Miss Fuji\\" has only her memories of diving, deeper and deeper into the comforting silence of the sea.<br />Miss Fuji gives daily massages to the other lepers, cataloging their loss of fingers and toes, the result of an absence of nerve endings, causing frequent damage to limbs. At night the patients take turns, rotating watches in their vigilance against rats that nibble at the fingers and toes of sleeping victims. The pearl diver swims in at night to surrounding islands, her secret rebellion, where children play during the day. As the years pass, and the lepers are fractionally integrated into society, Miss Fuji is tethered to the only home she has really known, tethered by her heart and her emotions. Freedom is a concept she nurtures in her soul, preserving her private dignity.<br />The young woman and the people she has come to know so well make a livable space where the life is unlivable, where death and decay permeate the air, poisoning hope. For all their deformities, their insides shine with a light that cannot be extinguished.  In the Japanese manner, the dying create a shrine to life: asked to be complicit in horror, they find whatever small redemption is possible, forming a spiritual chain to one another.<br />The Pearl Diver is a small but powerful testimony to the best qualities of humankind. With the precision of a calligrapher, the author pays homage to the pearl diver and the other shadowy figures that live and die on the island. The image of the pearl diver remains, washed in the dulcet tones of the past; her interminable kindness from inside the heart of isolation suggests the true nature of humanity in adversity. Luan Gaines/2004.decay permeate the air, poisoning hope. For all their deformities, their insides shine with a light that cannot be extinguished.  In the Japanese manner, the dying create a shrine to life: asked to be complicit in horror, they find whatever small redemption is possible, forming a spiritual chain to one another.<br />The Pearl Diver is a small but powerful testimony to the best qualities of humankind. With the precision of a calligrapher, the author pays homage to the pearl diver and the other shadowy figures that live and die on the island. The image of the pearl diver remains, washed in the dulcet tones of the past; her interminable kindness from inside the heart of isolation suggests the true nature of humanity in adversity. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-04-21
702469:US	51010391	R2F2KJCDVK2EBQ	0965475727	374028895	An Exaltation of Larks	Books	3	0	0	N	N	(3.5)A life-changing Parisian adventure	Nisargand's protagonist, Christine Louis, unwittingly matures along with the story line, confronting her cherished illusions and emotional diversions, all distractions of her own creation. This Parisian trip becomes another kind of journey for the young woman, one that requires real courage.<br />Arriving in Paris on a much-anticipated three-week vacation, Christine is excited, ready for her adventure, albeit at the expense of her waitressing job back in the States. By the time she reaches her pension, Christine is horrified to realize that she has been robbed, but survives the night thanks to the kindness of strangers. The following day is consumed with a hectic round of visits to the police, the U.S. Embassy and American Express.<br />Putting aside the drama of her first day in Paris, the young American is ready to explore the city of her dreams in the short time she has allotted herself, sharing a room in the pension with a stranger, contacting the French friends she first met in Los Angeles and sight-seeing. She also makes the acquaintance of a handsome neighbor (who lent her money in her distress), determined to enjoy what Paris has to offer. But underlying the simplicity of the tale is a subtle theme: the emotional effects of the robbery and Christine's ability to deal with life's random events.<br />Christine speaks no French, but manages quite well. Sexually drawn to her neighbor, Klive, she engages in a flirtatious mating dance with him, the physical attraction tempering her good judgment. When Klive leaves Paris for a week, Christine agrees to a date with a random acquaintance; this is a familiar scenario, setting up the very situations she finds so uncomfortable. Consequently, Christine bemoans the undesirable men who pop into her life, although she prides herself on her directness.<br />Very entertaining and well written, this short novel is complex on many levels. Christine proves the popular adage: no matter where we go, we take ourselves along. A Parisian respite becomes a vehicle for reviewing Christine's relationship patterns, using men as a distraction from important goals; she thoughtfully reflects, \\"It is my own, hard-won, thoughtfully constructed life\\". Indeed, it is a life awakening to possibilities. Luan Gaines/2004.risian respite becomes a vehicle for reviewing Christine's relationship patterns, using men as a distraction from important goals; she thoughtfully reflects, \\"It is my own, hard-won, thoughtfully constructed life\\". Indeed, it is a life awakening to possibilities. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-04-17
703043:US	51010391	R3FKNNRALI65UT	069401043X	388288451	Six Wives: The Queens of Henry VIII	Books	4	2	6	N	N	The King who altered history	Starkey offers a multi-layered view of the reign of Henry VIII, with much attention to the religious and political aspects of the monarch's struggle, first to wed his brother's widow, then to divorce her when she fails to produce a male heir. While there is great drama in the parade of women Henry marries in his quest for a son, even more fascinating is Starkey's attention to the extremely complex negotiations of statehood.<br />His choice of women illustrates Henry's attempts to satisfy his romantic nature, unusual in royal marriage contracts in the 16th Century, where political considerations govern the rules of attraction. On the one hand, Henry is driven by the desires of his heart, but also intellectually involved with the political ramifications of his decisions.<br />Henry's willful pursuit of Anne Boleyn sets the stage for years of negotiations with various representatives of the Pope, balancing the other nations seeking to affect the outcome of the Pope's decision. Ultimately, Henry breaks with the Church, one of the most significant events in English history. In this great battle of wills, while Henry is willing to engage in the elaborate manners of protocol, he is unwilling to accede to the demands of the Church. Henry will have his way.<br />It is hard to imagine the toll these difficult years would have on the major players, particularly Catherine of Aragon and Anne Boleyn. Once Henry cuts himself free of Rome, all the other queens represent his constant quest for a male heir, as well as attaining personal happiness. Whatever small happiness he does achieve with each new queen is successively more short-lived, as he moves inexorably toward old age.<br />The detail is staggering and one can only imagine the unremitting dedication necessary for Henry to reach his ultimate goal. An essential element of the Great Divorce lies in the position of the Church; Henry is caught between two women in a world dictated by religious dogma.<br />Starkey has compiled a remarkable amount of information in this weighty tome, rebuilding the machinations behind the marriage to Catherine of Aragon, which pales in comparison to the energy invested in the Great Divorce. Although Boleyn is one of the architects of the establishment of Protestantism as the state religion, the other queens embody various religious or moral attitudes, especially the radical Ann of Cleves. All in all, this is a fascinating portrait of one of the best known English kings, his desire for happiness and his determination to control his own destiny and that of England. Luan Gaines/2004.remarkable amount of information in this weighty tome, rebuilding the machinations behind the marriage to Catherine of Aragon, which pales in comparison to the energy invested in the Great Divorce. Although Boleyn is one of the architects of the establishment of Protestantism as the state religion, the other queens embody various religious or moral attitudes, especially the radical Ann of Cleves. All in all, this is a fascinating portrait of one of the best known English kings, his desire for happiness and his determination to control his own destiny and that of England. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-04-17
707638:US	51010391	RHN22HJLYPZ5C	0743246071	237333289	The Queen's Fool	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A fool caught in the crux of history	Gregory is well acquainted with the behind-the-scenes machinations of the English royal court of 1553; in this instance, the author addresses the rivalry between Mary and Elizabeth, daughters of Henry VIII, heirs to Henry's throne after his male heir, King Edward, dies. Here the author adds a unique character, a young converso (a Jewish convert to the Christian faith) gifted with the \\"Sight\\", Hannah Green. Using the Queen's fool as a vehicle for the story serves two purposes: the author is able to delve into the complex relationship between the royal sisters, especially during this most difficult period of their relationship, also illustrating the harried lives of the Jews during years of intense religious persecution.<br />Hiding behind a Christian faade, Hannah is adept at concealing her religion and the traditional practices that continue in spite of persecution. Hannah is betrothed, but helplessly drawn to the royal court, in thrall to the pure-hearted Mary and the clever Elizabeth. Her gift of sight has compelled Hannah to stay at court to ease Mary's journey through a difficult reign.<br />The virulently Catholic, half-Spanish daughter of Catherine of Aragon, Mary is determined, almost beyond reason, to restore her English subjects to the true religion of her mother. At the same time, Elizabeth, daughter of the beheaded Anne Boleyn, incessantly plots to usurp Mary's throne. Mary has devoted herself to the well being of her younger half-sister, but now they are thrown into an adversarial situation, each fighting to control of the spiritual future of England. Queen Mary's marriage contract with King Phillip of Spain causes turmoil in the kingdom, her loyal citizens unwilling to be ruled by a Spanish King. Once married, the royal couple brings the scourge of the Inquisition to England, but it is Mary's inability to bear a child that threatens her hold on the throne.<br />Hannah has come to the royal court as a \\"wise\\" fool, but also as a spy for Sir Robert Dudley, an avowed traitor, who plots assiduously for Elizabeth's accession to the throne. It is Hannah's misfortune to fall hopelessly in love with the handsome Dudley, unable to refuse his bidding for all her years at court. Her senses permeated by the smell of burning flesh and the desperate flight from Spain, Hannah is in an untenable situation, living in constant terror. Her allegiance to Mary unassailable, Hannah refuses to abandon the suffering Queen, as Elizabeth's following grows daily, supported by Dudley. Hannah's challenge is whether to return to her family and marry or live at risk in Mary's court.  Her decision puts her whole family in jeopardy as the flames of religious fervor burn brightly.<br />In this cleverly crafted scenario, Mary and Elizabeth wrestle for England, in the great clash of religious beliefs begun by Henry's break with Rome. The Catholic Queen and the Protestant Princess, cast in much the same roles as Catherine of Aragon and Anne Boleyn, are equally obsessed. In a new twist to a familiar saga, Mary teeters precariously on the throne, Elizabeth schemes with Dudley and Hannah remains torn by her allegiance to both. The daughters of the infamous Henry VIII battle for ascendancy, silhouetted against religious persecution and the terrible shadow of the Inquisition. Luan Gaines/2004.y, an avowed traitor, who plots assiduously for Elizabeth's accession to the throne. It is Hannah's misfortune to fall hopelessly in love with the handsome Dudley, unable to refuse his bidding for all her years at court. Her senses permeated by the smell of burning flesh and the desperate flight from Spain, Hannah is in an untenable situation, living in constant terror. Her allegiance to Mary unassailable, Hannah refuses to abandon the suffering Queen, as Elizabeth's following grows daily, supported by Dudley. Hannah's challenge is whether to return to her family and marry or live at risk in Mary's court.  Her decision puts her whole family in jeopardy as the flames of religious fervor burn brightly. <br />In this cleverly crafted scenario, Mary and Elizabeth wrestle for England, in the great clash of religious beliefs begun by Henry's break with Rome. The Catholic Queen and the Protestant Princess, cast in much the same roles as Catherine of Aragon and Anne Boleyn, are equally obsessed. In a new twist to a familiar saga, Mary teeters precariously on the throne, Elizabeth schemes with Dudley and Hannah remains torn by her allegiance to both. The daughters of the infamous Henry VIII battle for ascendancy, silhouetted against religious persecution and the terrible shadow of the Inquisition. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-04-13
708893:US	51010391	RQCBF5OGEXXM7	0393324834	331807395	The Hazards of Good Breeding: A Novel	Books	3	7	11	N	N	(3.5)Behind the faade of a family in transition	In The Hazards of Good Breeding, a pithy social commentary, it is the rigid social structure of their ancestors that defines the Dunlap's approach to the future, in a distinctly American fashion as the characters and plot are set into a story that recognizes the inherent humor of the human condition. During one fast moving week in Boston, the Dunlap family is on a collision course with a steadily evolving world. Against a background of American history and family tradition, where \\"all the comforts and grace of good fortune...lie in decaying abundance\\", the Dunlap's have failed to acknowledge the enormous changes that have touched their family, redefining roles and expectations.<br /> The eldest Dunlap boys are grown, but the two remaining children are caught in the intimate family dynamic, post-college Caroline and pre-boarding school Eliot. Their confusion about their parent's activities leads each to precipitous actions, particularly Eliot.<br />Eliot is a sensitive, compassionate young man who misses his mother, who lives in New York, and his babysitter, who has been conspicuously absent for the last six months. Eliot's mother, Faith, crumbling beneath the weight of her failed 22-year marriage, leaves Eliot in the care of his distant, awkward father in their historical home. During this one fateful week, Jack has a moment of revelation, reflecting on the texture of a constantly changing world.<br />While Caroline Dunlap circles the men in her family, alternately serving in her mother's place and ruminating on her own future, a handsome filmmaker falls into her life to further complicate matters. Faith, the ex-wife, is reawakening after long months of emotional confusion, tentatively reaching out to her children, prompted by their needs and her motherly intuition. But the babysitter, Rosita, is the anomaly in this family dynamic, her absence a catalyst for Eliot's fantasies and Jack's mid-life angst.<br />In spite of the Dunlap's historical heritage, this family is like most others, one foot stuck in yesterday, yet drawn into the vortex of a rapidly changing future. Through a series of events, the family moves towards rapprochement, albeit in unexpected ways, as their world shifts subtly, reconfigured in a manner that provides for individual needs. It is these characters' very real confusion that renders them accessible, even familiar. In her quirky style, Shattuck looks upon the Dunlaps with kindness and compassion. Luan Gaines/2004.s like most others, one foot stuck in yesterday, yet drawn into the vortex of a rapidly changing future. Through a series of events, the family moves towards rapprochement, albeit in unexpected ways, as their world shifts subtly, reconfigured in a manner that provides for individual needs. It is these characters' very real confusion that renders them accessible, even familiar. In her quirky style, Shattuck looks upon the Dunlaps with kindness and compassion. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-04-13
723619:US	51010391	R1PJCYFZP0WS6I	1400041147	873250864	The Dew Breaker	Books	4	30	31	N	N	A legacy of horror	Throughout The Dew Breaker, evil prevails in all its manifestations, particularly in the guise of authority, demanding homage from the persecuted. This novel is beautifully constructed; characters fall into place within the chapters, the infinite connections that bind one life to another clearly drawn. In each facet of her story, the author builds the momentum in this cautionary tale of horror, love, rebelliousness and hope, touched with myth and memory.<br />As the novel begins, a young woman gazes upon her father with eyes of love, unaware of his past. Finally confessing his carefully hidden secret, he is revealed as deeply flawed, his actions virtually unforgivable. The scar he wears on his face carries a terrible history, his life in America built on deception. In his mouth the truth is a lie.  Although the father pardons himself, there are many who damn him for the monster of their nightmares.<br />Weaving through the chapters, we learn of those who have been touched by brutal dictatorship and oppression, where unmarried women bear fatherless children, eking out the most basic existence. Haiti, an island paradise, turns into hell under a despot's reign of terror, freedom a vague dream, while the hungry scratch for garbage, all under a starlit sky of infinite beauty. Even when these characters find a different life in America, they carry the indelible scars of Haiti in their hearts.<br />This passionate novel is an assemblage of powerful interrelated stories; here a chorus of voices hums, the heard and the unheard, the \\"disappeared\\", the unborn, the women whose voice boxes have been surgically removed, the desperate murmur of prayers, the eternal silence of the dead and the staccato of random gunfire. There is a staggering contrast between good and evil in The Dew Breaker, as well as the grinding reality of a world made suddenly transcendent in the bright rays of the morning sun. Horrifying, how evil walks so freely through the world, casually touching its victims, then casually strolling into the quiet evening and a peaceful existence, unexposed and unrelenting. Luan Gaines/2004.ms, then casually strolling into the quiet evening and a peaceful existence, unexposed and unrelenting. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-04-01
724948:US	51010391	R1MVZXWP2SY7DM	0393057852	605612865	Dear Mrs. Lindbergh	Books	3	2	3	N	N	(3.5)A love affair with the sky	One Thanksgiving weekend, when octogenarian Ruth and Henry Gutterson fail to return home from visiting their adult children for the holiday, siblings John and Margaret grow alarmed. Their parents have always been as predictable as the weather. Suddenly, they're missing. With no sign of foul play, it dawns on the brother and sister, finally, that their elderly parents may have run away.<br />But the heart of Dear Mrs. Lindbergh, takes a step back in time, to early twentieth-century Iowa, where the quiet rhythms of rural farms dictate the days of families that make their living from the soil. Just after World War II, an airplane flies out of the sky and into Ruth's life, landing on the patch of ground where the corn will grow. In that moment, Henry Gutterson, an Air Mail pilot, sees Ruth and falls in love. Ruth's farmer-father isn't overjoyed to lose his only child, but he can't begrudge the couple their opportunity for happiness. Ruth's years have been filled with lonely hours, yearning to escape this small confinement of her spirit. Happily, Henry gives her something to dream about.<br />Ruth and Henry live on her father's land, as promised, but Henry never relinquishes his flying. He delivers Air Mail on weekdays, returning home on weekends. During Henry's absences, Ruth begins a lifelong habit: writing letters to people she doesn't really know, pouring out her feelings, hopes and disappointments. The letters are never answered. When the opportunity arises to ride along as Henry's navigator, Ruth is thrilled and falls rapturously in love with flying.<br />When pregnancy grounds the young mother whose heart is in the clouds, the letter writing continues, especially to the wife of Charles Lindbergh, Anne Morrow Lindbergh. Ruth feels a special affinity to the pilot's wife. Lindbergh's wife continues flying even after the birth of her child. Longing for the same freedom, Ruth's letters are full of her wish to fly again. These letters become Ruth's diary, until she stops sending them, although she still writes clandestinely, storing the letters away in the attic.<br />Henry and Ruth, for all their love of flying, are securely grounded in each other and their sense of family. Marriage has taught them about life's painful compromises and the strength of their love finally allows Henry to \\"hear\\" his wife's silent call. Although she is a wonderful, attentive mother, Ruth craves flying, but there is no one to understand, not even Henry. He never knows desperation Ruth feels, fearing she will never fly again.<br />This intimate book is the compassionate tale of a young woman trying to weave a path between her life and her dreams. The author writes with a simplicity that belies the very complex emotions of her characters, especially Ruth. In their pastoral setting, this fated couple exemplifies the quiet beauty and strength of the heartland. Luan Gaines/ 2004.ps sending them, although she still writes clandestinely, storing the letters away in the attic.<br />Henry and Ruth, for all their love of flying, are securely grounded in each other and their sense of family. Marriage has taught them about life's painful compromises and the strength of their love finally allows Henry to \\"hear\\" his wife's silent call. Although she is a wonderful, attentive mother, Ruth craves flying, but there is no one to understand, not even Henry. He never knows desperation Ruth feels, fearing she will never fly again.<br />This intimate book is the compassionate tale of a young woman trying to weave a path between her life and her dreams. The author writes with a simplicity that belies the very complex emotions of her characters, especially Ruth. In their pastoral setting, this fated couple exemplifies the quiet beauty and strength of the heartland. Luan Gaines/ 2004.	2004-03-31
725268:US	51010391	RJ25Z4ZCVRJ8F	0060093609	12469065	The Conquest	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Lost in the drama and passions of the past	Sara Gonzales spends her days at the Getty Museum restoring archived books. Sara loves her work cataloging, repairing and discovering the secrets of the past, all hidden in the pages of ancient manuscripts. Completely immersed in her painstaking translation, Sara's work is a convenient excuse for avoiding a long-term commitment, until finally, her boyfriend breaks up with her and becomes engaged to someone else. This isn't a love story in the strictest sense; rather, it is a woman's journey to her inner self and the resurrection of her hopes, a place where the past offers succor and understanding.<br />Sara has been working on the text of a 16th Century manuscript, supposedly authored by a monk. Sara has doubts about the authenticity of this claim, due to the passionate and emotive language used in the manuscript. Tentatively naming the book \\"The Conquest\\", Sara attributes authorship to a woman she calls Helen. Sara follows Helen's libertine adventures in Spain and Italy and through endless literary salons in Venice. Driven by a desire to revenge her family honor against Charles V and Cortez, Helen goes from intrigue to intrigue, with the aid of a sisterhood of women who guide her through every possible danger.<br />Surrounded by the books she treasures, the language that fills her thoughts and recurring vivid images, Sara entertains memories of her own mother, a vibrant and loving woman who met an untimely death. Navigating a difficult passage through the emotional territory of familial love, forgiveness and self-esteem, Sara prepares to enter the present; even filled with unpredictability, she is willing to take her chances.<br />Mixed with 16th Century mythology and the specter of a religious Inquisition that ravages the land, The Conquest is a nuanced account of the ways love can be a burden or a blessing. The author's lyrical phrasing and historical accuracy enlivens this story of a passionate people overshadowed by the paranoia and hatred of religious intolerance. Scenes are rich with detail, whether in 16th Century Venice or present day L.A., surrounded by priceless artifacts in the Getty Museum, the vast white building containing treasures of the ages. The Conquest is full of light, shadow and the awakening of possibilities. Luan Gaines/2004.nce. Scenes are rich with detail, whether in 16th Century Venice or present day L.A., surrounded by priceless artifacts in the Getty Museum, the vast white building containing treasures of the ages. The Conquest is full of light, shadow and the awakening of possibilities. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-03-31
730119:US	51010391	R3LFI2H3I903F6	0060534605	608237321	The Noise of Infinite Longing: A Memoir of a Family--and an Island	Books	3	9	12	N	N	(3.5)A poignant return to family identity	Upon the sudden death of their mother, six siblings gather in Texas for the funeral, coming together for the first time in fifteen years. As the oldest, Luisita Lopez Torregrosa recounts the family history and their divergent roads to this meeting, an occasion of both unbearable grief and the joy of reconnecting family ties.<br />This is a vibrant memoir of a Puerto Rican family's assimilation into the bland landscape of America; as the nexus of the family, the mother personifies this loss of identity. Yet, Torregrosa, as a journalist, is living in the real world, one of political upheavals, social changes and island dictatorships. In finding her way back into the heart of the family at their mother's death, Torregrosa must acknowledge her own life choices and the emotional distance she herself has imposed upon the family ties.<br />The family bloodlines tied to Spain, the most significant and beautifully described years are those spent in Puerto Rico, where the houses, the foliage and the city are perfectly rendered. These early days pass in a tropical paradise, the children protected by privilege, while the island's economy deteriorates and great numbers of unemployed leave for the distant promise of life in a new world.<br />On the occasion of their mother's death, surrounded by her siblings, it is difficult for Luisita to imagine her socially active mother in this shabby little Texas town, far from the carefree days of her Puerto Rican youth. Yet each child owns a separate vision of her mother, replete with individual memories and the colors and smells of childhood. In Texas, the mother is more ordinary, blending quietly into her surroundings. Viewed through the author's eyes, in Puerto Rico, the mother is a hothouse flower, exotic and passionate, a woman who draws the stares of men and the jealously of women.<br />The dramatic island identity of a family grounded in culture and learning fades like old photographs, as time bleaches the color from the pages of their history. Still, there is no sadness that does not have its genesis is affection, the children influenced profoundly by their mother's love. For Torregrosa, a return to her island roots reawakens an intimate self-knowledge and appreciation for \\"Latin America, and the noise of people who explain their lives on the street...the noise of infinite longing.\\" Luan Gaines/2004.heir history. Still, there is no sadness that does not have its genesis is affection, the children influenced profoundly by their mother's love. For Torregrosa, a return to her island roots reawakens an intimate self-knowledge and appreciation for \\"Latin America, and the noise of people who explain their lives on the street...the noise of infinite longing.\\" Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-03-27
732612:US	51010391	R242RAV7R0UGV1	0060561629	36519057	Anything You Say Can and Will Be Used Against You: Stories	Books	3	5	9	N	N	A compelling ride-along	These related stories of five female officers in Baton Rough, Louisiana, are intense and honest; the author writes with a sharp sense of the physical, her eyes trained to details. Each woman walks through her own personal experience in law enforcement, what this occupation asks from her, what she can give.<br />Story by story, each woman portrays a different phase of police work: one her first killing and how that death stays with her; another dealing with the blunt brutality the job brings into her daily life and the loss of humanity that ensues; yet another balances police instincts against the fallibility we all share. All come face to face with everyday evil, the emotional consequences of constant stress and the difficulties in maintaining family relationships.<br />Precise and honest, Drummond cuts to the bone, fearless in the face of seething emotions. With particular clarity, each story is a vignette of humanity, the meaning of extraordinary careers in law enforcement. Mostly, their choice seems preordained, as these women step boldly into what is considered a man's world. Part fiction, part memoir, part autobiography, these stories are vivid and compelling.<br />There is a blunt brutality in the telling of these tales, absolutely nothing frivolous in the prose. The women's work has somehow leached their souls, sucking out the softness of their femininity. Perhaps it is the unrelenting violence of the job, the soul-deadening, dangerous inhumanity that fills their days. Through the talents of this author, we view these women as separate identities, each portraying a different facet of their work; yet all are products of the writer's creativity. These characters are deeply troubled, heroic and flawed, just like everyone else. Except that these women put on a uniform and walk hand in hand with life and death, dedicated to a profession that offers few rewards in the end. Surely, this is a special calling, audible to those few brave souls who choose this field. Luan Gaines/2004.an Gaines/2004.	2004-03-25
732618:US	51010391	R2MC791RQO7V6H	0385502869	167034431	The Princes of Ireland: The Dublin Saga (Rutherfurd, Edward)	Books	3	12	15	N	N	(3.5)A saga of Ireland: mystery and myth	The first of two parts of The Princes of Ireland, The Dublin Saga is a tale so rich that its characters come to life on the pages: nobles, ladies, merchants, thieves and a saint. Using the same successful format as he did in London and Sarum, Rutherfurd begins the evolution of Ireland in A.D. 450.  Particular characters illustrate each era as the author draws a line through the pages of history, from one generation to the next, in this familial panorama. Most marked of the events is the British invasion of Ireland, in small increments over many years, until the Kings of Ireland finally incur the wrath of Henry VIII. Rutherfurd's is a fascinating approach, giving the reader a timely point of reference as the various tribes survive each other and the march of progress.<br />From A.D. 450 to the dawn of the Renaissance, Rutherfurd highlights specific events in the continuum of time: the arrival of St. Patrick (and early Christianity), the first landing of the Vikings, the long and important reign of Brian Boru, King Henry II's arrival in 1171 and finally, the hanging of Silken Thomas by King Henry VIII. All of the stories are central to Dublin, as the city alters itself to meet the emerging needs of a diverse population and the various pronunciations that occur with the changing dialects.<br />Dublin's earliest years are beautifully pristine, the land barely touched by humanity; albeit with gigantic monuments to the ancient gods of the druids. In the first chapter, a fated couple is captive to the will of the gods, as expressed by the druids, gods who often require human sacrifice for their appeasement. Thirty years later, Saint Patrick brings the Christian faith to the pagans, spreading Christian dogma, converting the faithful and offering freedom from the brutal blood sacrifices. Once the English invade Ireland, their feudal system is linked to a more European form of governance, including the domination of the Church, increasingly sophisticated laws and the advanced skills of craftsmen.<br />The finished product of well-written historical fiction gives context to the dates that mark the seminal events of civilization. Rutherfurd's skill shows in his characters, which meld so perfectly into their historical perspectives that it is possible to imagine life in such distant eras. The challenges, battles won and lost, the changing religious beliefs and the generations that populate this novel, offer a unique perspective of time and place. Luan Gaines/2004.d skills of craftsmen.<br />The finished product of well-written historical fiction gives context to the dates that mark the seminal events of civilization. Rutherfurd's skill shows in his characters, which meld so perfectly into their historical perspectives that it is possible to imagine life in such distant eras. The challenges, battles won and lost, the changing religious beliefs and the generations that populate this novel, offer a unique perspective of time and place. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-03-25
738231:US	51010391	R316YV6PMUYHS8	0151010102	392037808	Kartography	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Love in times of chaos	Children of destiny, Karim and Raheen grow up in the shadow of their parent's convoluted relationship. The parents have switched fianc&eacute;s at the last minute, a fact that becomes part of family mythology. However, the swap has more serious implications, occurring during a period of civil unrest in Pakistan in the 1970's, where the upper class citizens of Karachi cannot escape the reach of the troubles. A decade later, still affected by the civil chaos that threatens the city, Karim's parents leave Karachi for London, where they eventually get divorced. Raheen loses her alter ego and best friend, writing only sporadically over the years.<br />Later, when Karim returns to Karachi, the two meet again, but their once easy relationship has become complicated by distance and family secrets. Neither can unravel the emotional knots created during the years they were separated. Raheen's nature is to cling desperately to her childhood memories, savoring the closeness she enjoyed with her best friend, although she is definitely in love with him. Karim has evolved into a principled man, a cartographer, whose world is defined in black and white, in absolutes.<br />Karim has long known the family secret; because of this, he judges Raheen for her complicity, although she has no knowledge of the event that occurred before they were born. In the bright idealism of youth, Karim's judgment comes easily, albeit flawed by his ignorance. Karim and Raheen have difficulty managing the complications of love, friendship and polarizing politics, their emotions as entangled as the love of their parents; only when they embrace the decisions faced by their parents can the young couple overcome their lack of communication.<br />This upper class Pakistani slice-of-life is set against a background of recurring civil war, beautifully illustrating the unbreakable bonds of love and friendship, made more durable by friendship. Shamsie's engaging prose evokes the warmth and acceptance of family, as the author connects politics with the everyday lives of the citizens of Karachi. Eventually, affluence is insufficient protection from the random violence of war and personal possessions cannot isolate these families from tragedy.<br />This is indeed a love story between a boy and a girl, but also an inter-generational one, where compassion defines the quality of family relationships. The extraordinary friendship of the parents, even with its inherent problems, teaches their children about the fragility of the human heart and the catharsis of forgiveness. Luan Gaines/2004.uthor connects politics with the everyday lives of the citizens of Karachi. Eventually, affluence is insufficient protection from the random violence of war and personal possessions cannot isolate these families from tragedy. <br />This is indeed a love story between a boy and a girl, but also an inter-generational one, where compassion defines the quality of family relationships. The extraordinary friendship of the parents, even with its inherent problems, teaches their children about the fragility of the human heart and the catharsis of forgiveness. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-03-20
738301:US	51010391	R35R485PU10J8E	037541505X	98602710	Abandon: A Romance	Books	2	10	11	N	N	Much ado about nothing	John Macmillan is a scholar, writing his thesis on Sufi poetry, in particular the Islamic mystic Rumi, at UC Santa Barbara. The thesis must be completed before his return to England, but the work is proceeding well for this dedicated scholar, who travels at the behest of his thesis advisor.<br />Just returning from India, John is caught in the web of intrigue surrounding Camilla Jensen, a young woman of contradictory traits, whom he meets when delivering a package to her. He is romantically involved with a woman in London, but chooses to ignore this reality as he spends more time with Camilla. The insipid Camilla is more the product of a male-dominated culture than the author's \\"New-Age\\" description indicates. Her behavior both attracts and repels Macmillan. Against his better judgment, he is drawn to Camilla's fragile unpredictability and the glimpses of passion she exhibits. In point of fact, she is dependent, childish and singularly unattractive. The romance is hopelessly pedestrian.<br />Iyer writes with confidence about foreign countries, Islam, Rumi and the shadowy Sufis as Macmillan does Professor Sefhadi's bidding; the professor is, after all, his mentor and necessary to the completion of the thesis. At the professor's request, Macmillan travels to India, Spain and Iran, where he has conversations about manuscripts that may or may not be in circulation. Yet everything in this book is vague, indirect; conversations are purposefully ambiguous, correspondence filled with inconsistencies, as though Macmillan thrives on misdirection. I find myself discomfited, as though I can't trust the author to be truthful. The relationship between Camilla and John may serve as a metaphor for Macmillan's search for the essence of Sufism, the letting go of self, \\"being\\" the experience. But it is unclear whether Macmillan is the professor's pawn, Camilla's fool or a man more comfortable with mystery than with answers.<br />Altough not as impressive as the ubiquitous Rumi, common usage would suggest that \\"water seeks its own level\\". Simple, perhaps, but in this case, appropriate. Sacrificing himself on the altar of dysfunction, Macmillan is not grasping Heaven with his new lover; rather he is dancing merrily along the precipice of Hell. Luan Gaines/2004.n usage would suggest that \\"water seeks its own level\\". Simple, perhaps, but in this case, appropriate. Sacrificing himself on the altar of dysfunction, Macmillan is not grasping Heaven with his new lover; rather he is dancing merrily along the precipice of Hell. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-03-20
749086:US	51010391	R1F2KABDDTE22J	1400060737	595261029	The Birth of Venus	Books	5	11	16	N	N	"At play in the field's of the Lord..."	Dunant's first historical novel is exquisitely detailed, the 15th Century bursting with life, as the blooming adolescent Alessandra Cecchi considers the future in a society enjoying a great artistic renaissance. Her innocence is yet untried; the serpent still lies sleeping in the garden. In pre-Savonarloa Florence, marriage is the most likely option for Alessandra, yet she secretly cherishes the idea of being a painter.The beauty of art abounds, all in the glory of God, as artists are commissioned to paint chapels throughout the city. The world of Florence is alight with creation.<br />It is a difficult time to be an intelligent, vibrant young woman stimulated by the lush art and the luxury of the Medici court. When Alessandra's father, a wealthy cloth merchant, brings a young artist into the household to adorn the walls of the family chapel, she is drawn to the mysterious young man, romantic fantasies mixed with the intoxication of paint. But Alessandra is born to honor the marriage her father arranges. Whatever her dreams, they must remain only dreams.<br />Upon the death of Lorenzo de' Medici, the monk Savonarola rises to unprecedented power. Savonarola, contemptuous of the corruption in Florence, is determined to wrest Satan from the corrupt heart of the city. The Church, wallowing in its excesses, is thrown into turmoil by the monk's intimate visions of hell. The faithful are suddenly humbled, fearful of the ranting of an ascetic whose power spreads throughout the city. In his world, women are defiled by their very nature with the decadence of Eve. Citizens turn upon each other, accusing others freely of fornication and sodomy, exposing their neighbors to the ultimate wrath of God's judgment, decrying \\"the power of art to undermine the purity of faith.\\"<br />Savonarola transforms the intellectual and artistic grandeur of Florence into The New Jerusalem. The now-pious Florentines are tested on all sides, struck by draught, the \\"French disease\\" and a recurrence of the Plague. To lift their weary and troubled spirits, the monk arranges a distraction for the masses, a \\"Bonfire of the Vanities\\", where the faithful can divest themselves of their worldly treasures. Florence is changed from beauty to self-effacing dullness and the Borgia Pope is affronted by the accusations of the monk. The two men of God prepare for a struggle of biblical proportions that will spell the end of the Savonarola's rule of fear.<br />In response to rapidly deteriorating circumstances, Alessandra marries an older man, as much for his sake as for her own, as the city turns upon itself, searching out sinners, fornicators and sodomites. Marriage affords her some of the freedoms formerly unavailable in her childhood home, although her beloved city has shriveled into a bland shadow of its former self.<br />Eventually, Alessandra inhabits a world within a world, one where her secrets are protected. Marriage has awakened the young woman, now a mother, to reality, as her childishness disappears along with its foolish pretensions, replaced by womanly yearnings. In these tumultuous times, this extraordinary young woman, with the soul of an artist, discovers the meaning of love, the nature of seduction and the pursuit of the spiritual life. Alessandra's venue is the eroticism of womanhood, where she keeps her own counsel, nourished by her inner life, a true child of the Medici's Florence.<br />This author's interpretation of history has no use for predictability, although precise and accurate. Indeed, it is the exuberant joy of this imagination that paints page after page with a great visual feast, \\"a single voice lost in a chorus of others\\". Luan Gaines/2004.of the Plague. To lift their weary and troubled spirits, the monk arranges a distraction for the masses, a \\"Bonfire of the Vanities\\", where the faithful can divest themselves of their worldly treasures. Florence is changed from beauty to self-effacing dullness and the Borgia Pope is affronted by the accusations of the monk. The two men of God prepare for a struggle of biblical proportions that will spell the end of the Savonarola's rule of fear.<br />In response to rapidly deteriorating circumstances, Alessandra marries an older man, as much for his sake as for her own, as the city turns upon itself, searching out sinners, fornicators and sodomites. Marriage affords her some of the freedoms formerly unavailable in her childhood home, although her beloved city has shriveled into a bland shadow of its former self.<br />Eventually, Alessandra inhabits a world within a world, one where her secrets are protected. Marriage has awakened the young woman, now a mother, to reality, as her childishness disappears along with its foolish pretensions, replaced by womanly yearnings. In these tumultuous times, this extraordinary young woman, with the soul of an artist, discovers the meaning of love, the nature of seduction and the pursuit of the spiritual life. Alessandra's venue is the eroticism of womanhood, where she keeps her own counsel, nourished by her inner life, a true child of the Medici's Florence.<br />This author's interpretation of history has no use for predictability, although precise and accurate. Indeed, it is the exuberant joy of this imagination that paints page after page with a great visual feast, \\"a single voice lost in a chorus of others\\". Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-03-12
756515:US	51010391	R3JVDONMJ7YM4T	0151010323	542736305	Don't Look Back (Inspector Sejer Mysteries)	Books	4	13	16	N	N	(4.5) An exciting new author for American audiences	In the 5th of a popular Norwegian mystery series, now translated for American audiences, Don't Look Back retains all the character, names and places of its geography. Fossum introduces the compassionate Inspector Sejer, who propels the story and defines its emotional tone with Hitchcockian psychological twists and turns. A six-year-old child disappears and her parents fear the worst, then she suddenly returns home. A short while later, a teenaged girl is found murdered on a mountain path, her naked body thoughtfully covered with a jacket. The teenager's shocking death has unnerved all the residents, but there is an appalling paucity of clues for the inspector to work with on this puzzling case.<br />Charged with solving the murder in the picturesque setting below the Kollen Mountains, the gray-haired inspector Sejer pursues all leads, peeling away the faade of this idyllic village. Sejer is the backbone of the story, unobtrusive yet authoritative, skillfully unraveling the tragedy. The first suspect is the teenager's on-and-off again boyfriend, who has lived through a childhood so nightmarish that he barely survives, only to find himself first on the list of possible assailants. Next the inspector and his assistant, Jacob Skarre, interrogate the residents of each house on the street where the girl lived, gently probing into their routines, their familiarity with the deceased and their alibis for the time of the murder. Gradually the placid exterior of the village peels away, leaving a variety of dysfunctional households exposed along with an alarming number of plausible suspects.<br />The small Norwegian town that is the scene of the senseless murder is the same as Anywhere, USA, a simple, pastoral life surrounded by the beauty of nature. Inspector Sejer's talent lies in probing beneath the surface of everyday motives, where the average person is driven to intolerable limits; he understands the nature of evil, how rage and stupidity can overcome reason. Sifting through the most remote possibilities, his detective's instincts lead Sejer unerringly to the core of the mystery, compounding the tragedy of the young woman's death with profound injury to another victim of a blind system.<br />By turns more intricate, revealing and frightening, the story line is never predictable and often shocking. Mundane daily actions are suddenly suspect and one neighbor's inconsequential memory unlocks the whole chain of events. Certainly, Fossum has found her m&eacute;tier, structuring her characters with such deft strokes as to change innocence to threat in a heartbeat. The intricacies of human nature provide the grist for this tale, deep psychological chasms opened up by intolerable emotions that eventually explode into action. Inspector Sejer guides the uninitiated through a morass of possibilities, staring into the black heart of the criminal act that changes man to monster. Luan Gaines/2004.rough the most remote possibilities, his detective's instincts lead Sejer unerringly to the core of the mystery, compounding the tragedy of the young woman's death with profound injury to another victim of a blind system.<br />By turns more intricate, revealing and frightening, the story line is never predictable and often shocking. Mundane daily actions are suddenly suspect and one neighbor's inconsequential memory unlocks the whole chain of events. Certainly, Fossum has found her mtier, structuring her characters with such deft strokes as to change innocence to threat in a heartbeat. The intricacies of human nature provide the grist for this tale, deep psychological chasms opened up by intolerable emotions that eventually explode into action. Inspector Sejer guides the uninitiated through a morass of possibilities, staring into the black heart of the criminal act that changes man to monster. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-03-06
757086:US	51010391	R2DTDKD56LID2Q	0393057925	874844713	Breaking the Tongue: A Novel (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	A profound and brilliant tale of pre-Occupation Sinapore	Beginning the demise of the British Empire in India, Japan is on the cusp of the occupation of England's crown jewel, Singapore, weeks away from military success. Preceding the occupation, the m&eacute;lange of cultures adapt a number of postures for dealing with the impending tragedy, some taking their clues from the British, a common, but in this case, deadly mistake. Meanwhile, the countryside is rife with spies and fifth columnists, in particular, one Patrick Heenan, who heinously betrays his country to the waiting Japanese forces.<br />Claude Lim is an unfortunate young Chinese man, simply because he is the victim of his father, Humphrey Lim's, obsession with all things British. The family speaks only English and Claude exists in a multi-cultural society, without the ability to comprehend his own culture, let alone those that surround him. In this vacuum, Claude and his family fail to comprehend the urgency of their situation.<br />When Claude's father volunteered his services to Jack Winchester, a Brit, to show him the local sights and act as his guide, Claude acquiesces, as usual. Later, the political situation becomes more dangerous and Claude's family flees to the country, but the young man remains behind. Claude's \\"new best friend\\", Jack Winchester misses his flight out and travels to the Lim's home, where Claude is enjoying his first experience of independence. Polite to a fault, Claude welcomes Jack into his home, sharing what provisions he has assembled. When the bombing increases, growing closer, the residence is too dangerous to remain. Gathering their few provisions, Claude and Jack move to a small hut that belongs to a Lim family servant who has returned to China. While there, Jack becomes deathly ill. Cast in the role of caretaker, Claude is ineffectual as Jack's nurse and is forced to seek medical aid for the Englishman. Help comes in the form of Han Ling-li, a nationalist nurse working as a spy for the British.<br />As circumstances evolve, the three are thrown together more often, eventually forced to shelter in the clinic where Ling-li works during the day, offering emergency medical services to the desperate crowds who line up outside. Encased in his English-only world, Claude is ignorant of the social and psychological complexities of their arrangement and Jack is dependent on Claude and Ling-li's care for survival. Subconsciously, Jack feels guilty for his country's racist mentality, but maintains his habitual air of superiority, although in England he had few prospects, an office clerk. For her part, Ling-li tolerates both of them, but barely, arrogantly dismissive of the foolish Claude and passionately worried about the future of her country. Isolated with his thoughts, Claude endures constant discomfort in the company of the entitled Englishman and the nurse, his painful shyness a silent burden. Grudgingly Ling-li accepts the young man's lack of pretension, finally acknowledging his innately generous spirit as he works diligently beside her in the clinic<br />The path of war is inexorable. The British have detailed intelligence of the impending invasion, but with their usual hubris, refuse to acknowledge its significance, underestimating the enemy and leaving those who remain behind to suffer the wrath of their conquerors. Because of his association with Ling-li, Claude is taken prisoner by the Japanese and brutally tortured; much is clarified as he drifts in and out of consciousness in this perilous situation. The victim of his father's Anglophile pretensions, Claude is an incompetent witness who cannot tell his Japanese interrogators what he has heard. In spite of the chaos and confusion of those last days, Claude is spiritually renewed by his association with Ling-li, challenged to look into the face of evil, release his childish distortions of reality and become Chinese, honoring the color of his skin instead of despising and degrading it in the way he lives.<br />Breaking the Tongue is shocking, excruciating and fierce, an exquisite blend of impressions from agony to awakening. The novel is brilliantly written, its form as fragmented as the Asians, Eurasians and British expatriates it renders so incisively, a world of moral ambiguity, the hum of languages filling the air in a rising babble of panic.  Loh writes with savage intensity. This powerful clash of race and class is a work of unflinching courage, random violence, loss of dignity and the few precious moments of humanity. Luan Gaines/2004.ruciating and fierce, an exquisite blend of impressions from agony to awakening. The novel is brilliantly written, its form as fragmented as the Asians, Eurasians and British expatriates it renders so incisively, a world of moral ambiguity, the hum of languages filling the air in a rising babble of panic.  Loh writes with savage intensity. This powerful clash of race and class is a work of unflinching courage, random violence, loss of dignity and the few precious moments of humanity. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-03-06
761284:US	51010391	RO1WJK18UZGNZ	0670032689	313659840	Marrying Mozart: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	N	(4.5)The marriage of love and genius	As a youth, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is acknowledged as a genius, but lasting fame is another question, as well as financial security. Mozart endures years of borderline poverty, while he struggles to find recognition for his work and maintain a decent living. In retrospect, the female roles featured in his operas have impressive depth, as Marrying Mozart suggests, due to the enduring friendship of four musical sisters, Josefa, Aloysia, Contanze and Sophie Weber.<br />Mozart is introduced to the Weber sisters in Mannheim in 1777, at one of their father?s Thursday evening musical salons. I his element, Mozart blossoms in the musical environment of the Weber?s, to the extent that he becomes engaged to one of the sisters.  Fortune intervenes and Mozart?s mother persuades him by to address family obligations, forfeiting a singing tour with Josefa and Aloysia. He also delays his betrothal, traveling to Paris in pursuit of opportunity. Both Frau Weber and Frau Mozart have very specific plans for their offspring, tying the family fortunes to the youngster?s success.<br />Tragedy strikes both families, leaving them in considerable financial jeopardy.<br />Grieving over the loss of his mother, Mozart returns to the bosom of the also bereaved Weber family, who moved from Mannheim to Munich. In turn, the girls have lost their beloved father, the aficionado of the musical Thursday evenings who loved each of his daughters deeply. Forced by ever-worsening circumstances to return to Salzburg, Mozart takes a position with his father?s employer, a soul-numbing experience with no hope of career advancement. Unable to stifle his creativity, however, the musical prodigy leaves that position and heads for Vienna, hub of the European musical community.<br />During Mozart?s absence, everything has changed. His marriage troth broken, Mozart is unable to achieve commercial success or provide for his family and his dreams seem all but impossible. But driven by genius, Mozart composes obsessively. The lives of the Weber girls have fragmented, as well. Only Aloysia is working, a paid singing position in Vienna, although Josefa plays minor parts in the productions. For her own financial security, Frau Weber establishes a boarding house, ruling the lives of the younger sisters with her incessant complaining and ongoing marital schemes. The girls are desperately unhappy, longing to break free from this emotional domination.<br />This exquisite novel is a joy to read, rich with historical detail. Each girl?s goals, aspirations and frustrations are fully realized, as each vainly attempts to please a mother who will not be satisfied, the mean days of poverty clearly etched on all of them. Yet Mozart is indefatigable in pursuit of career and happiness, ultimately wedding one of the sisters in a satisfying and successful union. As Mozart and the Weber sisters work diligently to survive in an unfriendly world, their lives are enhanced by the warm memories of youthful exuberance, as well as continuing friendships that endure the passage of time. With rich emotional layers, this love story of four girls and one man is a rare pleasure, a peek into a European landscape that birthed a great composer and the women he loved. Luan Gaines/ 2004.y. The lives of the Weber girls have fragmented, as well. Only Aloysia is working, a paid singing position in Vienna, although Josefa plays minor parts in the productions. For her own financial security, Frau Weber establishes a boarding house, ruling the lives of the younger sisters with her incessant complaining and ongoing marital schemes. The girls are desperately unhappy, longing to break free from this emotional domination.<br />This exquisite novel is a joy to read, rich with historical detail. Each girl?s goals, aspirations and frustrations are fully realized, as each vainly attempts to please a mother who will not be satisfied, the mean days of poverty clearly etched on all of them. Yet Mozart is indefatigable in pursuit of career and happiness, ultimately wedding one of the sisters in a satisfying and successful union. As Mozart and the Weber sisters work diligently to survive in an unfriendly world, their lives are enhanced by the warm memories of youthful exuberance, as well as continuing friendships that endure the passage of time. With rich emotional layers, this love story of four girls and one man is a rare pleasure, a peek into a European landscape that birthed a great composer and the women he loved. Luan Gaines/ 2004.	2004-03-03
765726:US	51010391	R16NV1QU4W0P6J	0385510012	398634354	The Swallows of Kabul: A Novel	Books	4	15	16	N	N	(4.5)The disintegration of mens souls	In the wild emptiness of the Afghan countryside, \\"erosion grinds away with complete impunity\\"; this is the land of the Pashtuns. After the Russian invasion, war comes to stay in Afghanistan, filling the skies with death and decay. This terrible episode is followed by the terrorist reign of the Taliban, continuing the brutalization of the Afghani people, rendering the streets of Kabul joyless and unsafe.<br />Grown used to frequent executions under the Taliban, Mohsen Ramat's conscience no longer bothers him. The few women on the streets at any given time are specters, existing at the fringes of the crowd. Ramat and his wife have lost everything, their comfortable home and lifestyle, their freedom to wander through a marketplace that no longer exists.  He wanders the city, while Zunaira stays inside, rather than endure the violence of the streets. Seduced by earlier, happy days, she agrees to walk with her husband. Accosted by the Taliban while on their walk, Zunaira is humiliated beyond endurance, her shame more painful because she understands the enormity of her loss.<br />After the incident, Zunaira looks upon her young husband as the enemy, those who roam the streets with whips, attacking passersby indiscriminately. Mohsen is, like them, a man. Zunaira refuses to remove her burqa inside their house, although her husband begs her, \\"Your face is the only sun I have left.\\" Implacable, Zunaira cannot forgive. When he tries to remove the burqa, she resists and they struggle. Tragedy ensues and Zunaira's fate is sealed by the dictates of the land.<br />Atiq Shaukat, the jailer in charge of guarding prisoners before execution, nurses his own discontent under the deadening rule of the Taliban. Atiq drifts between his dingy office and home. The boredom of his daily life leeches out all feeling and memory, all desire. When Zunaira is brought into the prison, Atiq falls in love. Atiq is so warped by unhappiness that he doesn't realize the agony he is experiencing is love. It falls to his ailing wife to explain the meaning of his strange new emotion.<br />The Swallows of Kabul is a scathing indictment of a world turned to stone, where life has become uninhabitable. With women's compassion extracted from their society, men's hearts have hardened, left with only despair, arrogance and religious extremism. This small book marks a rapid descent from discontent into hell. Like the missing swallows, the bearers of hope are sentenced to endless days of mourning, covered in colors of \\"fever and fear\\". (The author, Mohamed Moulessehoul, an Algerian army officer, used a pseudonym to avoid the oversight of his manuscript by the military censors.) Luan Gaines/2004.. It falls to his ailing wife to explain the meaning of his strange new emotion.<br />The Swallows of Kabul is a scathing indictment of a world turned to stone, where life has become uninhabitable. With women's compassion extracted from their society, men's hearts have hardened, left with only despair, arrogance and religious extremism. This small book marks a rapid descent from discontent into hell. Like the missing swallows, the bearers of hope are sentenced to endless days of mourning, covered in colors of \\"fever and fear\\". (The author, Mohamed Moulessehoul, an Algerian army officer, used a pseudonym to avoid the oversight of his manuscript by the military censors.) Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-02-29
778483:US	51010391	R2GRA4RH6BOB95	0316000647	657855247	Absolute Friends	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Cold War relics boogie on	One of the least likely candidates in recent fiction as a spy, Ted Mundy is past his political prime, has a job he enjoys, a cozy apartment and a Muslim girlfriend. His natural exuberance makes him a perfect tour guide. Out of the blue, Mundy sees a face from his socialist/anarchist past, an \\"old friend\\" from his dissident days in Germany, where he joined a group of political activists. This old friend has no place in Mundy's present.<br />The expatriate son of a former British army officer stationed in India, Mundy drifts through his education and varied employment. He is a spy artifact, but once the Cold War sputters to an end, Mundy is at loose ends, moving from job to job, none of them his m&eacute;tier. He's given all to his other life. However, Mundy has enjoyed female conquests across the globe, a fringe benefit of his activism, so he isn't entirely without charm, although he certainly reads that way. In his current occupation, Mundy appears an unwitting buffoon. But then, what better ruse than the homely appeal of a foolish, prattling man?<br />Mundy is a fragmented man, split into sections to accommodate his various lives: husband and father, part of the British work force and secret double agent. Eventually, Mundy's marriage dissolves and the disappearance of Communism all but annihilates the spy community. With the destruction of the Berlin Wall, the fire is extinguished.<br />In Absolute Friends, Le Carre Lays out the craft of spying, the subtle psychological twists and turns, the fine-tuning, keeping the spy-in-training under control. Each spy undergoes a long period of reprocessing and mental restructuring, giving the extraordinary the appearance of the ordinary. Sasha, the socialist friend of Mundy's earlier days in Germany is the engineer of his introduction into the spy/counterspy culture. Mundy falls into the duplicitous role effortlessly; he takes direction well. In this most recent appearance, Sasha rages about the war in Iraq. One last great battle for the two old friends, one more jolt of action against injustice is proposed, a battle against \\"the enslavement of the global proletariat by corporate military alliances\\".<br />The world of Absolute Friends is surreal, a tale within a tale, easily dismissed as Cold War paranoia. Except that much is known about the inbred spy subculture, the dark underside that began as a war against an unseen enemy and became, over time, a deadly serious game. Le Carre is conversant with this shadow-world, as it keeps reinventing itself to accommodate changing conditions. This novel is as changeable as the culture, as the game changes with the times, impossible to know which side is which. Luan Gaines/2004.r the two old friends, one more jolt of action against injustice is proposed, a battle against \\"the enslavement of the global proletariat by corporate military alliances\\".<br />The world of Absolute Friends is surreal, a tale within a tale, easily dismissed as Cold War paranoia. Except that much is known about the inbred spy subculture, the dark underside that began as a war against an unseen enemy and became, over time, a deadly serious game. Le Carre is conversant with this shadow-world, as it keeps reinventing itself to accommodate changing conditions. This novel is as changeable as the culture, as the game changes with the times, impossible to know which side is which. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-02-19
778568:US	51010391	R1SKV7EGXTZ9I8	0743245423	732518745	Last Car to Elysian Fields: A Dave Robicheaux Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	(3.5)The past collides with the present in New Iberia	Burke's latest Dave Robicheaux novel offers a cast of eccentric characters who thrive in the criminal underbelly of New Orleans and New Iberia Parrish. Officer Robicheaux is in the thick of things, as usual, tracking down the killer of a man who ran a drive-through daiquiri bar, an outraged father whose daughter died in a fiery car crash and the lost trail of a musician-convict, Junior Crudup. A friend of another blues musician, Leadbelly, Crudup's music disappeared with him, somewhere inside the Angola Prison Camps.<br />Since his wife's death, Robicheaux is haunted by the past, happier with his memories than the realities he faces as an officer of the law in New Iberia Parrish. Yet his old sidekick, bail bondsman Clete Purcell, worries that Dave's suppressed rage and grief will erupt at any time, sending him out of control. Of course, Clete is right. Now sober, Robicheaux knows that misplaced anger is a good excuse for a return to the bottle. But Robicheaux is such a popular character in the James Lee Burke novels because is a smart-talking, generally easy-going guy who never takes himself too seriously. Since his wife died, Dave is fighting for a reasonable state of mind and a way back to himself.<br />Stirring up even more trouble for Robicheaux, Burke mixes in Max Boot, a hit man. The cold-blooded killer is hired to knock off a busybody priest; instead, Boot goes after the shadowy criminals intent on earning the bounty on his head. Max is a typical Burke wild card who darts in and out of the plot when least expected.<br />Burke carefully dissects a prison system that uses free labor and demeans the convicts, their lives barely tolerable. Junior Crudup's trail is lost somewhere in the morass of Angola Prison Camp, where he was working on a job for Castille LeJeune, father of one of Dave's old flames. Part of the entitled aristocracy that rubs Robicheaux the wrong way, LeJeune is far from an innocent bystander in Crudup's disappearance.<br />In this Dave Robicheaux novel, Burke embroils people and plot in interesting combinations. The theme and sense of place is familiar, thanks to Robicheaux's character. However, in some ways, this novel is unlike the others, because Robicheaux goes to emotional extremes, unlike his usual behavior in dealing with criminals. Maybe Robicheaux is starting a new phase of his life, once he has dealt with the weight of the world. Luan Gaines/2004.ux novel, Burke embroils people and plot in interesting combinations. The theme and sense of place is familiar, thanks to Robicheaux's character. However, in some ways, this novel is unlike the others, because Robicheaux goes to emotional extremes, unlike his usual behavior in dealing with criminals. Maybe Robicheaux is starting a new phase of his life, once he has dealt with the weight of the world. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-02-19
784067:US	51010391	RSNQ6XDEK3G8P	1584652918	410298785	The Romance of Eleanor Gray (Hardscrabble BooksFiction of New England)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Youthful indiscretion meets obsession	Set in 1910 Massachusetts, a 20-year-old schoolteacher comes to a picturesque New England town to begin her teaching career. Behavior is strictly proscribed, indicative of the moral constraints of the time. Eleanor Gray takes up residence in Alice Harrison's boarding house, peopled with eclectic, proper individuals, warmly welcomed by her fellow boarders.<br />Accidentally overhearing a heated discussion between a male and a female outside her door, Eleanor crosses to the window, where she observes a young woman leaving the house. Eleanor is struck by the presence and beauty, the corn-silk hair and translucent skin of Evangeline Sewell, a ward of the town for many years; it is whispered that Evangeline is pregnant.<br />With the typical unrestrained romanticism of the era, Evangeline is constantly in Eleanor's thoughts, as she builds Evangeline's plight into mythic proportions. As a teacher, Gray feels that she \\"has a moral right to project herself into situations where other persons might be loathe to go.\\" Characteristic of the post-Victorian era and her own obscure reasoning, Eleanor develops an obsession with all things concerning Evangeline, writing to the girl to offer her friendship and unconditional support.<br />When Evangeline dramatically returns to the town, her intentions are unclear, but Gray has become an ardent supporter.  The schoolteacher has a number of friends in the town, all of them supportive, particularly the men. When there is a conflict between Gray's \\"love\\" for the sixteen-year-old Evangeline and her standing as a schoolteacher and accepted member of the community, Eleanor makes her choice based purely on an excess of emotion and romanticized notions, regardless of the consequences.<br />Technically precise, Kennedy's writing is as pristine as the New England countryside, replete with the grandeur of nature. Gray's unfettered imagination is not unusual for the times; in fact, Eleanor Gray is the ideal, a young spinster with an overactive sense of duty and a tendency to stick her nose in someone else's business.<br />There is some suggestion of awakening sexuality and confusion in Gray's runaway feelings for Evangeline, yet the issue is not really addressed. Eleanor's impetuous nature and lack of self-control do not make for an endearing character. The impulsive plunge into Evangeline's affairs is ridiculous, as is the immediate adulation of everyone in the boarding house, so awed by the erudition of a twenty-year-old. The pastoral beauty of the country and the elegant construction of the novel are impressive; I acknowledge the author's skill, but the lack of passion hinders my appreciation of the book. Luan Gaines/2004.nse of duty and a tendency to stick her nose in someone else's business.<br />There is some suggestion of awakening sexuality and confusion in Gray's runaway feelings for Evangeline, yet the issue is not really addressed. Eleanor's impetuous nature and lack of self-control do not make for an endearing character. The impulsive plunge into Evangeline's affairs is ridiculous, as is the immediate adulation of everyone in the boarding house, so awed by the erudition of a twenty-year-old. The pastoral beauty of the country and the elegant construction of the novel are impressive; I acknowledge the author's skill, but the lack of passion hinders my appreciation of the book. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-02-15
784313:US	51010391	R343WE4UCVYSSV	0385509774	585004573	The Rope Eater	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A brave excursion, a cautionary tale	A brave excursion, a cautionary tale<br />In the mid-1860's, young Brendan Kane finds the prospect of soldiering in the Civil War more appealing than life in his staid New England home. An only child seduced by war's false glamour, Brendan is quickly awakened to reality, revolted by the human carnage around him. Deserting one dark night, Kane flees to New York, where he blends into the roving mob of the Draft Riots, carried along by random violence.<br />Coming to his senses and unharmed, Brendan joins an Arctic voyage of indeterminate length on the Narthex, a reprobate whaler currently loading crew and provisions in port; signing on for the voyage is the most fateful decision of Kane's young life. His fellow crewmembers are an odd an assortment, men without place or means, who seize on the opportunity for adventure and the luxury of three meals a day. The men are unsure of the goal of their journey, patiently enduring until the owner of the expedition, Mr. West, confides that they are seeking \\" a paradise in the heart of the Arctic\\" where they will make their fortune, a virtual Garden of Eden suggested in the pages of West's family journal.<br />The oddest member of the group is Dr. Architeuthis, a physician-scientist who believes himself a man of the future, methodically testing the conditions that may affect the direction of the voyage, capturing samples in glass vials. The doctor likes young Kane, frequently using him as his assistant; for his part, Kane is most attracted to the exotic Aziz, a three-handed Arab who keeps below deck, stoking the boiler. Huddled for warmth with Aziz, Kane learns the story of the man's birth and why he has three hands. Aziz describes a barren village twisted by poverty, whose members are given an opportunity to enrich their lives. Of all the tales of the villagers, that of The Rope Eater best describes the astonishing inhumanity to which the village falls prey.<br />In the spirit of the day, the men endure the unremitting violence of the weather through the light-filled Arctic summer and blackest winter. Held captive by huge blocks of ice, the men become \\"a population of loss\\", who \\"in our lethargy... had only the energy to covet and loathe\\". The temperature drops to 49 degrees below 0. As nature exacts her deadly toll on the Narthex and her crew, a few, including Kane and the doctor, forge ahead to find their arctic Eden somewhere within the rigid ice floes. Even the doctor's relentless calculations cease to make sense and Kane finds reason to doubt the veracity of their quest, when \\"believing that this easy complexity can pass for vision\\" may simply be evidence of man's astonishing hubris.<br />The extraordinary prose is as unforgiving as the elements. Each brutal step of the journey, each spark of humanity is quickly extinguished by the weather's fury; yet it is in man's nature to challenge such odds. The author's calculated prose is etched with exacting detail and persuasiveness. Joining the Narthex to the tale of The Rope Eater, Jones enters into the territory of myth, in a story both shocking and compelling. Luan Gaines/2004.e of the weather through the light-filled Arctic summer and blackest winter. Held captive by huge blocks of ice, the men become \\"a population of loss\\", who \\"in our lethargy... had only the energy to covet and loathe\\". The temperature drops to 49 degrees below 0. As nature exacts her deadly toll on the Narthex and her crew, a few, including Kane and the doctor, forge ahead to find their arctic Eden somewhere within the rigid ice floes. Even the doctor's relentless calculations cease to make sense and Kane finds reason to doubt the veracity of their quest, when \\"believing that this easy complexity can pass for vision\\" may simply be evidence of man's astonishing hubris.<br />The extraordinary prose is as unforgiving as the elements. Each brutal step of the journey, each spark of humanity is quickly extinguished by the weather's fury; yet it is in man's nature to challenge such odds. The author's calculated prose is etched with exacting detail and persuasiveness. Joining the Narthex to the tale of The Rope Eater, Jones enters into the territory of myth, in a story both shocking and compelling. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-02-15
784889:US	51010391	R2BSLWSZM3AV6S	0393325385	841202911	Vindication: A Novel	Books	4	17	18	N	N	(4.5)A thoughtful assessment of a tortured life	A thoughtful assessment of a tortured life<br />Sherwood's touch is pitch perfect, bringing to life 18th Century England, days of abject poverty and the insurmountable chasm between poor and wealthy. Mary Wollstonecraft is born into a family that lives on the edge, everything meager, from scarce provisions to scarcer emotions. This familial absence of love mirrors the lack of all in a family defined by misery. Mary's childhood is a nightmare of drunkenness and depravity visited upon the girl and her helpless siblings, the father a drunkard and the mother his willing victim.<br />Mary's awakening as a woman is much delayed, albeit inevitable, having wasted so many years trapped by dire circumstances. Her attractiveness exponential to her fearless intelligence, Mary's writing consumes her, yet is a separate agony from the one regarding the men in her life. Predictably, Mary is haunted by childhood abuse, insecure in her dealings with men. In a beautiful blend of fact and fiction, Wollstonecraft experiences firsthand the horrors of Bedlam, the day-to-day insanity of the French revolution and the Age of Enlightenment. This novel is not frivolous; the crafting of Vindication is superb, but painful: nothing in this woman's life is without difficulty. Although her childhood experiences shadow the rest of her days, Mary's intellect is intransigent. Through her suffering comes an intimate knowledge of women's roles in a world that inevitably restricts their choices.<br />Wollstonecraft's seminal work, A Vindication of the Rights of Women, published in 1792, is a logical extension of the Enlightenment's determination of the rights of man, as seen through the eyes of a woman. Her publisher entertains a salon with contemporaries like William Blake, William Godwin, Thomas Paine and, of course, Mary Wollstonecraft, the equal of them all. Yet Mary is dogged by a constant discontent, \\" a kind of celestial poorhouse overseen by Father Time and monitored by Mother May I.\\" Eventually, Mary becomes more attentive to the energetic rhetoric of the weekly discussions.<br />Sherwood focuses on daily life, shrewd and unflinching. Each of Mary's foolish romantic fantasies is tempered with the feral details of life in 18th Century Europe. Although the luminaries that are Mary's contemporaries wax poetic on the nature of the universe, reality is actually quite tedious. The author's consummate skill is obvious in the quality of her characters, especially Mary, her complexities, questioning spirit and drive to succeed. Accomplishing a prodigious feat, Sherwood's Mary Wollstonecraft comes alive in the pages of Vindication, correcting, arguing and searching for a sense of comfort that she will never know. The rendering of this tortured life is exquisite, determined and inspirational. Luan Gaines/2004., Mary becomes more attentive to the energetic rhetoric of the weekly discussions.<br />Sherwood focuses on daily life, shrewd and unflinching. Each of Mary's foolish romantic fantasies is tempered with the feral details of life in 18th Century Europe. Although the luminaries that are Mary's contemporaries wax poetic on the nature of the universe, reality is actually quite tedious. The author's consummate skill is obvious in the quality of her characters, especially Mary, her complexities, questioning spirit and drive to succeed. Accomplishing a prodigious feat, Sherwood's Mary Wollstonecraft comes alive in the pages of Vindication, correcting, arguing and searching for a sense of comfort that she will never know. The rendering of this tortured life is exquisite, determined and inspirational. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-02-15
785035:US	51010391	R2DOBQKSLIHJ0D	0670032794	489272586	Inamorata	Books	3	3	9	N	N	(3.5)Science at war with the human heart	Martin Finch is living on limited resources, working on an advanced degree at Harvard. Through an embarrassing fluke, he is hired as a paid assistant to a renowned professor. The professor is on the board of The Scientific American, a magazine dedicated to the exploration of all things scientific. It is no coincidence that by 1886 Spiritualism is enjoying great success in society, inspiring hybrid religions, such as Christian Science.<br />The Scientific American is sponsoring a contest: there will be a $5,ooo award, an enormous sum in 1922, to any medium who can offer proof of legitimate contact with the spirit world. The spiritualist must pass inspection by a designated committee of the Scientific American. Finch?s precise mind fits perfectly into his new employment, as he successfully engineers the denouement of a number of frauds.<br />The professor is indisposed and cannot make the trip to Philadelphia, sending Finch to investigate in his place. When Martin meets the spiritualist, who has been recommended by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, he is unprepared for the decidedly unscientific experience of falling in love. A product of Victorian repression, the young man is unable to maintain his objectivity under the scrutiny of the beautiful woman; the clever Mrs. Crawley perfectly checkmates Martin?s scientific mind, playing cat and mouse with his emotions and his inexperience with the opposite sex.<br />Are Mina?s s?ances authentic and does she deserve the prize, or is there another explanation? Once Finch becomes enamored of Mina, his ability is fatally compromised. Still, he leaves no stone unturned, going to a number of unsavory places, physically at risk and certainly out of his element in the sprawling city. Subconsciously, Martin knows his judgment is impaired, yet he continues to probe for answers; his difficulty is acting as inquisitor, when the person who stands to lose is the woman he loves.<br />Gangemi?s period piece is stuffy and tedious- in other words, a perfect example of post-Victorian society with it?s attendant snobbery. The avid group engaged in the pursuit of the paranormal has all the priggish sensibilities of entitlement: the men are pompous and pretentious; Mina represents the delicate female who must be protected. This strata of society is rigid and structured, although Prohibition brings welcome revenue and frivolity to a thirsty city.<br />The author creates a small island of Spiritualism?s enthusiasts where the normal challenges the paranormal, even though the world-at-large is rushing toward the future. This tight little novel is but a chapter in Mr. Finch?s young life, but it is also a microcosm of the early 20th century, where mores and manners are subject to examination. Regardless of the purity of his intentions, Martin Finch finds that human nature will triumph. Luan Gaines/2004.a perfect example of post-Victorian society with it?s attendant snobbery. The avid group engaged in the pursuit of the paranormal has all the priggish sensibilities of entitlement: the men are pompous and pretentious; Mina represents the delicate female who must be protected. This strata of society is rigid and structured, although Prohibition brings welcome revenue and frivolity to a thirsty city. <br />The author creates a small island of Spiritualism?s enthusiasts where the normal challenges the paranormal, even though the world-at-large is rushing toward the future. This tight little novel is but a chapter in Mr. Finch?s young life, but it is also a microcosm of the early 20th century, where mores and manners are subject to examination. Regardless of the purity of his intentions, Martin Finch finds that human nature will triumph. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-02-15
789524:US	51010391	R1JEQ0UOTGQ2QA	1931561613	388783946	Water Wings	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A lyrical treatment of love and loss	Water Wings is this author's lyrical second novel, fashioned into an exquisite story of two sisters, Hannah and Vivian, and their cousin Wren. A terrible disappointment to her mother, Wren is born imperfect, with deformed hands, but has a soul filled with light, her world one of grace and acceptance that she often doesn't receive from the world. All of the girls remember their earliest years in rural Canada vividly, the lush countryside the backdrop for their adventures and life lessons.<br />Soon after the final divorce decree from his wife, Darlene, Mick dies in a freak accident. The beautiful, Darlene and her husband make a striking couple and the girls cannot comprehend how their once loving parents could fall out of love. Years later, Darlene makes a decision to remarry, this time to a local shoe storeowner and the sisters must come home for the wedding.<br />Upon their return, long-forgotten memories surface and they are drawn back, moment by moment, into a past filled with both the joy of discovery and the permanent etching of loss. We see the past as it evolves, slowly, measured through the eyes of the little girls, Hannah, Vivian and Wren.  The children's hearts are exposed, their innocence shattered by their parent's separation and eventual divorce. The chapters about Wren are particularly insightful, because of the small tortures visited upon a girl who is different than her peers. The cruelties she endures, each a challenge to a fragile young ego, make her a stronger person.<br />Before the wedding, Hannah and Vivian reconnect, thinking of the irony of Darlene's marriage. Mick and Darlene's emotional connections have been destroyed by Darlene's incessant need for attention, which precipitates the end of the marriage. Yet she continues collecting men, because they allow an escape and comfort in the moment. Darlene's substance is in her beauty; that is her only legacy to her daughters.  Using their own resources, Hannah and Vivian discover another path toward self-definition, accessing memories of a loving father, scattered like so many jewels, as they move farther away from the green-painted house. Their cousin, the wise Wren, with her own little daughter, is the mainstay of the girlhood triad.<br />These are females who have somehow lost their center and Mick's untimely death changes everything. Mick leaves a legacy, however, an abundance of love to guide his daughters, a presence to help navigate the difficult years ahead. Unfortunately, Darlene squanders the affection and natural beauty she takes for granted and is unable to do much else with her life. Unlike their mother, the girls find meaning in their memories, their history, each a part of the fabric of the present and necessary to the whole, where even loss relinquishes its bitterness. Luan Gaines/2004.ward self-definition, accessing memories of a loving father, scattered like so many jewels, as they move farther away from the green-painted house. Their cousin, the wise Wren, with her own little daughter, is the mainstay of the girlhood triad.<br />These are females who have somehow lost their center and Mick's untimely death changes everything. Mick leaves a legacy, however, an abundance of love to guide his daughters, a presence to help navigate the difficult years ahead. Unfortunately, Darlene squanders the affection and natural beauty she takes for granted and is unable to do much else with her life. Unlike their mother, the girls find meaning in their memories, their history, each a part of the fabric of the present and necessary to the whole, where even loss relinquishes its bitterness. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-02-11
790793:US	51010391	RO29ZW9T1JBCJ	039305814X	684389484	The Snow Fox: A Novel	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A passionate, mythical romance	Schaeffer paints an elegant portrait of Japan, a world of noble lords, samurai and beautiful ladies whose faces are always hidden from view. When, in 12th century Japan, the samurai, Matsuhito, is ordered to guard Lady Utsu against attack in her palace quarters, he becomes enchanted with her legendary beauty and the quality of her poetry. The two become lovers. Later, when a daughter is born, Lady Utsu sends the child away to be raised away from the court intrigues. It is this girl who grows up to write of the great love between the lady and the samurai, who can love no one else.<br />Matsuhito fights at Lord Norimasa's side for many years, until the Lord's death. The samurai thinks to return and search for Lady Utsu, but she has fled the palace with only her pet fox for company. In the following years, Matsuhito wanders north, towards the mountains and the snow. He acquires a horse and, later, a fox, the three of them moving up the mountains. He is content with his memories, but quietly yearns for the Lady Utsu. Eventually, the samurai falls ill. He stumbles upon a hut in the snow, occupied by a woman who lives alone. Sharing their secrets and dreams, the woman and the samurai realize that fate has given them another chance; thereafter, the lovers experience an affinity far more precious than the passion of their youth. Together they endure everything that comes their way, joy, intrigue, happiness and heartbreak.<br /> The author imbues her characters with the quality of myth, living as they do in splendid isolation, surrounded by nature's bounty and beauty. But The Snow Fox is not a fairy tale: rather, Schaeffer writes of the mature love of a man and a woman. With haunting imagery, the author's light-handed touch creates shimmering reflection of the past: the elegant palace of Lord Norimasa, the elaborate, embroidered gowns, the ornate armor of the samurai and the simple beauty of the blossoming cherry trees. All is as beautifully wrought as the sound of Lady Utsu's voice as she whispers the tale of the four children. Luan Gaines/2004.'s voice as she whispers the tale of the four children. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-02-10
797202:US	51010391	R3R9A0YUZQ8YZC	0060571225	244730096	Fires in the Dark: A Novel	Books	3	9	10	N	N	(3.5) Caught in the firestorm of World War II	This is a tale of the authentic European Gypsies of Romany, nomadic farm workers who are caught up in Hitler's reign of terror, as he purges his homeland. In the Moravian countryside in 1927, an infant is born in a dilapidated barn, a child who will survive the infamous scourge of Hitler's obsession. Beginning with these difficult years, the gypsies are forced to participate in a census that tracks their numbers and their movements, ultimately drawing them into a trap: a mass assignment to an all-gypsy labor camp, their fate sealed.<br />The novel addresses the decimation of the gypsy population of Eastern Europe, chronicling the gradual movement of fascism across the country and predicting the end of the nomadic families through mandatory registration and specific \\"rules\\" that govern the gypsies' mobility. The men do odd jobs for any farmers still willing to hire them as itinerant laborers, moving their families from one place to another, barely able to sustain the illusion of freedom. Eventually, the Germans commandeer the wagons and animals and the gypsy families are restricted to proscribed areas, later transported to special labor camps, thrown into the nightmare they hoped to escape.<br />The primary family in the novel is subjected to the rigors, starvation and humiliation of the camps and many die in a massive typhus epidemic. Only one escapes, the boy born at the beginning of the story, in 1927. He makes his way to Warsaw, brokering black market goods and passing as a gadje, or white man, with his fair complexion. In relating the struggle for survival and the decimation of the boy's family, the explicit details are depressing, as such a light-heated and joyful people are destroyed by ignorance and evil. Many pages are devoted to the suffering of individual family members, their travails echoed throughout the labor camp, memories that the youth will carry through out his life.<br />The writing shines during the closing days of the war, when relief is finally in sight. Groups of German soldiers skirmish with the Resistance, while people course through the streets in anticipation of the Allies or the Russians. If the whole book had the energy of the last chapters, it would have made a wonderful read, but the pages are often tedious until the excitement of the ending. For all the human tragedy of those years, Fires in the Dark is an important chapter in a telling history that cannot be forgotten. Luan Gaines/2004.ly in sight. Groups of German soldiers skirmish with the Resistance, while people course through the streets in anticipation of the Allies or the Russians. If the whole book had the energy of the last chapters, it would have made a wonderful read, but the pages are often tedious until the excitement of the ending. For all the human tragedy of those years, Fires in the Dark is an important chapter in a telling history that cannot be forgotten. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-02-05
799268:US	51010391	R1U8003BZTS47O	037575931X	520261516	Crossing to Safety (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	(4.5)An intricate twining of marriage and friendship	Stegner's Crossing to Safety is a gift on many levels, in the quality of the writing, the depth of the story and the internal awareness it invokes in the reader. Following the intricate friendship of two young academic couples through the years, Stegner incorporates a familiarity into his characters, recognition of ourselves and those we love. The story takes place in a bucolic setting that illustrates the author's deep love for the natural beauty of this country, whether in the pristine woods of Wisconsin or the amber hues of New Mexico.Yet this is a difficult landscape, as one couple has little but a brilliant future ahead and the other has material comfort, but longs for the acceptance and approval of their community. Neither shall experience the expected, once life makes her mark upon their futures.<br />Through the interwoven experience of the two couples, Stegner carefully dissects the structure of marriage, the nature of commitment and the delicate balance of intimacy. Their characteristics are universal, the stubbornness and the strengths both human and courageous. Their personalities are familiar, with the faults that make us at the same time so irritating and endearing to one another. Indeed, in the complicated layers of friendship, life is not always lived graciously, but certainly consciously.<br />In this deeply moving novel about marriage and friendship, the author reveals the aspects of each: why people are drawn together in the ritualistic dance of marriage, how the bonds of friendship allow people to endure whatever difficulties life throws their way and, finally, why these troublesome but important connections are so necessary in creating a livable present, regardless of future losses. Everything exists in the constantly recurring moments of choice; just as these couples know each other immediately as friends, so we are aware of our own choices, partners, friendships and aspirations. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-02-04
810511:US	51010391	R3MM20BUW2BPYQ	0316740845	887528533	You Are Here: A Memoir of Arrival	Books	4	8	10	N	N	(4.5)A work of staggering genius	Wesley Gibson is determined to get a foothold in New York City and escape the small town mentality of his southern roots. He jumps at an opportunity to rent an available room in an apartment where there are two roommates who never seem to materialize. The place boasts a plaid living room suite, tiny wizards made from crystals perched in groups on end tables and an answering machine with sixty messages and counting. So begins the life of a gay man in the city of his dreams.<br />Gibson reads like David Eggars, only I can track this writer's logic without losing my mind. At thirty-six, Gibson is an astute observer of humanity, starting with his own unnerving penchant for hypochondria. Faced with the unsolvable mystery of the ghost-roommates, John and Alan, Wesley is thrust into an emotional vacuum, struggling to find a job, depending on his also-neurotic friend Jo Ann to stabilize the waves of intermittent hysteria that overtake his best intentions. When Gibson finally does run across the primary roommate... well, that's a story you'll have to find out for yourself.<br />With shattering wit, Gibson shares life in New York City, his fragmented psyche, scrambling for work, living with a roommate in denial. New York is purposefully seductive: great crowds of strangers, anonymity and the gay social scene. Gibson writes with an abundance of humor; but when he grapples with a life and death situation, he has the necessary gravitas. This author's particular skill is that he is able to wax hysterical while his rowboat takes on water, a testament to his remarkable spirit and delightful personality.<br />Wesley addresses his youth and southern homophobia in the 70's with somber honesty. There, like vampires, gays only come out at night and in accepted venues; as young men bloom into manhood, their sexual antennae identify those who deviate from the norm. As for living gay in a straight world, \\"the simple act of walking down the street could be enough to instigate the day of your death.\\"<br />Gibson is remarkably generous, with an abundance of imperfections, opinions and a serendipitous imagination, his view of the world penetrating and precise. For every humorous anecdote, there is one of reflection, unflinching in the glare of reality. This modern-day-gay man lives his days at full throttle or crushed into hypochondriac immobility, with an uncanny charm that embraces the reader as a bosom buddy. Gibson may not live the macho writer's life of an O'Hara or a Steinbeck, but he certainly speaks the most important language of all, the language of the human heart. Luan Gaines/2004.ur death.\\"<br />Gibson is remarkably generous, with an abundance of imperfections, opinions and a serendipitous imagination, his view of the world penetrating and precise. For every humorous anecdote, there is one of reflection, unflinching in the glare of reality. This modern-day-gay man lives his days at full throttle or crushed into hypochondriac immobility, with an uncanny charm that embraces the reader as a bosom buddy. Gibson may not live the macho writer's life of an O'Hara or a Steinbeck, but he certainly speaks the most important language of all, the language of the human heart. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-01-26
810560:US	51010391	R3VY2W2HGXXZ4M	006008877X	224204374	Evolution's Captain: The Dark Fate of the Man Who Sailed Charles Darwin Around the World	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A fascinating historical portrait	Charting a path through the Americas, Captain Robert FitzRoy crosses paths with a young Charles Darwin, an event that affects the direction of scientific study. In 1829, Capt. FitzRoy, of the HMS Beagle, sails with Capt. Phillip Parker, of the HMS Adventure, on a survey that will enable Great Britain's complete dominance of world trade. FitzRoy has his first sighting of natives in Tierra del Fuego; he finds their primitive appearance repulsive. On their return home, FitzRoy carries four natives back to England, his specimens. It is his intention to \\"save\\" the savages, baptize them as Christians and expose them to the advantages a civilization defined by its Godliness.<br />By 1831, the savages are the source of constant embarrassment and it is necessary to return them to Tierra de Fuego. Finagling a commission, ostensibly to finish the survey of the Americas, FitzRoy releases the natives to their homeland. This new commission involves an extended voyage navigating the globe and FitzRoy is concerned about the years of isolation, not one to mix with those of lesser rank. The prospect of such solitude is daunting to the young captain, haunted by the history of insanity in his family.<br />Charles Darwin is a naturalist, the perfect choice as FitzRoy's companion. Both possess astute minds and spend hours discoursing on scientific principles. While FitzRoy surveys the rugged coastline of Tierra del Fuego, Darwin roams the countryside, gathering specimens. The trip almost flounders when the overstressed FitzRoy loses his focus, but he rallies, able to continue. By the time they reach the Falklands, Darwin is writing voluminous notes on the aberrations observed on various islands, particularly the Galapagos Islands.<br />Returning home, the two scientists prepare for publication. Their work is published in three volumes: King's, FitzRoy's and Darwin's. Darwin's most important work is published twenty-two years later, but in 1837, he avoids an argument with accepted theology. At this point the two friends drift apart philosophically, Darwin committed to a scientific definition of the world and FitzRoy ever more avidly Creationist.<br />As Nichols chronicles the men's lives, the once friendly scientists finally become adversarial. FitzRoy has noble aspirations, albeit fettered by his English prejudices. He never imagined his name written on the pages of history as \\"the man who took Darwin around the world\\" on his momentous adventure. FitzRoy makes important contributions as a weather forecaster, but is never appreciated in his time; his fate is sealed when he chooses the traveling companion for this fated voyage. Nichols offers a fascinating view of a remarkable voyage; he brings the seafaring world to life, the dangers, curiosities and courage of an undertaking that will dramatically alter the scientific world. Luan Gaines/2004.gy. At this point the two friends drift apart philosophically, Darwin committed to a scientific definition of the world and FitzRoy ever more avidly Creationist. <br />As Nichols chronicles the men's lives, the once friendly scientists finally become adversarial. FitzRoy has noble aspirations, albeit fettered by his English prejudices. He never imagined his name written on the pages of history as \\"the man who took Darwin around the world\\" on his momentous adventure. FitzRoy makes important contributions as a weather forecaster, but is never appreciated in his time; his fate is sealed when he chooses the traveling companion for this fated voyage. Nichols offers a fascinating view of a remarkable voyage; he brings the seafaring world to life, the dangers, curiosities and courage of an undertaking that will dramatically alter the scientific world. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-01-26
819840:US	51010391	R255HXJ71Q4VGB	0393325326	345159560	The Story Behind the Story: 26 Stories by Contemporary Writers and How They Work	Books	5	30	33	N	N	An innovative resource and great fiction	An innovative resource and great fiction<br />Ah, the writing life. We envision the author working compulsively, never satisfied, anxious to capture his ideas on paper before they disappear, a bottle of liquid inspiration and glass at hand. In the public imagination, the writer exists in some remote setting, isolated in his rarified world of complicated thoughts and clever phrases, perhaps a tragic and difficult personality. While there is cachet in such perceptions, writing actually involves a great deal of hard work. A story must be nurtured, carefully pruned from inception into the finished pages. Yet the writers in this anthology are distinctly human and accessible, certainly generous, stimulating the reader's imagination with their experiences.<br />In this anthology, a series of writers, all teachers on the faculty of Warren Wilson College MFA Program for Writers, have contributed twenty-six short stories, each followed by a section named \\"About the Story\\". Each About the Story details the author's creative process involved in his particular story, whether it be personal experience, an idea gleaned from research or a series of incidents that resulted in a tale to tell.<br />The pivotal question about writers: is this talent genetic or are these skills that can be learned? In his introduction, Richard Russo addresses the problem ambiguously: Writers are both the same and different than others, says Russo. Good writing cannot be readily taught, but those who want to write can learn to do it well. With authors as mentors, advising aspiring writers, they may master the needed skills. However, \\"artists seldom progress in a predictable, linear fashion\\". It is possible for a writer to be good before he is competent; clearly, craft and experience can turn a writer into an author.<br />Thanks to the generosity of these veteran authors, sharing their experience and guiding the apprentice through the necessary elements of the craft, this volume is especially valuable. The shared ideas and discussions on problem solving build an energy that inspires the novice writer to experiment with a variety of approaches and each new story provides an opportunity for discovery. Yet each author has his own method, his own path. Russo refers another phenomenon, \\"cross-fertilization\\": when the solution to the story pays off by suggesting yet another, or stimulating a thought process that leads to a completed story.<br />The contributing authors are some of the finest names in contemporary fiction, including Margaret Livesey, Charles Baxter, Judith Grossman, Stephen Dobyns, Pablo Medina and Andrea Barrett. The authors' generosity is extraordinary in this literary treasure. Setting the tone with the first story, Antonya Nelson's \\"Strike Anywhere\\", a student \\"gives\\" Nelson the story, which \\"hangs in her mind like a Christmas ornament\\", until it is born. And Nelson \\"gives\\" the story to the reader in this anthology.<br />A few lines from each \\"About the Story\\", or one specific author's thoughts may trigger that sudden recognition, a solution. Of inestimable value to readers, each author shares a piece of his art, a myriad of ideas, suggestions and inspiration. I have marked my favorites (so far) and keep The Story Behind the Story on my nightstand, a ready resource and a reminder of the personal nature of the process, lessons on the art of writing. Luan Gaines/ 2004.The shared ideas and discussions on problem solving build an energy that inspires the novice writer to experiment with a variety of approaches and each new story provides an opportunity for discovery. Yet each author has his own method, his own path. Russo refers another phenomenon, \\"cross-fertilization\\": when the solution to the story pays off by suggesting yet another, or stimulating a thought process that leads to a completed story. <br />The contributing authors are some of the finest names in contemporary fiction, including Margaret Livesey, Charles Baxter, Judith Grossman, Stephen Dobyns, Pablo Medina and Andrea Barrett. The authors' generosity is extraordinary in this literary treasure. Setting the tone with the first story, Antonya Nelson's \\"Strike Anywhere\\", a student \\"gives\\" Nelson the story, which \\"hangs in her mind like a Christmas ornament\\", until it is born. And Nelson \\"gives\\" the story to the reader in this anthology.<br />A few lines from each \\"About the Story\\", or one specific author's thoughts may trigger that sudden recognition, a solution. Of inestimable value to readers, each author shares a piece of his art, a myriad of ideas, suggestions and inspiration. I have marked my favorites (so far) and keep The Story Behind the Story on my nightstand, a ready resource and a reminder of the personal nature of the process, lessons on the art of writing. Luan Gaines/ 2004.	2004-01-19
820257:US	51010391	R3I8K4B5YA07D2	1931561605	334391754	The Road to Makokota	Books	4	6	6	N	N	(4.5)A continent in turmoil, one mans epiphany	Africa is a chameleon, constantly changing in an attempt to survive the vicious attacks on natural resources that spell doom for a people who have become fodder for militant power plays.<br />Craig Allan Hammond, a black American, returns to Africa to reclaim the young woman he left behind, Ossumatu, and their son, Abu. It is sixteen years since he participated in a road-building project and the Africa Hammond remembers no longer exists. This once familiar landscape is scarred by violence and civil war that has decimated the population, leaving vast camps of sick and starving people waiting to die. The land is a killing field, where warring factions slaughter each other without discrimination or conscience. In the time before his return, Hammond searched for love and found none, only to realize that he walked away from the one woman he loved years ago in Africa.<br />Hammond buys passage with an entourage of gunrunners heading toward Makakota, the village where he last saw Ossu and Abu. For a price, Hammond joins the raggedy caravan, along with a Polish nurse, in spite of the danger inherent in traveling with such a group in a lawless land. When the situation turns violent, Hammond and the nurse barely escape to the bush in a stolen vehicle. Barnett describes this harrowing journey in chilling detail, as Hammond is stripped of everything he owns, pared down to an intimate awareness of unremitting agony and the unraveling of past beliefs and self-serving assumptions.<br />On a personal journey that is intensely graphic, reality is almost literally peeled away from Hammond, as he struggles through days and nights of delirium. Images and memory haunt his dreams and he stumbles again and again, refusing to surrender to the darkness. Hammond finds his physical and spiritual epiphany in the arms of Africa, a harsh but loving caretaker. The man who began the quest for lover and son no longer exists; his mission is rewarded, but not within his experience or expectations.<br />This is a transforming novel, the protagonist unflinching in the face of evil, wading through disaster after disaster until he reaches a blessed respite. In this world, for each atrocity there is the promise of deliverance. In the Road to Makakota, author Barnett reaches beyond what is humanly possible to a state of grace, of peace, his writing lyrical, sensitive and painful. Like the protagonist, the reader cannot comprehend this distant, troubled continent without staring into a terrible, dark reality. On the other side of this journey is the transcendent beauty of a people and place relentlessly pounded into oblivion, yet shimmering with life like a mirage. Luan Gaines/2004.r />This is a transforming novel, the protagonist unflinching in the face of evil, wading through disaster after disaster until he reaches a blessed respite. In this world, for each atrocity there is the promise of deliverance. In the Road to Makakota, author Barnett reaches beyond what is humanly possible to a state of grace, of peace, his writing lyrical, sensitive and painful. Like the protagonist, the reader cannot comprehend this distant, troubled continent without staring into a terrible, dark reality. On the other side of this journey is the transcendent beauty of a people and place relentlessly pounded into oblivion, yet shimmering with life like a mirage. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-01-19
822108:US	51010391	R1XXHGWSEVMH0L	0393057356	944230547	Occasions of Sin: A Memoir	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A childhood of drama and distortion	Scofield's memoir deals almost exclusively with her childhood years, when, as a young child, she develops only a vague sense of the boundaries between her mother and herself. The mother, Edith Hupp, has no such clear perspective, her malleable young daughter almost more a companion than a child. Because of Edith's manipulation, Sandra sees herself differently than others, not bound by the same rules. Years later, after Edith's death, Scofield describes her life as \\"navigating chaos without any reliable compass.\\"<br />The whole family lives with the maternal grandmother during the earliest years of Edith's illness, when she still has her looks and occasional periods of health. Conversion to Catholicism creates another strong bond between Edith and Sandra, as the legends and rituals of her new religion captivate the child, who claims it with innocent zeal. Thereafter, Sandra dedicates her young life to emulating the saints. The tragedy of Edith's long journey toward death has a profound affect on the child, who develops nervous habits, praying incessantly. In her childish naivet&eacute;, Sandra fervently prays that her mother won't die.<br />Little girls are given to excessive drama, with their impressionable minds, especially fed on a steady diet of religious fervor. I was one of these little girls. I recall the same distorted thought process when praying, as if God was mine alone: a basic misunderstanding of the nature of prayer. I used this flawed perspective, as does Scofield, where God becomes Prince Charming, to \\"rescue you not from death, but from anonymity\\". Also of note, is the particular innocence of the 1950's, the perfect breeding ground for Catholic girls.<br />Most of Scofield's formative years are solitary, hours of thorough convent education, along with intermittent visits to an ever more sickly mother. Through this distorted framework, a distant father and a grandmother often at odds with her daughter do little to alleviate the child's loneliness. Edith finally dies from chronic nephritis, after years of hospital stays and shock treatments, but Scofield has no basis for structuring a life to serve her best interests.<br />Soon after the death, Scofield suffers a traumatic incident that strips away her innocence, an already shaky persona shattered... and so ends the memoir. Although this memoir is decidedly purgative, there is no way to ascertain the author's approach to adulthood. Confused by a dysfunctional home life and excessive religious instruction, the sheltered existence has only served to cripple Sandra in her dealings with the world at large.<br />Original Sin is a portrayal of Scofield's life, Part One, but the memoir begs completion. Scofield has survived, but is she emotionally crippled by her early years? I am, after all, unsatisfied. There is closure to the past, but what of the present? Luan Gaines/2004.ally dies from chronic nephritis, after years of hospital stays and shock treatments, but Scofield has no basis for structuring a life to serve her best interests.<br />Soon after the death, Scofield suffers a traumatic incident that strips away her innocence, an already shaky persona shattered... and so ends the memoir. Although this memoir is decidedly purgative, there is no way to ascertain the author's approach to adulthood. Confused by a dysfunctional home life and excessive religious instruction, the sheltered existence has only served to cripple Sandra in her dealings with the world at large.<BR>Original Sin is a portrayal of Scofield's life, Part One, but the memoir begs completion. Scofield has survived, but is she emotionally crippled by her early years? I am, after all, unsatisfied. There is closure to the past, but what of the present? Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-01-18
826518:US	51010391	R3F0COP3O102Z5	0709068786	324269298	Eight Million Gods and Demons	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A painful indictment of war	Sherwin has written a passionate novel of a Japanese family at a time when the entire country is awakening, flexing its muscle, preparing to be a world power. A Japanese businessman and politician, Taku Imura, deeply loves his younger wife, Emi, who suffers intermittently from epilepsy. Taku travels frequently for business, leaving Emi alone for extended periods of time. He nurtures great hopes for Korea's autonomy, but when Japan colonizes Korea, Taku rages, making powerful enemies with his views; as a result of his opinions, Taku is imprisoned for months.<br />After a number of unsuccessful pregnancies, the couple finally conceives a healthy son and both parents hover anxiously over their only child. Yet Taku is frequently absent from their home, falling victim to the charms of a geisha. He buys Hana's contract and a house for her as well, fathering four healthy children with his geisha. When Emi succumbs to her disease, Taku combines the two households, his children together under one roof. Meanwhile Japan builds its military strength, factories turned over to the production of munitions, eyes trained on China as the next acquisition.<br />Hana's and Emi's children become adults and marry, starting their own families. At this point, the story integrates their personal lives with the changing face of a Japan on the move towards world domination. One of Taku's daughters marries an idealistic young soldier in the Imperial army. Following the rape of Nanking, the soldier is completely changed by what he has witnessed, as well as his own performance in the military. The author attempts to put a more human face on this atrocity, at least in the case of the young soldier.<br />Pearl Harbor changes everything. Taku's children endure almost daily bombings by the Allies, their sons inducted into the war as the entire nation is galvanized. Industrial and military might have turned the country into abject poverty, kamikaze pilots dying for the honor of the Emperor. Beauty and poetry disappear, trampled by jackboots and military necessity.<br />Sherwin's prose is as elegant and formal as the rituals of feudal Japan, yet she is unflinching in her description of the brutality of war and its destruction. She speaks kindly, as if in the telling, lessons may be learned, but all of the Eight Million Gods and Demons cannot save Japan from the fate it has called upon itself. War, in all its manifestations, has become too familiar, victory hollow when ideals and innocence are betrayed. Sherwin writes a stunning indictment of war, her heart filled with love for the survivors. Luan Gaines/2004.nd poetry disappear, trampled by jackboots and military necessity.<br />Sherwin's prose is as elegant and formal as the rituals of feudal Japan, yet she is unflinching in her description of the brutality of war and its destruction. She speaks kindly, as if in the telling, lessons may be learned, but all of the Eight Million Gods and Demons cannot save Japan from the fate it has called upon itself. War, in all its manifestations, has become too familiar, victory hollow when ideals and innocence are betrayed. Sherwin writes a stunning indictment of war, her heart filled with love for the survivors. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-01-14
827499:US	51010391	R3B1NY4DMZCZR3	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	3	9	15	N	N	(3.5)The harrowing life of a corporate spy	Adam Cassidy has the potential for success one day. But for now, he is content to slide by as a corporate slacker at Wyatt Telecom. Cassidy's father expects failure from him, as he often tells Adam, predicting a bleak future. But Adam is clever, reasonably tech-literate and a friend of the underdog.<br />Adam hacks into the company finances, funding a lavish going-away party when the foreman of the shipping dock at Wyatt is about to retire with no fanfare or appreciation. A great idea, one he gets away with...almost. Quietly basking in his own self-approval, Cassidy is abruptly ordered to the office of the president, Nick Wyatt. There Wyatt and his Chief of Corporate Security offer Adam two choices: jail or a job as a company spy working for their rival, Trion Systems. Under duress, Adam makes a deal with the devil.<br />Adam is carefully prepped, current terminology and technical updates peppered with a bit of inside information, to be used as necessary to protect his cover. After his personnel records and resume are altered, Cassidy applies to Trion as a whiz kid with solid credentials who is bored with his job, an obvious asset to the Trion team. With his freedom at stake, Adam must be successful, as well as having a natural abhorrence of jail for a simple corporate prank.<br />Cassidy accepts the assignment to spy at Trion, a veritable fish out of water when playing with the big guys. He is far out of his depth, dependent upon the specific crash courses on products and relative jargon to legitimize his new identity. Cassidy's task is fraught with the danger of discovery. Wyatt demands results when Adam has barely settled in at Trion. He wants anything available regarding a particular project, codenamed Aurora, expected to change the face of the industry.<br />Pressured from all sides, Cassidy is barely able to navigate his days in the office and nights sleuthing the private offices of Trion. Clearly a villain of the first order, Wyatt is without scruples; it's never clear whether he has any intention of releasing Cassidy when the terms of the bargain are fulfilled. In stark contrast, Jock Goddard, the legendary creator of Trion, is a scrupulously honest, no-frills executive who inspires his employees to surpass expectations.<br />Circumstances close in just as Cassidy is thinking of himself as one of the Trion group. And there is the promise of an office romance that is particularly irresistible. Wyatt's demands create an impossible conundrum and the young corporate spy, who must find a way to disengage himself from the situation. Cassidy devises a wild bit of legerdemain to turn the tables on Wyatt, a plan with unexpected results. Then Finder adds some shocking twists that turn the plausible inside out.<br />Labeled a loser all his life, Finder's protagonist has gotten into a predicament that may prove his judgmental father right, after all. In that critical moment of truth, Cassidy aspires to be a better man, balancing his future against the respect he craves. Caught between youthful hubris and the desire for admiration, Adam Cassidy makes a tough choice, hopefully, this time the right one. Maybe, maybe not. Luan Gaines/2004.never clear whether he has any intention of releasing Cassidy when the terms of the bargain are fulfilled. In stark contrast, Jock Goddard, the legendary creator of Trion, is a scrupulously honest, no-frills executive who inspires his employees to surpass expectations. <br />Circumstances close in just as Cassidy is thinking of himself as one of the Trion group. And there is the promise of an office romance that is particularly irresistible. Wyatt's demands create an impossible conundrum and the young corporate spy, who must find a way to disengage himself from the situation. Cassidy devises a wild bit of legerdemain to turn the tables on Wyatt, a plan with unexpected results. Then Finder adds some shocking twists that turn the plausible inside out. <br />Labeled a loser all his life, Finder's protagonist has gotten into a predicament that may prove his judgmental father right, after all. In that critical moment of truth, Cassidy aspires to be a better man, balancing his future against the respect he craves. Caught between youthful hubris and the desire for admiration, Adam Cassidy makes a tough choice, hopefully, this time the right one. Maybe, maybe not. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-01-14
827584:US	51010391	R1AD52TAS7Z510	0452284449	667500496	The Virgin Blue: A Novel	Books	4	48	51	N	N	The magnetic pull of the past	The Virgin Blue is indicative of the author's love of art and history, the plot marginally less sophisticated than her later and more successful novel, The Girl with the Pearl Earring. As a first effort, this novel certainly shows the author's burgeoning talent. In a plot that has become quite familiar in recent fiction, the story contrasts the life of a young woman in France with a distant relative who lived four centuries earlier, under much harsher conditions.<br /> Ella Turner moves to France with her architect husband, Rick. Not far from where the couple settles in Lise-sur-Tarn, Isabelle du Moulin married Etienne Tournier when pregnant with their child, in 15th-Century France. At the time of Isabelle's marriage, France is suffering through the religious upheavals that are scouring the countryside, as strict Calvinist sects wrench themselves away from the Catholic Church, intent upon purifying the religion. Still, there are holdouts scattered throughout the country, mostly in the north, were the fleeing refugees resettle, driven from their lands, their farms and goods burned to the ground.<br />Known in her village since a child as \\"La Rousse\\", Isabelle is now shamed by her flaming red hair, the object of unwanted attention. It is said that the Virgin had red hair, a mark of the Papacy. Isabelle hopes to pass unnoticed among the other villagers, always covering her hair in public. Her husband, Etienne Tournier, a distant and controlling man, has never trusted his beautiful young wife, fathering two sons and a daughter with her, but rigid in the ruling of his family. When Isabelle's daughter, Marie, grows fiery red strands of hair among the brown, her mother is terrified and with good reason. The innocent Marie meets her fate in a cruel world, beginning a mystery that haunts the dreams of her distant relative, Ella, four centuries later.<br />Ella's unremitting nightmares and the recurring shade of blue that accompanies the dreams, drive her to search for her distant ancestor and their common history. Although never as portentous as in Isabelle's day, Ella's life choices are daily more difficult; in pursuing the mystery of the past, Ella's life takes a direction she could never anticipate.<br />Isabelle Tournier is a strong presence in Chevalier's hands, the treatment of the past historically compelling. A sincere and honest young woman, Isabelle suffers greatly for her simple faith at a time when women have few options, save the comfort of their families. Her stigma, the genetic accident of red hair, is unavoidable, but such is the superstition of the times that Isabelle is marked irrevocably. The 15th Century is tainted by religious intolerance, as the religion in ascendancy cleanses away the beliefs of another, leaving a wake of burning homes, villages and memories. This novel is an indication of the work to come, as Chevalier fashions compelling historical fiction, a genre she makes her own. Luan Gaines/2004.stant ancestor and their common history. Although never as portentous as in Isabelle's day, Ella's life choices are daily more difficult; in pursuing the mystery of the past, Ella's life takes a direction she could never anticipate.<br />Isabelle Tournier is a strong presence in Chevalier's hands, the treatment of the past historically compelling. A sincere and honest young woman, Isabelle suffers greatly for her simple faith at a time when women have few options, save the comfort of their families. Her stigma, the genetic accident of red hair, is unavoidable, but such is the superstition of the times that Isabelle is marked irrevocably. The 15th Century is tainted by religious intolerance, as the religion in ascendancy cleanses away the beliefs of another, leaving a wake of burning homes, villages and memories. This novel is an indication of the work to come, as Chevalier fashions compelling historical fiction, a genre she makes her own. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-01-14
832553:US	51010391	R30EZNT2O02BTA	0393052060	902010441	Fallam's Secret: A Novel	Books	2	3	3	N	N	(2.5) From science to physics to fantasy	Giardina is a favorite author, having written on a number of fascinating topics in her novels. Fallam's Secret takes a different approach, one that involves wormholes and time travel with a new twist, given recent scientific advances.<br />When Carlo Falcone comes to West Virginia in 1918, he is poverty-stricken. After WWII he returns to West Virginia, purchases a plot of land on Fallam Mountain, where he builds his family home in the style of his beloved Italian countryside. One Christmas Eve, a tragic fire destroys their home, killing Carlo's wife and five of their children; only Carlo and the baby, Lydde, survive. The mother's body is found in the ashes, but the other bodies are never discovered and there is no reasonable answer to the absence of the children's bones. Consequently, Carlo spends the rest of his life searching for his children, leaving Lydde to be raised by her aunt and uncle.<br />Lydde grows, attends school and graduates from college, where she develops a lifelong love of Shakespearean Theater. Lydde is an actor, living in London, until she reaches a certain age, at which time she takes a position as a teacher. Her Uncle John begs Lydde to return home, hinting of an important discovery there, but unwilling to divulge the details prematurely. Unfortunately, she doesn't come home until her uncle's funeral.<br />Lydde searches through John's personal papers until she finds a key and specific directions for passing through an opening in a cave John stumbled across years earlier. Following the very specific directions, Lydde falls through time like Alice down the rabbit hole, turning up in a village in 1657 England, where she meets her Uncle John, alive. Surprisingly, both are younger, Lydde in her early twenties. John explains about \\"wormholes\\" in space and \\"thin places\\" where one dimension may be accessible to another, all explained by quantum physics and imagination. No longer wild theories, such possibilities are seriously considered in the world of physics.<br />The story is believable through the first half of the book, but once Lydde finds herself in 17th century England, the tale turns into a fairy tale. Lydde's adventures work well enough until morphing into a romance novel when she meets the man of her dreams, a sort of Robinhood redux. Thereafter she enters into a passionate, fated romance, one made possible by the gift of a younger, fresher physical body. Lydde makes a critical decision about traveling through time and the future of her love affair, but the story is, at best, formulaic.<br />The plot device is not as interesting as I have come to expect from the accomplished Giardina, although historically accurate. The premise is interesting: time travel, wormholes and contiguous worlds. Still, the author offers no conclusions, giving the reader, instead, a simple tale of romance and escapism. Luan Gaines/2004.of physics.<br />The story is believable through the first half of the book, but once Lydde finds herself in 17th century England, the tale turns into a fairy tale. Lydde's adventures work well enough until morphing into a romance novel when she meets the man of her dreams, a sort of Robinhood redux. Thereafter she enters into a passionate, fated romance, one made possible by the gift of a younger, fresher physical body. Lydde makes a critical decision about traveling through time and the future of her love affair, but the story is, at best, formulaic.<br />The plot device is not as interesting as I have come to expect from the accomplished Giardina, although historically accurate. The premise is interesting: time travel, wormholes and contiguous worlds. Still, the author offers no conclusions, giving the reader, instead, a simple tale of romance and escapism. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-01-10
832904:US	51010391	RTF4FEOGFF9Z4	140220096X	164472143	Daughter's Keeper	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A Draconian  and frightening tale	Mother and daughter Elaine and Olivia Goodman have never gotten along well, their relationship most successful when they are not intimately engaged. Elaine has nurtured a nagging guilt that she hasn't given her daughter as much as she should have, never showing that unconditional love that binds women and their children and Olivia's young life is frequently characterized by rebelliousness. When real trouble surfaces, Elaine and Olivia's best hope becomes an all but futile struggle against the justice system.<br /><br />Olivia's Mexican boyfriend shows up on her doorstep as a surprise, but later is unable to find work; feeling increasingly emasculated, he sets up a drug deal with a contact he has made at the restaurant where Olivia works as a waitress. Olivia is suspicious and informs Jorge that she won't have him dealing drugs, but her position is compromised when he uses her vehicle for his illegal transaction. Later, when he is arrested, Jorge turns evidence against Olivia in exchange for a lighter sentence.<br />Olivia is dragged out of bed in the middle of the night and taken to jail, only able to communicate with her court-appointed lawyer. This is where the nightmare begins: in Federal Court there is a mandatory sentence for drug trafficking, in Olivia's case, a minimum of six years. Olivia's mother must put up her home to get her daughter released on bail, but this is only the beginning, as they prepare for a trial where Olivia is assured of conviction, dependent on her young attorney for any chance to avoid the mandatory sentence.<br /><br />What first appears to be a power struggle between mother and daughter, evolves instead into a horrific struggle against Draconian drug laws that leave no room for negotiation, the Federal officers concerned only with putting away the accused, even if the involvement is merely incidental. Olivia and Elaine learn the lessons of a lifetime, with no control over the outcome of events. Elaine Goodman's decisions drastically affect her daughter's future in a situation where her motherly instincts are worthless. The naivet&eacute; of ordinary people quickly becomes a burden, hampered as they are by their ignorance of Federal law. The emotional issues between mother and daughter are difficult to navigate, especially after Olivia discovers that she is pregnant. At this point, Elaine must face life-changing decisions, for herself and her fianc&eacute;, a man not given to generosity of spirit when it comes to Olivia.<br /><br />This is an excellent first effort, full of passion and purpose, the author's call for public awareness loud and clear. As a former Federal Defender, the author's passion for the subject is clear, the court-related aspects detailed, precise and frightening. The author's most confident writing is about the trial itself, Waldman's area of expertise. Whatever its shortcomings as a first novel, Daughter's Keeper is a success, a \\"Scared Straight\\" for citizens of a truly threatening Federal judicial system, one without heart or compassion for those caught in the crosshairs. Luan Gaines/2004.her daughter's future in a situation where her motherly instincts are worthless. The naivet of ordinary people quickly becomes a burden, hampered as they are by their ignorance of Federal law. The emotional issues between mother and daughter are difficult to navigate, especially after Olivia discovers that she is pregnant. At this point, Elaine must face life-changing decisions, for herself and her fianc, a man not given to generosity of spirit when it comes to Olivia.<BR>   <BR>This is an excellent first effort, full of passion and purpose, the author's call for public awareness loud and clear. As a former Federal Defender, the author's passion for the subject is clear, the court-related aspects detailed, precise and frightening. The author's most confident writing is about the trial itself, Waldman's area of expertise. Whatever its shortcomings as a first novel, Daughter's Keeper is a success, a \\"Scared Straight\\" for citizens of a truly threatening Federal judicial system, one without heart or compassion for those caught in the crosshairs. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-01-10
832955:US	51010391	R1GDC3YWKK9AW5	0156011131	689144532	Instruments of Darkness	Books	4	17	19	N	N	(4.5) The dark side of the Dark Continent	\\"This is Africa, where everybody has mastered the art of waiting.\\" Wilson's first African mystery/suspense novel, introduces Bruce Medway, a fixer, negotiator, and manager who lives on the coast of West Africa and does the odd service for his expatriate clients.<br />Completing a shipping deal at the docks, one that involves transporting rice across state borders illegally, Medway incurs the wrath of the infamous Madame Severnou when he unknowingly conducts the transaction contrary to her wishes. The well-connected woman sends her armed goons on a midnight visit to teach Medway a lesson. Luckily, he is one step ahead of the game and anticipates the attack.<br />The next morning, Medway is hired to find a missing person, Stephen Kershaw, perhaps to draw his attention from the real implications of the Severnou deal. Kershaw has disappeared, leaving a dead woman behind. In the course of his investigation, and tangentially the murder, Medway meets one of the series' most endearing characters, the noble Inspector Bogado. A wily and subtle police detective, Bogado proves indispensable to Medway, in this novel and future works. His solemn physiognomy a familiar presence, Bogado offers his intelligent perspective and enduring friendship, often appearing just in the nick of time. Medway and Bagado sift through clues and half-truths, searching for answers to complex and intertwining mysteries with improbable solutions.<br />Medway is involved with some hard-drinking expats who walk the thin edge of the law. In the murky business affairs of West Africa, expediency is the bottom line. From Medway's first deal, moving rice into Nigeria, to the second, searching for a man who turns up dead, the situations become more convoluted and dangerous, involving illegal drug shipments, murder and police corruption. The cast ranges from wealthy entrepreneurs to hustlers, muscle men and beautiful women posing as art exporters, party girls and/or spies. To further complicate things, there is increasing political unrest, as the age of the dictator passes and the people anticipate a democracy, not anticipating the ensuing chaos and violence that comes with the changing of the guards.<br />In this first endeavor, establishing the Medway series and the characters that will populate the other suspense/mysteries, Wilson carefully lays the groundwork for an interesting character, a man who finds himself embroiled in a variety of schemes with nefarious characters that take all his skills to survive. With the help of the intrepid Inspector Bogado, Medway not only emerges in one piece, but the author paints a fascinating portrait of life in a part of the world filled with violence, imminent danger and political uncertainty. The next Medway adventure, The Big Killing, ratchets up the action even more, offering another series of adventures to test Medway's mettle. Wilson pens a mystery/adventure novel that is virtually impossible to put down, a great read. This is a quality of writing that leaves the reader begging for more. Luan Gaines/2004.increasing political unrest, as the age of the dictator passes and the people anticipate a democracy, not anticipating the ensuing chaos and violence that comes with the changing of the guards.<br />In this first endeavor, establishing the Medway series and the characters that will populate the other suspense/mysteries, Wilson carefully lays the groundwork for an interesting character, a man who finds himself embroiled in a variety of schemes with nefarious characters that take all his skills to survive. With the help of the intrepid Inspector Bogado, Medway not only emerges in one piece, but the author paints a fascinating portrait of life in a part of the world filled with violence, imminent danger and political uncertainty. The next Medway adventure, The Big Killing, ratchets up the action even more, offering another series of adventures to test Medway's mettle. Wilson pens a mystery/adventure novel that is virtually impossible to put down, a great read. This is a quality of writing that leaves the reader begging for more. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-01-10
839172:US	51010391	R2OPFJVKSQLO09	0393057984	455329509	Say That To My Face: Fiction	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Yonkers coming-of-age tale	Joey Frascone is a product of his Italian-American environment at a time when divorce is commonplace, spending his formative years in Yonkers. His parents' divorce is acrimonious, but Joey cultivates strong emotional ties to his older sister, Catherine. Dealing with parents who seethe with resentment for each other long after love has faded, the siblings learn to navigate these treacherous waters.<br />Prete writes a fictional-memoir in a series of anecdotal chapters, his personal account of American youth in transition. While the stories frequently appear random and rambling, they are the familiar tales shared by young men in an America defined by local accents and cultural attachments. And Frascone is purely Italian, his language and demeanor recognizable and endearing.<br />Joey attends school and endures the aggravations of adolescent development, surrounded by familiar faces throughout his youth. These are working class people who value their friends and neighbors, a secure identity of Americana gathered together in community.<br />Approaching maturity, Frascone faces the usual challenges, his future a source of concern. He takes a road trip with two friends and the trio travels only as far as South Carolina before they turn back. Nevertheless, this short-lived experiment offers an opportunity for emotional maturity, although not much life-experience.<br />This book doesn't carry a message, but is enjoyable as a stroll through memory lane, when life was more predictable and safe. This is, simply, a young man's coming-of-age tale, both intimidated and enticed by the larger world, savoring a childhood that has given him identity and the courage to face the future. Luan Gaines/2003.	2004-01-06
844004:US	51010391	R16U4ZP570MP5J	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Power and beauty vs a mask of evil	In 1889 there is intense competition for a world's fair celebrating Columbus Day, especially after the stunning success of the recent World Exposition in Paris, the Eiffel Tower its centerpiece. The American version is scheduled to debut in 1893; the bidding is fierce, especially the competition between Chicago and New York City and the stakes are tremendous. In a tense vote, Congress awards the opportunity of a lifetime to Chicago.<br />The selected architects are faced with an almost insurmountable task, the foundations, the grounds, the venues and, most important, an attraction that will equal the Eiffel Tower in innovation and splendor. Daniel Burnham positions himself at the helm of this great enterprise, eventually wresting fiscal control and decision-making away from those with conflicting interests. Under the leadership of the firm of Burnham and Root, the most prominent Chicago architects gather to plan this massive undertaking.These men see Chicago as the most impressive and powerful city in America and Burnham is determined to see his vision for Chicago brought to life. To this end, Burnham engages the aid of his wealthy and accomplished cohorts, many of them captains of industry in this emerging city.<br />The designing architects paint the buildings white, in a stroke of inspired genius, thus creating the mythological \\"White City\\", a jewel set into a harsh landscape, a place of wonder and imagination. Here a troubled population can forget their troubles. But, while the White City is under construction, heinous crimes occur with increasing frequency. In one of the first recorded cases of serial murder, consummate psychopath H.H. Holmes kills scores of unsuspecting young women. Holmes builds a residence-hotel, establishing himself as a businessman in Chicago, charmingly seducing his victims, many of them hired as assistants in his pharmacy or residents in his hotel. Holmes' crimes are finally uncovered after the closing of the World's Fair and people are sickened that such a monster could live in their midst, plucking victims from the naive tourists.<br />Devil in the White City brilliantly contrasts the chasm between rich and poor, good and evil, providing this thoroughly researched work with fascinating details, especially the unremitting drive toward progress in Chicago, a definitive example of the American businessman amassing great wealth through monopoly and industrialization. This new century offers unparalleled opportunity for those in a position to avail themselves of such favorable circumstances; at the same time, the poor, uneducated and unemployed are crushed beneath the blind march of progress. Had the citizens of Chicago been gifted with precognition, they would have observed a future of unprecedented leaps in industrialization and the amassing of private fortunes, all of which eventually lead to the separation of economic, educational and social classes. Luan Gaines/2004.sickened that such a monster could live in their midst, plucking victims from the naive tourists.<br />Devil in the White City brilliantly contrasts the chasm between rich and poor, good and evil, providing this thoroughly researched work with fascinating details, especially the unremitting drive toward progress in Chicago, a definitive example of the American businessman amassing great wealth through monopoly and industrialization. This new century offers unparalleled opportunity for those in a position to avail themselves of such favorable circumstances; at the same time, the poor, uneducated and unemployed are crushed beneath the blind march of progress. Had the citizens of Chicago been gifted with precognition, they would have observed a future of unprecedented leaps in industrialization and the amassing of private fortunes, all of which eventually lead to the separation of economic, educational and social classes. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-01-02
844800:US	51010391	R261U8SNDSFG8K	1400049253	228387406	The Fourth Queen: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An erotic tale of intrigue behind harem walls	In The Fourth Queen, Taylor weaves an intriguing and erotic tale of life in a harem, where the rooms are filled with incense, beautiful women, jewels and jealousy. Circa 1769, the Emperor of Morocco is allowed by religious law to marry four queens. However, those queens are exposed to all manner of sabotage from the other women in the harem, those who covet their enviable positions.<br />When Helen Gloag sails from Scotland on a ship bound for Boston, she is anticipating a new life in America. But after her ship is attacked and boarded by pirates, who abscond with the cargo and the passengers, Gloag is lost to history; here author Taylor fills in the missing details of this true-life figure. Favored with pale, freckled skin and red-gold curls, Helen is chosen by the Emperor of Morocco for his harem, so enamored is he of the pale flesh of European women. A favorite of the emperor, Helen is immersed in endless days of luxury, outrageously pampered for the emperor's enjoyment. She falls in love with this man, seduced by her own newfound concupiscence and becomes his fourth wife.<br />Jealousy festers among the women, in spite of the indulgence and luxury of harem life, each craving the attention of the emperor, each dreaming of carrying his heir. The harem's women are supervised by the Chief Eunuch, Microphilius, a dwarf, who falls under Helen's spell. Microphilius harbors a secret: he is not emasculated like the other royal eunuchs. The Black Queen, the emperor's second wife, is a mountain of fleshly pulchritude who takes Microphilius as her lover. This queen observes his attraction to Helen, but tolerates this shared affection. Suddenly, one of the queens falls ill, slowly losing her beauty and her wits. Then Helen is stricken, forced to withdraw from the emperor's embrace; and finally, a third queen, indicating that either some terrible punishment has been visited upon the queens or someone is secretly poisoning them. Microphilius must discover the cause or the culprit.<br />The story is told from two perspectives: Helen's and Microphilius'. Helen is both nave and gluttonous, hungry for wealth and attention. Microphilius watches with his more objective masculine perspective, observing an emperor capable of savage inhumanity towards others, renowned for his disparate cruelties. As Helen fall hopelessly in love, Microphilius allows her this self-deception, protecting her interests and comforting her when she becomes mysteriously ill.<br />The heavily claustrophobic air of the women's quarters turns from convivial to menacing as the emperor's pawns dance for the man who controls their fate, their small world restricted to the most intimate and selfish emotions. Taylor crafts a stunning and imaginative novel of life in a royal harem, the pages rich with the colorful personalities of the women and their interminable machinations. For all their isolation, the ladies of the harem exact their personal revenges upon the emperor's realm. Happily, excessive erotic detail doesn't sidetrack the author's focus; this excellent novel is a tightly woven tapestry of distorted emotions and unfulfilled yearning for a life more simple and livable. Luan Gaines/2004.rit.<br />The story is told from two perspectives: Helen's and Microphilius'. Helen is both nave and gluttonous, hungry for wealth and attention. Microphilius watches with his more objective masculine perspective, observing an emperor capable of savage inhumanity towards others, renowned for his disparate cruelties. As Helen fall hopelessly in love, Microphilius allows her this self-deception, protecting her interests and comforting her when she becomes mysteriously ill. <br />The heavily claustrophobic air of the women's quarters turns from convivial to menacing as the emperor's pawns dance for the man who controls their fate, their small world restricted to the most intimate and selfish emotions. Taylor crafts a stunning and imaginative novel of life in a royal harem, the pages rich with the colorful personalities of the women and their interminable machinations. For all their isolation, the ladies of the harem exact their personal revenges upon the emperor's realm. Happily, excessive erotic detail doesn't sidetrack the author's focus; this excellent novel is a tightly woven tapestry of distorted emotions and unfulfilled yearning for a life more simple and livable. Luan Gaines/2004.	2004-01-02
846385:US	51010391	R3OMK47JVI0HJA	0393051587	419595190	The Annotated Christmas Carol: A Christmas Carol in Prose (The Annotated Books)	Books	4	35	35	N	N	A new take on an old tale	Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol is as much a part of this holiday season as \\"It's a Wonderful Life\\" and this reissue of the 1976 edition, the perfect gift for traditionalists who love booklore, literary trivia and anecdotes. The Annotated Christmas Carol is that wonderful blend of hope, poverty, ghosts and folklore that illustrates the theme of greed vs. generosity in the Victorian era.<br />Who can fail to appreciate the qualities of this reissue, the stories behind the story, the people and places that so captured our imaginations? The Oxford University Press published the letters of Charles Dickens since the 1976 version, opening up a wealth of new material for Hearn to glean more details, including behind-the-scenes machinations of the original publication.<br />The archaic language is explained, as well as its origins. Hearn's meticulous research has unearthed the complexity of the tale: Dickens' autobiographical details, as well as an historical perspective, the where and how of the first printing and Dickens' oration that so enchanted his audiences.<br />Hearn has put together a small masterpiece of a treasured Christmas story, expanded, with beautiful reproductions of the original artwork. The art is outstanding; there are the photographs, lithographs and engravings sprinkled throughout the pages, lending that authentic Victorian flavor of Dickens' tale of the plight of the poor in an indifferent society. In addition, there are gorgeous four-color illustrations from the original printing. All in all, this is a book to be treasured by the family and shared in the true spirit of the season. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-12-31
846626:US	51010391	R19UX34M6VPC7R	0688163173	339916413	Shutter Island: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	(4.5) Face to face with pure evil?	Shutter Island is the kind of scary that creeps up, slowly, taking its time, compounding the menace. Marshall Teddy Daniels and his new partner Chuck Aule come to Ashecliffe Hospital for the Criminally Insane in 1954 to find an escaped murderess, Rachel Solando.<br />There are varying levels of patients at the hospital, the worst of them in Ward C. While conducting their search, unaided by top hospital personnel, Teddy mentions the loss of his wife, who died in a fire two years earlier. The arsonist responsible for that fire is currently held somewhere in the facilities, possibly in Ward C. Chuck expresses his concern that Teddy hasn't told him everything about this visit, his possible desire to seek out and confront the arsonist, Andrew Laeddis. Add to the mix a hurricane bearing down upon the island and no outside communications and the stage is set. Then a patient slips Teddy a note that says, \\"run\\"...<br />All this is merely window dressing, the bare bones plot. The truth of this terrifying novel is purely psychological and devastating. For this reader, visions of Jacob's Ladder and Carrion Comfort loom, novels equally as frightening in this particular, and exclusive, genre.<br />Lehane is the master and the characters are his puppets, beautifully manipulated through the halls of an institution where mental patients run amok, friends become foes and nothing is what it seems. In a heady mix of possibilities, hallucinogens, Nazi surgical experiments, torture, death and the ready tricks of a damaged mind, Lehane navigates through a m&eacute;lange of terror that uncovers the most basic of human fears. Teddy Daniels comes face to face with his own demons, realizing too late that he ignored the warnings all along the way. Quickly infected with Teddy's paranoia, the reader is helpless as the intrepid Marshall forges ahead, unstoppable.<br />This is not a story for the faint of heart, but Shutter Island is unquestionably a must read. Just don't make the mistake of thinking you've figured it out...Luan Gaines/2003.you've figured it out...Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-12-31
854877:US	51010391	RXHKE51K2FSCH	1931561591	280064620	Above the Thunder: A Novel	Books	4	15	17	N	N	The infinite faces of love	This unusual novel has a quiet power in the telling and speaks to the nature of loss, as well as creating the loving relationships that sustain us. Love comes into our lives in many disguises, not all of them predictable. The trick is not to overlook those precious opportunities and nurturing connections, in whatever form they appear. Above the Thunder chronicles the friendship of a divergent group of people who meet, form a family and then, inevitably, move on, but permanently alter each other's lives, transcending time and place.<br />Anna Brinkman has created a simple world for herself, centered around work and a few friends since she lost her husband.  The couple have a daughter, Poppy, who left home years before and failed to return in time for her father's death. Suddenly, a phone call interrupts the quiet days Anna has fashioned for herself: Poppy wants to come home for a visit with her husband and 12-year-old daughter, Flynn, whom Anna has never met. Once she gets past the shock of hearing Poppy's voice on the answering machine, Anna accepts the inevitable, although Poppy doesn't arrive as promised. But she sends her husband, Marvin, and Anna's granddaughter, Flynn. Like it or not, Anna's life has changed forever.<br />Meanwhile, in another household, Jack and Stuart, two gay men, believe they have at last accomplished the perfect relationship, devoted to each other, except for the handsome Jack's occasional dalliance. Eventually, Jack's careless indiscretions awaken him to the dangers of sexual promiscuity when he is diagnosed as HIV positive. After he informs his partner, Stuart asks him to leave. Jack joins Anna's HIV support group and they have an immediate connection, something neither of them expects. Certainly, Anna is pivotal in Jack's endeavor to redefine his life. Even after he reconnects with Stuart, resolving many of their most troubling issues, Jack's friendship with Anna remains steadfast and primary.<br />Flynn is at the core of this novel, a bright, intuitive little girl with an understanding far beyond her years, living in the midst of these randomly associated adults. Flynn's presence in the lives of those around her is a parable for family and belonging. The ethereal, ill-fated Flynn is an anachronism, a child riddled with dark fears and fierce imaginings, yet precious to all who meet her. Through Flynn, the characters access the deepest places in themselves, where forgiveness and generosity coexist.<br />Anna undergoes profound personal changes, loving Flynn and the others who now comprise her nuclear family. With her loving characters, Manfredi's prose transports her readers through the significant emotions that govern our days: joy, grief, compassion and love. The once self-contained Anna freely opens her heart, facing the consequences of this choice, affirming life over loss. Reminding us of those human connections that sustain us, more importantly, the author skillfully emphasizes the axiom that in life there is change. And where there is change, there is acceptance. Luan Gaines/2003.a bright, intuitive little girl with an understanding far beyond her years, living in the midst of these randomly associated adults. Flynn's presence in the lives of those around her is a parable for family and belonging. The ethereal, ill-fated Flynn is an anachronism, a child riddled with dark fears and fierce imaginings, yet precious to all who meet her. Through Flynn, the characters access the deepest places in themselves, where forgiveness and generosity coexist.<br />Anna undergoes profound personal changes, loving Flynn and the others who now comprise her nuclear family. With her loving characters, Manfredi's prose transports her readers through the significant emotions that govern our days: joy, grief, compassion and love. The once self-contained Anna freely opens her heart, facing the consequences of this choice, affirming life over loss. Reminding us of those human connections that sustain us, more importantly, the author skillfully emphasizes the axiom that in life there is change. And where there is change, there is acceptance. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-12-24
868076:US	51010391	R23V7DWPRB0L09	0786885157	396019576	Desirable Daughters: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Complicated Indian-American family relations	Yet another example of this author's unusual talent, Desirable Daughters is storytelling that is, at first, deceptively simple, but builds into a skillful and complicated portrayal of Indian-American life. What begins as a piece of family lore, the tale of an ancestor known as a \\"tree-bride\\", finds meaning in familial ties and generational memory.<br />Growing up in Calcutta, three Bengali sisters are \\"three peas in a pod\\". Convent taught, each has lived an exemplary Bengali life, the eldest and youngest, immigrating to America: Tara, the voice of the novel, is divorced from her billionaire husband and raising a teen-aged son; Didi, older than Tara by six years, resides in New Jersey, pursuing a glamorous life as a performance artist, her husband basking in her beauty and accomplishment. Yet the sisters could not be more different in their Americanized lives.<br />Didi is an enigma, part of the Indo-American glitterati, using the name Padma Mehta (the family name Bhattacherjee too difficult to pronounce) and relentlessly evasive with her sisters, especially Tara. Didi enjoys a kind of anonymity in family matters, evasive and self-protective. Tara gravitates to her middle sister, Parvati, married to a Bengali Brahmin. Parvati's family lives in a spectacular fifteenth floor high-rise overlooking the Arabian Sea; far below, the poor cobble together makeshift shelters along the water's edge, a reminder of Calcutta's dire poverty.<br />Determinedly parenting her son, Rabi, in San Francisco, Tara indulges in a live-in affair with a red-breaded, Buddhist ex-biker. When the sisters speak, they have developed a pattern of superficiality, dictated by expensive telephone rates and infrequent personal contact. \\"The whole point of these phantom family reunions is to stop time when we were... three pretty virgins in pastel saris chatting about their days in Calcutta.\\" Tara's son sees these mindless dialogs as an excuse to cling to a past that no longer exists.<br />A young man approaches Tara, calling her the familiar \\"auntie\\", bearing identification papers from his father. \\"Christopher\\" requests a meeting with Didi, whom he swears is his birth mother, although he doesn't have her address or phone number. Unconvinced, Tara tries to communicate with her older sister, but Didi refuses to consider such a ridiculous assertion. Christopher is daily more adamant and Tara resorts to other measures, including a clandestine visit to the police department.<br />No assumption, no relationship is left untouched as Tara's contentment is shattered, her family stalked by menace. Shaken out of her complacency, Tara's life has developed a fault line that will ultimately affect her son, ex-husband and eldest sister in a brilliant and convoluted plot characteristic of this author. The shallow inter-continental relationships of the three sisters are exposed to harsh reality. With utter simplicity and cunning, Mukherjee offers a fictional feast, rich in cultural detail and the endless complications of love and belonging. Luan Gaines/ 2003.proaches Tara, calling her the familiar \\"auntie\\", bearing identification papers from his father. \\"Christopher\\" requests a meeting with Didi, whom he swears is his birth mother, although he doesn't have her address or phone number. Unconvinced, Tara tries to communicate with her older sister, but Didi refuses to consider such a ridiculous assertion. Christopher is daily more adamant and Tara resorts to other measures, including a clandestine visit to the police department.<br />No assumption, no relationship is left untouched as Tara's contentment is shattered, her family stalked by menace. Shaken out of her complacency, Tara's life has developed a fault line that will ultimately affect her son, ex-husband and eldest sister in a brilliant and convoluted plot characteristic of this author. The shallow inter-continental relationships of the three sisters are exposed to harsh reality. With utter simplicity and cunning, Mukherjee offers a fictional feast, rich in cultural detail and the endless complications of love and belonging. Luan Gaines/ 2003.	2003-12-11
868412:US	51010391	RBZ65QPDQJYZD	0743456408	451131026	The Feast of Roses: A Novel	Books	4	25	29	N	N	The final chapters of an extraordinary life	In the second of two novels, The Feast of Roses relates the married life of Mehrunnisa, the twentieth wife of Emperor Jahangir of India in the 17th Century. Best known as Empress Nur Jahan, \\"The Light of the World\\", the beautiful Mehrunnisa comes from humble beginnings, but captures the Emperor's attention as a young girl, years before he is able to claim her as his wife.<br />Brought up near the women of the zenana (harem), with a powerful patron who senses her potential, Mehrunnisa is trained in the ways of court life. But she is abruptly married, with the emperor's consent, and sent to a distant post with her husband, who is in disfavor with the imperial court. Then Merhrunnisa is widowed and Emperor Jahangir returns her to his court and marries her (hence the title of Sunduresan's first novel The Twentieth Wife). The first novel covers the young Mehrunnisa's early attraction to the emperor, but ends with their marriage.<br />Although sequels are frequently disappointing, A Feast of Roses never loses its historical perspective. The research is meticulous; in addition, the author humanizes her characters, bringing them vividly to life against the turmoil of this divided court. Mehrunnisa is an extraordinary character, her bravery, loyalty and independence, virtually unheard of in Seventeenth century court life. A woman who refuses to be remembered as a footnote of history, she is an early role model, a shining example of women leaders who rise above time and place.<br /><br />The historical and romantic union addressed in The Feast of Roses portrays Mehrunnisa's sojourn as the most influential wife and trusted empress of Jahangir's reign. The emperor is content with his new wife, his beloved companion and lover, eschewing the other wives for the last one. Certainly there are ill feelings toward the powerful Empress Nur Jahan, insinuating herself into court life, usurping the place of favored consultants, including the emperor's boyhood friends and the forgotten wives, all who find themselves outside the charmed circle of power.<br />This is the love story of a common woman and an emperor who selects her as his most beloved and favored wife. Mehrunnisa serves as an advisor the emperor in matters of state, particularly when his health begins to fail. That a woman of ignoble birth can achieve a position of power is a testament to Mehrunnisa's intellect and courage and the author has given her protagonist a real presence, even though Mehrunnisa suffers banishment after the emperor's death.<br />How ironic that the Taj Mahal, built by Emperor Jahangir's son Khurram in memory his deceased wife, has become the symbol of this period, surpassing the memory of the Empress Nur Jahan. Truly a \\"Light of the World\\", Mehrunnia is an extraordinary role model, a woman of great achievement, centuries before her time. Luan Gaines/ 2003.s, all who find themselves outside the charmed circle of power.<br />This is the love story of a common woman and an emperor who selects her as his most beloved and favored wife. Mehrunnisa serves as an advisor the emperor in matters of state, particularly when his health begins to fail. That a woman of ignoble birth can achieve a position of power is a testament to Mehrunnisa's intellect and courage and the author has given her protagonist a real presence, even though Mehrunnisa suffers banishment after the emperor's death.<br />How ironic that the Taj Mahal, built by Emperor Jahangir's son Khurram in memory his deceased wife, has become the symbol of this period, surpassing the memory of the Empress Nur Jahan. Truly a \\"Light of the World\\", Mehrunnia is an extraordinary role model, a woman of great achievement, centuries before her time. Luan Gaines/ 2003.	2003-12-11
870618:US	51010391	R3NS7Z0APQJC6O	1580084419	496618705	No Place for a Lady: Tales of Adventurous Women Travelers	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	Globe-trotting women adventurers	Hodgson has created a number of artistic books, full of extraordinary illustrations, fanciful tales a la' Nick Bantock. But Hodgson has established her own niche, mined her own particular vein of creativity, beautifully stylized and visually compelling.<br />In No Place for a Lady, the author has combined her definitive artistic style with a series of female adventures, travels undertaken by women drawn to broadening their cultural horizons from Russia to Africa to Japan. These women have one thing in common: an insatiable curiosity to see the world. Covering the 17-19th Centuries, these women come either from a bored middle-class or are of the upper class, indulging their unremitting wanderlust.<br />There are women in exile, those in search of a place where the fair sex will be treated with dignity rather than contempt, others avoiding the reality of their travails and seekers on religious pilgrimages. Throughout their journeys, such women exhibit exceptional bravery and a willingness to endure inconvenience and discomfort for the sake of traveling. The ladies are educated and self-confident, predominately British.<br />The wide range of personalities found in No Place for a Lady, show a common spirit, energy and endurance. Mary Shelley, author of Frankenstein, prefers Italy, as does Mme. Anne Louise Germaine de Stael, an outspoken intellectual and novelist. Others, like French Violoncellist Lise Christiani braves Siberia, a musician determined to perform at the court of St. Petersburg in 1849 \\"to make her fortune\\". A number of female travelers visit Egypt by the 1840's, if only to write later about their inconvenience and discomfort in widely published diaries. Of these, Sophia Poole includes bits of history, economics and edited correspondence, hoping for broader audience appeal when her journal is printed. Frances Trollope spends four years in the United States, traveling widely across the landscape, energetically writing of American \\"boorishness\\".<br />Throughout, full-page sepia illustrations add to the Victorian flavor of this book, as well as four-color maps and illustrations, all of which make a fascinating journal of lady-adventurers. Hodgson's tales mix exotic locales with that special fastidiousness that attends these ladies, in language that is precise and ladylike, tramping boldly across continents few adventurous women have seen before. Luan Gaines/ 2003.out, full-page sepia illustrations add to the Victorian flavor of this book, as well as four-color maps and illustrations, all of which make a fascinating journal of lady-adventurers. Hodgson's tales mix exotic locales with that special fastidiousness that attends these ladies, in language that is precise and ladylike, tramping boldly across continents few adventurous women have seen before. Luan Gaines/ 2003.	2003-12-09
870638:US	51010391	R2D4027O652U9G	0393050947	62636871	The Well-Educated Mind: A Guide to the Classical Education You Never Had	Books	4	33	39	N	N	(4.5) A cirriculum for self-education	\\"A guide to the classical education you never had.\\" This is the perfect tool for anyone who wants to challenge their reading level, improve comprehension and increase powers of critical judgment. Bauer has written a thorough and informative guide, wherein he tackles various disciplines, outlining techniques for adults who wish to improve their deductive reasoning.<br />Within the histories of five genres- fiction, autobiography, history, drama and poetry, the author suggests techniques for improvement in critical thinking as well as interpreting the intent of the author. For example, under the chapter on autobiography, a first read-through, or grammar-stage reading, is followed by the second level, logic-stage reading and finally, the third level, rhetoric-stage reading. The reader's levels of perception are increased with each stage of reading. Each section is followed by a selection of specific annotated works, such as \\"The Confession\\" of Augustine and \\"The Meditations\\" of Rene Descartes.<br />I consider these annotated examples after each chapter one of the premier attractions of The Well-Educated Mind. Specifically applicable to each genre, the selections provide important insights into the nature of each discipline. The sources are wide-ranging, including many notable authors, from Machiavelli to Emily Dickinson. For instance, in Chapter Eight, \\"Reading Through History with Drama\\", sub-topic \\"The Triumph of Ideas\\", Bauer discusses the Romantics and their revolt against the Age of Enlightenment, replacing humans as thinking machines with emotional perception and creativity. In this manner, playwrights are perceived as artists uninhibited by the rules of convention, shaking off Aristotelian ideals and becoming freer in expression, albeit angst-ridden.<br />Like many avid readers, I have a stack of books on my nightstand, \\"must read\\" novels and non-fiction titles. The Well-Educated Mind is a book that has a special place in my intended-reading stack and every few evenings it offers a few hours of enlightenment, as I delve into chapters on history, autobiography or poetry. Any such venture into the world of literature offers an opportunity to broaden my ideas and indulge my curiosity.<br />Using the same technique as in her previous book, The Well-Trained Mind, now a staple of parents that home school their children, Bauer introduces readers to the pleasures of classical education. Erudite and accessible, Bauer's effort is exceptionally appealing in manner of presentation and choice of annotated works. The author misses nothing, including inconsistencies in translation and divergent historical perspectives. The Well-Educated Mind is a welcome addition to any personal library. Luan Gaines/2003.evenings it offers a few hours of enlightenment, as I delve into chapters on history, autobiography or poetry. Any such venture into the world of literature offers an opportunity to broaden my ideas and indulge my curiosity.<br />Using the same technique as in her previous book, The Well-Trained Mind, now a staple of parents that home school their children, Bauer introduces readers to the pleasures of classical education. Erudite and accessible, Bauer's effort is exceptionally appealing in manner of presentation and choice of annotated works. The author misses nothing, including inconsistencies in translation and divergent historical perspectives. The Well-Educated Mind is a welcome addition to any personal library. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-12-09
870745:US	51010391	R1U178Q7BZM10F	0060534621	330114902	The Movies of My Life	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A life in Black and White	Reviewing the fifty most memorable movies of his formative years, Fuguet's novel approach delves into the emotional issues that shaped his young life and the man he has become. Chronicling his childhood years in California and his native Chile, each film becomes a vehicle into the past. Now a seismologist of note in Chile, Beltran Soler has buried himself in scientific research and accomplishment, preferring a solitary existence, one with few family ties or sustained personal relationships.<br />Flying from Chile to Japan, Soler has a stopover in Los Angeles, where, rather than continuing his journey, he settles into a hotel room and a painful journey through the minefield of his childhood. His memories are filled with eccentric family members and folklore, as many relatives immigrate to California, a cultural enclave in the San Fernando Valley, reminiscent of their beautiful Chilean landscape. This extended family is as culturally diverse as any in recent fiction, providing important childhood connections. When his father distances himself from wife and children, Beltran's mother, aunts, uncles and grandparents are a touchstone for the young boy.<br />Fleeing Pinochet's Chile for Nixon's United States, the family acclimates to California, blending their cultural identity with their new lives, rejecting a description as displaced South Americans \\"relying on nothing but their foundations of supposedly being white\\", denying their Latino roots. However, the Chileans are not accepted as white in their new land. Later, returning to live in Chile with his mother and sister, Beltran is particularly influenced by his maternal grandfather, a seismologist with a significant reputation in the scientific community, who guides his grandson's future career.<br />Although Chile is in constant political upheaval, the family is safely cocooned by their scientific pursuits. As male role models, both grandfathers have a profound influence on Beltran's development, one a frivolous poseur, the other a demanding, if respected, patriarch. Along with his father, these men are distant and emotionally unengaged. When Beltran looks back over those critical early years, it isn't surprising that he is as far removed from reality as a moviegoer, watching the drama unfold on the screen.<br />Beltran journals compulsively day after day, confronting long-suppressed memories, secrets and anguish never acknowledged. Purging the past, Beltran faces the pain of abandonment that he has so successfully avoided. Clearly, the need to for sustained personal connections is not constricted by place or culture and Beltran is called to participate in his own life; whether he does this as a Chilean or an American is irrelevant. With elegant grace and synchronicity, the author paints a portrait of loss, the importance of family and the reality of cultural identification. Unwilling to live in this sad isolation, Beltran reaches across the miles, reconnecting to those he loves, returning to the affection of time and place that so defines him. Luan Gaines/2003.seur, the other a demanding, if respected, patriarch. Along with his father, these men are distant and emotionally unengaged. When Beltran looks back over those critical early years, it isn't surprising that he is as far removed from reality as a moviegoer, watching the drama unfold on the screen.<br />Beltran journals compulsively day after day, confronting long-suppressed memories, secrets and anguish never acknowledged. Purging the past, Beltran faces the pain of abandonment that he has so successfully avoided. Clearly, the need to for sustained personal connections is not constricted by place or culture and Beltran is called to participate in his own life; whether he does this as a Chilean or an American is irrelevant. With elegant grace and synchronicity, the author paints a portrait of loss, the importance of family and the reality of cultural identification. Unwilling to live in this sad isolation, Beltran reaches across the miles, reconnecting to those he loves, returning to the affection of time and place that so defines him. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-12-09
877887:US	51010391	RKTLIZLLNGVXR	1931561109	811657718	The Secret of Hurricanes	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Emotional devastation and a shattered childhood	At first glance, this novel is full of lyricism, of powerful images, memories and the intimate landscape of abandonment as Pearl Starling, a forty-five-year-old woman, a now-pregnant eccentric, relates her solitary life. She receives some small comfort by withholding the name of the father from the town, allowing them their own assumptions.<br />Pearl ruminates over the losses of the Kennedy family, identifying with the family's consuming grief, offering a hint of the sorrow that she has carried through the years, albeit of a much darker nature. This sorrow is the defining emotion of Pearl's life. As a young girl, Pearl is loved distantly by her mother and ignored by her alcoholic, womanizing father, the emotions of the three Starlings confined to their small trailer in Waterville, North Carolina; Pearl still lives in that trailer, alone.<br />Reaching puberty, the young Pearl aches for affection, without comprehension of appropriate boundaries. Her developing body seeks this attention from the opposite sex, older boys from a military base near town and a neighbor as old as her father. Not understanding the complications of sexuality, Pearl has no emotional compass, no one to guide her out-of-bounds yearnings, drawn to the most dangerous men who use her as they see fit.<br />There is a difference between exploring memories, putting such horrors finally at rest and moving into the present. Revisiting the past as an exercise of memory can be a dangerous endeavor when boundaries are an issue. Pearl is unable to break free of her crippling experiences and the attendant guilt, in a futile search for emotional satiety that doesn't exist.<br />Throughout, Pearl is telling the story to her unborn child, whom she believes will be a daughter. Through the protagonist the author speaks of hope, but her actions are those of loss and repetition. The quality of Pearl's motherhood will be determined by the vocabulary she chooses. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-12-04
890483:US	51010391	R2Z4N7DRY8CBC6	0452281296	559569265	In the Cut	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Today's "Looking for Mr. Goodbar"	I was curious about this book when the movie was released and wondered if it would be tastefully done. I expected the story to be flashy, shallow and exploitative. Instead, it is shocking, edgy, vaguely threatening. And a compulsive page -turner.<br />A thirty-five-year-old professor of creative writing, Frannie works with inner-city students, lives in a bohemian neighborhood in Manhattan and loves language, spending hours considering the uses of cultural slang. She even compiles a dictionary of common street phrases and their meanings. Frannie has an aura of vulnerability wherever she goes, in her neighborhood, the city streets and the clubs she frequents.<br />Almost unconsciously putting herself at risk, perhaps in rebellion, Frannie is so involved in her writer's world that she ignores any real danger. When first she sees Detective Malloy, in a club, he is engaged in an intimate act with a woman, a woman who later turns up dead, murdered. From their first encounter, there is an immediate and powerful physical attraction between Frannie and Detective Malloy, undeniably sexual. As the romantic interest, Malloy is irresistible: the cop with a roving eye, every woman's fantasy of the tough guy with a badge and a way with the ladies.<br />Franny isn't exactly looking for Mr. Goodbar, taking those kinds of risks, but is attractive and accessible, her casual insouciance a turn-on. She senses danger around the edges of her vision, but poor eyesight allows Frannie a kind of distance from reality. This woman strides through life like Holly GoLightly in Hell's Kitchen, Alice fallen through the looking glass into Bosch's nightmare world. After an attack on a dark street late at night, Frannie decides it is wise to be more circumspect. Such precautions are well intended, but too late: the inevitable is already set in motion. The suspense escalates, as does Malloy's quasi-deviant sexual seduction.<br />The scenes in the detective squad are pitch perfect, with believable characters and realistic dialog. As Frannie finally acknowledges her fear, also recognizing her conflicted feelings for Malloy, the scenes fast forward, blinking on and off, black and white...and red. With palpable menace, there is a shocking climax. This is an erotic and intense mystery, with uninhibited sexuality (think \\"9 and  Weeks\\"), a race toward one of the most horrific endings I have read in a while. Not to be missed. Luan Gaines/2003.acters and realistic dialog. As Frannie finally acknowledges her fear, also recognizing her conflicted feelings for Malloy, the scenes fast forward, blinking on and off, black and white...and red. With palpable menace, there is a shocking climax. This is an erotic and intense mystery, with uninhibited sexuality (think \\"9 and  Weeks\\"), a race toward one of the most horrific endings I have read in a while. Not to be missed. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-11-23
891088:US	51010391	R1Y9LN3DH87LVM	0743406168	718662431	Bone House	Books	4	1	1	N	N	In the eye of the beholder	Village life is quiet and uneventful in 17th Century England, the people godly and hardworking, far removed from the temptations of a large city. Dora is the local prostitute, larger than life in stature, personality and reputation, come from \\"across the sea\\". Everything changes when Dora's lifeless body is found at the bottom of a ravine, apparently an accident. When it becomes known that Dora was pregnant, suspicions are awakened.<br />Dora has a son, Long Boy, now left to fend for himself, with only a neighboring midwife to care for his needs. An oversized eleven-year-old with the mind of a child and the body of a man, Long Boy is distraught, but no one is able to comfort him.<br />The daughter of the midwife is a maid who works in the Great House as a servant. She enjoyed Dora, was fascinated by her strength, her common sense and her bravery in living alone, supporting herself and the boy. This young maid can't shake the feeling that there is more behind the prostitute's death than is immediately apparent.<br />Unfortunately, this small Elizabethan village is a place haunted by religious paranoia and a pervasive fear of \\"Satan\\". Their lives are constrained by strict moral convention, even more vulnerable to the fears that run rampant through their superstitious minds. Suspicious of witches, the villagers are determined to blame the death on someone.<br />Determined to get to the bottom of the matter, the girl listens carefully to gossip in the Great House, while performing duties for her master, Edward, whose body is twisted by birth defects. Daily, she cares for Edward's aging mother, who is frequently ill, perhaps even dying. The mistress hires a painter to do her portrait, in spite of her illness, hoping the deformed Edward will agree to sit for one as well. Edward makes a different request of the painter: recreate Dora's face, using the maid as a guide for the likeness. The maid has no time to indulge in romantic fantasies, although she is attracted to the portrait painter. But even the painter has a strange tale to tell, in the end, and a connection to Dora. Through the emotional trauma, it never occurs to the young woman that anyone would offer her comfort.<br />Presented with the damning testimony of neighbors, the midwife is accused of Dora's death. The maid doggedly pursues each clue and when evidence points to her own family history, secrets her mother has kept for nineteen years, the girl summons considerable fortitude, ready to face the ugly truth and force others to listen.<br />In a century riddled with superstition, this novel echoes with the ignorance so common to rural villages. Isolation breeds suspicion; women are vulnerable to accusations by others, often prompted by jealousy. In such a place and time, the maid might toil her years away as a servant in the Great House, her future preordained by circumstance. Masters control their servants, with the power to offer them days of drudgery or small comforts. Dora is an anomaly in this village, a woman who is tolerated because of her good spirit and inner strength: \\"She did not choose fate, but created it.\\" Luan Gaines/2003.portrait painter. But even the painter has a strange tale to tell, in the end, and a connection to Dora. Through the emotional trauma, it never occurs to the young woman that anyone would offer her comfort. <br />Presented with the damning testimony of neighbors, the midwife is accused of Dora's death. The maid doggedly pursues each clue and when evidence points to her own family history, secrets her mother has kept for nineteen years, the girl summons considerable fortitude, ready to face the ugly truth and force others to listen.<br />In a century riddled with superstition, this novel echoes with the ignorance so common to rural villages. Isolation breeds suspicion; women are vulnerable to accusations by others, often prompted by jealousy. In such a place and time, the maid might toil her years away as a servant in the Great House, her future preordained by circumstance. Masters control their servants, with the power to offer them days of drudgery or small comforts. Dora is an anomaly in this village, a woman who is tolerated because of her good spirit and inner strength: \\"She did not choose fate, but created it.\\" Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-11-23
893709:US	51010391	R38JD4EC5NZ6W6	0446533025	605663289	The Salt Roads	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The evolution of a goddess	This fabulist tale begins on the island of Saint Domingue, eventually known as Haiti, the scene of slave revolutions and oppressive masters. On one dark night, three slave women bury the tiny body of a stillborn, returning him to the earth. Each of the women experiences an unsettling sensation, in fact, the birth of a goddess, Elizi, brought forth from the depths of their grief. The afro-Caribbean goddess exemplifies the enduring strengths, eternal beauty and fertility of womanhood in all its permutations, evolving over time, as she inhabits the world through three specific women.<br />The first woman who hosts Ezili is Jeanne Duval, a half-black, half-white dancer, who has captured the heart of poet Charles Baudelaire in 1842 Paris. Baudelaire is Jeanne's only hope for the future, as her present is riddled by poverty and it's inherent pitfalls. The poet comes from a wealthy family, although his mother eventually disowns him after his many years of cohabitation with his sultry and sensual mistress. The reader sees Paris through the eyes of this woman, who pleasures a wealthy man to maintain her place in society.<br />Changing time and place, in 1792 the island of Saint Dominigue's economy is driven by sugar cane, the slaves endlessly toiling in the fields, harvesting the lucrative cane crop. Most of these slaves have come on slave ships from Africa, their life spans shortened by perpetual hunger and exotic diseases indigenous to the island. The second visitation of the goddess is through Mer, an older slave. Gifted in the healing arts, Mer attends the slaves on the plantation, burdened by her intimate awareness of their shameful existence. Mer communicates directly with the ocean goddess, who speaks to her of salt: the salt of tears, of the ocean and the womanly rites of passage.<br />Finally, Meritet, a young Alexandrian woman of pleasure, is the third vessel of the emerging Elizi. Traveling with a young male prostitute to the former Jerusalem, Meritet is beset with an unexpected loss, followed by a spiritual transformation, one that changes her from prostitute to legend.<br />Moving gracefully through time, each woman acts as a vehicle in the evolution of Hopkinson's goddess. Rich, earthy and sensual, the powerful prose describes a passionate people. Striding through history, ribald and uninhibited, the author speaks for those without voices, enchanting, seducing and raging at the weight of injustice.<br />Hopkinson has penned a fantastical tale of empowerment and joyful sexuality, but accomplishes much more: the intoxicating prose entertains and informs, indicting the brutal institution of slavery. Guided by the author's powerful intuition, take this exceptional journey, as mysterious as the world of the spirit and as real as the steel chains that bind the limbs of those bought and sold. Luan Gaines/2003.h an unexpected loss, followed by a spiritual transformation, one that changes her from prostitute to legend.<br />Moving gracefully through time, each woman acts as a vehicle in the evolution of Hopkinson's goddess. Rich, earthy and sensual, the powerful prose describes a passionate people. Striding through history, ribald and uninhibited, the author speaks for those without voices, enchanting, seducing and raging at the weight of injustice.<br />Hopkinson has penned a fantastical tale of empowerment and joyful sexuality, but accomplishes much more: the intoxicating prose entertains and informs, indicting the brutal institution of slavery. Guided by the author's powerful intuition, take this exceptional journey, as mysterious as the world of the spirit and as real as the steel chains that bind the limbs of those bought and sold. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-11-20
897207:US	51010391	R2QID25O767GJ1	0375422390	339365677	In Times of Siege	Books	4	3	3	N	N	When they came for me, there was no one left to speak	This elegant little novel begins with an unusual arrangement: a college student breaks her leg and asks her guardian, a friend of her parents, if she can stay with him until the cast is removed in six weeks. Professor Shiv Murthy is tantalized by the idea, even though his wife is currently visiting their daughter in Seattle and Meena doesn't think her parents need to know about her slight inconvenience. Of course, the middle-aged man is unable to resist this faintly scandalous arrangement.<br />Shiv composes medieval history courses for college correspondence students, so it is a simple thing for him to request a leave of absence from his assigned office, working from home on his lectures. Meena occupies the professor's small study, enjoying his attentions; neither expects the political maelstrom about to descend upon their quietude.<br />The professor has drifted into euphoric days, shopping and cooking for two, chatting comfortably over afternoon tea, Murthy indulging in the occasional sexual fantasy: \\"Wherever he is in the house....Shiv is aware of another presence. The woman in the narrow bed in his study, a young woman.\\" But Shiv's private romantic fantasies are innocent.<br />Shiv's content is Meena's boredom. In any case, their peace is destroyed by a phone call, when a reporter asks whether Professor Murthy is taking a \\"forced\\" leave. A group of fundamentalists has attacked Murthy's lecture on the life of a 12th Century poet/reformer, who challenged the caste system, working for social reform and equality. The extremist's real agenda is the suppression of any conflict in Indian history, in effect, historical revisionism, creating the illusion of a perfect, homogenous society. Their methods of bullying and intimidation are not an issue.<br />Shiv is a simple, uncomplicated man who avoids confrontation. With the young woman's guidance, Shiv understands the significance of the situation. Rising to the occasion, Meena demands that he take a stand, calling her college friends to aid in his defense. Inspired by the poet's struggle in 1168 and his own predicament in 2000, Shiv is inspired to speak out against the bullying of the fundamentalists and his right to teach history with integrity.<br />While Meena is at the center of their small world, Shiv is isolated from the larger concerns around him. Yet Meena is the catalyst that enables Shiv to confront his biggest challenge. Their intimate domestic contretemps evolves into an awakening to the dangers of revisionism, the implicit deception of censorship on demand.<br />Hariharan has written a parable for our times, one with an important message for any country that allows the censorship of facts. The author deftly stages her battle in New Delhi, but the parallels are obvious. This powerful novel offers a thoughtful reminder about the freedoms we take for granted. Luan Gaines/2003.college friends to aid in his defense. Inspired by the poet's struggle in 1168 and his own predicament in 2000, Shiv is inspired to speak out against the bullying of the fundamentalists and his right to teach history with integrity.<br />While Meena is at the center of their small world, Shiv is isolated from the larger concerns around him. Yet Meena is the catalyst that enables Shiv to confront his biggest challenge. Their intimate domestic contretemps evolves into an awakening to the dangers of revisionism, the implicit deception of censorship on demand. <br />Hariharan has written a parable for our times, one with an important message for any country that allows the censorship of facts. The author deftly stages her battle in New Delhi, but the parallels are obvious. This powerful novel offers a thoughtful reminder about the freedoms we take for granted. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-11-17
900691:US	51010391	R3N5W2VH77KY7M	0679421475	426549876	And the Dead Shall Rise: The Murder of Mary Phagan and the Lynching of Leo Frank	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Pride, prejudice and the loss of innocence	In 1913, the 20th century hardly begun, 13-year-old Mary Phagan is murdered at the pencil factory where she works in Atlanta, Georgia and eventually the man arrested for the crime is lynched by a mob after the governor commutes his death sentence. Such is the bare bones of this tragic episode of crime and punishment gone wrong. However, the evidence is confusing, witnesses untruthful and the people all too willing to scapegoat a young married Jew in their midst, Leo Frank. This murder would be processed like any other crime but for the confluence of circumstances that serve up the innocent Leo Frank as the culprit.<br />While detectives gather often-conflicting evidence and witness statements, the opposing newspapers, north and south, run sensational headlines, describing the atrocities of the murder. Each had an axe to grind in the stories they circulate. The northern papers point to the long history of anti-Semitism in the South and the southern papers editorialize against the outside influence of moneyed capitalists interfering with their home rule. One result of this polarized disagreement: the establishment of the Anti-Defamation League and the infamous Ku Klux Klan.<br />White and black, the good citizens of Atlanta look to Leo Frank, prompted by the fear and hatred of the Jews he represents. As the deeply racial issues focus the force of the town's wrath on an innocent man, most grievous is the unexamined testimony of a black man of questionable repute, testimony that is damning to Frank. Supposedly this witness, Jim Conley, is the only witness to the crime, although there is another witness, one who remains silent until 1983, when Alonzo Mann, 85-years-old, finally admitted that he saw Conley carrying Phagan's lifeless body and that Conley threatened his life if he told.<br />By its very detailed account, And the Dead Shall Rise is an indictment of a warped judicial system in a city blinded by its anti-Semitism, inflamed by facile politicians with private agendas. Political careers are made during the Phagan affair; to date, no one has been indicted for the abduction and lynching of Leo Frank. However, this book does what none other has accomplished: Oney names the politicians behind the lynching as well as member of the lynch mob.<br />An enormous undertaking, this important book reveals the complex, behind-the-scenes manipulation of events, a stark portrait of greed and political self-promotion. Oney calls it \\"the conflict that transformed murder into myth\\", tackling a virtual mountain of court records, affidavits and transcripts, sorting through a constantly shifting landscape of information. Unfortunately, all of the handwritten records were lost over the years, forensic evidence left forever in doubt. Likely the definitive book on the murder of Mary Phagan and the lynching of Leo Frank, And the Dead Shall Rise catalogs the people and events of a shameful time in our history, a story as complicated and dense as the issues that have long divided this country: race, greed and prejudice. Luan Gaines/2003.gendas. Political careers are made during the Phagan affair; to date, no one has been indicted for the abduction and lynching of Leo Frank. However, this book does what none other has accomplished: Oney names the politicians behind the lynching as well as member of the lynch mob.<br />An enormous undertaking, this important book reveals the complex, behind-the-scenes manipulation of events, a stark portrait of greed and political self-promotion. Oney calls it \\"the conflict that transformed murder into myth\\", tackling a virtual mountain of court records, affidavits and transcripts, sorting through a constantly shifting landscape of information. Unfortunately, all of the handwritten records were lost over the years, forensic evidence left forever in doubt. Likely the definitive book on the murder of Mary Phagan and the lynching of Leo Frank, And the Dead Shall Rise catalogs the people and events of a shameful time in our history, a story as complicated and dense as the issues that have long divided this country: race, greed and prejudice. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-11-14
901693:US	51010391	R1T38PFFP5LPXS	1931561427	287541287	In the Breeze of Passing Things: A Novel	Books	3	7	8	N	N	(3.5)&quot;In a permanent state of temporary&quot;	This is one of those small, but intense novels, an attempt to exorcise the demons of the past, in this case, the shadowed memories of a ten-year-old girl, Iva.  The familiar theme of children set adrift by their parent's emotional inadequacies is, unfortunately, ever a source of inspiration as those children purge past hurts by telling the stories that shaped their childhoods. The common anthem of the dislocated American family, the cycle of dysfunction is so entrenched that it has a rhythm all its own, as one generation after another flounders, never quite able to set things right.<br />Dragging along little sister Mally from one house to another on a three-year odyssey of disenfranchised childhood, Iva narrates the sad tale of a mother and two daughters as they search for a place to make a home, one minus the beloved father. The parents, Jameson and Lilly Giles, once so perfectly matched in their love for one another, have come unglued by Jameson's suicidal obsession and his consistent refusal to take the medications that would offer him some relief. But Jameson is also attached to his morbid obsessions and unwilling to relinquish them for the real-time love of wife and children.<br />Lilly flees with the girls, an attempt to rescue them all from Jameson's downward spiral. She has finally reached a point where living with the love is more painful than the loss. But Ida is her daddy's girl, and she misses her father most grievously, perhaps as much as Lilly. Lilly is afraid that her oldest daughter will be understand the dynamics of the marriage and turn her adolescent pain on her mother. But Lilly's deepest fear is that Iva will recognize her mother's weakness as a woman without a man, her complicity in this melodrama that makes an awful game out of homelessness.<br />In the light of day, their so-called adventure drags mother and daughters into ever more desperate circumstances, as Lilly sells everything they own and they are left with only the car, where they often sleep at night, off the road: \\"And even if she forgets we're children who's teeth could rot, Mother knows us here.\\" Moving from rented house to rented house, motel to motel, Lilly's sister offers the emotional orphans a place to stay, crowding them into an already full house of four. Eventually, this home is too small to hold so many personalities as tempers flare. Years have passed, three years of anguish for Iva, who yearns desperately for a father she has not seen in what seems a lifetime. Iva decides she can wait no more for other people to determine the course of her life.<br />The author writes with stunning, lyrical prose that does much to lift the sadness that is such a part of Iva's fragile composure. Still, this story is told by a grown woman, well hidden inside a pre-adolescent girl, one who longs to change a lonely past. The novel's confessional, uncertain tone has the distant voice of confused childhood, trapped by the endlessly selfish behavior of the adults who provide shelter. But little girls grow up to become women. Then caution is imperative, lest a woman nourish her lost self, always searching, rather than embracing the courage of the true self. Luan Gaines/2003.ften sleep at night, off the road: \\"And even if she forgets we're children who's teeth could rot, Mother knows us here.\\" Moving from rented house to rented house, motel to motel, Lilly's sister offers the emotional orphans a place to stay, crowding them into an already full house of four. Eventually, this home is too small to hold so many personalities as tempers flare. Years have passed, three years of anguish for Iva, who yearns desperately for a father she has not seen in what seems a lifetime. Iva decides she can wait no more for other people to determine the course of her life.<br />The author writes with stunning, lyrical prose that does much to lift the sadness that is such a part of Iva's fragile composure. Still, this story is told by a grown woman, well hidden inside a pre-adolescent girl, one who longs to change a lonely past. The novel's confessional, uncertain tone has the distant voice of confused childhood, trapped by the endlessly selfish behavior of the adults who provide shelter. But little girls grow up to become women. Then caution is imperative, lest a woman nourish her lost self, always searching, rather than embracing the courage of the true self. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-11-14
905193:US	51010391	R3W3L68PAYNVXY	0743243307	864788878	Brick Lane: A Novel	Books	4	43	47	N	N	Sweeping the past from the Yellow brick Road	I am a devoted fan of Indian novelists, those particularly observant writers who miss no detail while creating intensely personal landscapes of time and place. In Brick Lane, author Ali examines the life of Nazneen, a young Bangladeshi wife. The young woman settles in a London enclave filled with other Bengali tenants, all seeking assimilation while maintaining their cultural identity. Surrounded by familiar objects and customs, the immigrant community is constantly assailed by the inevitability of Westernization.<br />Following custom, Nazneen dutifully accepts marriage to the much older Chanu. Nazneen is an obedient wife, settled now in her London flat, her homesickness brightened by letters from Hasina, Nazneen's sister, who flaunts tradition by marrying for love. Over the years, the differences in their worlds are apparent, as the letters they exchange reflect their diverse paths. Through their letters, Nazneen examines her days as mother and wife, governed by minutiae, while Hasina is often at the mercy of changing circumstances.<br />Bengali lives are governed by strict traditions. While eyes watch and tongues wag with gossip, most of the women shun Westernization. Still, there is a profound cultural disturbance beneath the surface of the Bengali's world. It is nearly impossible to make a decent living; most are forced to work demeaning jobs to support their households, regardless of education and among the young people, there is a growing unrest. Some embrace the new lifestyle, while others are outraged by the implicit denial of Islamic tradition.<br />Nazneen is patient, wedded to her fate, but the couple's two daughters are a constant irritation to Chanu, especially the oldest, who exhibits the usual teenage angst. Accepting employment as a taxi driver, working nights, he finally acknowledges the sad truth of his diminished job prospects. Borrowing from a moneylender, Chanu purchases a sewing machine for Nazneen so she can do piecework for a local manufacturer, contributing to the family income.<br />While doing this piecework, Nazneen meets a young man with revolutionary dreams who yearns to direct the local Muslim population away from secularization and back to strict religious traditions. Karim picks up Nazneen's sewing daily and befriending her, he gradually challenges Nazneen to redefine her priorities and unquestioning acceptance of Fate's directives. For the first time, through his eyes, Nazneen views herself as a woman.<br />This is a small story on a large canvas, the universal struggle of people searching for personal definition and quality of life. Like pieces of a quilt, Ali stitches her eccentric characters together with subtle precision, from kind-hearted, plain-faced friends to hawkish moneylenders bleeding customers dry and pedantic old men longing for their birth country. While they trudge through daily difficulties, dreaming of home, most Bengali's accept their gradual acculturation, if unwittingly. In her way, Nazneen struggles to find her voice as a mother and wife, a woman of two worlds. Luan Gaines/2003.rer, contributing to the family income. <br />While doing this piecework, Nazneen meets a young man with revolutionary dreams who yearns to direct the local Muslim population away from secularization and back to strict religious traditions. Karim picks up Nazneen's sewing daily and befriending her, he gradually challenges Nazneen to redefine her priorities and unquestioning acceptance of Fate's directives. For the first time, through his eyes, Nazneen views herself as a woman.<br />This is a small story on a large canvas, the universal struggle of people searching for personal definition and quality of life. Like pieces of a quilt, Ali stitches her eccentric characters together with subtle precision, from kind-hearted, plain-faced friends to hawkish moneylenders bleeding customers dry and pedantic old men longing for their birth country. While they trudge through daily difficulties, dreaming of home, most Bengali's accept their gradual acculturation, if unwittingly. In her way, Nazneen struggles to find her voice as a mother and wife, a woman of two worlds. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-11-11
907956:US	51010391	RE12MSZPJTL4M	1931561524	361014401	Mooney in Flight	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Fits of passion and flights of fancy	When a friend dies and leaves Leonard Mooney a house on a remote desert island, he<br />Cannot turn away from this unexpected opportunity. Packing his belongings, Mooney bids adieu to his current wife and flies away, ready to take possession of the posthumous abode. Like any middle-aged man in flight from reality and his personal demons, Mooney romanticizes his new identity, fancying himself an eccentric hermit, albeit armed with plenty of staples, the most important his cases of rum.<br />Gradually falling prey to the elements, the island house is habitable, outfitted with the basics of survival. Mooney makes elaborate plans for the endless days that lie ahead, days of exploration and self-perusal. But Mooney is unprepared for the suffocating heat of the tiny island, soon prone to rum-soaked naps and wakeful nights. He wanders his kingdom at night, exploring, hacking through resistant brush with a machete, flashlight in hand. Mooney stumbles upon a small shack, thinks he sees a light shining from it. Like a terrified Robinson Crusoe coming upon Friday's footprints, Mooney hightails it back to the house, shivering in fear. Eventually working up his courage, he returns to find that the light was a figment of his imagination, a shaft of moonlight on corrugated tin.<br />Mooney plods drunkenly along, industriously clearing land with a bulldozer found in the shack, an attempt to stay occupied through the long nights. Instead, he has unwittingly shaped the length of an airstrip, extending an open invitation to unwanted company. When real visitors do arrive, drug traffickers, he isn't sure how to deal with them. These visitors drop in whenever they need to disappear for a day or two, the new airstrip a welcome convenience, Mooney's antics a distraction from boredom.<br />Clearly Mooney has led less than a satisfying life, toiling at a spectacularly mundane job.<br />But this is a man who deserted his family in spirit long before escaping to the island. Now he slogs through the endless days and spends hours ruminating about the past, his ex-wife Reba, son and daughter. Mooney's adventures range from delusion to fear to outrage, as he attempts to sort through an exceptionally well-squandered life in this fanciful, meandering tale.<br />There is always hope, even for such a pathetic soul. In Mooney's case, hope comes in the form of a young girl, Arden, one of the island visitors, who is near the age of his own daughter. In many ways Arden's worldview reeducates Mooney, changing his self-obsession to introspection. Arden prods his conscious, planting a seed of hope, boldly challenging Mooney to meet her expectations or suffer the consequences. Mooney is, indeed, a man in flight, running away from everything that gives life meaning, seeking solace in the bottom of a bottle. Through Arden's endeavors, Mooney thinks to fly toward life again, in a most unpredictable and ingenious manner. Luan Gaines/2003.he endless days and spends hours ruminating about the past, his ex-wife Reba, son and daughter. Mooney's adventures range from delusion to fear to outrage, as he attempts to sort through an exceptionally well-squandered life in this fanciful, meandering tale.<br />There is always hope, even for such a pathetic soul. In Mooney's case, hope comes in the form of a young girl, Arden, one of the island visitors, who is near the age of his own daughter. In many ways Arden's worldview reeducates Mooney, changing his self-obsession to introspection. Arden prods his conscious, planting a seed of hope, boldly challenging Mooney to meet her expectations or suffer the consequences. Mooney is, indeed, a man in flight, running away from everything that gives life meaning, seeking solace in the bottom of a bottle. Through Arden's endeavors, Mooney thinks to fly toward life again, in a most unpredictable and ingenious manner. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-11-09
907993:US	51010391	R14MX31U7NGCF2	0452284627	863603573	The Staggerford Flood	Books	3	3	3	N	N	(3.5) An octogenarian's slumber party	At a time when neighbors are barely acquainted, Hassler offers a welcome distraction, a visit to a place where America is known for its small towns with friendly people, where the postman greets everyone on his route. The Staggerford Flood is author Jon Hassler's intimate novel of small town life, in Staggerford, Minnesota, where everyone's business is discussed by folks who have known each other all their lives. Staggerford has the aura of turn-of the-century America, long before extended families began their exodus to crowded cities, where distance is an obstacle to communication.<br />Most of the characters in this novel are familiar faces, returning from previous tales, updating their stories. The most endearing character is Miss Agatha McGhee, a former schoolteacher and octogenarian and the resident wise woman. Agatha hasn't gotten out much the last few months, slightly under the weather, but when she sees her name in the headlines of the local newspaper, she is incensed that anyone would announce her business without consulting her. The newspaper article gets Agatha's dander up and she is on the move, fueled by a need to set the record straight. While in town, Agatha learns that the recent rain threatens to flood, that the Badbattle River will inundate all of Staggerford, as well as the neighboring towns.<br />Immediately concerned with those neighbors who may not have shelter when their homes flood or are unable to reach the safety of higher ground, Agatha prepares for the worst, gathering blankets and canned goods to accommodate at least two guests. When the number of stranded women increases drastically, Agatha is hard-pressed to accommodate everyone comfortably.<br />Agatha has gathered an odd assortment of eccentrics under her roof. Among the guests are Agatha's best friend of many years, Lillian, and her obdurate daughter, the town's new undertaker, Linda Schwartzman, Janet Meers with her daughter Sara and the much-married Beverly Bingham Cooper. Her usually quiet residence is filled with female chatter and laughter, as the women nestle contentedly out of harm's way, pleased to be warm and dry. Even when the electricity shorts out, the little group snuggles together in candlelight, festive and secure.<br />There is much reminiscing and storytelling as the women wait out nature's fury.<br />Add an assortment of town regulars who check on the women's safety, the sheriff, a local radio talk show host (a gossip) and Agatha's nephew, Frederick, and the octogenarian's house becomes a temporary home to some wonderfully eccentric characters. Agatha oversees her disparate quests, content to have brought these women together, their troubles far away for this short time. Occasionally, the old woman dozes, dreaming of the friends who have peopled her long and well-lived life.<br />This novel perfectly showcases Hassler's unique talent. Like Garrison Keillor of Lake Woebegon, Hassler is the undisputed muse of Minnesota. Quirky and wry, Hassler's seductive and charming characters offer his readers a welcome respite from the stresses of everyday life, a walk back in time, when conversations were held on porch swings and grandparents lived only a block away. Luan Gaines/2003.ually quiet residence is filled with female chatter and laughter, as the women nestle contentedly out of harm's way, pleased to be warm and dry. Even when the electricity shorts out, the little group snuggles together in candlelight, festive and secure. <br />There is much reminiscing and storytelling as the women wait out nature's fury.<BR>Add an assortment of town regulars who check on the women's safety, the sheriff, a local radio talk show host (a gossip) and Agatha's nephew, Frederick, and the octogenarian's house becomes a temporary home to some wonderfully eccentric characters. Agatha oversees her disparate quests, content to have brought these women together, their troubles far away for this short time. Occasionally, the old woman dozes, dreaming of the friends who have peopled her long and well-lived life. <br />This novel perfectly showcases Hassler's unique talent. Like Garrison Keillor of Lake Woebegon, Hassler is the undisputed muse of Minnesota. Quirky and wry, Hassler's seductive and charming characters offer his readers a welcome respite from the stresses of everyday life, a walk back in time, when conversations were held on porch swings and grandparents lived only a block away. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-11-09
908157:US	51010391	R2AC2CMZQVOE6W	0446530840	900930383	Harvard Yard	Books	3	24	27	N	N	(3.5) It's all in the journey	Martin's latest novel follows the history of Harvard University from its inception in mid-1600, when endowed by John Harvard, Puritan son of Robert Harvard, of Southwark, England. After most of the family is decimated by the plague in England in 1625, surviving son John Harvard moves with his wife to New England, where he bequeaths his father's prestigious library, with Robert Harvard's message to the future, that \\"a man is known by his books\\".<br />Among the precious volumes is a handwritten play by William Shakespeare for John and his wife. The play is even more valuable because it is an original and the only copy of it ever produced by Shakespeare. However, things become difficult as the first establishment for higher education is run by the strict Puritan dogma, one that is restrictive of frivolous ideas or temptations. As we follow the history of the small volume, it is necessary for it to be removed and placed in a safe place until the college has broadened its perspective on what constitutes an education. The ensuing quest for this Shakespearean work is the central theme of Harvard Yard.<br /> Moving back and forth in time, Harvard Yard revisits the original manuscript and its unique place in the Harvard library, making a case for the play's removal from the library when its survival is threatened by the historical imperative of the Puritan ethic, as well as the suggestion of it's possible reappearance. Antiquarian book dealer Peter Fallon is called to Harvard by his fellow alumni, descendants of the Wedge family, a dynasty that has been integral to the formation of Harvard's educational policy and financial resources. Fallon is asked to do research to determine if there is such a lost play, and if so, to do all he can to locate it, as it is worth millions of dollars. There is a huge market for this collectible; along with legitimate dealers there are criminal elements, all vying for information that will lead to this great prize.<br />As in his previous novels, Cape Cod and Back Bay, Harvard Yard is a successful blend of fiction and history. Many of the characters play pivotal roles in the evolution of higher learning in America, from its Puritan beginnings, classical underpinnings and eventual acceptance of minorities into what is essentially an elite group with great influence in society.<br />There is an interesting thread of feminism underlying the whole story, acknowledging the struggles of the women through their respective generations, those unable to demand a voice for themselves. Each difficult period of history is detailed: the unfolding evolution of education and politics, from the Boston Tea Party to the Revolution to the Civil War, the great fire that destroyed the original library and all the other seminal events that have impacted this country.<br />Harvard Yard is an engrossing read, thanks to the author's lively approach to historical events, the development of higher education and the silent war for equal opportunity that continues today. These characters are found on the pages of history, but Martin gives them life and individuality through their dreams, longings, differences and changing religious philosophies. As well, the author broadens the scope of the story, sculpting a human dimension to the past and our interpretation of the future. Luan Gaines/ 2003.vels, Cape Cod and Back Bay, Harvard Yard is a successful blend of fiction and history. Many of the characters play pivotal roles in the evolution of higher learning in America, from its Puritan beginnings, classical underpinnings and eventual acceptance of minorities into what is essentially an elite group with great influence in society. <BR>There is an interesting thread of feminism underlying the whole story, acknowledging the struggles of the women through their respective generations, those unable to demand a voice for themselves. Each difficult period of history is detailed: the unfolding evolution of education and politics, from the Boston Tea Party to the Revolution to the Civil War, the great fire that destroyed the original library and all the other seminal events that have impacted this country.<br />Harvard Yard is an engrossing read, thanks to the author's lively approach to historical events, the development of higher education and the silent war for equal opportunity that continues today. These characters are found on the pages of history, but Martin gives them life and individuality through their dreams, longings, differences and changing religious philosophies. As well, the author broadens the scope of the story, sculpting a human dimension to the past and our interpretation of the future. Luan Gaines/ 2003.	2003-11-09
917597:US	51010391	R26ZARWTY1NUQ0	0156011190	892766246	The Big Killing (Bruce Medway Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	5	25	28	N	N	A take-no-prisoners adventure	Edgy and brutal, Wilson's The Big Killing is a wild ride through the lawless territory of West Africa, where greed rules and bodies lie trampled in its wake like so much fertilizer. If possible, the Dark Continent has become even darker, as portrayed by Wilson, while the lush natural bounty and untapped resources are attacked by raptors with the power to plunder and destroy with impunity.<br />Diamonds are the source of intrigue, theft and murder, providing profit that allows the importation of weapons in an ongoing battle for tribal ascendance. There is a longstanding system of mass murder by one so-called \\"legitimate\\" government after another, backed by various interests to assert control over an area too rich to escape notice. The cost in lives hardly matters to these players, because this population is expendable and self-perpetuating. Scores of bodies accrue, a testament of man's inhumanity to man, the numbers so outrageous that they beg believability. Still the violence continues unabated.<br />Bruce Medway makes his living as a fixer, a man willing to do \\"bits of business, management, organization, negotiations, transactions and debt collection\\". He won't involve himself in anything criminal or domestic, finding such things too quickly out of control. When a stranger asks Medway to do a quick job, a drop, it will spell the end of Bruce's financial woes and allow him to pay off his current debt. Either from stubbornness or hubris, Medway agrees to get involved, even though his intuition is screaming a warning against this venture. This one bad decision begets a series of confrontations that are ever more complicated and violent, where one intention obscures another and things grow more dangerous by the hour. The bodies pile up as quickly as the introduction of nefarious characters with hidden agendas, while Medway hops from one brush with death to another, never quite able to catch his breath. His small islands of respite are the nightmare-riddled dreams of alcohol-induced sleep.<br />Wilson is a master craftsman, a talented storyteller who reads like Robert Stone, combining radical themes, blending a seamless plot that doesn't compromise or disappoint. From the decadent porn purveyors to diamond smugglers, arms merchants to corrupt police officials, Wilson creates a range of characters from thin air, sending them spiraling into the killing fields of a war-torn and criminalized Africa.<br />Against this dramatic and violent background, Wilson writes with a moral clarity of the intense struggle of a continent made dark by the interminable abuses of exploiters. This is political-mystery/fiction at its most powerful, pointing the reader toward awareness of the brutal reality that is Africa today, the indiscriminate use of power, the pillaging of natural resources and the political ascendancy of particular agendas. Once you start, be prepared to keep reading to the final pages. I did and when I was finished, Wilson gained another enthusiastic fan. Luan Gaines/ 2003.lcohol-induced sleep.<br />Wilson is a master craftsman, a talented storyteller who reads like Robert Stone, combining radical themes, blending a seamless plot that doesn't compromise or disappoint. From the decadent porn purveyors to diamond smugglers, arms merchants to corrupt police officials, Wilson creates a range of characters from thin air, sending them spiraling into the killing fields of a war-torn and criminalized Africa.<br />Against this dramatic and violent background, Wilson writes with a moral clarity of the intense struggle of a continent made dark by the interminable abuses of exploiters. This is political-mystery/fiction at its most powerful, pointing the reader toward awareness of the brutal reality that is Africa today, the indiscriminate use of power, the pillaging of natural resources and the political ascendancy of particular agendas. Once you start, be prepared to keep reading to the final pages. I did and when I was finished, Wilson gained another enthusiastic fan. Luan Gaines/ 2003.	2003-11-01
917759:US	51010391	R2QAWEQ6YC8P8G	0618149139	354566843	The Shadow King	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Son of royalty, orphan of history	Like The Winter Queen, Stevenson's second effort in the trilogy is as historically flawless and impressive as the first. The meticulous research is evident on each page as Stevenson surrounds her characters with authenticity.<br />Balthasar Stuart is the son of the secret marriage of his father, Pelagius, an educated black man in Holland and Queen Elizabeth of Bohemia, living there in exile. She is the sister of the deposed King of England who is later restored to the throne. Pelagius and Elizabeth fall in love and wed clandestinely, the only written record of the union saved by a family friend for their son. Balthasar receives the marriage certificate after the friend's death, along wih his father's diary and book on indigenous plants.<br />Balthasar is in a difficult position in 1660's Holland, a practicing physician, but unable to avoid the issue of his race. While caring for patients, Balthasar makes the acquaintance of Aphra Behn, married into a local printing family, hoping to improve her prospects whenever possible. Aphra's self-serving curiosity settles on Balthasar and she seeks to befriend the secretive physician. However, Balthsar is warned to exercise caution around this woman, advice he heeds, unfortunately after the damage is done. Given the opportunity, Aphra steals Pelagiou's books, secreted under Balthsar's bed, substituting her own books. Aphra plays a pivotal role in the story, as she is the only possible witness to Balthasar's true parentage. Aphra becomes, in fact, his nemesis.<br />Escaping the scourge of the plague in Holland, Balthasar flees to London, a city he finds unwelcoming and harsh to a man in his position. Once again race constricts his ability to establish a successful practice. However, his fortunes change for the better when he marries a young woman with a small dowry and some land bequeathed in Barbados. Sibella doesn't consider Balthasar's race a hindrance to the marriage, but that is because of her naivet&eacute;. When they go to Barbados to take possession of her property, it becomes immediately clear that Balthasar will never be accepted as part of the planter society. After a few years of struggles, the couple returns to London, relieved to be away from the heat and burdensome life of the tropics.<br />Balthasar's most endearing quality, especially in Barbados, is his curiosity and his unwillingness to accept conditions on face value. While much of his behavior is conducted to fit withing the strictures of European society, Balthasar allows himself more freedom when among the slaves and various societal strata in Barbados. Still, he is a man of his times, a Christian who believes that all men will benefit from his religion. Even when dealing with slaves, Balthasar is haunted by his inclination to Christian ize them, although such instruction is forbidden, lest the slaves become emboldened and rise against their masters.<br />Although Balthsar's years are spent performing his duties to humankind and raising his family's prospects, he makes a conscious choice to live a noble and purposeful life, if not one with the trappings of royalty. Balthasar accepts his own reality: he may be the son of a king and a queen, but he is a simple man of color in a structured society that refuses him a place of his own, with out the restraints of color. It sometimes appears that there is not enough cohesion in this second novel to warrant the third and I am unsure how well this tale stands on its own. Balthsar's standing as the son of a king and queen almost acts as a deterrent to the simple story of a mixed-race doctor in European society. Then Aphra's actions regarding her own knowledge add more possibilities, promising yet another layer of interest in this generational saga, more of the tale yet to unfold. I am certainly curious enough to want to read the final chapter of this unusual triliogy. Luan Gaines/2003.bados to take possession of her property, it becomes immediately clear that Balthasar will never be accepted as part of the planter society. After a few years of struggles, the couple returns to London, relieved to be away from the heat and burdensome life of the tropics.<br />Balthasar's most endearing quality, especially in Barbados, is his curiosity and his unwillingness to accept conditions on face value. While much of his behavior is conducted to fit withing the strictures of European society, Balthasar allows himself more freedom when among the slaves and various societal strata in Barbados. Still, he is a man of his times, a Christian who believes that all men will benefit from his religion. Even when dealing with slaves, Balthasar is haunted by his inclination to Christian ize them, although such instruction is forbidden, lest the slaves become emboldened and rise against their masters.<br />Although Balthsar's years are spent performing his duties to humankind and raising his family's prospects, he makes a conscious choice to live a noble and purposeful life, if not one with the trappings of royalty. Balthasar accepts his own reality: he may be the son of a king and a queen, but he is a simple man of color in a structured society that refuses him a place of his own, with out the restraints of color. It sometimes appears that there is not enough cohesion in this second novel to warrant the third and I am unsure how well this tale stands on its own. Balthsar's standing as the son of a king and queen almost acts as a deterrent to the simple story of a mixed-race doctor in European society. Then Aphra's actions regarding her own knowledge add more possibilities, promising yet another layer of interest in this generational saga, more of the tale yet to unfold. I am certainly curious enough to want to read the final chapter of this unusual triliogy. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-11-01
921128:US	51010391	R39O2UTY5V2UVR	1590510666	100845506	San Remo Drive	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Life and times in old Hollywood	Epstein has delivered a solid body of work over the years of his writing career. However, I didn't read San Remo Drive as part of his other work; rather, as a native Californian, I looked forward to revisiting those long ago days of clear blue skies, pristine coastline and miles of ripening orange groves.<br />This particular novel begins with the earliest years of the Jacobi family, after the father has died, when Lotte Jacobi does her best to keep her small family together. Mother and sons reminisce about family adventures, occasional fights and rubbing elbows with Hollywood icons. The two young brothers, Bartie and Richard, are certainly influenced by their parent's eccentric lifestyle and tendency toward dramatic confrontations. Richard, as an artist, interprets his unresolved issues on canvas, while Bartie writes movie scripts, boxes of them, forever trolling for a movie deal.<br />Lotte Jacobi proves a poor judge of character, especially when dealing with men. She makes some disastrous decisions that throw her family into hard times economically and emotionally. Still, emotions are Lotte's strong suit and her presence in both boy's lives is evident, as she directs their decisions and choices far into adulthood. They eventually lose their family home because of Lotte's inability to handle finances.<br />The second half of the novel is more cohesive and speaks to the strong influence of family on both sons. Richard Jacobi, now a successful artist, moves back into the family home with his wife, Marcia and two adopted American-Indian boys, hoping to recapture his fragile childhood memories. It would appear that he has married a woman much like his mother, raising his sons in the same dysfunctional atmosphere as his own childhood.<br />Richard has made his artistic reputation through a series of paintings of Madeline, a former next-door neighbor cum longtime lover and is preparing for a show of his work in Paris. However, he hasn't given enough thought to his wife's real jealousy of her supposed rival for Richard's affections, too willing to ignore the signs of trouble, much as the infamous Lotte modeled for him. Nor has his aging mother changed in any significant way, except perhaps that she is more tedious in her dotage. The characters may change, but the chaos endures.<br />Epstein painstakingly recounts the frenetic dialog, the hysteria and the arguments of generations of Jacobis. This family never gains emotional maturity, even as adults with young children. This novel has enjoyed rave reviews and The New York Times review calls it \\"one of the four best Hollywood novels ever written,\\" with favorable comparison to Fitzgerald's Last Tycoon and Schulberg's What Makes Sammy Run. San Remo Drive appears to be an acquired taste and Epstein fans will not be disappointed. Luan Gaines/2003.'s real jealousy of her supposed rival for Richard's affections, too willing to ignore the signs of trouble, much as the infamous Lotte modeled for him. Nor has his aging mother changed in any significant way, except perhaps that she is more tedious in her dotage. The characters may change, but the chaos endures.<br />Epstein painstakingly recounts the frenetic dialog, the hysteria and the arguments of generations of Jacobis. This family never gains emotional maturity, even as adults with young children. This novel has enjoyed rave reviews and The New York Times review calls it \\"one of the four best Hollywood novels ever written,\\" with favorable comparison to Fitzgerald's Last Tycoon and Schulberg's What Makes Sammy Run. San Remo Drive appears to be an acquired taste and Epstein fans will not be disappointed. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-10-29
921720:US	51010391	R2FHTFAU2QNXE1	0393325334	148744925	The Green Hour: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	&quot;life, art, passion and reason...&quot;	This small novel takes a slice of time, fills it with unusual characters and offers the reader a glimpse into one woman's heart and the men she loves. The protagonist of this story, Dominique, idealistically pursues the transcendence of ideas, her feet on the ground, but her head stubbornly remains in the clouds. An art historian and graduate student, Dominique enjoys the aid of a mentor, but in her youthful hubris, she fails to recognize the true nature of the professor's affection. Unaware, she bruises his sensibilities and fragile ego with tales of her romantic adventures. Dominique is the kind of woman who carefully attends her own inner life, but is remarkably careless of others, throughout her life.<br />Dominique's heart is engaged in a love affair, begun in her graduate days, that lasts throughout her life, intermittent, but unwavering in its passion. Rex, her lover, is unable to stay in one place for long, frequently traveling abroad as a self-styled political revolutionary. Although their devotion is mutual, they both acknowledge that Dominique harbors a bourgeois heart. Rex believes they are soul mates, even when he is elsewhere, in search of new causes. Their most idyllic times are spent in Paris, where they share a flat. Such days live in Dominique's memory long after her lover's side of the bed is abandoned.<br />Eventually Dominique is introduced to Eric, worldly enough to realize that this wealthy man can offer the security and emotional stability she needs. Serenity is attractive, especially after a bout with cancer, now in remission, that has shaped an awareness of her own mortality. Yet, when Rex beckons, she runs to his side. Curiously, Eric accepts the duality of his beloved's affections, understanding that Dominique is torn between youthful passion (read: addiction) than romance and a mature appreciation of deep affection.<br />Dominique discovers Rex again in Paris (where else?), while living there with Eric. By this time, Rex has an infant son, Kenji, whose mother has returned to Japan. This third \\"man\\" in Dominique's life is pivotal to the story and captures her heart irrevocably. Dominique, Rex and Kenji live together blissfully, until one tragic day when Kenji is unexpectedly kidnapped. Predictably, Rex is undone, wandering the earth in despair, leaving Dominique to manage her own grief.<br />Tuten's novel is an eccentric fairy tale, believable only when viewed through the strict constructs of the plot. There are flaws: most noticeably, Dominique's freedom from money issues, the tenure at her mentor's university and Eric's financial generosity over the years. Indiscriminate hours are spent rhapsodizing over \\"the green hour\\" (le heuer verte): early evening in 1980's Paris cafes, when customers drown their troubles in absinthe (not yet illegal in the late 1900's). Tuten's elegant prose perfectly defines Dominique's sophisticated world, carving out her esoteric niche in \\"the green hour\\", where everything else fades into background noise. Ultimately, Dominique only desires the return of Kenji, the one person in her life, other than herself, she is able to love unconditionally. Luan Gaines/2003.n, Kenji, whose mother has returned to Japan. This third \\"man\\" in Dominique's life is pivotal to the story and captures her heart irrevocably. Dominique, Rex and Kenji live together blissfully, until one tragic day when Kenji is unexpectedly kidnapped. Predictably, Rex is undone, wandering the earth in despair, leaving Dominique to manage her own grief.<br />Tuten's novel is an eccentric fairy tale, believable only when viewed through the strict constructs of the plot. There are flaws: most noticeably, Dominique's freedom from money issues, the tenure at her mentor's university and Eric's financial generosity over the years. Indiscriminate hours are spent rhapsodizing over \\"the green hour\\" (le heuer verte): early evening in 1980's Paris cafes, when customers drown their troubles in absinthe (not yet illegal in the late 1900's). Tuten's elegant prose perfectly defines Dominique's sophisticated world, carving out her esoteric niche in \\"the green hour\\", where everything else fades into background noise. Ultimately, Dominique only desires the return of Kenji, the one person in her life, other than herself, she is able to love unconditionally. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-10-29
921940:US	51010391	R382V7IHUQVP6J	1931561583	700601228	Politically Inspired	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A collection of voices address a changing world	Writers have been particularly inspired since the events of September 11, 2001, to redefine our sense of vulnerability as Americans. The devastation visited upon us has left irrevocable scars, and it is the artists who give voice to our pain and disillusionment. Many new works have sprung from these endeavors, among them Politically Inspired: Fiction for Our Time, a compilation of short stories, cartoons and illustrations that cover a wide range of responses since that infamous day in our history.<br />The selections chosen are not meant to address the event specifically, but rather some of the issues that have come from the creative minds of the contributors. Editor Stephen Elliott has gathered the perfect mix: stories, illustrations, cartoons and poetry, albeit often tongue-in-cheek. Politically Inspired gives voice to some of the most imaginative writers today.<br />I haven't been a great fan of short stories, preferring longer works, except when the occasional book stands out and begs recognition. This compilation is such an entertaining and seamless collection that I find myself unwilling to reach the end; I have been well entertained and challenged by these authors, privileged to read their contributions about the changing face of American life.<br />From the first story by Anne Ursu, \\"The President's New Clothes\\", to Brian Gage's \\"The Vampires of Draconian Hill\\", I have experienced a gamut of emotions. Politically Inspired is successful, in my view, because of the innovative approaches of the authors and the wide range of characters in the selections. Not only do I recommend this volume of cutting-edge fiction, but suggest Politically Inspired: Fiction for Our Time as a thoughtful gift for anyone who enjoys exceptional work, written with the best of intentions. Luan Gaines/ 2003.	2003-10-29
922215:US	51010391	R2C1NHZ7QHW9IK	0892967536	731467180	Heat Shock	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Future shock: frightening genetic possibilities	Like any good science/mystery writer, Robert Greer trolls the latest in research to postulate a plausible, if scary, scenario for his recent submission to the future of science and mankind. But the reader must exercise patience, as Greer slowly builds to a climax in the final chapters, one that reveals the twisted plot of the ill-intentioned perpetrators.<br />Greer mixes an unlikely group of characters, from the eccentric to the dastardly, almost with one eye on the potential movie option. Carmen Nguyen is an emergency room physician in a Colorado facility, not the position of her choice, which is oncology and genetic research. However, while doing research in Utah, Carmen runs into a professional snafu: bureaucratic infighting and theft of resources that leaves her temporarily unemployed, disgusted and betrayed by coworkers. Nevertheless, Doctor Nguyen is enjoying her new job, now that she has distanced herself from her experience in Utah, although she knows that she is not working to capacity or in her chosen field. Then a man with disturbing symptoms is brought to her emergency room and his potential diagnosis challenges her research skills and reawakens her scientific curiosity.<br />An ex-uranium miner, also a professional bird trainer for local cockfights, is brought to his knees by an unusual, but identifiable, form of leukemia. Carmen bonds with the crusty old man, and he eventually cons her into checking up on his game birds. When Walter Rios, a solitary river rafter, has a freak accident while fishing, he takes a fall that puts his life in danger. Because of his accident, he meets the old miner in the hospital, where they share Carmen as their physician, both falling under her spell. Walter and Carmen, carrying out old Luke's directions together, stumble across some very strange evidence, bringing into question the invincibility of the gamecocks and the long-term effects of uranium on the humans.<br />Greer doesn't neglect the usual raft of bad guys, busy hatching nefarious schemes for self-aggrandizement and personal profit. Greer fleshes them out with all the despicable characteristics of the anti-hero. There is a cultural mix within the story that adds to the surrealism of the plot: Navajo soldiers who served together in Vietnam, multi-ethnic Carmen and her Vietnamese aunt and haunting memories of the massacre at Mei Lai. These people seem as disparate as unmatched squares of a patchwork quilt, but they form a complete pattern before the novel is finished.<br />This mystery/suspense thriller has the requisite fascinating characters, an intriguing plot and the well-planned denouement of the criminals, lurking behind the scenes. At the end of the day, right may appear to triumph over might, but there are questions left unanswered, future complications for another book. His detailed scientific research pays off as Greer pens an action-packed thriller, guaranteed not to disappoint fans of the genre. Luan Gaines/2003.y hatching nefarious schemes for self-aggrandizement and personal profit. Greer fleshes them out with all the despicable characteristics of the anti-hero. There is a cultural mix within the story that adds to the surrealism of the plot: Navajo soldiers who served together in Vietnam, multi-ethnic Carmen and her Vietnamese aunt and haunting memories of the massacre at Mei Lai. These people seem as disparate as unmatched squares of a patchwork quilt, but they form a complete pattern before the novel is finished.<br />This mystery/suspense thriller has the requisite fascinating characters, an intriguing plot and the well-planned denouement of the criminals, lurking behind the scenes. At the end of the day, right may appear to triumph over might, but there are questions left unanswered, future complications for another book. His detailed scientific research pays off as Greer pens an action-packed thriller, guaranteed not to disappoint fans of the genre. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-10-29
928579:US	51010391	R15JDEGX75BLQV	0316779849	781757267	Something Might Happen: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	You can't take life for granted	Isn't it always in the midst of everyday routine that fate steps in and changes everything? The obscure glitch suddenly becomes more sinister: someone is late or doesn't show up at the usual time. There is no explanation, but within hours, there is a phone call that changes a family forever, the faade of safety abruptly shattered.<br />At the best of times, we like to think we live as if every moment matters, but the truth is that we forget, caught up in the mundane tasks that fill the hours of the day. For two English couples living near the ocean with their children, their days are predictable, with young children to Shepard from one place to another, play dates and sports events. Brutality strikes a blow to this comfortable domesticity for one couple, when Lennie, wife of Alex, fails to return home one late evening after a meeting. When Alex phones Tess and Mick, their best friends, they begin the long descent into acceptance of the truth: that Lennie has been murdered, a senseless murder with no apparent suspect or motive. In addition, the body has been mutilated in a particularly gruesome manner.<br />Tess becomes the central figure in the drama, as Lennie's best friend and close to Alex as well. A grief counselor is assigned to Lennie's family and, because of his proximity to the unfolding personal drama, Lacey is in a position to monitor the emotional storms that are shaking the foundations of both families. Like Alex and Mick, Lacey is drawn to Tess, the mother of four, caring for a new baby, her other children and the only source of comfort for them all. But Tess is questioning her own role in the tragedy, whether she was Lennie's best friend, after all. She is also drawn to Lacey, who is all the more attractive because he isn't part of the emotional intricacies of the last few years. No matter what Tess decides personally, her choice will impact the future of each family.<br />As the protagonists struggle to reassert their daily patterns before Lennie's murder, it is hoped that the imminent burial of the young mother will put to rest the self-doubts and second-guessing of the last few weeks. But fate intrudes once more, another subtle twist provided by the skilled author, plunging both families into yet another trauma before they have properly dealt with the first. In this process, the author exhibits her consummate writing talent.<br />Myerson's style is remarkably uncluttered and the novel is structured in such as way that allows the reader to perch, like the proverbial fly on the wall, watching the story unfold. The character's forceful personalities create the texture of their relationships, for example, between Tess and her husband, Mick, Tess and her daughter, Rose. With minimal, never superfluous description, Myerson's characters define each scene with their actions. The reader is privy to the same sense of immediacy experienced by the protagonists, as vulnerable to the vagaries of fate as anyone in the story. This author virtually enables her reader's participation in the process, understanding Tess' motivation when deciding her future. Luan Gaines/2003.murder, it is hoped that the imminent burial of the young mother will put to rest the self-doubts and second-guessing of the last few weeks. But fate intrudes once more, another subtle twist provided by the skilled author, plunging both families into yet another trauma before they have properly dealt with the first. In this process, the author exhibits her consummate writing talent.<br />Myerson's style is remarkably uncluttered and the novel is structured in such as way that allows the reader to perch, like the proverbial fly on the wall, watching the story unfold. The character's forceful personalities create the texture of their relationships, for example, between Tess and her husband, Mick, Tess and her daughter, Rose. With minimal, never superfluous description, Myerson's characters define each scene with their actions. The reader is privy to the same sense of immediacy experienced by the protagonists, as vulnerable to the vagaries of fate as anyone in the story. This author virtually enables her reader's participation in the process, understanding Tess' motivation when deciding her future. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-10-23
930739:US	51010391	R1GPWPQZD0LBW2	0393057224	744819460	Listen to Me: Writing Life into Meaning	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A thoughtful companion	This small, but effective writing aid reaffirms the act of writing, an effort to define the true self. The art of storytelling is a form of self-expression, capturing the ebb and flow of events as they run through our lives, forming our parameters. Families have always used storytelling to inform, one generation to another, spooling out tales of youth, hardship, lessons learned, triumphant accomplishments. How many of us have sat near grandparents, listening with rapt attention as they tell of the long ago days of their youth? The author regularly conducts workshops that teach the process of storytelling, using the stories as a way to learn the skills of self-expression. Immediately accessible and readable, Lauber points out that even the most ordinary life is rich with opportunity.<br />The author takes storytelling a step further, emphasizing the importance of the written word in our examination of self. This is writing purely for one's own pleasure, not for publication, but for personal clarity. Lauber stresses that it is not necessary to \\"be\\" a writer to write successfully. We achieve a deeper perception of the true self as we cover blank pages with random thoughts, ideas, memories and dreams. Naturally healing, these writings address the feelings and experiences of a lifetime. \\"Self-writing\\", as such, is a sorting process, illuminating the past. Hopefully, the process will become a habit along the way. Such techniques enable our connections with others and make it possible to form relationships that nurture and expand our potential.<br />Lauber guides us through the necessary steps, providing anecdotes to illustrate her point, demythologizing the most common misconception: I don't have anything to say. The author posits that the opposite, in fact, is true. She suggests that we start with \\"my mother told me\\" and go on from there. In this way, fledgling writers are able to relinquish personal constraints and give themselves permission to witness the journey.<br />The chapters range from \\"writing out your life\\", \\"writing for revenge\\" and\\" writing to heal\\", to \\"finding your form\\" and \\"editing\\". In addition, at the end of each chapter, there are valuable writing exercises, specially formulated for honing observation and narrative skills. The final chapter is titled \\"Nine Good Things about Writing\\", practical suggestions for conquering the most common difficulties. All this information packed into one small volume is quite a feat and one that Lauber does with ease.<br />This book is a treasure, full of enthusiasm, a challenge to explore our inner selves and our stories. Lauber's joy as a teacher is contagious, as she encourages the reader, pen in hand, to write the words that free, comfort and acknowledge. Listen to Me is the perfect gift, but buy more than one copy and keep one for yourself. I did. Luan Gaines/2003./>The chapters range from \\"writing out your life\\", \\"writing for revenge\\" and\\" writing to heal\\", to \\"finding your form\\" and \\"editing\\". In addition, at the end of each chapter, there are valuable writing exercises, specially formulated for honing observation and narrative skills. The final chapter is titled \\"Nine Good Things about Writing\\", practical suggestions for conquering the most common difficulties. All this information packed into one small volume is quite a feat and one that Lauber does with ease.<br />This book is a treasure, full of enthusiasm, a challenge to explore our inner selves and our stories. Lauber's joy as a teacher is contagious, as she encourages the reader, pen in hand, to write the words that free, comfort and acknowledge. Listen to Me is the perfect gift, but buy more than one copy and keep one for yourself. I did. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-10-22
937119:US	51010391	R2LBWA838IUE7A	1931561516	550630726	Blue Horse Dreaming: A Novel	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A haunting tale of love and loss	Every so often a book comes along that captures a time and place so perfectly, that I am reluctant to turn the last page. In the case of Blue Horse Dreaming, that was my experience, for the novel beautifully blends plot with human shortcomings in a manner that is both painful and believable. Successfully channeling the post-Civil War era, author Melanie Wallace portrays soldiers and citizens alike in all their threadbare grief, suffering a lack of adequate supplies and a paucity of spirit in the unfriendly territory they occupy. On the far edge of nowhere, the sad drama unfolds.<br />Four years earlier, two women were taken captive by Indians and not seen since. However, when the soldiers capture three Indian braves on a foray into the wilderness, an exchange is arranged and the women are returned to their people. The women are significantly different, both in captivity and after their return to \\"civilization\\". While one hates her captors and endured through spite, the other, Abigail Buwell, appears to have found renewal and a home within the tribe. In an unwelcome homecoming, Abigail's only comfort is the blue roan she rides proudly into the outpost. She is noticeably pregnant, a fact that registers with the already disgruntled soldiers, as Abigail rebuffs any effort to communicate.<br />Only two men are allowed near Abigail and the blue roan: Cole, the smithy, also an outcast because of the color of his skin, and Major Robert Cutter, the officer in charge. Cutter's senses have been blunted by the physical and emotional rigors of war. His mind ravaged by loneliness and inner turmoil, Cutter is, in his way, as isolated as the pregnant young woman. Cutter's leadership abilities are compromised and his control over his charges disintegrates with each passing day. Ignored by all, save Cutter, Cole offers Abigail and her horse shelter.<br />Life is daily more brutal, more desperate, as those inside the outpost endure their privations. The soldiers eye Abigail suspiciously, convinced she is haunting the outpost: \\"Sentries shuddered on night duty... they thought strangers danced on their graves.\\" Inhabiting what they believe is the most isolated place on earth, the men blame their unease on Abigail Buwell, as bizarre images poison their thoughts and drunkenness is their sole relief.<br />Blue Horse Dreaming offers a poignant retrospective of a difficult past, Wallace's prose filled with luminous insights and an acknowledgment of human dignity. While skillfully rendering the survival mentality within the fort, Wallace also engineers Cutter's emotional collapse and Abigail's purposeful withdrawal into the chambers of her memory. As the soul-weary and ineffectual senior officer, Major Cutter models the enormous price a man pays in pursuit of war. His emotional failures are mirrored in his men, as they all spiral downward.<br />The great and unexpected gift of Blue Horse Dreaming is hidden carefully within Abigail's heart. Before captivity, Abigail was passed from man to man, to each a chattel. Unremitting grief dominated her days, a few years of pure joy all that she has known of life. Only in the years of captivity has she understood freedom, that which is forever lost to her now: \\"Of inestimable sorrow, she can bear no more.\\"  Abigail's burden is great, but easily surpassed by her newly freed spirit. Most rewarding for this reader are the chapters revealing the details of Abigail's too brief respite with the People, those who loved and accepted as family She-Who-Was-Dreamed-By-the-Blue-Horse. Luan Gaines/ 2003.sly, convinced she is haunting the outpost: \\"Sentries shuddered on night duty... they thought strangers danced on their graves.\\" Inhabiting what they believe is the most isolated place on earth, the men blame their unease on Abigail Buwell, as bizarre images poison their thoughts and drunkenness is their sole relief.<br />Blue Horse Dreaming offers a poignant retrospective of a difficult past, Wallace's prose filled with luminous insights and an acknowledgment of human dignity. While skillfully rendering the survival mentality within the fort, Wallace also engineers Cutter's emotional collapse and Abigail's purposeful withdrawal into the chambers of her memory. As the soul-weary and ineffectual senior officer, Major Cutter models the enormous price a man pays in pursuit of war. His emotional failures are mirrored in his men, as they all spiral downward.   <br />The great and unexpected gift of Blue Horse Dreaming is hidden carefully within Abigail's heart. Before captivity, Abigail was passed from man to man, to each a chattel. Unremitting grief dominated her days, a few years of pure joy all that she has known of life. Only in the years of captivity has she understood freedom, that which is forever lost to her now: \\"Of inestimable sorrow, she can bear no more.\\"  Abigail's burden is great, but easily surpassed by her newly freed spirit. Most rewarding for this reader are the chapters revealing the details of Abigail's too brief respite with the People, those who loved and accepted as family She-Who-Was-Dreamed-By-the-Blue-Horse. Luan Gaines/ 2003.	2003-10-17
943271:US	51010391	R2IEBR6VX5OUIY	0399150773	349789238	Dragon's Lair (Penman, Sharon Kay)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	(3.5)Chivalrous knights and dastardly deeds	Penman has few peers in this genre, given years of comprehensive research of the Medieval England. She infuses her characters with believable personalities, both noble and Draconian. It is not surprising, then, that the author returns this familiar territory for her recent series of mysteries. As Penman sets out to conquer the mystery/suspense genre, Dragon's Lair, set in 1193, proves her most accomplished to date.<br />Justin de Quincy, formerly the Queen's Man, on retainer and responsible only to the Queen of England, returns in a tale set in England and Wales. Richard Lionheart, Eleanor of Aquitane's oldest son, is captured and imprisoned in Austria by the Holy Roman Emperor, while Richard is traveling home from his last crusade in the Ottoman Empire. An enormous ransom is demanded for Richard's release and Eleanor is determined to meet the outrageous demand, no matter the cost to her kingdom or the burden it puts on her subjects. All of her attention is centered on the return of her most beloved son; Eleanor is virtually unable to attend any other business of the crown until Richard's dilemma is resolved. Richard is arguably one of the most important assets to the Throne at that time in history. Meanwhile, Richard's youngest brother, John, secretly plots to keep his older brother incarcerated, in collusion with King Philippe of France. John harbors no illusions about his older brother and his own position regarding succession.<br />A valuable shipment of wool, meant for the ransom coffers, is hijacked en route from Wales. Eleanor appoints Justin de Quincy as her personal emissary, charged with retrieving the ransom. She is desperate to recover the stolen goods, which will serve to facilitate Richard's speedy return. Justin's first visits the scene of the crime, Wales, where he is offered the questionable hospitality of Rhuddlan Castle, the guest of Davydd ab Owain and his wife, Emma of Anjou. Davydd has gone to great lengths to direct the blame at his rival in the region, Llewelyn ob Iowerth, the charismatic Welsh prince who served as the protagonist in Penman's Here Be Dragons. It never occurs to Davydd that his machinations are too obvious to Justin, who affects ignorance of the Welsh language, the better to eavesdrop on his hosts.<br />Given Davydd's suspect motives, Justin ignores his host, guided by his own intuition. As Justin travels between Wales and the English coast, he uncovers a much more sinister plot. Secretly, and with the aid of the infamous Llewelyn, Justin visits various locales in Northern Wales, where he stumbles across a plan that is truly Machiavellian. Justin is impressed by the Llewelyn's candor and obvious leadership and decides to trust the young prince, at least for now. In the port city of Chester, England, while visiting murky dockside alehouses, Justin stumbles across even more damning information.<br />Penman's description of life in 1190's England and Wales is picturesque, her broad canvas filled with ribald characters, nefarious criminals and cynics who crave nothing but personal gain. The author draws on considerable expertise when crafting Dragon's Lair, having established herself as a master of Medieval English history in her previous novels. Penman has a loyal fan base that has enjoyed the wealth of historical fiction she has published over the years. The trustworthy young Justin de Quincy, a likeable and stalwart supporter of the throne, shows promise of more adventure, either as the Queen's man or a trusted friend of Llewelyn, the Welsh prince. Such chivalrous men stand tall in history, at a time when boys dream that they too may someday slay dragons. Luan Gaines/2003.the region, Llewelyn ob Iowerth, the charismatic Welsh prince who served as the protagonist in Penman's Here Be Dragons. It never occurs to Davydd that his machinations are too obvious to Justin, who affects ignorance of the Welsh language, the better to eavesdrop on his hosts.<br />Given Davydd's suspect motives, Justin ignores his host, guided by his own intuition. As Justin travels between Wales and the English coast, he uncovers a much more sinister plot. Secretly, and with the aid of the infamous Llewelyn, Justin visits various locales in Northern Wales, where he stumbles across a plan that is truly Machiavellian. Justin is impressed by the Llewelyn's candor and obvious leadership and decides to trust the young prince, at least for now. In the port city of Chester, England, while visiting murky dockside alehouses, Justin stumbles across even more damning information.<br />Penman's description of life in 1190's England and Wales is picturesque, her broad canvas filled with ribald characters, nefarious criminals and cynics who crave nothing but personal gain. The author draws on considerable expertise when crafting Dragon's Lair, having established herself as a master of Medieval English history in her previous novels. Penman has a loyal fan base that has enjoyed the wealth of historical fiction she has published over the years. The trustworthy young Justin de Quincy, a likeable and stalwart supporter of the throne, shows promise of more adventure, either as the Queen's man or a trusted friend of Llewelyn, the Welsh prince. Such chivalrous men stand tall in history, at a time when boys dream that they too may someday slay dragons. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-10-12
947423:US	51010391	R1C5NFWNOUUAX	0446530891	382868174	Split Second (King & Maxwell)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	(3.5) Nothing is what it seems	This easy-read mystery is a return to the successful format of Baldacci's earliest successes, after a detour into more emotional territory. This author's real strength lies in the mystery/suspense genre, his ability to structure a concise plot with the incisive logic necessary for a notable effort.<br />In 1996, while on protective detail, Sean King fails to stop an attempt on the life of Clyde Ritter, a presidential candidate, during a planned campaign stop. Clyde Ritter is killed, although King shoots the assassin and is wounded himself in the crossfire. However, King's career in the Secret Service is in tatters after this fiasco. For one split second, the agent's attention was captured by something other than his assigned civilian. That critical second led to questions and Sean's denouement as an effective agent. It also planted a seed of self-doubt in his mind concerning his performance.<br />Eight years later, another presidential candidate, John Bruno, is kidnapped while under government protection, this one on the watch of Michelle Maxwell. Agent Maxwell is determined to find John Bruno before he's killed and is interested in the similarities between her scenario and that of Agent King. This quirk in Baldacci's latest mystery is a subplot that surfaces when the two Secret Service agents combine their talents to solve Ritter's death and Bruno's disappearance. There is a particular mastermind behind both the assassination and the disappearance and Agent Sean King finds a willing co-conspirator in Agent Michelle Maxwell.<br />Once they join forces and compare notes, Sean and Michelle are even more convinced that their cases are connected. Their combined resources offer a better chance for solution, although King can no longer use his Secret Service affiliations to access information. However, King does have a contact, ex-agent Joan Dillinger, now successfully working in the private sector. King and Dillinger have a romantic past, one that ended with Clyde Ritter's assassination, but Dillinger is willing to help with Sean and Michelle's investigation, for a price. Maxwell and King are willing to pay that price.<br />Bit by bit, the plot is uncovered, until the agents find themselves confronted by an unexpected and dangerous adversary. Baldacci keeps the reader off balance with unusual twists and turns. The author is reviving his mystery/suspense career, a welcome change. Luan Gaines/2003.er's assassination, but Dillinger is willing to help with Sean and Michelle's investigation, for a price. Maxwell and King are willing to pay that price.<br />Bit by bit, the plot is uncovered, until the agents find themselves confronted by an unexpected and dangerous adversary. Baldacci keeps the reader off balance with unusual twists and turns. The author is reviving his mystery/suspense career, a welcome change. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-10-08
948048:US	51010391	R1AXJEF9BBMZB	0393052761	528421376	Deep Survival: Who Lives, Who Dies, and Why	Books	4	10	15	N	N	(4.5) The ultimate challenge: man vs. Nature	Billed as \\"true stories of miraculous endurance and sudden death\\", this impressive book uses specific examples of how a split-second decision can mean the difference between life and death. The author includes anecdotal references and the most recent scientific studies as well. There is, Gonzales explains, a sequence of events and/or decisions that can leave one in mortal peril within seconds. The flood of emotions experienced may also work against survival, unless the overwhelming feelings are channeled toward positive action.<br />The first part of the book, \\"How Accidents Happen\\", specifies the precise behavior that leads to life-threatening incidents. Using documented survival incidents, Gonzales explains the nature of accidents and their inevitability. He stresses that a rigid plan may itself be a deterrent to survival, if that plan keeps one from pursuing alternatives to meet changing conditions, perhaps quitting the adventure when that is the safest choice. The individual must be prepared to deal with any obstacle nature throws his way.<br />In the second half, \\"Survival\\", Gonzales relates amazing tales of courage, the actual experiences of pilots, sailors and mountain climbers, the accidents that befall them and the split-second decisions that make all the difference. According to the author, it isn't the equipment that saves a life, but rather what lies in the individual's heart. Integrity is key to success, the ability to take charge after the fear and shock of the accident set in. Emotions are critical, because fear is a powerful tool when used to sustain any activity that secures safety. Every survivor must remember one salient fact: anything is possible. \\"The only thought you can allow,\\" says the author, \\"is one that directs your own cause of action\\".<br />Gonzales includes his father's story, one of extraordinary survival in World War II. Clearly, the author's life has been shaped by the personal drama of his father's endurance, his indomitable will to live tested by extremely difficult conditions. Drawing strength from his father's ordeal, Gonzales pursues his own challenges in the outdoors, acquiring survival skills that are tempered with a spirit of humility.<br />The authenticity and spirit of Deep Survival will appeal to outdoor enthusiasts and adventurers, those who have walked on the edge of life. Still, Gonzales offers food for thought to all readers, delineating a clear path for emotional, as well as physical survival, with lessons applicable to the smallest details of daily existence. As an especially fortunate few have learned, \\"Days stolen are always sweeter than days given.\\" Luan Gaines/2003.to live tested by extremely difficult conditions. Drawing strength from his father's ordeal, Gonzales pursues his own challenges in the outdoors, acquiring survival skills that are tempered with a spirit of humility.<br />The authenticity and spirit of Deep Survival will appeal to outdoor enthusiasts and adventurers, those who have walked on the edge of life. Still, Gonzales offers food for thought to all readers, delineating a clear path for emotional, as well as physical survival, with lessons applicable to the smallest details of daily existence. As an especially fortunate few have learned, \\"Days stolen are always sweeter than days given.\\" Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-10-08
957268:US	51010391	R29HSRE6M69O3D	1931561044	806815048	The God File	Books	4	2	2	N	N	&quot;Waiting for Godot&quot;	Gabriel Black is the instrument of his own punishment, a young man who has taken the murder of his girlfriend's husband on his own shoulders, accepting the blame for a crime he has not committed. When his girlfriend, the only other witness, makes no effort in his defense, Gabriel is left alone behind prison bars. In this vast wasteland of personal pain and the struggle to account for a misspent life, he begins a lifelong search for deliverance.<br />Sentenced to life without parole, Black sets himself the task of finding God in the lowest of places, where the dregs of humanity endure endless days of mind-numbing boredom with only their twisted memories for company. Some spend the years reading, learning about a world they barely remember and may never see again, while others escape into monotonous drug-induced sleep or give free reign to the demons that have brought them to this place.<br />Walking a landscape of despair, Hollon treads familiar territory as his protagonist gathers the contents of the box that will define his life, piece by piece, assimilating The God File. There are soulful letters, mournful essays, remembrances of things past, questions about this terrible struggle, all arranged in a particular order of importance. All attempt to explain the inexplicable, to find a place where belief can coexist with despair.<br />Gabriel's quest is intensely spiritual; the years he spends gathering this ambiguous evidence are part of his evolution toward the answer he so desperately craves. It would be impossible for Gabriel to find God when he first comes into prison. He hasn't achieved the maturity to save himself, let alone determine the existence of God. Each particle of thought scribbled on a scrap of paper in The God File is necessary to the whole. Gabriel has been baptized Catholic and his journey is littered with the small rituals, pieties and beliefs that are wedged so deep in the soul they almost cease to exist, until they are needed. Then, in the never-quiet, never-quite-dark, they emerge, tiny hopeful prayers, begging for a response. From God.<br />For Gabriel to find an answer to his question and know peace, he must be willing to endure each step of the agonizing journey. After all the wasted years, all the unspoken entreaties, Gabriel must experience patience. He has nowhere else to go. It is his journey alone and his personal path is intimately marked by the struggles of his individual soul. Yet Gabriel finds the courage to make each fragile leap of faith, to surrender his haunting question: &quot;If God gives me more than I can endure, how can I know?&quot; Gabriel listens to the faint sound in the chambers of his tortured mind, hoping to understand. Perhaps, after all, he will find peace of mind. Luan Gaines/2003.r-quiet, never-quite-dark, they emerge, tiny hopeful prayers, begging for a response. From God.<br />For Gabriel to find an answer to his question and know peace, he must be willing to endure each step of the agonizing journey. After all the wasted years, all the unspoken entreaties, Gabriel must experience patience. He has nowhere else to go. It is his journey alone and his personal path is intimately marked by the struggles of his individual soul. Yet Gabriel finds the courage to make each fragile leap of faith, to surrender his haunting question: &quot;If God gives me more than I can endure, how can I know?&quot; Gabriel listens to the faint sound in the chambers of his tortured mind, hoping to understand. Perhaps, after all, he will find peace of mind. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-09-30
960628:US	51010391	R32QOJDZTJP406	0316711535	42485570	girls	Books	4	15	19	N	N	A bite of Forbidden Fruit	In Kelman's stream-of-conscious indulgence in the world of carnal knowledge, three financially secure and jaded men enjoy opportunistic sex, the expression of which is unavailable to other economic levels of society. In each man's life, joy has been replaced by pervasive boredom and each endures, like Macbeth, the \\"charmed life\\". The hedonistic preoccupation with orgasm is almost a burden, similar to the agony of indecision suffered by Humbert Humbert in Nabokov's Lolita.<br />Kelman takes a large bite of forbidden fruit in this novel, as his three characters blindly pursue sex with nubile young women trembling on the edge of womanhood, the few fleeting, moments of absolute physical perfection. The men wax poetic on the nature of obsession, their ongoing age-appropriate relationships and the influence of Greek philosophy on the evolution of social mores, particularly as related to borderline (aberrant) sexual behavior.<br />Kelman's novel is actually a profound social commentary on the loose moral constructs that govern the actions of these men, who are protected by their enormous fortunes and therefore insulated from the law. Given de facto permission to indulge any desire, any fantasy, with little or no fear of consequence, this elite class hovers at the next level of decadence, a pervasive and inevitable progression.<br />The object of each man's affections, the child-woman, may either perform wanton acts on demand with sexual innocence or burst into tears at any imagined slight, childishly clutching a stuffed teddy bear to a still-developing chest. Therein lies the issue: justification of the seduction of such girls. Kelman posits that men resent the way the playing field has been made unequal, as women demand, \\"We're just as strong as you, so stop punching so...hard.\\" This is the conundrum, that \\"even though you may not be as strong as us, you can make us weak\\". Such musings preoccupy each character, while sampling their Lolitas, drawn to ever-riskier trysts.<br />\\"girls\\" is no cheap Katherine Harrison knockoff. Kelman's characters never yield to the febrile angst of Humbert Humbert, who desperately marries the older woman to access her young daughter. These men are self-observant, self-assessing and even dispassionate. Neither is Kelman's novel condescending toward women. His incisive perspective is focused on a very real dilemma: moral dissolution. His earnest portrait is worthy of consideration, each man maintaining a sense of propriety while incrementally self-destructing. There is no voyeuristic opportunism, just a peek inside three men's personal hearts-of-darkness. This is an esoteric journey through the looking glass of male fantasy, where around each corner, a nubile female awaits, her innocence as tempting as the Holy Grail. Luan Gaines/2003.r />\\"girls\\" is no cheap Katherine Harrison knockoff. Kelman's characters never yield to the febrile angst of Humbert Humbert, who desperately marries the older woman to access her young daughter. These men are self-observant, self-assessing and even dispassionate. Neither is Kelman's novel condescending toward women. His incisive perspective is focused on a very real dilemma: moral dissolution. His earnest portrait is worthy of consideration, each man maintaining a sense of propriety while incrementally self-destructing. There is no voyeuristic opportunism, just a peek inside three men's personal hearts-of-darkness. This is an esoteric journey through the looking glass of male fantasy, where around each corner, a nubile female awaits, her innocence as tempting as the Holy Grail. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-09-27
969801:US	51010391	R1JD7Y8T2CHHSQ	0395927218	25220636	The Namesake: A Novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Family ties bridge culture and assimilation	The newlywed Ganguli's arrive in America in 1967, beset with conflicting expectations and dreams. Calcutta-born Ashima and Ashoke Ganguli embrace their new life together in America. They approach each new task with considerable courage; however, as Ashoke grows more comfortable by the day in his work, his young wife is tormented by a terrible homesickness for her extended family.<br />Pregnant, Ashima is lethargic and lonely, anticipating only the letters received from Calcutta, news and gossip from favorite relatives. Once she gives birth, however, Ashima is able to focus more on the requirements of everyday life, her son's demands requiring her attention. Informed that they must provide a first name for the birth certificate, the young couple is forced to forego Bengali custom, which would allow them to choose a formal name when the child is older. Nonplussed, Ashoke submits the name Gogol, never meant for use as the child's public name. Ashoke makes this choice impulsively, based on the Russian writer Nikolai Gogol, who inspired Ashoke in a very personal manner as a young man.<br />The Ganguli's fit readily into an academic community, where they eventually establish a network of Bengali friends, gathering for holidays and special occasions common to their traditions. Unfortunately, Gogol, a well-mannered and dutiful boy, detests his name, although helpless to change it until he reaches maturity. Gogol and the other second-generation Bengali children become progressively more Americanized, never really participating wholeheartedly in the family gatherings or visits to Calcutta. Still, following a number of relationship experiences, Gogol's perspective changes and he matures into a man who values his family of origin.<br />Gogol's story is actually a simple one, as lived by many multi-cultural citizens of America. The human complaints and complications stem from the dichotomy Gogol endures for most of his early years, but the strength of the writing is in Lahiri's exquisite attention to detail. These people are not strangers; they are our neighbors, friends and fellow workers, whose lives are fraught with indecision and constant change. With enviable ease, Lahiri illuminates the intimate traits that are so appealing and familiar to us all.<br />The Namesake overflows with the subtle grace and dignity of a family forced to make peace with their divided loyalties. Lahiri delves into the heart of the Indian experience, the difficult and tedious adjustments and the inevitable pain of separation. Lahiri's compelling prose flows beautifully into each character's definition. The temperament of the Calcutta-born Ganguli's is brilliantly portrayed, the couple tied to their Indian roots, customs and rituals. From their difficult immigrant experience to Gogol's continuous struggle for comfort in his own skin, the reader is privy to the intricate process of assimilation and the comforting ties of tradition. Affection is generously transferred from one generation to another in The Namesake. Confronted with culture shock and a yearning for acceptance, the novel's focus is familiar territory: the power of family in any land. Luan Gaines/2003.exquisite attention to detail. These people are not strangers; they are our neighbors, friends and fellow workers, whose lives are fraught with indecision and constant change. With enviable ease, Lahiri illuminates the intimate traits that are so appealing and familiar to us all.<br />The Namesake overflows with the subtle grace and dignity of a family forced to make peace with their divided loyalties. Lahiri delves into the heart of the Indian experience, the difficult and tedious adjustments and the inevitable pain of separation. Lahiri's compelling prose flows beautifully into each character's definition. The temperament of the Calcutta-born Ganguli's is brilliantly portrayed, the couple tied to their Indian roots, customs and rituals. From their difficult immigrant experience to Gogol's continuous struggle for comfort in his own skin, the reader is privy to the intricate process of assimilation and the comforting ties of tradition. Affection is generously transferred from one generation to another in The Namesake. Confronted with culture shock and a yearning for acceptance, the novel's focus is familiar territory: the power of family in any land. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-09-19
972558:US	51010391	R37DXNXIKM5LYL	0446531782	514796291	Private Sector	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Murder most foul and a sleuth with style	There's a new star on the scene of the mystery/suspense genre: Brian Haig. I was suspicious at first of this brother of General Alexander Haig, thinking maybe Brian was taking advantage of easy celebrity. No way. Brian Haig proves his talent in Private Sector, written in an energetic, light-hearted style with a good dose of self-deprecating humor.<br />Sean Drummond is perfectly happy as an Army Attorney, not particularly excited about participating in an attorney exchange program between the Army and the \\"Private Sector\\", assigned to a high profile, high-billing law firm. But Sean signed up to follow orders. As the fledgling member of the prestigious D.C. law firm, Sean wastes no time establishing his reputation as a bad boy, unconcerned with keeping this particular assignment. Clearly, Drummond has no love for this arrogant group, specialized litigators who cater to the most elite of Washington businessmen. Sean readily disdains the smooth talkers with their extravagant lifestyles and has no intention of fitting into this particular niche.<br />Sean is baffled by the aura of menace that surfaces as soon as he begins to ask questions about his predecessor, a young woman recently found murdered. Naturally inquisitive, Drummond is especially interested, since he once dated the young woman. Any attempt on his part to uncover her activities at the firm before her death is met with a wall of silence, which, of course, only piques Sean's curiosity. He appears to spend his days cavorting through his duties in designer suits, driving a new Jaguar provided by the firm, but, in reality, he is intent on uncovering the circumstances that led to this strange death.<br />Not one to be easily thwarted or intimidated, Drummond enlists the aid of a D.C .cop and an Assistant D.A., who also happens to be the sister of the murdered girl. Continuing his pursuit of inside information, Drummond uncovers a convoluted plot with serious implications of government interference. Then other young women are killed, each in a similar fashion, although with progressively more violence. The police request help from the FBI, assuming they are dealing with a serial killer, but there is far more involved than the apparent serial murders. As Sean and Janet delve deeper than is prudent, their actions put them both in imminent jeopardy.<br />In Private Sector, Brian Haig serves up a volatile mix of sociopathic assassins, CIA operatives and FBI investigators, with frightening implications. A sly master of bluff and bravado, Haig's Sean Drummond is a sympathetic, even endearing, character, easy to like, imperfections and all. Oblivious to personal danger, Drummond stubbornly pursues the motive and the murderer, refusing to ignore conflicting motives that may impact his investigation. Take the infamous inter-agency conflicts between the CIA and the FBI, add a twisted plot with international criminal overtones and you have a nicely stylized mystery novel by a talented author. Haig knows how to tell a story. This young author is ensured a bright future, with his fresh voice and penchant for innovative plotting. Luan Gaines/ 2003.oung women are killed, each in a similar fashion, although with progressively more violence. The police request help from the FBI, assuming they are dealing with a serial killer, but there is far more involved than the apparent serial murders. As Sean and Janet delve deeper than is prudent, their actions put them both in imminent jeopardy.<br />In Private Sector, Brian Haig serves up a volatile mix of sociopathic assassins, CIA operatives and FBI investigators, with frightening implications. A sly master of bluff and bravado, Haig's Sean Drummond is a sympathetic, even endearing, character, easy to like, imperfections and all. Oblivious to personal danger, Drummond stubbornly pursues the motive and the murderer, refusing to ignore conflicting motives that may impact his investigation. Take the infamous inter-agency conflicts between the CIA and the FBI, add a twisted plot with international criminal overtones and you have a nicely stylized mystery novel by a talented author. Haig knows how to tell a story. This young author is ensured a bright future, with his fresh voice and penchant for innovative plotting. Luan Gaines/ 2003.	2003-09-17
974559:US	51010391	R1ELOIGWDMGLK6	015601226X	783241042	As Meat Loves Salt (Harvest Original)	Books	4	26	29	N	N	An historical feast of admirable proportions	In mid-Sixteenth Century England, the countryside is decimated by civil war, giving birth to the aptly named New Army. Marching behind the banner of Oliver Cromwell, the ragtag army of peasants and servants is hot in pursuit of Papists and idolaters, not to mention rations for the starving soldiers. Wherever the army's wrath rages, the land, people and booty are fair game. The marauding  New Army, although mostly successful in their sieges, has been hindered by a lack of adequate supplies, as well as grievous injuries, kept in line by the promise of booty and women for their pleasure.<br />On an isolated farm in the middle of the country, as yet untouched by the violence, Jacob Cullen lives with his two brothers, fallen on hard times since the death of their father. As a gambler, the father had lost most of the family fortune and left his three sons at the mercy of the debtors. Although raised as gentry, they have been forced to work as servants in the house of a local man to whom their father owed a great deal. Even in such reduced circumstances, the brothers are happy to have each other's company and, like many other peasants, they have been infected by the incipient rebellion across the land, reading forbidden broadsheets late at night, excited by the pending anarchy.<br />As Jacob prepares for his wedding to another servant, he is full of the youthful dreams common to young men. By chance, Jacob sees a band of officials riding to the farm unexpectedly, possibly bearing a warrant for Jacob and his brothers. Jacob is convinced that he is suspected of crimes against the Crown as well as a recent murder. After stealing a horse and some jewelry, Jacob takes flight, along with his new bride and one brother. Unfortunately, Joseph's brother is wounded during the escape and they must take refuge in the forest. While there, Jacob indulges his lifelong lack of self-control, indulging his temper and intemperate appetite, ruining his future prospects. Finding himself alone the next morning, he stumbles ahead, alone and confused, toward safety.<br />Jacob is found on the side of the road by a contingent of soldiers from the New Army, where he lies insensate, near starvation. He is saved by the good graces of Christopher Ferris, a Londoner, who takes Jacob under his wing until he recovers. Jacob is then trained as a member of the New Army and looks to Ferris for companionship and friendship, although he is unable to tolerate any of Ferris' other friends and finds himself sickened with jealousy.. Later, disgusted by the rigors of war and too much bloodshed, Jacob and Ferris sneak off in the dark of night, having seen all they ever hope to see of such sights. They return to London, where Ferris has rooms with an aging aunt who dotes on her only nephew. She takes them both in, grateful that Jacob has returned her beloved nephew to safety.<br />Jacob reveals much of a personal nature to the reader as the novel progresses, a man with so little self-knowledge that he is constantly shocked by the consequences of his own actions. A blighted soul whose judgment is obliterated by passion, Jacob is driven by his lustful desires, aptly named by Ferris \\"The Bad Angel. Jacob is forced by circumstance to embark upon his most difficult journey, confronting his own nature and questioning his deepest motives, stepping blindly into uncharted territory. Jacob's spirit is so deeply flawed that he greedily sows the seeds of his own destruction, completely oblivious in his truncated spiritual development.<br />Jacob is \\"The Bad Angel\\", but Ferris personifies the \\"Good Angel\\", moderate and thoughtful, respectful of the feelings of others. Ferris has long dreamed of living off the land in a community of others, imagining of a kind of Everyman's utopia. Hoping to teach Jacob the finer points of self-control and temperance, although Jacob is single-mindedly incapable of subtlety, Ferris commits himself to Jacob's education in the finer aspects of a refined life. Yet Ferris is himself seduced by Jacob's dark desire, until they are finally engaged in a constant struggle for dominance. Part love story, part exploration of the darkness at the heart of a man's soul, this novel tackles a most difficult aspect of human nature, exposing the many sides of love/obsession. For both Jacob and Ferris, locked in a battle between Heaven and Hell, consumed by their endless erotic adventures, their very humanity is stripped to its bare bones. In elegant prose, the author dares the reader to flinch. Luan Gaines/2003.Yet Ferris is himself seduced by Jacob's dark desire, until they are finally engaged in a constant struggle for dominance. Part love story, part exploration of the darkness at the heart of a man's soul, this novel tackles a most difficult aspect of human nature, exposing the many sides of love/obsession. For both Jacob and Ferris, locked in a battle between Heaven and Hell, consumed by their endless erotic adventures, their very humanity is stripped to its bare bones. In elegant prose, the author dares the reader to flinch. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-09-16
982488:US	51010391	RXUZCJFVVO576	1931561419	452277723	In a Temple of Trees: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Curiosity killed the cat. Satisfaction brought him back.	12-year-old Cecil Durgin witnesses a foul deed late one night at a secluded hunting lodge, where a group of powerful local white men gather to play what is euphemistically called \\"The Game\\". The year is 1958, the place, deep in the West Alabama woods. The night is filled with loud music and the drunken howls of a small group of hunters who enjoy their hunt and their privacy, drinking them selves into oblivion after a successful kill. Then they unleash their deviant sexual urges on the flesh of a young woman hired for the occasion. These men want no witnesses to their depravity.<br />Cecil, an African-American who works at the camp, retires to the skinning shed after his chores are finished, hoping for a well-earned sleep, but he wakes to the sound of music and raucous laughter. He has been warned to give the drunken white men wide berth, lest he attract their notice and their ire, but can't resist taking a peek. The horrific act that he witnesses torments Cecil for decades to come. These same privileged hunters haunt Cecil's past and menace the present.<br />Times change, as does the nature of politics. As a mature man, Cecil finds himself in a position to serve as a spokesperson for the black community, as a preacher and a radio station owner-announcer. Fearless and outspoken, Cecil has a particular power of his own and is therefore a problem for the same men who were present at the hunting camp all those years ago; they are older now, but still well off and powerful. Cecil is a constantly visible threat to their assiduously protected reputations. True to form, the men return to time-honored methods of persuasion, hiring the white-sheeted Klan members whenever they have a need for intimidation. Grown tired of his ancient burden, Cecil is unwilling to bow before these hypocrites even one more time.<br />This isn't Faulkner's South, quiet, shaded porches dripping with ennui. This is the everyday reality of racism, without romanticizing the seductive charm of the South. This place has a dark history of violence, where black men are hung and with impunity, their children routinely terrorized, homes and churches torched, all to teach them their place. Everything ugly is hidden beneath the facade of genteel mannerisms. The evil that lives in this town is deeply rooted, nurtured in the moist soil of prejudice. Such dank growth is contaminated by its deformity, bitterly feeding on man's lowest impulses, imbued with a twisted Darwinian intent. While this life is often vile and brutal, it is also tempered with shockingly tender moments.<br />In a Temple of Trees is an important novel, a story of a privileged few who callously crush the innocent, protected by their wealth, hiring arrogant misogynists to do their dirty work. The puppet masters pull the strings while their blank-eyed marauders dance in the firelight, a ghostly band of faceless terrorists. Hudson's portrayal of the Klan is so realistic that the white-sheeted cowards' ignorant, race-baiting remarks shimmer against the page, defiling all human dignity with their snickering bravado. The scent of blood lust remains even now, tainting the air with the foul fumes of racist dogma.<br />Unflinching, Hudson creates her own effigy of these straw men, her fluent prose effectively burning them at the stake. In the light of day they are exposed for the shameless bullies they are, capable of performing only under the cover of night. In this story, at least this once, truth prevails over ignominy. And at the core of it all, one ill-used woman from long ago begs Cecil for respite. He yearns only to accomplish this one thing: to bring her peace at last. Proudly, this impressive author talks back to years of history, of blistering intolerance and terrible deeds, without ever raising her voice. I extend my profound gratitude to Suzanne Hudson, for purging my mute impotence with her extraordinary vision and her clarity. Luan Gaines/2003.th. This place has a dark history of violence, where black men are hung and with impunity, their children routinely terrorized, homes and churches torched, all to teach them their place. Everything ugly is hidden beneath the facade of genteel mannerisms. The evil that lives in this town is deeply rooted, nurtured in the moist soil of prejudice. Such dank growth is contaminated by its deformity, bitterly feeding on man's lowest impulses, imbued with a twisted Darwinian intent. While this life is often vile and brutal, it is also tempered with shockingly tender moments.<br />In a Temple of Trees is an important novel, a story of a privileged few who callously crush the innocent, protected by their wealth, hiring arrogant misogynists to do their dirty work. The puppet masters pull the strings while their blank-eyed marauders dance in the firelight, a ghostly band of faceless terrorists. Hudson's portrayal of the Klan is so realistic that the white-sheeted cowards' ignorant, race-baiting remarks shimmer against the page, defiling all human dignity with their snickering bravado. The scent of blood lust remains even now, tainting the air with the foul fumes of racist dogma.<br />Unflinching, Hudson creates her own effigy of these straw men, her fluent prose effectively burning them at the stake. In the light of day they are exposed for the shameless bullies they are, capable of performing only under the cover of night. In this story, at least this once, truth prevails over ignominy. And at the core of it all, one ill-used woman from long ago begs Cecil for respite. He yearns only to accomplish this one thing: to bring her peace at last. Proudly, this impressive author talks back to years of history, of blistering intolerance and terrible deeds, without ever raising her voice. I extend my profound gratitude to Suzanne Hudson, for purging my mute impotence with her extraordinary vision and her clarity. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-09-09
991732:US	51010391	R2U7LR06F5J3C7	193156146X	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	4	10	13	N	N	A fearless committment to love...	This is an extraordinary novel with a unique premise, an exploration of the unknown in this expanding century, where the impossible becomes possible. It would be a mistake to label The Time Traveler's Wife a romantic fantasy, although it is a romance and it is based on a fantastic premise: time traveling. But this author adds a healthy dose of realism throughout the novel, keeping her character's feet grounded in the reality of every day life.<br />The extended love story between Henry and Clare is indeed lyrical, often touching, with vivid images drawn from the past and the comfort of the present. Henry has a rare genetic disorder, one that renders him capable of traveling back and forth in his own life, although he has no control over when the phenomenon occurs. He never knows when it will happen and Henry frequently finds himself stranded in another part of his life, naked and without resources. He has learned to live with his circumstances, making use of each journey to learn more about the world and his place in it.<br />Henry's travels are both a blessing and a curse. Due to his strange wandering, Henry has been able to see the mother he can barely remember, who died in a tragic accident, appreciating her beauty and spirit, watching as a bystander what memory has denied him. Henry also meets Clare long before they meet in real time, when she is still a child. Henry has observed Clare's development, seen all the changes from girlhood to young woman, praying all the time that she will wait for him. Henry and Clare's relationship is certainly unique, fraught with the ambiguity of Henry's condition; yet they accept life within such particular constraints and joyfully commit their hearts to each other's keeping.<br />Henry and Clare never enjoy the free expression of a normal relationship, remaining vigilant, should the future step in and separate them forever. They are perhaps more intimately aware of each precious moment together, less inclined to squander their energy on the inconsequential. In accepting Henry's love, Clare has accepted the nature of Henry's life and its limitations, grounded in flesh and blood reality. They pay a high price for this lifelong love affair, realizing that nothing worth having is easily won. Certainly, there are moments when they fear the unknown and cling to the one constant of their deep affection for one another.<br />The powerful emotional ending of this novel contains shattering revelations, abrupt slashes of  brutal reality. Niffenegger develops her wonderful characters with great compassion and the grace to accept their often-difficult circumstances, as well as the blessings. Don't be deceived by Henry and Clare's easy charm or heady romance, as they draw you into their intimate circle, complicit with their dreams and disappointments. Be careful: they will break your heart. Luan Gaines/2003.energy on the inconsequential. In accepting Henry's love, Clare has accepted the nature of Henry's life and its limitations, grounded in flesh and blood reality. They pay a high price for this lifelong love affair, realizing that nothing worth having is easily won. Certainly, there are moments when they fear the unknown and cling to the one constant of their deep affection for one another.<br />The powerful emotional ending of this novel contains shattering revelations, abrupt slashes of  brutal reality. Niffenegger develops her wonderful characters with great compassion and the grace to accept their often-difficult circumstances, as well as the blessings. Don't be deceived by Henry and Clare's easy charm or heady romance, as they draw you into their intimate circle, complicit with their dreams and disappointments. Be careful: they will break your heart. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-09-01
994984:US	51010391	R2NKKBQ6RXH0RQ	1931561281	392191003	The Australia Stories: A Novel	Books	3	10	15	N	N	(3.5)Family memories of a mysterious continent	The mythology of Australia is central to this novel. Both Sam Browne's grandmother and mother have vanished into the wilds of the Blue Mountains of New South Wales, his grandmother to myth and his mother in search of her own mother's memory. These disappearances (his mother's body is found, his grandmother's never found) have a profound influence on Sam as he remembers the year he spent with his mother in Australia before she was lost forever.<br />Pierce combines the unfathomable territory of memory with myth-saturated Australia, where the Aboriginal population has produced such ethereal tales from spectacular geography. Pierce also adds a strong feminist content to Sam's identification with his maternal relatives. His mother has had a positive effect on the young boy and the grandmother's journals offer him even more understanding of their unique bond with the land.<br />After returning to the United States, Sam finishes school, marries and divorces. Yet he remains fascinated by the stories of his mother and grandmother. Sam is able to recover most of his grandmother's original documents and spends his time pouring over their contents. His grandmother's voice speaks to him over the years, seducing him back into the land of myth that plays such an important role in his life. He cannot help but heed the siren call of his mother's native country.<br />In The Australia Stories, Todd James Pierce perfectly captures female sensitivities and the power of familial ties, reading Sam's mother's emotions with acuity in that short year spent with her in Katoomba, before returning to California. While the maturing Sam Browne feels Australia in the marrow of his bones, the lives of his mother and grandmother are ever more an intrinsic element of his spirit. He begins an intimate journey toward understanding the true nature of intergenerational connections, evolving one into another, spiraling through time. At peace with the past, finally, Sam steps easily into his future, where limitations are allowed no purchase, offering only promise and possibility. Luan Gaines/2003.e limitations are allowed no purchase, offering only promise and possibility. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-08-29
1002053:US	51010391	R161QHP14GMOWI	1931561257	816500368	The Perpetual Ending: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Tell me a story, spin me a tale	This lyrical and moving tale is overflowing with extraordinary images and the intense connection of twin sisters, who are mirror images of each other. Jane and Eugenie Ingrams are raised on the magic of fairy tales, stories spun by their mother every evening at bedtime, as she sits in darkness in their room and they are borne away on the delicate wings of fancy, into the world of slumber. Their mother, Lucy, as beautiful as a goddess with wild red hair flowing down her back, is visible only in the light of the moon on these evenings. Recreating centuries-old fables and myths, Lucy offers her girls a world of infinite possibilities. Even though Jane and Eugenie look exactly alike and are best friends, their personalities are the exact opposite, giving their relationship an extraordinary balance, their personal yin and yang.<br />Their early years are spent in rural Canada, the twins, two halves of a whole, enjoy whole days exploring the beauty of nature, inventing their own world. When their parents separate, that world is shattered and Lucy moves with the twins to Toronto, a city bursting with people and constant racket, the quiet of the countryside a distant memory. Lucy has distant hopes of a career as an artist, taking night classes in painting. In Toronto, their standard of living has declined markedly, their few possessions from yard sales and junk stores. Lucy's elementary paintings decorate the otherwise barren walls, a variety of still life arrangements.<br />But Jane desperately misses her father, forgetting about their parents' fights that lasted hours, ending only with the dawn and mutual exhaustion. When their father visits, Jane is loathe to release him, begging to return to Vancouver with him. Finally, Jane prevails, coercing her sister into coming along as well. Eugenie agrees to accompany them, a fateful decision that will affect all their lives.<br />Written in narrative form, Jane speaks to her twin, gazing back over the early years of their childhood, reliving memories both cherished and painful. Now grown, Jane has fallen deeply in love with Simon, a kind man who generously shares everything with her, his dreams, his fears, his past. In exchange, Jane tells Simon lies, refusing to speak about her family or explain why she is estranged from them. In fact, he thinks Jane has no family. Jane has written a series of fanciful fables, in partnership with Simon, each containing a small remnant of her truth. Simon lavishly illustrates her fairy tales and the elegant books are an immediate success. When Jane is called home in an emergency, she leaves without ever telling Simon the truth of her past. She leaves without Simon.<br />This is a story of belonging and not belonging, of love and loss, of painful self-examination bred of courage. Redemption is possible for Jane, but only she can take the first step. As Jane spins ethereal fables of Pirouette, of Millicent and the Thousand Pennies, of Dulcimer-Gossamer, the vivid images reflect Jane's unconscious quest for healing, constricted by the fears that overwhelm her reality. A virtual Pandora's Box of imagination, these magical stories spill out like a handful of sparkling jewels, each exquisite by itself. Jane's own history and grief fold gently around her fables, protecting the small fragments of her unconscious, parables that cry to be heard, to be understood.<br />With a deft hand, the author guides Jane through the bottomless grief and guilt of her past, toward a real future. The all too human flaws of den Hartog's characters render them imperfect and too often blinded by selfishness, but, as each tale plants a tiny seed of hope, Jane's heart follows the path home that will open the door to forgiveness and finally, belonging. Luan Gaines/2003.ood, reliving memories both cherished and painful. Now grown, Jane has fallen deeply in love with Simon, a kind man who generously shares everything with her, his dreams, his fears, his past. In exchange, Jane tells Simon lies, refusing to speak about her family or explain why she is estranged from them. In fact, he thinks Jane has no family. Jane has written a series of fanciful fables, in partnership with Simon, each containing a small remnant of her truth. Simon lavishly illustrates her fairy tales and the elegant books are an immediate success. When Jane is called home in an emergency, she leaves without ever telling Simon the truth of her past. She leaves without Simon. <br />This is a story of belonging and not belonging, of love and loss, of painful self-examination bred of courage. Redemption is possible for Jane, but only she can take the first step. As Jane spins ethereal fables of Pirouette, of Millicent and the Thousand Pennies, of Dulcimer-Gossamer, the vivid images reflect Jane's unconscious quest for healing, constricted by the fears that overwhelm her reality. A virtual Pandora's Box of imagination, these magical stories spill out like a handful of sparkling jewels, each exquisite by itself. Jane's own history and grief fold gently around her fables, protecting the small fragments of her unconscious, parables that cry to be heard, to be understood.<br />With a deft hand, the author guides Jane through the bottomless grief and guilt of her past, toward a real future. The all too human flaws of den Hartog's characters render them imperfect and too often blinded by selfishness, but, as each tale plants a tiny seed of hope, Jane's heart follows the path home that will open the door to forgiveness and finally, belonging. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-08-23
1006138:US	51010391	RBEZHIBFQGHV6	193156115X	970770587	The Contortionist's Handbook	Books	5	10	12	N	N	What fresh hell is this?	Clevenger's \\"man of a thousand faces\\" is young, adaptable and a genius with spatial configurations. He is an artist, a forger of documents, with a degree of precision that guarantees success seldom achieved in a risky business. In a psychological minefield, this modern-day urban MASH is a stunning accomplishment.<br />There is no truth in John Dolan Vincent's life, only change. Neither victim nor apologist, Vincent is an addict, a con and a forger. These days he is driven by the need to escape from one identity to another, pursued by the \\"system\\" and some thugs who dig his exceptional talent and want to keep him nearby. The periodic migraine is Vincent's true nemesis. Once the horrific pain hits, John plunges over the edge of common sense into blind panic, indiscriminately downing illegal painkillers and booze. Unfortunately, he usually loses track and overdoses, saved by the quick response of emergency services.<br />Hence, the need for multiple identities. Once in the system, if listed as a patient previously flagged as a suicide risk, he would automatically be a candidate for mandatory 72-hour observation, or longer, and massive infusions of mind-numbing Thorazine. In this latest incarnation, Vincent is \\"Daniel Fletcher\\", running one step ahead of the other guy's synapses during the psychiatric evaluation/assessment. A self-admitted \\"contortionist\\", Vincent morphs identities the way a real contortionist changes shape.<br />John's personal life is complicated as well. One of the most likeable characters in recent memory, John tells all, holds nothing back from the reader.  Women, sex and drugs blend together, depending on the amount of recreational drugs in his system at any given time, in one potent cocktail you just can't stop drinking, shooting out existential visuals of Heaven/Hell. In John's words, \\"...a thousand moments with Natalie blasted through my memory like a pillow torn open in a high wind.\\"<br />(Note: Don't judge a book by its cover. Some readers picked up this extraordinary novel because of the cover; I almost overlooked this gem because the cover led me to a different conclusion about the contents...no matter, by the end of the first page, I was hooked.)<br />A few years ago, when the hip, irreverent Brett Easton Ellis hit the literary scene, the young author was an immediate star, a drug-speak party boy who was the darling of his niche in popular fiction, mixing with the denizens of the drug culture, cruising the spoiled-little-rich-kid LA party circuit. Less Than Zero offered a glimpse into that dangerous/seductive world of decadence, unspoiled by red lines of infected needle tracks or jonesing so bad, his couture slacks were urine-stained and stinking. Even the corpses looked good by the time they were transferred to film. But, like his tragic young junkies, victims of their own excess and too much money, Ellis' talent washed away as fast as cocaine stayed legal, eaten alive by his own PR machine. Worst of all, Ellis disrespected his audience, laughing all the way to the bank on the misogynistic profits of American Psycho.<br />In contrast, Craig Clevenger is the real deal, a writer's writer, who buys his experience the hard way and high-fiving the street folks who live down and dirty, gliding along one notch below visibility. A true \\"contortionist\\", Clevenger has shelf life. Luan Gaines/2003.icked up this extraordinary novel because of the cover; I almost overlooked this gem because the cover led me to a different conclusion about the contents...no matter, by the end of the first page, I was hooked.)<br />A few years ago, when the hip, irreverent Brett Easton Ellis hit the literary scene, the young author was an immediate star, a drug-speak party boy who was the darling of his niche in popular fiction, mixing with the denizens of the drug culture, cruising the spoiled-little-rich-kid LA party circuit. Less Than Zero offered a glimpse into that dangerous/seductive world of decadence, unspoiled by red lines of infected needle tracks or jonesing so bad, his couture slacks were urine-stained and stinking. Even the corpses looked good by the time they were transferred to film. But, like his tragic young junkies, victims of their own excess and too much money, Ellis' talent washed away as fast as cocaine stayed legal, eaten alive by his own PR machine. Worst of all, Ellis disrespected his audience, laughing all the way to the bank on the misogynistic profits of American Psycho.<br />In contrast, Craig Clevenger is the real deal, a writer's writer, who buys his experience the hard way and high-fiving the street folks who live down and dirty, gliding along one notch below visibility. A true \\"contortionist\\", Clevenger has shelf life. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-08-19
1009177:US	51010391	R192FQ05P1D6QN	0783894627	271307471	Unwise Passions: A True Story of a Remarkable Woman-And the First Great Scandal of Eighteenth-Century America (Thorndike Press Large Print American History Series)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Cher chez la femme	A morality tale, Unwise Passions is described as \\"The True Story of a Remarkable Woman and the First Great Scandal of the Eighteenth-Century\\". At the heart of the scandal is young Nancy Randolph, once the toast of Virginia society. The daughter of a tobacco plantation owner, Nancy ran afoul of the rules while living with her brother-in-law, Richard, and his wife Judith, Nancy's sister. According to rumor, one night in 1793, at the formerly elegant plantation home where they lived in the post-Revolutionary south, Nancy woke the household with her screams, perhaps in childbirth. A newborn's body was later discovered.<br />At the inquest, Nancy was formally accused of infanticide, in collusion with her brother-in-law, who may have been the father. Nancy's reputation was ruined, but Richard and Judith allowed her to stay with them, although Judith was growing ever more disdainful of her sister. There were no more society invitations, the girl now a pariah. When Richard suddenly sickened and died, fratricide was added to Nancy's list of transgressions. Distraught at the loss of her husband, Judith requested the help of Richard's younger brother, Jack, who rebuilt the plantation to its former glory. They contrived to banish Nancy, who was never again welcome in her sister's home.<br />After traveling to New York, Nancy married Gouvernour Morris, a confirmed bachelor, who relinquished his freedom for the young woman. His great wealth allowed Nancy to ignore her infamous past. The much older Morris died and Nancy found herself in reduced circumstances. She soldiered on, determined to protect her young son's inheritance from Morris' greedy relatives, though she again fell victim to the vicious gossips.<br />Crawford's story is propelled by a virtual Who's Who of American politics, revealing intimate details in the lives of the Founding Fathers, including Patrick Henry, Court Justice John Marshall, Thomas Jefferson, John Adams and Gouverneur Morris of New York, a signatory of the US Constitution. These early politicians created a governmental structure to safeguard the future of a country still in its infancy. Evident in the juxtaposition of their idealistic agendas, was a polarization of factions, divided between the Federalists, who favored the interests of the mercantile classes of the north and the Democratic-Republicans, led by Thomas Jefferson. The Jeffersonians fought the establishment of a National Bank, federal excise taxes and US interference in the war between France and Great Britain, suspicious of the evolving national government. They believed that governmental excess must be restrained to preserve personal liberties. In the hands of the Federalists, the executive branch posed a great threat, presidential power in danger of evolving into monarchy.<br />The youngest Randolph son, Jack, was a Jeffersonian and an articulate Virginia congressman; unfortunately, he was also addicted to opiates. Jack made the persecution of Nancy Randolph his lifelong mission, including her preference for his brothers rather than him. Nancy Randolph's indictment required no proof to provide grist for the mill of avid gossips, including popular orators and politicians, who waxed poetic, high on their righteous pedestals. The Nancy Randolph saga faded into legend, its legacy the ascension of personal politics and the power of inflammatory rhetoric. Luan Gaines/2003.f the US Constitution. These early politicians created a governmental structure to safeguard the future of a country still in its infancy. Evident in the juxtaposition of their idealistic agendas, was a polarization of factions, divided between the Federalists, who favored the interests of the mercantile classes of the north and the Democratic-Republicans, led by Thomas Jefferson. The Jeffersonians fought the establishment of a National Bank, federal excise taxes and US interference in the war between France and Great Britain, suspicious of the evolving national government. They believed that governmental excess must be restrained to preserve personal liberties. In the hands of the Federalists, the executive branch posed a great threat, presidential power in danger of evolving into monarchy.<br />The youngest Randolph son, Jack, was a Jeffersonian and an articulate Virginia congressman; unfortunately, he was also addicted to opiates. Jack made the persecution of Nancy Randolph his lifelong mission, including her preference for his brothers rather than him. Nancy Randolph's indictment required no proof to provide grist for the mill of avid gossips, including popular orators and politicians, who waxed poetic, high on their righteous pedestals. The Nancy Randolph saga faded into legend, its legacy the ascension of personal politics and the power of inflammatory rhetoric. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-08-17
1014404:US	51010391	RW67XWKN7M2UF	0446531316	822131758	Street Dreams (Kellerman, Faye)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	(2.5) A fine line between taste and exploitation	The promo ads for Faye Kellerman's newest mystery tout her talent, proclaiming, \\"She has a way with murder\\". Generally, I would agree with that assessment, but Kellerman's last offering is somewhat under par for a writer who does have the chops to craft a tight story.<br /> In Street Dreams, another of the Pete/Rina Decker series, Kellerman brings back Pete Decker's daughter by his first marriage, Cindy, a two-year veteran of the LAPD, with designs on a detective shield. On regular patrol, Cindy discovers a newborn baby in a dumpster behind an LA restaurant. Determined to find the mother, Cindy is warned by her father not to step on any of the detectives' toes while pursuing her own investigation.<br />In the course of her sleuthing, Cindy does find the mother, a developmentally disabled young woman who tells of a harrowing gang rape in a local park where she has met the father for secret trysts. The father is also developmentally disabled. There may be even more to the story, as Cindy learns that other vulnerable young woman may be in danger. At the hospital where the baby is taken, Cindy meets a male nurse, an Ethiopian Jew. They are immediately attracted to each other and pursue a relationship.<br />Per usual, Kellerman, uses her captive audience to impart more information about Rina's rich religious heritage as a devout Jew. In the first few Pete/Rina Decker novels, this approach served to flesh out Rina's character, adding depth to her role as socially conscious mother and wife. This time, however, under the guise of solving the mystery of Rina's grandmother's murder in pre-Nazi Germany, she requests her husband's assistance in reading documents she has discovered. In the context of Street Dreams, this subplot serves as an unnecessary distraction.<br />There are numerous mentions of earlier trauma suffered by Cindy and Det. Decker(in another Pete/Rina Decker book), but the author never explains the ordeal involved or why both father and daughter are unable to shake the pyschological effects. Since their relationship is a strong component of the story, this aspect is somewhat frustrating for a reader unfamiliar with the Decker series.<br />Most disturbing to this reader, however, is Kellerman's handling of the romance between Cindy and her new boyfriend, although he is portrayed as handsome, sexy, well built, intelligent...practically perfect. The only obstacle is Cindy's father, who is affronted at his daughter's reluctance to inform him ahead of time that her boyfriend is black. I found Kellerman's portrayal exploitative and stereotypical, a surface treatment of the subtleties of race relations, complete with racist comments by other officers (another obvious stereotype) regarding size and performance, pandering to common curiosity and ignorance. Perhaps the author should put as much effort into researching this cultural aspect of her story as she does on Rina's religious beliefs. I can deal with a mediocre mystery, but it is disappointing when an author uses sex and race instead of good writing.<br />This author might have better used the energy expended on superficial distractions by constructing a believable plot for this series. Although Kellerman can't see the forest for the trees in Street Dreams, she does have the talent to write an effective mystery and is certainly capable of giving her fans the quality they appreciate and deserve. Luan Gaines/2003.hake the pyschological effects. Since their relationship is a strong component of the story, this aspect is somewhat frustrating for a reader unfamiliar with the Decker series.<br />Most disturbing to this reader, however, is Kellerman's handling of the romance between Cindy and her new boyfriend, although he is portrayed as handsome, sexy, well built, intelligent...practically perfect. The only obstacle is Cindy's father, who is affronted at his daughter's reluctance to inform him ahead of time that her boyfriend is black. I found Kellerman's portrayal exploitative and stereotypical, a surface treatment of the subtleties of race relations, complete with racist comments by other officers (another obvious stereotype) regarding size and performance, pandering to common curiosity and ignorance. Perhaps the author should put as much effort into researching this cultural aspect of her story as she does on Rina's religious beliefs. I can deal with a mediocre mystery, but it is disappointing when an author uses sex and race instead of good writing.<br />This author might have better used the energy expended on superficial distractions by constructing a believable plot for this series. Although Kellerman can't see the forest for the trees in Street Dreams, she does have the talent to write an effective mystery and is certainly capable of giving her fans the quality they appreciate and deserve. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-08-12
1024144:US	51010391	R20O1N8RJSI74G	0316738131	160926811	Postcards from Berlin: A Novel	Books	3	1	6	N	N	The past threatens the present	If you can run from your past and cover your tracks, hide inside the identity of a loving family, construct a normal life, maybe you will have the security you always dreamed of. If your name is Catriona and you have lived through a nightmarish childhood, then married Richard, a loving husband, and are the mother of two daughters, Sinead and Daisy, who can say you aren't the same as everyone else? No one can see this kind of damage. The daily routine of caring for family sets you far apart from those years, now in a safe place where the past cannot intrude. And during the holiday season, you invite the carolers into your beautiful and welcoming home, flushed with pleasure at their compliments as you pour mulled wine into glass cups held in chilled hands. Everything is perfect, at last.<br />Even when the postcards from Berlin begin to arrive, you refuse to acknowledge the fear that clutches at your heart. You are distracted when your youngest daughter, Daisy, becomes ill with the flu, tending to her needs. But Daisy doesn't seem to recover, growing thinner, always nauseous and plagued by aching joints. And the postcards come, every day, slotted between letters and magazines, little rectangles that threaten your sense of security.<br />The cards are from your mother, the woman who abandoned you as a teenager, left you in a home for unwanted children, too old to ever be adopted. Those terrible memories burn deep and you cannot forget the horror of the isolation room, the unexpected beatings, and the thoughtless cruelty. But you survived in spite of it, you made a life and you are a good wife, a good mother. Not like the woman who left you, who sends those postcards from Berlin, begging you to forgive, to come and visit now that she is old and ill. Impossible.<br />Soon all your time is spent with Daisy. You take her to doctors who prescribe pills the eight year-old girl cannot keep down, then take you to task for not being forceful enough. Your oldest daughter is sullen, feels neglected, more and more uncooperative. Worst of all, your husband is drinking a lot, staying at the office later every night, obviously avoiding you. Your careful family structure is collapsing like a flimsy house of cards.<br />You ask for a second opinion, even agree to see a therapist with your husband. At last the doctors, now a committee, have decided upon a diagnosis. Hopeful, you wait for their decision with your husband. But what the doctors say is unexpected. Unacceptable. They can't be right, yet even your husband sides with them. Your dream life has turned into a nightmare and you can't wake up. Once again, you are as vulnerable as you were as a child, terrified. But more than anything, you are a mother determined to save her daughter. You make an impulsive decision, setting irrevocable events in place. The lessons of childhood loom large over this life and death battle against the system that discarded you as a child. This time your past will either destroy life as you know it, or open a door to the future. Luan Gaines/2003.len, feels neglected, more and more uncooperative. Worst of all, your husband is drinking a lot, staying at the office later every night, obviously avoiding you. Your careful family structure is collapsing like a flimsy house of cards.<br />You ask for a second opinion, even agree to see a therapist with your husband. At last the doctors, now a committee, have decided upon a diagnosis. Hopeful, you wait for their decision with your husband. But what the doctors say is unexpected. Unacceptable. They can't be right, yet even your husband sides with them. Your dream life has turned into a nightmare and you can't wake up. Once again, you are as vulnerable as you were as a child, terrified. But more than anything, you are a mother determined to save her daughter. You make an impulsive decision, setting irrevocable events in place. The lessons of childhood loom large over this life and death battle against the system that discarded you as a child. This time your past will either destroy life as you know it, or open a door to the future. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-08-04
1026085:US	51010391	R1OXQVLX15BVU2	1931561303	953198766	A Mouthful of Air	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The madonna and the demons	Koppleman has written a harrowing story of a young woman's struggle with post-partum depression. In low key prose that reflects Julie Davis' desire to live a quasi-normal life after surviving a recent suicide attempt, Julie seems, on the surface, to have an enviable life: a successful husband, a baby boy and an upscale New York apartment. But Julie's troubles dwell below the surface, sometimes not even visible to her.<br />Julie's mother is a desperate woman, obsessed with her own fading youth, divorced by her womanizing husband after 27 years of marriage. For his part, Julie's father has exhibited inappropriate behavior around his daughter throughout her life, confusing her sexual identity and blurring boundaries. These parents have deeply affected their daughter's self-image, leaving their daughter vulnerable to an overwhelming downward spiral after the birth of her son.<br />Medication and therapy offer significant improvement in Julie's depression. But when she discovers that she is pregnant again, after only a year, the young couple is faced with a serious dilemma. Julie's obstetrician believes her antidepressant will not harm the fetus, but her psychiatrist disagrees. To protect the baby, Julie suspends the medication until after the birth of her child. With live-in help and therapeutic supervision, the young woman directs all her energy toward maintaining a healthy and stable pregnancy, physically and emotionally.<br />Over the years, Julie has developed the skills necessary for maintaining a secret life, first mastering the intricate rituals of an eating disorder in her teens. Once the emotional demons are unleashed, however, they are powerful and patient. Even Julie forgets how cleverly her mind works to defeat her best intentions: \\"She learned to cry in the womb of her antidepressant. Mistakenly, from this accomplishment, she thought she had survived.\\"<br />Koppleman's brave and important novel speaks for women without voices, so tormented by negative ideation that their families suffer the worst possible consequences, suicide and infanticide. A passionate plea on behalf of such women, A Mouthful of Air serves as a reminder to a society often oblivious to the silent suffering of others. In the character of Julie Davis, Koppleman's story is an expression of hope, that any young mother, riddled with self-loathing and nameless fears, may live in the daylight, released from the dark confines of a treatable disease. Luan Gaines/2003.tion that their families suffer the worst possible consequences, suicide and infanticide. A passionate plea on behalf of such women, A Mouthful of Air serves as a reminder to a society often oblivious to the silent suffering of others. In the character of Julie Davis, Koppleman's story is an expression of hope, that any young mother, riddled with self-loathing and nameless fears, may live in the daylight, released from the dark confines of a treatable disease. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-08-02
1026138:US	51010391	RKPG47V98HI5B	031231292X	421728897	The Kennedy Curse: Why Tragedy Has Haunted America's First Family for 150 Years	Books	2	24	31	N	N	(2.5) The curse is, after all, a myth	This book doesn't need very much in the way of a review, because it is a quick read and the tale is in the title. I do, however, disagree with Klein's premise, which I find to be more of a fatuous PR ploy.  There is no curse. That said, the book is readable, at least the first half, where Klein frequently quotes reputable historians, such as Doris Kearns Goodwin, as well as pertinent Irish historical references. When Klein discusses the infamous, but less important Kennedy's, like the rape trial of William Kennedy Smith, the text deteriorates (much like the family integrity) into speculation and less credible sources, such as Dominick Dunne.<br />The back cover suggests the book is \\"a detective story\\". It is more of a \\"defective\\" story, highlighting the Kennedy family flaws, certainly not providing good press for the Kennedy's. Much of the Kennedy men's brutish behavior is attributed to \\"narcissistic omnipotence\\". When you consider the rampant womanizing and indigenous alcoholism in the family, it would seem to be an oversimplification of the particular hubris that goes with politics, wealth and a free pass on responsibility for one's actions. I find it interesting that the so-called curse descends only on the male Kennedy's, with the exception of Kathleen, the oldest daughter.<br />In any case, the Kennedy men enjoyed a freedom that was unavailable to women at a time in American history when the public was still nave about elected officials. This book is, if nothing else, a great romp of debauchery and lechery not seen since the days of pre-Revolutionary France, albeit virtually finished with the untimely death of JFK, Jr. His sister Caroline may yet prove the exception, but she is not infected with the swaggering bravado of her male counterparts. Given the intrinsic deception behind the whitewashed doors of Camelot, it is time to put the dead to rest and move on. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-08-02
1026397:US	51010391	RO9C0HS2LSZE3	1931561273	667277576	A Thin Difference: A Novel	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Crime and Punishment with an unexpected twist	Right at the start, Hollon throws a curve into his novel, one that weighs upon the reader's mind throughout the book, a damning presence that refuses to be dislodged. Is there a crime so heinous as to be unforgivable? Possibly.<br />Jack Skinner is a middle-aged lawyer at the edge of financial dissolution. His life sliding into oblivion for years, he exists in an alcoholic haze, somehow enduring the misery of each day, at least until three o'clock. At exactly three in the afternoon, his extremely patient, unpaid secretary leaves for home and Jack removes the ubiquitous bottle from his desk drawer. So when Brad Craine saunters into the office, with a request for legal services and offering a $5,000 cash retainer, who can argue with Skinner's relieved acceptance? Craine merely requires the attorney to expunge his record, after which he intends to purchase a bar after qualifying for the liquor license. Should Skinner have been more circumspect? Craine did appear after three in the afternoon, the beginning of Jack's personal Happy Hour. And as Skinner himself wryly observes, \\"A man who keeps his eyes straight ahead has a hard time watching his back.\\"<br />More than willing to ignore the quagmire that his personal life has become, Jack spends most of his hours at the office, in the court room or at the local bar. Three times divorced, Skinner's oldest daughter despises him and the youngest one is emotionally damaged, seeking oblivion in drugs and men. Ever more an absentee father, Jack studiously avoids any responsibility for his children's problems.<br />When Brad Craine is arrested for murder and needs his help, Skinner agrees to defend the affable young man, who insists that he is innocent. Skinner goes into overdrive, enlisting the aid of his younger daughter as assistant and using his considerable skills to build Craine's defense, especially since the prosecution's case is predominantly circumstantial. The perfect witness in his own defense, Craine's performance on the stand is brilliant. Skinner is hopeful that the verdict may be favorable, but it is a close call. At this point, the author tosses in yet another Hitchcockian twist, one that stuns even the self-deprecating Jack Skinner. Faced with an impossible conundrum, a man is called to account for a lifetime of deception, a very personal date with destiny. Hollon masterfully seduces the reader into the vortex of his dark and emotionally complex novel, always one step ahead, no holds barred, Luan Gaines/2003.the stand is brilliant. Skinner is hopeful that the verdict may be favorable, but it is a close call. At this point, the author tosses in yet another Hitchcockian twist, one that stuns even the self-deprecating Jack Skinner. Faced with an impossible conundrum, a man is called to account for a lifetime of deception, a very personal date with destiny. Hollon masterfully seduces the reader into the vortex of his dark and emotionally complex novel, always one step ahead, no holds barred, Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-08-02
1032386:US	51010391	RXKVKW51FZC0T	1931561346	657196661	Sunset Terrace: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The Fringe-Dwellers of trickle-down economics	City streets are the playgrounds of the children who live at Sunset Terrace, and patches of dead grass, trash-strewn lots and cracked concrete bordered by battered chain link fencing. Summer days are spent stealing cigarettes and candy from the neighborhood market. These are the beneficiaries of the trickle-down policies of the '80's, living in a vast economic wasteland, families kept together by women who work at minimum wage jobs and buy groceries with food stamps.<br />Elaine arrives at Sunset Terrace with her two daughters, a year after their father has committed suicide. An itinerant chef, Elaine moved her girls from job to job, motel to motel, all across the country. Hannah, nine, lonely and confused by her father's death, was responsible for younger sister, Daisy, while their mother worked late shifts at various roadside restaurants. Rent-controlled Sunset Terrace, in So. California, is a step up for the small family, a new start.<br />Hannah wants friends, but doesn't know the rules, ever on the wrong side of belonging. Bridget, an iconoclastic nine-year-old foster-child who lives downstairs, captures Hannah's attention. Bridget is street savvy, already a victim of ... abuse, the kind of child easily dropped through bureaucratic cracks, shuffled from one place to another. While Bridget carefully courts Hannah, Elaine finds herself feeling sorry for the girl, often including Bridget in family gatherings, while unaware of the girl's dark side. Bridget's smart mouth and intimidating behavior draws Hannah like a moth to flame, the vague promise of a walk on the wild side. Hannah is unprepared for the escalating violence of their games, as Bridget is more and more mean-spirited. Eventually, Hannah grows distant, less trusting, disturbed by Bridget's demeanor.<br />A woman in the complex talks Elaine into attending a Parents-Without-Partners function, where Elaine meets an eligible man, Sam. For Elaine, the genial and loving Sam is unexpected, like winning the Cinderella lottery, a way out. Without him, they are trapped in an indifferent world, surrounded on all sides by poverty and social decay, their sojourn at Sunset Terrace only a respite on a downhill slide. During their last few days, Hannah and Bridget clash frequently, especially when Hannah defends her younger sister from Bridget's unnecessary meanness. Although furious, Hannah agrees to a final game, one that has unexpected and life-changing consequences for both girls.<br />The families of Sunset Terrace live a marginal existence, prey to unstable financial circumstances. Affordable child-care for working mothers is as realistic as the Emerald City at the end of the Yellow Brick Road. Sunset Terrace is a scathing social commentary on the disastrous effects of poverty and a system that ignores the most vulnerable in our society, sweeping them aside like so much detritus. We are not in Kansas, Dorothy. Meet the fringe-dwellers, one step away from homelessness, dancing as fast as they can. Luan Gaines/2003.<br />.nderella lottery, a way out. Without him, they are trapped in an indifferent world, surrounded on all sides by poverty and social decay, their sojourn at Sunset Terrace only a respite on a downhill slide. During their last few days, Hannah and Bridget clash frequently, especially when Hannah defends her younger sister from Bridget's unnecessary meanness. Although furious, Hannah agrees to a final game, one that has unexpected and life-changing consequences for both girls.<br />The families of Sunset Terrace live a marginal existence, prey to unstable financial circumstances. Affordable child-care for working mothers is as realistic as the Emerald City at the end of the Yellow Brick Road. Sunset Terrace is a scathing social commentary on the disastrous effects of poverty and a system that ignores the most vulnerable in our society, sweeping them aside like so much detritus. We are not in Kansas, Dorothy. Meet the fringe-dwellers, one step away from homelessness, dancing as fast as they can. Luan Gaines/2003.<br />.	2003-07-28
1040505:US	51010391	RWVQVQ28N91BZ	0375414746	226199242	The Clearing	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Civilization's short sojourn in the  Louisiana Bayou	The mill clearing at Nimbus is buried in the swamps of Louisiana, knee deep in snakes and alligators. The damp permeates everything, coating man and beast alike with a second skin. After purchasing Nimbus Mill, Noah Aldridge sends his younger son, Randolph, to make contact with the older brother, Byron, who hasn't been the same since he returned from World War II. Traveling the country in search of ever more innocuous jobs, Byron 's only impulse is to withdraw from the world into the wilderness, taking whatever menial jobs appeal to him.<br />For Byron's purposes, the mill is perfect, the clearing surreal, like a step into the primitive past, where the men's brutal, backbreaking days are followed by raucous nights of drunken reveling at the only saloon. After days of unremitting labor, drunken brawls are as commonplace as the hangovers the morning after. Mill life is harsh and dangerous; this is a place where death comes sudden and easily. Byron acts as the local constable and has quickly gotten a reputation for being unpredictable and moody. When not breaking up fights, Byron spends his hours listening to maudlin songs on an old Victoria. He has married a local woman, and derives some comfort from his wife and his music, the black nights filled with sad melodies.<br /> Randolph arrives at the mill, ready to settle in as the new manager. The eerie, intense surroundings of the mill are a far cry from the elite lifestyle the men enjoyed as youths in Pennsylvania, but Randolph is determined to reconnect with his beloved older brother, willing to work alongside him for as long as it takes, rebuilding the cherished relationship. Before long, Randolph learns the details of an ongoing feud with the local Sicilian bootlegger and his assorted relatives, all of them involved in the illegal enterprises.<br />Stepping into the middle of a fray one night,to save his brother the trouble, Randolph is forced to shoot his opponent, a cousin of the Sicilian. The bad blood between the bootleggers and the Aldridge brothers is palpable, a reckoning hovering on the horizon. [Danger]trembles in the moist air after the Sicilians, adept at stealth and intimidation, send an assassin under the cover of night to exact revenge. Their swift assault and retreat is stunningly brutal, irrevocable.<br />Gauteaux's writing is superior, filled with the primal energy of desperate men in extreme conditions. The characters come to life on the pages, sound stifled by the dampness that weights the air. Each new day begins with an effort, a gasp for breath. Workers slog through mud and rain from one place to another, surrounded by timber, snakes and gators. This is the land that time forgot, a place where men struggle to survive, then fall victim to their own vices. Redemption belongs in another world, not at the mill. This Gothic tableau sits patiently, time passes slowly, the swamp ready to swallow any signs of civilization and return to its primeval existence.bootleggers and the Aldridge brothers is palpable, a reckoning hovering on the horizon. [Danger]trembles in the moist air after the Sicilians, adept at stealth and intimidation, send an assassin under the cover of night to exact revenge. Their swift assault and retreat is stunningly brutal, irrevocable.<br />Gauteaux's writing is superior, filled with the primal energy of desperate men in extreme conditions. The characters come to life on the pages, sound stifled by the dampness that weights the air. Each new day begins with an effort, a gasp for breath. Workers slog through mud and rain from one place to another, surrounded by timber, snakes and gators. This is the land that time forgot, a place where men struggle to survive, then fall victim to their own vices. Redemption belongs in another world, not at the mill. This Gothic tableau sits patiently, time passes slowly, the swamp ready to swallow any signs of civilization and return to its primeval existence.	2003-07-21
1040973:US	51010391	R3G5GFCNEZV8CU	0446527548	914497281	Redemption	Books	3	3	4	N	N	(3.5) Too rich, too thin, too dead	For her second novel, another mystery/drama, Nancy Geary has returned to the arena of family problems, this time set in a bastion of New England affluence, beautiful Manchester-by-the-Sea, where the family has a home filled with comfort and luxuries. Frances Pratt has spent many happy summers with her aunt's family, enjoying the good life, where the beautiful people are never too rich too thin, or, in this case, too dead. At this level of society, self-protection is second nature, silently closing ranks against any threat to the projection of the successful American Dream. When Frances is invited to her cousin's wedding, she has no idea what drama awaits them all. A former prosecutor now working as an advocate for abused women, Frances is more than ready for a short vacation, as well as the opportunity to reunite with relatives she hasn't seen for years.<br />Cousin Hope is marrying her longtime sweetheart, Jack Cabot. They are beautiful together, Ken and Barbie come to life. Each detail of the wedding and reception has been planned to perfection, sparing no expense. So Frances is shocked when her cousin, Hope, confides her terrible anxiety before the wedding, agonizing over her imagined unworthiness as Jack's bride. To further complicate the issue, Jack's parents are pressuring the couple to sign a prenuptial agreement, as he is the sole heir to the family fortune. For their part, Hope's parents have sunk the last of their money into the wedding, all to preserve the image that they belong in this rarefied society.<br />Finally the wedding party has gathered in the church, excitedly watching for the bride to step down the aisle. But such concerns seem trivial when the announcement is made that a relative has died suddenly. The wedding will not take place after all. The guests struggle to make the transition from celebrant to mourner, stunned and grieving.<br />Frances is asked to help her family through the immediate crisis, but after the police infer that it might have been a homicide, Frances offers her expertise in criminal justice, also at her aunt's request. Acting as an unofficial party, Frances supplies important background information to the detectives assigned to the case. In the course of her involvement, Frances uncovers some unsettling truths that shatter her image of this perfect family, ugly secrets that have undermined and poisoned family relationships. They have all been living in denial, unwilling to discuss or acknowledge the events.<br />Unfortunately, as Frances learns on this holiday-become-nightmare, family dysfunction runs throughout the family, a strange brew of passion and betrayal. In an engaging style, Geary exposes the secrets of the privileged class, the fatal flaws that have led to the family's disintegration, swept behind the priceless antiques and faded chintz furniture. In spite of the ocean shimmering like a jewel on the horizon and the magic of a Cinderella wedding, Frances' relatives are tormented by their own personal demons, anesthetizing their feelings to protect a false image. Luan Gaines/2003.have been a homicide, Frances offers her expertise in criminal justice, also at her aunt's request. Acting as an unofficial party, Frances supplies important background information to the detectives assigned to the case. In the course of her involvement, Frances uncovers some unsettling truths that shatter her image of this perfect family, ugly secrets that have undermined and poisoned family relationships. They have all been living in denial, unwilling to discuss or acknowledge the events.<br />Unfortunately, as Frances learns on this holiday-become-nightmare, family dysfunction runs throughout the family, a strange brew of passion and betrayal. In an engaging style, Geary exposes the secrets of the privileged class, the fatal flaws that have led to the family's disintegration, swept behind the priceless antiques and faded chintz furniture. In spite of the ocean shimmering like a jewel on the horizon and the magic of a Cinderella wedding, Frances' relatives are tormented by their own personal demons, anesthetizing their feelings to protect a false image. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-07-21
1041295:US	51010391	R3PBGTBPCJTDTB	0393324575	12736036	The Anatomy School	Books	4	1	1	N	N	"Good" Catholic boy... an oxymoron?	This pitch-perfect foray into a young man's agonizing adolescence is made vivid by the small details of his daily life. Living at home with a devout Catholic mother, 1960's Belfast is a tough arena for a young man on the path toward manhood, especially when rigid Catholic school ethics stand sentinel over natural self-expression.<br />Strict Irish priests are rigorous in their training of young men, using corporal punishment, coupled with the occasional spiritual retreat: three days of silence, prayer and soul-searching. The most effective and lasting discipline is mental, constant drumming lectures concerning the nature of sin, especially when entertained as lascivious thoughts, where a boy's chastity is threatened by self-will. Martin Brennan and his friends survive just such an environment, their sexuality a driving force, as they bond in friendship defined by four-letter words and innuendo. Driven by hormones, conscience runs a close second, carefully nurtured through years of training.<br />To his shame, Brennan is repeating his last year of high school before seeking employment. Kavanagh, a star basketball player, is Martin's best pal and co-conspirator. When the more sophisticated Blaise Foley boards at their school, the paradigm changes, the three boys forming a lopsided triumvirate, as Blaise challenges Martin to question everything he has been taught. The free-floating anxiety common to boys on the verge of manhood tempers Martin and Kavanagh's natural hubris and enthusiasm.<br />The iconoclastic Blaise is a perfect foil to the more conscientious Brennan and Kavanagh, pricking holes in their beliefs and expectations. It is Blaise who suggests a scheme for passing exams, critical to each young man's future. Blaise is an antagonist whose best work is done while skating on the thin edge of risk, a practiced con man with a deep distrust of conformity. But ill-conceived interference by a disciplinarian begins a cycle of violence that leaves one boy fighting for his life and shocking the others into adulthood overnight. This injudicious incident changes the course of their futures.<br />Some harsh lessons burn a hole in the soul, a black mark that cannot be removed, possibly requiring a sojourn in Purgatory. But youthful experience denies the pull of grief and shame, where hope bravely shimmers, a light at the end of the tunnel.<br />There is a notable scene where Brennan loses his virginity, perfectly capturing the tortuous journey from exploration to intimacy. Unaware of his own charms, Brennan is an attractive young man to the opposite sex. His first foray into sexual adventure is tender and touching. MacLaverty skillfully portrays the difficult terrain of youthful maturity, when young boys perform age-old rituals that mark such significant events.<br />In a familiar and humorous rendition, MacLaverty's Martin Brennan, carefully tended by a religious mother who surrounds her son with moral values, is the essence of a boy's transition into the next phase of life, his struggles proscribed by universal experience, successfully navigating his path towards the future. Luan Gaines/2003.or his life and shocking the others into adulthood overnight. This injudicious incident changes the course of their futures.<br />Some harsh lessons burn a hole in the soul, a black mark that cannot be removed, possibly requiring a sojourn in Purgatory. But youthful experience denies the pull of grief and shame, where hope bravely shimmers, a light at the end of the tunnel. <br />There is a notable scene where Brennan loses his virginity, perfectly capturing the tortuous journey from exploration to intimacy. Unaware of his own charms, Brennan is an attractive young man to the opposite sex. His first foray into sexual adventure is tender and touching. MacLaverty skillfully portrays the difficult terrain of youthful maturity, when young boys perform age-old rituals that mark such significant events.<br />In a familiar and humorous rendition, MacLaverty's Martin Brennan, carefully tended by a religious mother who surrounds her son with moral values, is the essence of a boy's transition into the next phase of life, his struggles proscribed by universal experience, successfully navigating his path towards the future. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-07-21
1043146:US	51010391	R1VPNYBV6IE94L	0618149120	400634503	The Winter Queen: A Novel	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Compromising Positions make strange bedfellows	The quality of Stevenson's scholarship is immediately evident, the substantial historical research key to the author's success. A love story set in 17th C. Holland, the widowed Elizabeth Stuart, Queen of Bohemia, begins a friendship with African prince and former slave, Pelagius van Overmeer, now a Calvinist theologian. As the sister of Charles I and daughter of James I, Elizabeth's primary obligation is the protection of her children's positions, maintaining good relations with the Crown, in the person of Charles I, currently engaged in the Thirty Years War that is tearing the country apart.<br />For his part, Pelagius is a unique man in this country riddled by war, but also undergoing a cultural renaissance, a resurgence of art and culture. Brought to Europe as a slave, Pelagius achieves his freedom, then dedicates himself to the scholarship of the exotic plants of East Asia and their potential use in the healing arts. An erudite man, Pelagius becomes a seer as well, able to sustain his meager subsistence in this manner.<br />Receiving some notoriety in his capacity as seer, in which he uses ancient African methods to give godly advice to his patrons, Pelagius first awakens the Queen's interest. Engaging in casual conversation, they discover an affinity for one another, having complementary sympathetic natures. While both approach middle age, they are blindsided by their passion and marry in a clandestine ceremony. Once night falls, they are able to give reign to their mutual affection, free of artifice or pretension. As a precaution, Pelagius poses as Elizabeth's Latin tutor and physician, their secret known only by her ladies-in-waiting.  Elizabeth's warmth and good humor act as a catalyst to Pelagius' reserved demeanor, deluging him with unexpected joy. Love truly is blind for this extraordinary couple.<br />When Elizabeth becomes pregnant, she is able to conceal her condition, feigning illness during the dank winter months, a time when she regularly suffers from poor health. After their son, Balthasar, is born, Pelagius transports his child in the deep of night to a couple that has agreed to care for the infant. Although the baby must be safely hidden from gossip or unwarranted curiosity, Pelagius is uncomfortable after leaving the child with strangers.<br />It is with considerable distress that Elizabeth and Pelagius consider the future parameters of their relationship, having already tempted fate with the birth of their son. Whether or not they can live as man and wife is the most difficult landmark in this fascinating romance, but the couple cannot ignore the danger to their son should his birth be discovered. Pelagius struggles with a deep affection for his wife and small son, offering solutions, but Elizabeth cannot forget her other children's futures. Both vow to make peace with their painful circumstances, yet each choice is fraught with pain, Elizabeth's options restricted by a royal bloodline, hostage to her royal fate.<br />In prose that transcends the boundaries of race and position, Stevenson lifts her two central characters to a higher plane of existence, joined in marriage with the added bounty of mutual respect. This novel is the first of an intended trilogy. As such, The Winter Queen sets the tone for all, with a tale of clandestine romance between The Queen of Bohemia and her African prince. Their son, Balthasar, is the fruit of the union, their gift to the future and the subject of the second book of the trilogy, The Shadow Prince. Luan Gaines/2003.om poor health. After their son, Balthasar, is born, Pelagius transports his child in the deep of night to a couple that has agreed to care for the infant. Although the baby must be safely hidden from gossip or unwarranted curiosity, Pelagius is uncomfortable after leaving the child with strangers.<br />It is with considerable distress that Elizabeth and Pelagius consider the future parameters of their relationship, having already tempted fate with the birth of their son. Whether or not they can live as man and wife is the most difficult landmark in this fascinating romance, but the couple cannot ignore the danger to their son should his birth be discovered. Pelagius struggles with a deep affection for his wife and small son, offering solutions, but Elizabeth cannot forget her other children's futures. Both vow to make peace with their painful circumstances, yet each choice is fraught with pain, Elizabeth's options restricted by a royal bloodline, hostage to her royal fate.<br />In prose that transcends the boundaries of race and position, Stevenson lifts her two central characters to a higher plane of existence, joined in marriage with the added bounty of mutual respect. This novel is the first of an intended trilogy. As such, The Winter Queen sets the tone for all, with a tale of clandestine romance between The Queen of Bohemia and her African prince. Their son, Balthasar, is the fruit of the union, their gift to the future and the subject of the second book of the trilogy, The Shadow Prince. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-07-19
1044087:US	51010391	R28JUO9DD56UM7	039305764X	723713561	Due Preparations for the Plague: A Novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Innocence betrayed in the pursuit of truth	I was unprepared for the impact of this riveting novel, defined by psychological tensions and a complicated plot, which presents a deceptively simple story. A number of young children are released from a hijacked Air France flight, although their parents meet a horrible death at the hands of terrorists, the children's lives forever tainted by what they have witnessed. But there is a subplot that implicates the government, notably the CIA, in the manipulation of information that led to the deaths of those on the flight. Over the years, the surviving children keep in close contact, desperately seeking emotional connections. They create a web site, where they request any information regarding the Air France hijacking incident.<br />Of the surviving children, Samantha is the most driven, unable to cease her relentless quest for answers. None of the children have attained normalcy, the devastation of early trauma marking each facet of their lives. Samantha has been phoning Lowell continuously, in search of yet another detail, as he lost his mother in the tragedy, but was not on the plane. Lowell, an ineffectual husband and father, tormented by nightmares, is the son of a suspected CIA operative in charge of Operation Black Death, code-named Salamander. Lowell is unaware of his father's part in the government cover-up, having spent years believing himself a disappointment to an emotionally distant father. But when Lowell receives a package from his father, recently killed in a car accident, the contents change his perspective and raise serious questions of personal responsibility.<br />When Lowell finally contacts Samantha, he is in a panic, afraid he is pursued because of the material now in his possession. Unsure whether they are paranoid about the surveillance, Samantha and Lowell secretly meet to review Lowell's contraband, faced with a difficult decision, balancing the explosive information and their desire for survival. There are a number of inexplicable coincidences, people who have known each other in distant places and circumstances brought together on the fateful flight. Both Sam and Lowell discover that some of their relatives are associated with the puzzle, although only tangentially.<br />Due Preparations for the Plague is a bold examination of an incident of terrorism and the subsequent obfuscation of facts by the CIA. The unacknowledged, clandestine operations of a government engaged in a different kind of war, deliberately invisible, albeit just as deadly, exists after all, unremarked by most. When evil is perpetrated in pursuit of power, there are those who seek to contain that evil, to balance the potential for destruction. But history is rife with examples of failure. In consorting with the worst of mankind, contamination by association is inevitable, small surrenders that deplete good intentions, until there is only the lesser evil and a decision to sustain collateral damage is made by the few for the many.<br />Yet there is redemption for Sam and Lowell, the intensley personal perspective of those that perished, as, unified, they oppose their tormentor with inordinate bravery. The author graphically illustrates the nature of the human spirit, transcending circumstances, transforming victims from pawns to examples of life at its most magnificent. In the most extreme circumstances, the human spirit demands an intimate communion with others, its pure flame annihilating differences. In a message of love and forgiveness, the dead send hope to future generations, survivors of indignity and shame that lift their faces, uncowed, to the light. \\"To state quite simply what we learn in a time of pestilence: that there are more things to admire in men than to despise\\". (Albert Camus, THE PLAGUE). Luan Gaines/2003.s, people who have known each other in distant places and circumstances brought together on the fateful flight. Both Sam and Lowell discover that some of their relatives are associated with the puzzle, although only tangentially. <br />Due Preparations for the Plague is a bold examination of an incident of terrorism and the subsequent obfuscation of facts by the CIA. The unacknowledged, clandestine operations of a government engaged in a different kind of war, deliberately invisible, albeit just as deadly, exists after all, unremarked by most. When evil is perpetrated in pursuit of power, there are those who seek to contain that evil, to balance the potential for destruction. But history is rife with examples of failure. In consorting with the worst of mankind, contamination by association is inevitable, small surrenders that deplete good intentions, until there is only the lesser evil and a decision to sustain collateral damage is made by the few for the many.<br />Yet there is redemption for Sam and Lowell, the intensley personal perspective of those that perished, as, unified, they oppose their tormentor with inordinate bravery. The author graphically illustrates the nature of the human spirit, transcending circumstances, transforming victims from pawns to examples of life at its most magnificent. In the most extreme circumstances, the human spirit demands an intimate communion with others, its pure flame annihilating differences. In a message of love and forgiveness, the dead send hope to future generations, survivors of indignity and shame that lift their faces, uncowed, to the light. \\"To state quite simply what we learn in a time of pestilence: that there are more things to admire in men than to despise\\". (Albert Camus, THE PLAGUE). Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-07-18
1058280:US	51010391	R240LBOIBLZ1BU	1573222453	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Youthful hubris yields an unexpected legacy	This is an extraordinary and important first novel from a former citizen of Afghanistan. The story addresses decades long upheavals in the world, particularly the Middle East. The harsh lessons of war prevail as a fascinating country, rich with history and tradition, is decimated by years of invasion, internecine war, religious intolerance and a rigid class system. As well, there is the theme of parent and child, in this case father and son, the importance of that primary relationship in determining the future of a child.<br />As a young boy, Amir leads a sheltered life, one of privilege and luxury, surrounded by learning and culture. As the son of an upper class Pashtun, Amir has a constant playmate in Hassan, son of his father's Hazara servant of many years. Each winter the boys compete in the popular sport of kite running, Hassan's daunting agility adding to their success. As a Hazara, Hassan has no importance as a person and is in imminent danger when threatened by a local bully. Amir has the opportunity to intervene, but in his arrogance, he hides behind the superiority of class, betraying his companion. Amir's extemporaneous decision will define the inner dialog of his entire adult life.<br />Immigrating to America with his father just before the Russian invasion of Afghanistan, Amir does everything in his power to make his Baba proud. It seems his Baba cannot be pleased, requiring much of his only son. But, as the years pass, father and son reach a place of mutual understanding and respect. Later, when the Taliban is in power, an old family friend contacts Amir, offering a second opportunity at redemption. Having spent most of his life consumed by shame and regret, Amir recognizes the very real implications of his decision so long ago. His internal struggle is the underlying theme of the novel, which spans Afghan history from the peaceful 70's to the repressive rule of the Taliban in the late 90's.<br />The desperate battle to preserve the cultural heritage of Afghanistan spans Amir's life in Kabul and America, played out upon the world stage. Amir and his father have lived safely in America while their homeland is decimated by constant warfare. After years of chaos, the streets of Afghanistan are lined with beggars, fatherless children whose future is marginalized by poverty. \\"There are a lot of children in Afghanistan, but little childhood.\\"<br />The sweet simplicity of youthful winters spent \\"kite running\\" with Hassan, seem light years away, illuminated in retrospect by the boys' unfettered innocence. Returning to Afghanistan as a grown man, Amir is challenged as never before, charged with the protection of a young life already scarred by the random violence that is visited upon the disenfranchised. With inordinate compassion Hosseini soulfully portrays Amir's impossible dilemma, where salvation lies in his potential for human kindness towards the less fortunate. Given another opportunity to heal the terrible wounds inflicted by personal choice, Amir's potential for compassion is renewed. He begins to understand the power of forgiveness, when the impossible becomes possible. Suddenly, the wild joy of two young boys' soaring kites against a winter sky is an everyday miracle. Luan Gaines/2003.f Afghanistan spans Amir's life in Kabul and America, played out upon the world stage. Amir and his father have lived safely in America while their homeland is decimated by constant warfare. After years of chaos, the streets of Afghanistan are lined with beggars, fatherless children whose future is marginalized by poverty. \\"There are a lot of children in Afghanistan, but little childhood.\\" <br />The sweet simplicity of youthful winters spent \\"kite running\\" with Hassan, seem light years away, illuminated in retrospect by the boys' unfettered innocence. Returning to Afghanistan as a grown man, Amir is challenged as never before, charged with the protection of a young life already scarred by the random violence that is visited upon the disenfranchised. With inordinate compassion Hosseini soulfully portrays Amir's impossible dilemma, where salvation lies in his potential for human kindness towards the less fortunate. Given another opportunity to heal the terrible wounds inflicted by personal choice, Amir's potential for compassion is renewed. He begins to understand the power of forgiveness, when the impossible becomes possible. Suddenly, the wild joy of two young boys' soaring kites against a winter sky is an everyday miracle. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-07-07
1058622:US	51010391	R5DSFEFPOEFN0	0316591122	848130165	Fear Itself: A Fearless Jones Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Missing jewels, journals and the temptation of greed...	Walter Mosley strikes again in his new thriller, Fear Itself, set in 1955 Watts, only ten years before the Watts Riots, when the frustrated citizens react to ongoing police brutality by demonstrating their outrage, the result a conflagration that almost destroys the city in the process. In 1955, things are still quiet, although the inhabitants of this Los Angeles suburb are cautious in the extreme in any encounters with the white man. The people of Watts understand that there are severe consequences for every action, generally circumspect in public behavior, avoiding unnecessary conflict with those in authority. Every Sunday, the churches ring with song when parishioners sing of deliverance and redemption.<br />Enter Paris Minton, a used bookstore owner and admitted coward, mostly content to remain ensconced within his world of words. When Fearless Jones coming knocking one night, asking for help in tracking down Kit Mitchell, Paris happily agrees. He has his reasons. For one thing, the usually timid Paris is imbued with a sense of empowerment in the presence of Fearless, an ex-soldier capable of expedient violence, but restrained by common sense and integrity. Fearless' physical prowess ensures Paris' safety, having come in handy on more than one occasion. Something about his friend allows the usually timid Paris to stand a little taller, a bit more of a man.<br />The police have Fearless in their sights, for &quot;questioning&quot;, so Paris does the footwork necessary to unravel the mystery, secure in the knowledge that Fearless is close behind. As their search for Mitchell progresses, Paris' personal danger increases and dead bodies cause unwanted complications in unraveling the mystery. At the heart of it all: a stolen heirloom, a priceless slave journal and enough money to attract crooks from miles around.<br />Mosley's multi-layered plot abounds with unpredictable twists and turns. The author's particular appeal lies in the lively dialog of a fabulous assortment of eccentric characters. Paris' literate approach balances perfectly with Fearless' street-wise charm, allowing the well-educated Paris an adventurous romp on the dark side of the street. The inspired pairing of the intrepid Fearless Jones and the refined demeanor of Paris Minton, will doubtless garner even more Mosley fans, as they anticipate the next adventure of the unlikely duo. Luan Gaines/2003.ent of eccentric characters. Paris' literate approach balances perfectly with Fearless' street-wise charm, allowing the well-educated Paris an adventurous romp on the dark side of the street. The inspired pairing of the intrepid Fearless Jones and the refined demeanor of Paris Minton, will doubtless garner even more Mosley fans, as they anticipate the next adventure of the unlikely duo. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-07-07
1058879:US	51010391	RWMZVJEKZYTVX	0743244354	217847661	Liars and Saints: A Novel	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Secrets and lies affect a family's history...	First time novelist Meloy portrays five generations and the damage wrought by too many secrets, ultimately threatening the foundation of the family itself. Yvette Grenier marries Teddy Santerre, a Marine, during World War II and the young couple anticipate their future with enthusiasm, too much in love to notice the pitfalls that await the careless. They have two daughters, Margot and Clarissa and are content in the life they have fashioned, although Teddy struggles with unfounded jealousy of his beautiful wife.<br />As devout Roman Catholics, the Santerres are deeply committed to the ritual and tradition of their faith, raising their girls with devotion and an awareness of moral obligation. Margot has almost graduated high school when the Santerre's are suddenly parents again, this new baby a boy. Yvette adapts quickly to new motherhood, but Teddy and Jamie's relationship is always strained, never quite comfortable. Jamie often seems at a loss for direction, his one unremitting passion his guitar and a close connection with sister, Clarissa.<br />From the 1950's to the upheavals of the 60' and 70's, like most families, the Santerre's are affected by the changing landscape of social mores. Children break away from the traditional values of the parents, experimenting with a variety of lifestyles, and by the 80's and 90's, must deal with the consequences of their actions. Like most families in America, the parents feel disconnected, unable to control their children. In turn, the children are frustrated by their parents' lack of understanding. Over time, both girls marry, although Clarissa eventually divorces, asking Jamie to come to California to stay with her and her daughter, Abby. For a while, Jamie knows contentment with Abby and Clarissa, but soon drifts back into his nomadic ways.<br />To acknowledge a milestone anniversary, Teddy and Yvette celebrate by renewing their vows at the Mission where they married, in Santa Barbara, California. The special occasion allows the family to reunite after years of geographic and emotional distance. Soon after, they are challenged by tragedy, tested by an unfathomable loss and their inability to make the emotional connections they so desperately need. Long hidden family secrets surface, allowing some family members a measure of relief and the opportunity to heal old wounds.<br />The strength of Meloy's novel is her characters, all of them as familiar as a pair of favorite slippers. The plot is carefully structured, yet never interferes with the flow of the story, where the people dominate the action, their personal struggles defined against a changing world. Yet, in the end, each person's capacity for forgiveness and understanding is enlarged by personal experience, allowing them to reach out to comfort each other and embrace their differences. Once exposed, secrets no longer retain the power to destroy. Luan Gaines/2003.lows the family to reunite after years of geographic and emotional distance. Soon after, they are challenged by tragedy, tested by an unfathomable loss and their inability to make the emotional connections they so desperately need. Long hidden family secrets surface, allowing some family members a measure of relief and the opportunity to heal old wounds. <br />The strength of Meloy's novel is her characters, all of them as familiar as a pair of favorite slippers. The plot is carefully structured, yet never interferes with the flow of the story, where the people dominate the action, their personal struggles defined against a changing world. Yet, in the end, each person's capacity for forgiveness and understanding is enlarged by personal experience, allowing them to reach out to comfort each other and embrace their differences. Once exposed, secrets no longer retain the power to destroy. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-07-07
1061314:US	51010391	RICA0DD3U09K5	0393324222	290633108	Arabian Jazz: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A joyful adventure in cultural diversity	This light-hearted and imaginative novel portrays a Jordanian family as they adjust to life in the United States. Jazz musician and widower Mattusem Ramoud has raised his two daughters alone since his wife's death, balancing their lives as Americans with their Jordanian hertiage. The extended family is like any other large, eccentric group of people, full of intensity and humor, loving each other unconditionally through whatever difficulties arise.<br />Jemorah and Melvina have reached marriageable age and their Aunt Fatima, Matussem's sister, is determined that this year, during \\"Family Function Season\\", at least Jemorah will find a husband before she is old enough to be disqualified as a spinster. The search is on and Fatima leaves no stone unturned, offering an assortment of odd relatives, second cousins and distant \\"uncles\\". But Jemora is in no hurry to make a choice that will alter the course of her life, determined to make a well-informed decision.<br />This intimate peek into one Arab-American family's experience, blends two generations of Ramouds, all of them quirky and colorful. Many are recent visitors from Jordan who speak in fractured English that renders them even more charming and eccentric, if that is possible, as Abu-Jaber holds her finger directly on the pulse of this remarkable family. Cousin Saiid enthuses, \\"I must be in heaven, man. You are our cousins, man? This is completely, like, my mind is psyching out.\\"<br />Old Country fables abound, along with the foolish antics of the younger generation in this eclectic mix of characters. Each page is a delight, bursting with life and energy, family connections and intimate portraits of the bonds of love. Whatever Jemorah decides, she will always have a soft place to fall, her Jordanian-American family her greatest asset. Abu-Jaber has deftly penned the tale of a raucous family, enthusiastic about everything in their lives, music, the future and each other. The Ramoud's share their fascinating culture with the reader, reinforcing the belief of an America that offers infinite possibilities to those who embrace her opportunity and generosity, enriching this country with their accomplishments. Luan Gaines/2003th the reader, reinforcing the belief of an America that offers infinite possibilities to those who embrace her opportunity and generosity, enriching this country with their accomplishments. Luan Gaines/2003	2003-07-04
1064863:US	51010391	R3S5AYIRVDGBRP	0743247035	228054473	Meeting Evil: A Novel	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Ballad of the Good Samaritan...	Thomas Berger is a master of turning the mundane into nightmare, as he proves once again in Meeting Evil. When John Felton, a real estate salesman, regular guy next door, answers his doorbell early one morning and a stranger with car trouble asks for assistance, he willingly obliges. This is Felton's first mistake.<br />As the situation escalates into chaos, it is clear that something is very wrong. Ritchie, the stranger, is both obnoxious and obsequious, given to sudden flares of temper. John's go-along personality has gotten him into an untenable situation, one that seems to offer no immediate avenue of escape and Felton is confused about why he is with the volatile Ritchie. John's habitual tentativeness is a great disadvantage, leaving him as vulnerable as the proverbial lamb waiting for slaughter. \\"He was conscious of a lifetime of urge to do right.\\"<br />What happens when a rational man finds himself in an ever more dangerous situation, where he is helplessly mired in moral perplexities? As more innocent bystanders are drawn into Ritchie's vortex, it is John's conscience that struggles with escape, at the mercy of a sociopath.  Ritchie's escalating violence is intolerable and John Felton's life is seriously out of control.<br />John must decide if he can maintain his integrity and still remain a passive bystander, caught between adapting to Ritchie's unpredictable impulses and escaping without harm. All Felton's struggles are as yet internal; he is unable to take action for fear of the consequences. \\"To be no hero is shameful, but taking satisfaction in that state of affairs would be.\\"<br />This is the story of a family man, a suburban Everyman, spending his days in comfortable rapprochement with his environment, never questioning his ethics in the world at large. John is complacent, his manhood unchallenged, in one sense a moral NIMBY (not-in-my-backyard). When evil threatens, John is immediately paralyzed, equivocating. But what works in every day situations may not provide the appropriate answer in extreme circumstances. Meeting Evil poses the philosophical dilemma of life in a civilized society pitted against aberrant behavior with no room for error. Luan Gaines/2003.may not provide the appropriate answer in extreme circumstances. Meeting Evil poses the philosophical dilemma of life in a civilized society pitted against aberrant behavior with no room for error. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-07-02
1078978:US	51010391	R2L8U963I18LJK	0446531421	432548907	Still Life with Crows (Pendergast, Book 4)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Murder in small town Kansas...	Special Agent Pendergast returns, this time on foot, to the scene of the crime in this latest outing by the mystery/suspense team Preston/Childs. Striking a Gothic note with his pale skin, white-blonde hair, solid black suit and esoteric witticisms, Pendergast is up to his Gucci's in horrific serial murders of Gothic proportions. In ghoulish tableau, the dead bodies are displayed for public viewing, terrifying a small town in Kansas, one already faced with economic demise. As the body count rises, so does the paranoia, especially when Pendergast indicates that the murderer is a citizen of Medicine Creek.<br />Set in his ways, Sheriff Dent Hazen, does not appreciate any interference, especially from Pendergast, who uses his deductive reasoning and thorough research of every occupant of Medicine Creek, while Sheriff Hazen covers his political backside. Not that Sheriff Hazen bothers the esoteric FBI agent, who never worries about the opinions of others while puzzling over the grisly murders. After some careful sleuthing, he suspects that the homicides may be tied to an infamous historical event, the Medicine Creek Massacre of 1865.<br />Under a blue August sky, dense with heat, the rows of corn loom claustrophobic and menacing.  The citizens consider the possibility of true evil among them as there is no logical explanation to ameliorate the wanton violence of the kill scenes. Floundering in a diminished farm economy, all that is left of Medicine Creek are a few dusty stores lining Main Street. The murders threaten the loss of important revenue, as Medicine Creek is one of two towns competing for use by Kansas State University as a site for genetic engineering of their corn. The infusion of capital is desperately needed if the town is to survive.<br />This summer read is packed with disparate clues and questions: the murderer, the motive and bloody crime scenes of an almost inhuman mien. Still Life with Crows is a cornucopia of esoteric trivia, thanks to Pendergast's erudition and the fascinating historical details of a small town awash in the detritus of history, both mythological and factual, while the perpetrator hovers nearby, a member of the terrified town. This isn't Dorothy's Kansas. Luan Gaines/2003.erudition and the fascinating historical details of a small town awash in the detritus of history, both mythological and factual, while the perpetrator hovers nearby, a member of the terrified town. This isn't Dorothy's Kansas. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-06-22
1079023:US	51010391	R1GJBAWC7NDTG2	0743241835	142788360	Best Friends: A Novel	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Bittersweet fruits of friendship...	A master of dissecting the human psyche, Berger posits a twenty-year friendship, begun in adolescence, and fillets it for his reader's edification. Probing beneath the surface of the niceties that go into the long-established patterns of a relationship, Best Friends is particularly interesting as it concerns two successful young men, Roy Courtwright, a bachelor, and Sam Grandy, married for three years.<br />Roy has studiously avoided any interference with the couple, respecting their marital integrity while protecting his own turf as best friend to Sam. Roy is a friend who knows his place, treats his lovers kadmirably and barely knows Sam's wife, Kristin on a personal level. Much like a long-term marriage, the friendship is predictable and never hurtful to either man. But when the overweight and over-indulgent Sam has a heart attack, everyone is caught off balance.<br />In the midst of unexpected personal trouble, Roy turns to Kristin as a substitute, unwilling to burden Sam or jeopardize his health. Roy suffers some trepidation about sharing his problems with Kristin, but is too distraught to keep his own counsel. During their conversation, Kristin inadvertently mentions some remarks Sam has made about his friend, words that sound like betrayal to Roy. In doing so, Kristin illuminates an unsuspected problem in the men's relationship. Reacting to the thinly veiled animosity in Sam's words, Roy questions the basis of their friendship, for loyalty and integrity are paramount to Roy's wellbeing, while Sam is ambivalent about such values. Roy is shocked to realize that he has harbored some resentment toward Sam, &quot;Maybe he and I are friends just out of habit, though maybe the same can be said of everything else. Living may be just a habit.&quot;<br />The real beauty of Berger's intelligent and thought provoking novel is the simplicity of his protagonists, the commonality of experience, so remarkably familiar that the reader is privy to the thoughts and small disharmonies of these characters. As personal as a private conversation, Best Friends exposes the important relationships we take for granted. Luan Gaines/2003.onies of these characters. As personal as a private conversation, Best Friends exposes the important relationships we take for granted. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-06-22
1086258:US	51010391	R2ND2L4XCV0UJX	0446531480	987364760	A Body to Die For	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A mystery wrapped in Mylar...	A suspense novel that makes a great summer beach read, A Body to Die For features the hip and irreverent, Bailey Weggins. Bailey is a freelance writer for Gloss Magazine, specializing in true crime. This adult Nancy Drew is all wrapped up in solving a murder at the spa she visits for a simple weekend of R and R. This au courant young New Yorker, sophisticated enough to maintain a career in New York City, is still as enthusiastic and romantically flexible as the girl-next-door. Bailey plunges ahead, undaunted.<br />Visiting the Cedar Creek Inn, owned by a longtime friend of her mother's, Bailey is ostensibly reestablishing old ties. But she is also checking up on mom's friend Danny and her new husband. And it is the perfect getaway from the morbid thoughts of a broken romance Bailey is trying to forget.<br />Within hours of her arrival, Bailey stumbles across a murder victim in the Cedar Creek spa, who turns out to have been one of the masseuses. The body is tightly wrapped in Mylar, then secured with duct tape. Like a young \\"Sue Grafton\\" without P.I. license, Bailey's sleuthing is amateur but well intentioned. Of course, it doesn't hurt that the homicide detective attached to the case is devastatingly handsome. Caught between her immediate physical attraction to the detective and the loss of her recent boyfriend, Bailey indulges in some romantic flights of fancy. Meanwhile she uncovers motives that invariably put her in the wrong place at the wrong time, consequently, face to face with a murderer.<br />A Body to Die For is \\"mystery lite\\", perfect for a few hours of escapism. White knows her demographic and writes directly to her target audience. With cheerful abandon, the author sends Bailey Weggins plummeting into the middle of a murder mystery made to order for fans of the intrepid young journalist. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-06-16
1087326:US	51010391	R3FV92SBJC312	0316381209	370551246	The Anniversary: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A Malicious Greeting from a stranger...	Another quick summer read, Anniversary has a fast-moving plot, sufficiently unnerving to keep the reader turning pages. Filled with malevolent intent, a secret watcher takes up the torch for an executed serial killer.<br />Three women were central to the life of the infamous serial killer: his attorney, his longtime girlfriend and the female author who penned the defining book of his atrocities. Each receives a timely Anniversary message, unsigned, five years after the execution. Unaware of any connection to the others, each woman minimizes the importance of the note. That is a mistake.<br />One of the women is murdered. The ex-girlfriend of the serial killer, now with a new life and new name, reads about the death, suddenly anxious about the meaning of the Happy Anniversary message and the bouquet of roses on her doorstep. As well she should be. Laura, now living as Callie, can't shake the feeling that she is being followed. When another of the women is brutally attacked, Callie draws her own conclusions and goes to the police. There are ultimately two potential suspects, neither personally identified and the police are hindered by differing jurisdictions as well.<br />Pressured by her unnamable fears, Callie isolates herself from her friends and breaks off her romantic relationship, one of her worst fears the attention of the media should they find out her true identity. Taking her safety into her own hands, Callie sends her daughter to the grandparents, buys a gun and learns how to fire it. Under round-the-clock surveillance, there is no guarantee that Callie is safe in her own home.<br />The isolation affords Callie an opportunity to review the past, the unconscious memories she has resisted for so long. She has a vague image in her mind, a familiar face from the past, but is unable to identify the person. Determined not to sacrifice the new life she has built so painstakingly, Callie remains vigilant. Finally, recognizing the killer, Callie is able to absolve herself from the guilt she carries about the murdered victims and her part as the girlfriend who chose to look the other way. Fighting for her life, Callie faces her fear and the killer. Luan Gaines/2003.herself from the guilt she carries about the murdered victims and her part as the girlfriend who chose to look the other way. Fighting for her life, Callie faces her fear and the killer. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-06-15
1088015:US	51010391	R1H5O1RPCOTIRR	0316603287	734205902	The Lake House	Books	2	1	2	N	N	A real flight of fancy...	Like other current light novels, Patterson taps into the summer beach market with Lake House, revisiting the theme from his 1998 success, When the Wind Blows. The sibling bird/children from the prior novel are now embroiled are in a court battle that has become a media circus. The man and woman who have championed the children's rescue from \\"the School\\", FBI agent Kit Brennan and veterinarian Frannie O'Neill, have petitioned family court for guardianship. Unfortunately, the biological parents have intervened, challenging the guardianship, which would mean separating the siblings. Under the discretion of the court, the judge rules in favor of the biological parents.<br />The heartbroken Kit and Frannie are deeply concerned about the safety of these young creatures, as a number of nefarious individuals seek to exploit and/or experiment with the children. The world is ill prepared for any aberrant life forms, even if they are only a curiosity. The children are particularly vulnerable to the evil intentioned, M & M loving, Dr. Ethan Kane, a genetic scientist who is preparing for \\"the Resurrection\\", his own personal experiment in life extension.<br />Kane's primary target is Max, the oldest female, aged twelve, but with the maturity of an adult. Suddenly all the children are in danger as hired assassins move closer. Helping each other, they fly to safety once, but are later recaptured. Then ensues a battle for the preservation of \\"the flock\\", when Frannie, Kit and the kids are taken to Dr. Kane's \\"Hospital\\". His plans are well underway, happily harvesting innocent donor's organs.<br />With mass audience appeal and international recognition, Patterson has established a niche market. By dipping into fantasy, instead of his formulaic mystery/suspense, Patterson may garner new fans of the Sci-Fi genre. Lake House is written in the abbreviated style that works for Patterson's fast paced mysteries, the text peppered with question marks, italicized words and exclamation points, a technique that doesn't allow for subtle definitions of characters. On the other hand, for those easily bored, Lake House is easy reading . Rest assured, we have not seen the last of this series.<br />It is difficult to give an author's work less than three stars, but it is also necessary for each reviewer to establish his own criteria for the books reviewed. I look back on Patterson's earlier work, novels that I would look forward to reading in his particularly engaging style. Like many popular authors, constantly pressured by the market for more material, Patterson has turned out a huge number of books to meet the needs of his audience. I am willing to wait a little longer to read something of the same quality as his earliest novels. Luan Gaines/2003., a technique that doesn't allow for subtle definitions of characters. On the other hand, for those easily bored, Lake House is easy reading . Rest assured, we have not seen the last of this series.<br />It is difficult to give an author's work less than three stars, but it is also necessary for each reviewer to establish his own criteria for the books reviewed. I look back on Patterson's earlier work, novels that I would look forward to reading in his particularly engaging style. Like many popular authors, constantly pressured by the market for more material, Patterson has turned out a huge number of books to meet the needs of his audience. I am willing to wait a little longer to read something of the same quality as his earliest novels. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-06-15
1092434:US	51010391	R2RWV1DT7702Z9	0743243498	637524594	The Lamplighter: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Life, Death and the power of the Imagination...	This fascinating novel dips into the past, late 19th Century Edinburgh, Scotland, the scene of a string of bloody murders that terrify citizens and mystify police. Beside each body, in plain view, is a cryptic message. Because of the notes, the police are quick to realize that there is a connection, a time when the victim's paths converged. Due to the truly gruesome nature of the crime scenes, it is unclear what kind of monster is loose, man or beast, perhaps something inhuman.<br />Twenty years prior, a young girl, Evelyn Todd, was confined to an orphanage, the only balm to her loneliness the stories she made up to entertain the other children. In her stories, Leerie, the Lamplighter, led through the streets of the city, illuminating the darkness with his torch. On his nightly rounds, Leerie was Evelyn's friend, an extension into a world from which she is shut out. Later, when Evelyn is claimed by a \\"relative, she is not heard from again, until she shows up as an adult in Edinburgh, confessing that she has dreamed each murder in perfect detail, even the notes.<br />Inspector Groves, assigned to the case, is ready for retirement and completing his memoirs, the more sensational the better. He is convinced that Evelyn is the perfect addition to his book and determines to get to the bottom of her nightmares, her obvious affiliation with the murders. There are two other observers willing to act on Evelyn's behalf, Thomas McKnight, Professor of Logic and Metaphysics and Joseph Canavan, an unemployed night watchman. The men are of a more sympathetic nature and believe Evelyn's dilemma is one of great danger, threatened with the very essence of evil. Slowly and tenderly, they coax her to reveal the tortuous story of her youth, searching for a solution to her nightmares.<br />It is past the Age of Enlightenment and philosophy is tempered with scientific knowledge, the psychoanalytic theories of Freud and Darwin's Origin of the Species, the clash of religious dogma and superstition with science. The darkened streets of Edinburgh are rife with mystery and menace, as McKnight and Canavan journey into the very bowels of hell, there to confront the face of evil. As the girl's mentors descend into the abyss, they struggle against the power of perception and the distortion of imagination. Theirs is a pitched battle between good and evil, the rugged path strewn by humanity's hubris.<br />O'Neill thrusts the soul of Satan into the light, exposed in his efforts to inhabit a human body, cloaked as Lucifer. Somewhere between heaven and hell, the fine line that separates human from inhuman may have been breached, unloosing untold evil. Evelyn is the epitome of helplessness, though capable of exercising free will. Leerie, as her familiar, seeks his freedom from the confines of imagination, to be made flesh, to wreak havoc on the unsuspecting souls of Edinburgh. O'Neill has created a stunning and visual exercise on the nature of evil, a cataclysmic denouement awaiting the intrepid reader. Luan Gaines/2003.stition with science. The darkened streets of Edinburgh are rife with mystery and menace, as McKnight and Canavan journey into the very bowels of hell, there to confront the face of evil. As the girl's mentors descend into the abyss, they struggle against the power of perception and the distortion of imagination. Theirs is a pitched battle between good and evil, the rugged path strewn by humanity's hubris. <br />O'Neill thrusts the soul of Satan into the light, exposed in his efforts to inhabit a human body, cloaked as Lucifer. Somewhere between heaven and hell, the fine line that separates human from inhuman may have been breached, unloosing untold evil. Evelyn is the epitome of helplessness, though capable of exercising free will. Leerie, as her familiar, seeks his freedom from the confines of imagination, to be made flesh, to wreak havoc on the unsuspecting souls of Edinburgh. O'Neill has created a stunning and visual exercise on the nature of evil, a cataclysmic denouement awaiting the intrepid reader. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-06-11
1092438:US	51010391	RD0QXMS7VKY5X	0743228634	462663246	Carrying the Body: A Novel	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Painful impressions, family transgressions...	This short, disturbing novella thrusts a series of impressions on the reader, from the first page. It is the reader's task to identify the persons: Aunt, her sister Elise, Mother (dead), Father, Elise's son and their positions in the story. The elemental nature of the body is ever present: sweat, milk, blood, tears. \\"The child had a rash across his chest, a fearsome swath of color- infection, the aunt thought, bred of the child. Mould on dough. Blood mold. Why, look at the child, just look at the child!- dripping, it seemed, the irises fluid- red in the nose, the cheeks, pale belly as if risen; and there in an indolent fist, a bulbous, sucked-on toy in the likeness of some life-form.\\" And there is the constant rumbling of the train that passes too closely to the unkempt, now mildewed house.<br />Family dynamics are amiss. Dysfunction and confusion lurk around each corner, couched in soiled sheets or a bathtub full of steaming water, condensation dripping down a mirror. Mother has been dead for years. Her decline began after the disappearance of the younger girl, Elise. Elise ran away, and the older sister remained to care for her parents, now alone with a frail, failing father. Aunt's only comfort is liquor (yet another liquid) and as she sips she tells the child distorted versions of \\"The Three Little Pigs\\", evocative of the sisters' childhood.<br />At times stunning, at times confusing, the broken narrative combines images and feelings to tell a story, one of loneliness, abandonment, loss, grief and perhaps, incest. \\"Seal your lips, as Mother said. Never kiss and tell was another of her sayings. Why would I tell? Father said, 'Don't speak of this.' Well, surely, we spoke of it. How in the world is a person not to speak?\\" The author's intent is often murky to this reader, half-truths or half-lies, everything shrouded in the past, half-remembered memories. There is no doubting the skill and courage of the writing. Still, I'm never sure if finishing the story is a relief (hope) or a burden (despair). Luan Gaines/2003.elief (hope) or a burden (despair). Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-06-11
1092644:US	51010391	R1DDW4RGRJTHZ7	0060528036	582683345	The Book of Dead Birds: A Novel	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A powerful and painful bridge to acceptance...	I was intrigued by the title of this sensitive tale of a mother and a daughter and the cultural obstacles that define their lack of common language. Mother and daughter relations provide a universal theme, this relationship made even more poignant by the Korean background of the mother, transported as a war bride to the shores of Southern California. Her daughter is born in America, yet never knows a sense of belonging.<br />Hye-yang is a dutiful daughter in a Korean village where the women are ocean divers. But Hye-yang is clumsy, unable to contribute to the family's meager coffers, so she goes to the city, where she is tricked into a life of prostitution. As a prostitute, she is demeaned and abused, unable to speak up, even when her best friend, another prostitute, is killed. When a young soldier brings her to America as his wife, Hye-yang, now Helen, hasn't the courage to tell him the shameful truth: her life of prostitution as a vessel for colored soldiers and that she is already pregnant. When the child is born with dark skin, the soldier beats and sexually abuses Helen, leaving her to make a living as a single mother in a strange land.<br />With her dark skin, Ava Sing Lo looks black, is half-Korean, yet never feels comfortable with either identity. Studious and reliable, her life is spent at school and helping her mother. She secretly reads a journal kept by her mother over the years, where Helen has documented all the birds Ava accidentally killed, meaning only kindness. Ava takes this as another criticism of her abject failure as a daughter. After graduating college, Ava has no sense of direction, no plan for her life. In an effort to do something positive, Ava volunteers to help in an effort to save endangered pelicans at the Salton Sea, determined to prove that she can do something positive.<br />Leaving San Diego temporarily to live at the Salton Sea, Ava finds herself amid a group of eccentrics that are a balm to her discomfort. Enjoying the open-hearted acceptance of these new friends, Ava begins a process of self-discovery. Then Helen appears at the Salton Sea and, after a while,  the mother and daughter experience an unexpected healing, reaching across the years of Helen's silent suffering and Ava's anguished need, bridging the years and opening a door to the future.<br />The metaphor of the birds is central to Helen's life, and by extension, to her daughter. The birds are ubiquitous in Korea, carping and squawking in the background, distinct in their ability to scavenge for scraps, to exist on the meager amount the stingy land provides. In such a way, Helen has survived, on scraps, physically and emotionally. But she has no words, no legacy for Ava. Helen's spirit has been confined by her silence, in Korea and the strange new land where her daughter is born. Ava's generous and forgiving heart is the balm that heals their wounds, as Ava offers the words to Helen she's longed to speak, \\"I know the language of birds.\\" Luan Gaines/2003.d acceptance of these new friends, Ava begins a process of self-discovery. Then Helen appears at the Salton Sea and, after a while,  the mother and daughter experience an unexpected healing, reaching across the years of Helen's silent suffering and Ava's anguished need, bridging the years and opening a door to the future.<br />The metaphor of the birds is central to Helen's life, and by extension, to her daughter. The birds are ubiquitous in Korea, carping and squawking in the background, distinct in their ability to scavenge for scraps, to exist on the meager amount the stingy land provides. In such a way, Helen has survived, on scraps, physically and emotionally. But she has no words, no legacy for Ava. Helen's spirit has been confined by her silence, in Korea and the strange new land where her daughter is born. Ava's generous and forgiving heart is the balm that heals their wounds, as Ava offers the words to Helen she's longed to speak, \\"I know the language of birds.\\" Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-06-11
1103544:US	51010391	RRF1KIZ00CURK	0393052168	902605586	A Version of Love: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	(3.5) Lives of quiet desperation...	In prose both precise and unsparing, Dillon turns back time to the 1950's, when lives are defined by narrow, predetermined roles. In the opening scene, a man and a woman are on a road trip; he is charismatic, she cautiously observant, weighing every statement in an effort to please him.<br />Lorle is remarkably beautiful; Edmund is her psychiatrist. Crossing an ethical line, he has embarked on a passionate sexual affair with his patient, at the same time repulsed by his own behavior. For Edmund, \\"revulsion inflamed desire, desire inflamed revulsion.\\" Engaged in a silent struggle for dominance, they are victims of the times, their personal boundaries rigidly dictated by propriety. While he battles to master his sexual attraction to Lorle, he is already configuring escape plans. Unaware of Edmund's preemptive machinations, Lorle's every thought revolves around him, how to please him, think like him and position herself for successfully keeping his affections. But the writing is on the wall.<br />Due to mechanical trouble, the lover's trip is cut short. Luckily, a local man, Vern, offers the couple a ride to the airport. Flattered by Edmund's praise of his humble quarters, Vern invites Edmund to return, to escape for a few days. Edmund seems enthusiastic, but never reciprocates as expected. But when they return to the Bay area, Edmund breaks off the affair, although still tormented by his ungovernable lust for this woman. For her part, Lorle struggles against relapse, determined not to lose any more ground to the man she both resents and idolizes.<br />Visited by a Ned, a childhood friend, Vern is ridiculed for his back-to-nature lifestyle. Ned accuses Vern of hiding in the past and invites him up north, to sample the endless selection of available women in an area suddenly bursting with self-awareness and changing values. Arriving at Ned's shabby apartment, Vern explores city life, as well as consciousness-raising in Big Sur. Suddenly Vern's familiar rural home is no longer enjoyable; neither is Ned's constant hustling admirable. At a loss, Vern contacts Lorle in an attempt to locate Edmund.<br />As soon as Lorle answers the door, Vern is reminded of his strong sexual attraction to this woman he barely knows. Impulsively, he asks her on a road trip to Mexico. Compulsively, she accepts. Already both have secretly committed to nighttime intimacy. What surprises them is the difficulty of communication during the daylight hours, each so intimately aware of their own shortcomings. Like Lorle with Edmund, Vern is plagued by jealousy of her time with her former lover, inflamed by his own fertile imagination. And so the past is destined to repeat itself in an endless cycle of d&eacute;j&agrave; vu.<br />Of the three prominent characters, the true disintegration is that of Edmond, burdened by his own uncontrollable lust and lack of ethics, burned out by too many years listening to other people's problems. A man on the edge, anxiety leaks through years of self-discipline. The source of his own destruction, Edmund's professionalism no longer provides sufficient armor against the passage of time. Each of the protagonists is constrained, their behavior dictated by appearance rather than self-esteem. The social mores and personal isolation of the 50's is skillfully skewered by Dillon and displayed for relevance and observation. The times, they are a' changin', but the timid, who fail to evolve, run the risk of missing the boat altogether. Luan Gaines/2003.longer enjoyable; neither is Ned's constant hustling admirable. At a loss, Vern contacts Lorle in an attempt to locate Edmund.<br />As soon as Lorle answers the door, Vern is reminded of his strong sexual attraction to this woman he barely knows. Impulsively, he asks her on a road trip to Mexico. Compulsively, she accepts. Already both have secretly committed to nighttime intimacy. What surprises them is the difficulty of communication during the daylight hours, each so intimately aware of their own shortcomings. Like Lorle with Edmund, Vern is plagued by jealousy of her time with her former lover, inflamed by his own fertile imagination. And so the past is destined to repeat itself in an endless cycle of dj vu.<br />Of the three prominent characters, the true disintegration is that of Edmond, burdened by his own uncontrollable lust and lack of ethics, burned out by too many years listening to other people's problems. A man on the edge, anxiety leaks through years of self-discipline. The source of his own destruction, Edmund's professionalism no longer provides sufficient armor against the passage of time. Each of the protagonists is constrained, their behavior dictated by appearance rather than self-esteem. The social mores and personal isolation of the 50's is skillfully skewered by Dillon and displayed for relevance and observation. The times, they are a' changin', but the timid, who fail to evolve, run the risk of missing the boat altogether. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-06-01
1104570:US	51010391	R30VQU23G0BNQ0	1586215108	744408823	The Dogs of Babel: A Novel	Books	4	18	25	N	N	An elegant , compassionate tale of love and committment...	There is an accident: a young married woman has fallen to her death. A husband is left alone to face this sudden and devastating loss, blindsided by the unexpected depths of his grief. Paul Iverson clings to the only witness of Lexy's last day on earth, their beloved Rhodesian Ridgeback, Lorelei.<br />Driven to find answers, to unravel the mystery of Lexy's fatal plunge, Professor Iverson, a linguist, becomes obsessed with a plan to teach Lorelei to speak, so that she can finally tell him what happened. Requesting a sabbatical, Paul notes the distress and worry on his colleague's faces, but is unconcerned in his quest to obliterate all but his experiment. Gathering random bits of information, he scours the house for clues and makes lists, including one of all the books the couple has owned, anything to make sense of the senseless. He compiles stacks of literature, case studies of experiments where dogs have been surgically altered in an attempt to evoke canine speech. Unfortunately, all such experiments are inhumane and illegal, but Paul has no intention of resorting to such practices. He spends time with Lorelei, patiently  \\"teaching\\" her the responses he wants.<br />Of course, his experiment is a failure, as the dog is either unwilling or unable to perform. But, like anyone undergoing such a period of mourning, Paul may be forgiven this foolish attempt for emotional relief. Perusing the recent literature on dog-speak, Paul makes a somewhat suspicious contact. Desperate for more information, he attends a meeting of an unsavory group who perform experimental surgeries on dogs, supposedly with some real success. At the gathering of these uber-scientists, Paul is appalled that he could have been led so far astray as to find himself among these despicable men.<br />With the comforting Lorelei beside him, Paul recalls the years of the marriage, the magical moments of Lexy's stunning conceptual artistry, her uniquely crafted masks, the imaginative tales she tells. Lexy loved fairy tales, mysterious phrases, one of her favorite quotes: \\"Had I known but yesterday/ what I know today/ I'd have taken out your two gray eyes/ and put in eyes of clay/ And had I known but yesterday/ you'd be no more my own/ I'd have taken out your heart of flesh/ and put in one of stone.\\"  But there are many kinds of masks, and perhaps Lexy has hidden behind one as sensitive artist/wife.<br />In contrast, there are infrequent, yet unnerving incidents, when Lexy exhibits unaccountable rage, as well as uncontrollable tears that leave her shattered and sobbing.  There are stories of Lexy's troubled youth, her teenaged flirtation with suicide, an indication of the true pathology behind her behavior. This is a difficult and emotional journey for Paul, but once begun, he embarks upon a scrupulous evaluation of Lexy's precarious emotional landscape during the years of their marriage. Is there any message, any important detail he has overlooked? Paul's real dilemma: was the fall truly an accident, or did Lexy commit suicide?<br />Parkhurst compassionately describes the early days of Iverson's grief and his impulsive project with Lorelei, her characters sympathetic. The companionable Lorelei is an endearing witness to Paul's struggle. As Paul Iverson navigates this unfamiliar territory with reluctance, his discoveries are touched with quiet grace and forgiveness, acceptance of the human frailties inherent in life. If, in those last days, Lexy has left a message for Paul, it cannot be found hidden among her emotional demons, past or present. Whatever the memories, Lexy's shining legacy to Paul, the message, is her endless capacity for joy and the daily expression of love. Luan Gaines/2003.oved fairy tales, mysterious phrases, one of her favorite quotes: \\"Had I known but yesterday/ what I know today/ I'd have taken out your two gray eyes/ and put in eyes of clay/ And had I known but yesterday/ you'd be no more my own/ I'd have taken out your heart of flesh/ and put in one of stone.\\"  But there are many kinds of masks, and perhaps Lexy has hidden behind one as sensitive artist/wife.<br />In contrast, there are infrequent, yet unnerving incidents, when Lexy exhibits unaccountable rage, as well as uncontrollable tears that leave her shattered and sobbing.  There are stories of Lexy's troubled youth, her teenaged flirtation with suicide, an indication of the true pathology behind her behavior. This is a difficult and emotional journey for Paul, but once begun, he embarks upon a scrupulous evaluation of Lexy's precarious emotional landscape during the years of their marriage. Is there any message, any important detail he has overlooked? Paul's real dilemma: was the fall truly an accident, or did Lexy commit suicide? <br />Parkhurst compassionately describes the early days of Iverson's grief and his impulsive project with Lorelei, her characters sympathetic. The companionable Lorelei is an endearing witness to Paul's struggle. As Paul Iverson navigates this unfamiliar territory with reluctance, his discoveries are touched with quiet grace and forgiveness, acceptance of the human frailties inherent in life. If, in those last days, Lexy has left a message for Paul, it cannot be found hidden among her emotional demons, past or present. Whatever the memories, Lexy's shining legacy to Paul, the message, is her endless capacity for joy and the daily expression of love. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-05-31
1105222:US	51010391	R2MSO3F9KPLTU3	074322888X	948536124	The Land of Women: A Novel	Books	4	16	17	N	N	An exploration of myth and mystery	In her second novel, McBride once again uses the lyrical imagery that so infused her first novel, The Nature of Water and Air, lifting the Land of Women into the realm of mythology. In a subtle exploration of romantic love, McBride also tackles the bonds between a mother and a daughter and how they determine lifelong affection or loss. Fiona remembers the scent of her mother, \\"the pale smells of her mother's skin and hair, a smell like new muslin washed in salt water and left to dry in the wind\\".<br /> In the case of single mother Jane O'Faolin and her only daughter, Fiona, their early relationship is clearly a product of a lonely life in a beachside cottage and Jane's youth in a nearby orphanage. Yet their lives are filled with the bounty of nature and the wildness of the ocean, as Jane makes her living sewing exotic dresses for brides-to-be, pouring all her energy into these fantastic works of art. And Fiona has a similar talent, musing over the lush and sensual fabrics that so inspire her imagination. Sharing this creative gift allows mother and daughter another language, one that speaks in sensation and beauty, without words.<br />With only the occasional presence of a father, as a child, Fiona's primary relationship is with her mother. As years go by and Fiona emerges into young adulthood and sexual awareness, she discovers that the wild and moody Jane has feet of clay. Through her own selfishness and carelessness during this delicate time, Jane betrays her daughter and Fiona flees across the ocean to her father in New Mexico. There she lives among the muted shades of a desert landscape, yet haunted by the memories of Ireland.<br />When Fiona receives news of her mother's death, she is drawn back into the haunted a past she has so long denied. Thus, Fiona has ignored her own sexuality that has closed like a flower. Then Fiona meets Carlos Aragon and her latent sexuality reawakens. He muses about a place in Spain, Galicia, \\"where the terran changes to verdant green and the air is charged with salt from the sea, as a piece of Ireland has seeded in the shore of Spain\\". Carlos has an ancestor, once shipwrecked off the shores of Ireland, who was reputedly rescued by three women. From the mythological Land of Women, they loved him back to health. The returning sailor could never forget that love for the rest of his days, always longing for that love<br />Haunted by night after night of erotic dreams, Fiona must find a way to open her heart to her long repressed experiences as a young woman at the blush of first love. Exploring the truth of her own female power, Fiona is overwhelmed by intense feelings, as well as the warning behind the allure of this awakening: \\"Paradise costs; it cannot be entered recklessly\\". And Fiona has paid dearly for the heady rush into the secret places of romantic love.<br />With skillful narration, McBride smoothly blends Fiona's Irish memories with the Spanish flavor of New Mexico. Although Ireland is sea damp and mist shrouded, the thoughts that visit Fiona in the dry air of the desert are at home in this place, enhanced with cultural appreciation and nostalgia. Through Fiona and Jane's relationship, McBride explores the earliest bond between a mother and daughter and addresses the reluctance toward the changes wrought by the onset of maturity. The flowering of Fiona's sexuality is handled with delicacy and an elegant description of the young woman's response to her physical awakening. If Fiona can acknowledge the simple early adoration of her impetuous, needy mother, and the past may be put to rest. Unrealized childhood dreams are not easily relinquished, but this sensitive and sensual novel is a tribute to the nature of passion in the Land of Women. Luan Gaines/2003.reen and the air is charged with salt from the sea, as a piece of Ireland has seeded in the shore of Spain\\". Carlos has an ancestor, once shipwrecked off the shores of Ireland, who was reputedly rescued by three women. From the mythological Land of Women, they loved him back to health. The returning sailor could never forget that love for the rest of his days, always longing for that love<br />Haunted by night after night of erotic dreams, Fiona must find a way to open her heart to her long repressed experiences as a young woman at the blush of first love. Exploring the truth of her own female power, Fiona is overwhelmed by intense feelings, as well as the warning behind the allure of this awakening: \\"Paradise costs; it cannot be entered recklessly\\". And Fiona has paid dearly for the heady rush into the secret places of romantic love.<br />With skillful narration, McBride smoothly blends Fiona's Irish memories with the Spanish flavor of New Mexico. Although Ireland is sea damp and mist shrouded, the thoughts that visit Fiona in the dry air of the desert are at home in this place, enhanced with cultural appreciation and nostalgia. Through Fiona and Jane's relationship, McBride explores the earliest bond between a mother and daughter and addresses the reluctance toward the changes wrought by the onset of maturity. The flowering of Fiona's sexuality is handled with delicacy and an elegant description of the young woman's response to her physical awakening. If Fiona can acknowledge the simple early adoration of her impetuous, needy mother, and the past may be put to rest. Unrealized childhood dreams are not easily relinquished, but this sensitive and sensual novel is a tribute to the nature of passion in the Land of Women. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-05-31
1109219:US	51010391	RLRKRV7IFXL04	0151009082	267561645	Star of the Sea	Books	4	18	20	N	N	When Death never takes a holiday...	This excellent historical novel vividly portrays the anguish of the Irish people who suffered through the potato blight and ensuing famine that left over two million dead from starvation. O'Connor brings the human suffering to life through a series of chapters, written by a journalist on the ship, in which particular characters are defined, as well as the manner in which their lives intersect. Against a harsh background, the passengers on the Star of the Sea embark on a voyage that will take them far from the horrors they have known, to a new life in America. During the course of this voyage, one passenger will be brutally murdered by another, but whom and why remains a mystery until the end. Yet there is an air of expectancy in that knowledge, as the unfolding plot reveals close associations between some passengers, forged years ago by time and circumstance.<br />The Star of the Sea carries First Class passengers as well as those in steerage. A member of the English aristocracy, Earl David Merridith of Kingscourt, his family and their nanny are ensconced in relatively comfortable quarters, along with other such men of substance. There is a sharp contrast between First Class accommodations and the cheapest berths, below decks, where hundreds are warehoused like cattle and disease is rampant. The poor are forced to endure yet more punishment with unsanitary facilities and insufficient food. Vessels like the Star of the Sea, with its well-meaning Christian captain, are all that is left for such throw-aways. Many succumb daily to a variety of shipboard diseases, sent quickly overboard to their watery graves.<br />A man who wanders the decks at night, when the others are sleeping, is much remarked upon by all. He is a small-boned figure, with a crippled foot, who treads the upper deck incessantly, back and forth, mumbling to himself. Called \\"the ghost\\" or \\"the monster\\" in his filthy clothes and unkempt appearance, he is, in fact, one Pius Mulvey, a survivor of the unremitting brutality that decimates Ireland's poor. Mulvey has, in fact, become a monster, a creation of his own extreme circumstances. Traveling the roads of Ireland and England, Mulvey has tasted every form of depravity and honed criminal skills along the way. While others suffer tragedy and find a source of strength, Mulvey has fed off his own venal acts, capable of the most heinous crimes. As a creation of his situation, his survival-at-any-cost attitude, Mulvey becomes an \\"Everyman\\" of the famine, a stark example of what becomes of a broken human spirit after repeated degradation and suffering.<br />Due to unwise investments, the Merridiths have lost the land their family has held for generations and, by opting to save themselves, they turn away from the destitute souls who seek to stay on the land. The only Irish citizen they take along is Mary Duane Mulvey, the widowed nanny of their two children. During the course of the journey, the Merridiths take pity on the duplicitous Mulvey, believing him victim rather than victimizer. They welcome him into the intimate circle of their family, oblivious to his true nature. Mary Duane recognizes Mulvey at once and is loath to have anything to do with him, yet she has a history with Mulvey as well as with David Merridith, adding another layer of complication to the relationships.<br />O'Connor's writing is impeccable, his illustration of the socio-economic class struggle of the mid-1900's pitch perfect. This horrific tale witnesses the virtual annihilation of a proud race. There is great compassion on these pages and piercing awareness of a dispassionate fate, the legacy of the famine. For some of the characters, their endless trials render them more complex; but for others, the faade of humanity is ripped away, revealing a heart scarred by rage. The claustrophobia on the Star of the Sea is almost unbearable, each day a burden, another glimpse of the past. Many live in hell and it is familiar, as is depravity and the utterloss of hope. Whatever the future for these unhappy passengers, they are forever marked by the passionate love and abject loss of a land that no longer provides for the living, become instead a vast graveyard of dreams. Luan Gaines/2003.loss of hope. Whatever the future for these unhappy passengers, they are forever marked by the passionate love and abject loss of a land that no longer provides for the living, become instead a vast graveyard of dreams. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-05-28
1109895:US	51010391	R3PULAYWK9ZTB	0688167411	660551460	Hell at the Breech: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Turn-of-the-Century class warfare...	In the dark of night, a robbery goes wrong and the result is murder. The two young culprits sneak away. Later, a venal man embraces the opportunity to increase his holdings and gain stature in the rural area known as Mitcham's Beat. It is 1898, just before the dawn of the 20th Century and in this stretch of hardscrabble farmland in Alabama, an ingenious plan bears fruit.<br />People are shocked by the murder of the storekeeper, Arch Bedsole; a rumor spreads that someone from town has assassinated Bedsole, hoping to keep him out of local politics. Soon the men of Mitcham's Beat gather in secret, discussing defense and retaliation, unwilling to let the fancy folks from Grove Hill or Coffeetown interfere in their business. Throats greased by an excess of bootleg whiskey, emotions run high. They form an association, Hell-at-the Breech, whose members will sign an oath in blood, at the same time taking a vow of secrecy. If a neighbor refuses, well, he will be dealt with, in due course. People in the towns are fearful, more so when they learn that there are now two murders, and then they hear whispered tales of nightriders with covered faces. When questioned about these activities by Sheriff Waite, everyone in Mitcham's Beat has an alibi.<br />The main characters are caught in the middle of the conflagration: Sheriff Waite, an old widow who raised two orphaned brothers and Mack Burke, one of the brothers. A would-be contender for Waite's job further complicates things; this man is as cold-blooded and venal as the members of Hell-at-the-Breech.<br />Sheriff Billy Waite, retirement overdue, is inordinately fond of whiskey and not particularly anxious to uncover the source of the strange tales or the activities in Mitcham's Beat. He rides from cotton farm to cotton farm, but nobody's talking, having been properly warned off by Hell-at-the-Breech. Then a Grove Hill man is shot and killed in his own home on Thanksgiving and events quickly escalate. A posse is formed, none of whom are sworn in by the sheriff, to clear out the troublemakers in the name of the law. While Waite indulges in drunkenness, hoping to avoid the inevitable, the vigilantes formulate a plan of action and young Mack Burke is trapped in an untenable situation, working off a debt to Tooch, the head of the gang. Unfortunately, Mack has been privy to the secret meetings. Although he keeps to himself, Mack is helplessly drawn into the accelerating violence.<br />Motivated by greed and incipient violence, ill-intentioned men gather on each side. This is a lose/lose situation and Billy Waite cannot keep the impending violence at bay for long. The lynch-mob is ready, bloodthirsty and hungry for battle and the outlaws are prepared as well. Waite rides ahead of the posse, hoping to gather prisoners and forestall a clash that will only result in unnecessary bloodshed.<br />The lack of law on both sides can only end in bloodshed, as mob mentality takes over, surpassing any concept of rational behavior. At the end of a lawless century, civilization has erected a set of standards to govern a nation. But in the breech, the rebellion feeds on itself and the vigilantes resort to equally atrocious acts before Waite is able to shame the men and take over. The collateral damage on innocent families is stunning. Written in a regional dialect, the inevitable culture clash leaves many bodies in its wake.<br />Franklin keeps a firm grip on his characters, the jaded Waite, the nave Mack, the desperate old widow and the callous hired gun who infiltrates Hell-at-the-Breech, hoping to gain inside information. Franklin has a spare but powerful style, like Cormac McCarthy or Jeffrey Lent in Lost Nation. Pulling no punches, Franklin tells it straight and raw. Yet he manages to evoke sympathy for Sheriff Waite, a man whose job has worn thin, and Mack Burke, a young man who wants nothing more than to live to see another day. An astute judge of character, Franklin crafts a fascinating novel of a timebefore the rule of law settles Mitcham's Beat, Alabama, where those who cross the line into lawlessness will be held accountable. Luan Gaines/2003me before the rule of law settles Mitcham's Beat, Alabama, where those who cross the line into lawlessness will be held accountable. Luan Gaines/2003	2003-05-27
1115273:US	51010391	R2V9UZAOO5100	0446530689	792252776	The Protector (Morrell, David)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	(3.5) The Monster creating the monstrous...	This is an action/suspense novel with cutting edge high-tech innovations. This genre doesn't masquerade as great literature, but stands on its own merits as excellent escape fiction. Deceptively, it seems, the hapless Daniel Prescott, a biochemist, hires Global Protective Resources to help him disappear without a trace. Global Protective is one of those ex-military, now civilian groups trained in special ops, in this case Delta Force, who have found a use for all that intensive training received at government expense.<br />Cavanaugh is the agent assigned to Prescott, the plan to deliver him to an assigned safe area, rendezvousing with the rest of Cavanaugh's team. At this point the team will start the final phase of Prescott's disappearance. Cavanaugh takes the clumsy, overweight biochemist at face value, but changes his original assessment as Prescott's proves his adaptability in a variety of harrowing circumstances. But something's amiss, and when Cavanaugh's team is wiped out and Prescott disappears, Cavanaugh finds himself wounded and running for his life. Now Cavanaugh is rapidly recalculating the situation, fearing Prescott is untrustworthy, possibly the most dangerous quarry of all. Knowing only that the pursuers have access to high tech military weaponry, Cavanaugh is now also in pursuit as well as pursued.<br />Trained to use natural bursts of adrenaline in high stress situations as a source of energy, Cavanaugh inexplicably experiences overwhelming fear in the ever-escalating danger. It is all he can do to control his urge to run, adding a new dimension to the difficulties of confronting the elusive Prescott. It seems that Prescott is determined not only to disappear, but to annihilate anyone with knowledge of his intended plans and identity.<br />Morrell consistently rachets up the action and every move closer to Prescott is exponentially more perilous, using an unprecedented arsenal of technological advances that change the face of modern warfare. There are also instructive bits of information, such as first aid with duct tape, how to perform when outmaneuvering another driver, outfitting a deceptively plain sedan for extraordinary circumstances and the most intelligent choices in firearms. Morrell's real mastery is in the details that personalize the experience and build the tension until the spectacular climax. Luan Gaines/2003.e are also instructive bits of information, such as first aid with duct tape, how to perform when outmaneuvering another driver, outfitting a deceptively plain sedan for extraordinary circumstances and the most intelligent choices in firearms. Morrell's real mastery is in the details that personalize the experience and build the tension until the spectacular climax. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-05-22
1121098:US	51010391	R6W01P3CAK8AC	1931561230	780985985	Sleep Toward Heaven: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	N	(4.5)A study in compassion and human dignity...	The opening quotation, from whence the title, Sleep Toward Heaven, sets the tone for this extraordinary novel:<br />\\"While they slept, faith flowered, an outside dream,and surrounded them in their cave. All they had to do was to sleep toward Heaven and open their eyes like dolls. Up there on the ceiling was all they needed.\\"  -William Stafford<br />Small-town Texas in the dog days of summer, shriveling in the iridescent heat. Vibrating with expectation. At the end of August, the women on death row at the Mountain View facility, one by one, will be transferred to Huntsville for execution by lethal injection. The advice of a seasoned prison guard, \\"Whatever you do, don't look into their eyes before they go.\\"<br />The women: The Satan Killer. The Hairdresser of Death. The Highway Honey. The Black Widow. All are tagged with media-friendly nicknames, good PR for intimate press coverage. Their real names are Sharleen, Jackie, Karen, Veronica, Tiffany and later, Samantha. Each has her crimes, her reasons, a wall of denial, an absence of guilt, a history of abuse and neglect. And each has a date with death, moving inexorably closer.<br />Then there is Franny Wren, the New York physician whose uncle, also a doctor, has died suddenly, providing her with an excuse to return to Gatesville, the town of her youth, her memory. On the way to Texas, Franny dumps a fianc&eacute;e and a fast approaching wedding ceremony. Franny is beset by self-doubt after the recent and hideously painful death of a young cancer patient. Any attempt to extend the child's life only produced more agony. When Franny learns that her uncle has been volunteering his services at the women's prison, she offers to substitute until a replacement can be found.<br />Five-years widowed, Celia Mills still grieves, her young husband killed by Karen Lowens, the Highway Honey. An innocent bystander, in the wrong place at the wrong time, Henry Mills met his demise when Karen panicked in the midst of a murder/robbery. She stared, detached, as the light in his eyes extinguished. Henry was basically collateral damage, taken out by a woman who murdered abusive \\"johns\\" to buy the affection of her junkie lover, the one who turned her in to the cops. Celia is a guest of honor at Karen's execution, should Karen survive the terminal phase of AIDS to endure the ritual. Celia has written a letter to Karen and later requests a last visit.<br /> The three women, doctor, widow and murderer cross paths this long summer in the stifling heat, forever connected by that brief association. Who knows what lies in the human heart? Franny makes a tenuous connection to the vulnerable Karen, knowing Karen has run out of time, one way or another. And Celia, wanting peace from her overwhelming grief, is unsure that the execution will accomplish the closure she craves.<br />With a critical and compassionate eye, Ward opens the hearts of her characters to the unbearable, the unavoidable. Wrapped in the pain and confusion of loss and retribution, Ward delivers a story that is accessible and poignant, graced by a calm acceptance of humanity's failure to protect and nurture the innocent before they are irrevocably damaged. Luan Gaines/2003.red, detached, as the light in his eyes extinguished. Henry was basically collateral damage, taken out by a woman who murdered abusive \\"johns\\" to buy the affection of her junkie lover, the one who turned her in to the cops. Celia is a guest of honor at Karen's execution, should Karen survive the terminal phase of AIDS to endure the ritual. Celia has written a letter to Karen and later requests a last visit.<br /> The three women, doctor, widow and murderer cross paths this long summer in the stifling heat, forever connected by that brief association. Who knows what lies in the human heart? Franny makes a tenuous connection to the vulnerable Karen, knowing Karen has run out of time, one way or another. And Celia, wanting peace from her overwhelming grief, is unsure that the execution will accomplish the closure she craves.<br />With a critical and compassionate eye, Ward opens the hearts of her characters to the unbearable, the unavoidable. Wrapped in the pain and confusion of loss and retribution, Ward delivers a story that is accessible and poignant, graced by a calm acceptance of humanity's failure to protect and nurture the innocent before they are irrevocably damaged. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-05-17
1121833:US	51010391	R1RIY9VZUPMD6G	0374126054	314590836	The Colour	Books	4	11	14	N	N	(4.5)The inescapable lure of treasure, the heart of greed...	With remarkable skill Rose Tremain reconstructs New Zealand in the mid-nineteenth century, where newlyweds John and Harriet Blackstone build their new, if temporary, home. Accompanied by John's widowed mother, Lillian, a saturnine woman who longs to return to her beloved England, the three live together, separated by flimsy walls of calico. Sturdy and resourceful, Harriet falls in love with this open land, her flourishing vegetable garden one small retreat from an ill-suited marriage to a man either unwilling or unable to be a good husband.<br />When John discovers a tiny amount of gold dust in their creek, he is infected with the fever for more, the same gold fever currently raging on the west coast of New Zealand. He hides this meager treasure from his wife, beginning a long process of denying the partnership with Harriet. His desire is single-minded and selfish, as dreams of wealth consume him. Disappointed with his negligible booty, John decides to board a ship and sail to the gold mines to seek his fortune and he intends to do so alone.<br />John becomes one of the miners, obsessed and driven, common sense a thing of the past. With observations unflinching as a camera, Tremain captures the force of this lust, wherein the quest becomes the goal. Here is this drive, this need in exquisite detail, the lives of the miners and the claims that patchwork the landscape exposed like helpless suitors in pursuit of an inconstant lover. Meanwhile, purveyors of goods collect handsome amounts of currency, providing necessities to the miners, a cottage industry springing up wherever Gold Fever strikes.<br />When Lillian dies and the newlywed's Cob House collapses from the onslaught of winter, Harriet goes after John to inform him of Lillian's death. Their first meeting is as awkward and formal as it was in the beginning of their relationship. Leaving John's camp, Harriet climbs higher, starting a claim near the produce garden of Chen Pao Yi, who sells his fresh vegetables to the miners.<br />Given time, the miners would scramble over the land and wantonly purge it, without a thought to the devastation left in their wake. But, like a sleeping giant, New Zealand has only to shift while dreaming and the men are scattered and destroyed, the continent returned to its former pristine beauty. With one brutal stroke, nature intervenes, changing all their lives. Separated, John and Harriet struggle to survive and it is clear that John is the glass half empty, while Harriet is certainly the glass half full. Harriet enters a period of awakening, cherishing each moment as it comes, while John is tormented by loss and self-pity. And the gardener, Pao Yi, is fortunate as well, for he is essentially the water, without need of a glass at all, inhabiting his world with quiet acquiescence.<br />Tremain is one of those accomplished writers who fleshes out her characters, all the trivial moments and secret longings that give them depth and believability, allowing the reader to understand these people in their flawed humanity. The colour, the gold, changes John, Harriet and Pao Yi intimately, each indelibly marked by this vast and awesome landscape. Luan Gaines/2003.the miners.<br />Given time, the miners would scramble over the land and wantonly purge it, without a thought to the devastation left in their wake. But, like a sleeping giant, New Zealand has only to shift while dreaming and the men are scattered and destroyed, the continent returned to its former pristine beauty. With one brutal stroke, nature intervenes, changing all their lives. Separated, John and Harriet struggle to survive and it is clear that John is the glass half empty, while Harriet is certainly the glass half full. Harriet enters a period of awakening, cherishing each moment as it comes, while John is tormented by loss and self-pity. And the gardener, Pao Yi, is fortunate as well, for he is essentially the water, without need of a glass at all, inhabiting his world with quiet acquiescence.<br />Tremain is one of those accomplished writers who fleshes out her characters, all the trivial moments and secret longings that give them depth and believability, allowing the reader to understand these people in their flawed humanity. The colour, the gold, changes John, Harriet and Pao Yi intimately, each indelibly marked by this vast and awesome landscape. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-05-16
1128453:US	51010391	R2GC9Q9FZDDNEP	015100692X	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	3	2	3	N	N	(3.5) An astute study in class distinctions...	The ideal of a Victorian utopia has eluded the characters in this novel. Here we meet the common man, most notably Sugar, a prostitute of some renown. Sugar is a practical woman, and when opportunity arises, in the person of William Rakham, heir to the Rakham perfume fortune, she diligently seduces his affections. Feeding his ego is only part of the plan and Rakham is a willing victim for Sugar's ministrations. He believes he must possess Sugar and rents a beautifully furnished house, where she waits, day after day for William's arrival. With nothing to do and bored to distraction, Sugar educates herself about William's business, thereby becoming altogether indispensable, in more ways than one. Sugar is determined to protect her newfound status, carefully weaving a web around William's life, drawing him ever closer like a black widow spider.<br />Sugar's attentions gratify William and he attacks business affairs with a renewed vigor. Unfortunately, William becomes too involved in advancing his fortune and forgets about Sugar for days at a time, being an essentially selfish creature. So Sugar follows William and his wife, Agnes, around town in an attempt to learn more about the man who has so changed her life. Incidentally, she offers help to a distracted Mrs. Rakham, not realizing how mentally unstable the woman is. Poor Mrs. Rakham is still in the innocent world of a child, the perfect Victorian wife. No matter what her station, all women are severely constrained by this society, a point Faber makes over and over again in this contrast of classes.<br />Another character, Emmaline Fox, is the perfect example of the well intentioned, but ignorant, do-gooder. Completely out of touch with the ugly reality of poverty, Emmaline Fox spends her days coercing prostitutes into more fulfilling lives, such as maids and servants. Yet Fox is totally ignorant of the desperately servile lives these maids endure, the long hours with few rewards and little pay. Even the prostitutes realize they can make more money providing their specialized attentions. And Fox is the most foolish of all, her Christian temperament blinding her to reality as her own life disintegrates day by day.<br />Faber's theme is universal: rich vs. poor in an unending struggle, so well illustrated by Victorian society. The perfection of womanhood is buoyed by the superior male intellect, examples of men and women as God intends them to be. Of course, the crass underpinnings of this fragile society are the poor, who exist to support the lifestyle of entitlement.<br />The novel's pages are filled with authentic detail of the Victorian period; Faber has cleverly replicated a London that showers the rich with privilege and grandeur, while the poor struggle for survival. The truly desperate are indeed invisible, coating the vast underbelly of the city, drunkards, con men and criminals. In a London more accessible than that of Dickens, the reader is invited to peer into windows and observe these bumbling characters in action. Brutal and compassionate, The Crimson Petal and the White contains all the elements of daily life, as contrasted in the extremes of society. This very long novel requires commitment, the twists and turns of the plot only rarely predictable. Luan Gaines/2003.realize they can make more money providing their specialized attentions. And Fox is the most foolish of all, her Christian temperament blinding her to reality as her own life disintegrates day by day.<br />Faber's theme is universal: rich vs. poor in an unending struggle, so well illustrated by Victorian society. The perfection of womanhood is buoyed by the superior male intellect, examples of men and women as God intends them to be. Of course, the crass underpinnings of this fragile society are the poor, who exist to support the lifestyle of entitlement.<br />The novel's pages are filled with authentic detail of the Victorian period; Faber has cleverly replicated a London that showers the rich with privilege and grandeur, while the poor struggle for survival. The truly desperate are indeed invisible, coating the vast underbelly of the city, drunkards, con men and criminals. In a London more accessible than that of Dickens, the reader is invited to peer into windows and observe these bumbling characters in action. Brutal and compassionate, The Crimson Petal and the White contains all the elements of daily life, as contrasted in the extremes of society. This very long novel requires commitment, the twists and turns of the plot only rarely predictable. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-05-11
1128613:US	51010391	RLNVSCYNRZ9U6	042519003X	963797502	My Father had a Daughter	Books	4	1	2	N	N	When all the world's a stage...	In this account of William Shakespeare's fictional daughter, styled as a memoir, the author suggests an intriguing view of life inside the family of this famous and prolific playwright.  We meet William Shakespeare's family in an intimate setting, as seen from the eyes of those who live on the other side of genius. In this particular incarnation, Shakespeare has three children, two girls and a boy.  Judith is twin to Hamnet and they are virtually inseparable, while their older sister is rarely included in their rambunctious adventures.<br />The twins, completely enamored of a frequently absent father, adore him and miss him terribly. Shakespeare is often away from home, in London or rehearsing with his players. To Judy, her father is a godlike creature and she casts secret \\"spells\\" to keep him close to home, knowing she has no special powers but wanting to distract her twin. Suddenly tragedy strikes, and Judy's small world is shattered. She suffers silently, blaming herself for the family's misfortune. When she discovers Shakespeare's latest manuscript, at first excited, but later she is devastated. In the play, her father appears to be exploiting the family's tragedy as the theme of his play, and to young Judith this hubris is unforgivable.<br />Judy plots her revenge upon a thoughtless father, never losing sight of her goal, even as she grows into adolescence. At fourteen, she runs away to London, dressed as a boy. Judy's plan is to humiliate Shakespeare with her accusations, while, dressed as a male, she is onstage acting. Suddenly, intoxicated by the very sight of the Globe Theater, Judy is overcome with the desire to perform on that stage as a serious actor. In her wildest dreams, she has never imagined the allure of live theater. In the middle of a performance, the expose' no longer seems relevant and Judy gains a new appreciation for her own talent. Her father, in turn, reveals his own private miseries, gaining the compassion of his beloved daughter.<br />An engaging and lively, Judith Shakespeare is an ingenious character, adding another dimension to the folklore of one of history's most renowned poets. Once governed by a child's black and white concept of morality, a more worldly-wise Judith makes judgments tempered with common sense and sympathy. Grace Tiffany cleverly casts Judith as a woman for all times, a multi-talented female in a man's world, trapped by the duality of her life. Her independence and individuality belong in another century and the limited choices of women constrict her future. But there are no boundaries to Judy's imagination, her indomitable and adventurous spirit a compliment to the brilliant father who opens her world and her heart. Luan Gaines/2003.An engaging and lively, Judith Shakespeare is an ingenious character, adding another dimension to the folklore of one of history's most renowned poets. Once governed by a child's black and white concept of morality, a more worldly-wise Judith makes judgments tempered with common sense and sympathy. Grace Tiffany cleverly casts Judith as a woman for all times, a multi-talented female in a man's world, trapped by the duality of her life. Her independence and individuality belong in another century and the limited choices of women constrict her future. But there are no boundaries to Judy's imagination, her indomitable and adventurous spirit a compliment to the brilliant father who opens her world and her heart. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-05-10
1130062:US	51010391	R1H6M8R17WRELB	0393047571	874615730	The Heaven of Mercury	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A paean to the past...	The residents of Mercury, Mississippi are well known to each other, the once brilliant, but now fading remnants of a town that flourished at the beginning of the 20thCentury, now cast aside by progress. The main street of Mercury, formerly the center of activity, now has empty stores, windows boarded and shuttered like the closed eyes of those who have passed away.<br />But Finus Bates is comfortable in Mercury, lived here all of his 89 years, met the love of his life, married another, and outlived both. In anecdotal chapters, Finus leads us through the streets of a Mercury passed, when everyone was young and unaware of the breath of eternity. Finus works at the local newspaper, lovingly typing obituaries for old friends and acquaintances, and hosts a late night radio show, where he reminisces late into the night. Throughout the novel, Finus' voice is as comforting and familiar as the sound of rain pelting the windows.<br />Other characters, written by Watson in true Southern Gothic fashion, are introduced in chapters interspersed with the main drama. These quirky characters have their own appeal, the undertaker with a deep dark secret of his own, the black maid haunted by the wooden dummy locked in a shed and old Vish, maker of spells and potions in the darkest woods.<br />In the summer of 1916, Mercury is peopled with young folks on the cusp of adulthood. Still believing in the future, they are full of promise and hope. That summer Finus falls hopelessly in love with Birdie Wells, while the intrepid Avis Crossweatherly has different ideas for him. Through a lack of assertiveness, Finus loses Birdie to Earl Urquhart. Earl is handsome, arrogant and successful, but, unfortunately, a ladies man. Meanwhile, through her own clever machinations, Avis lures Finus into a marital partnership, in Finus' words, &quot;as a long and unhappy marriage, and more than thirty years would pass before he would truly escape it... what he came to see as a long journey through a tangled wood.&quot; Looking back on his experience with Avis, Finus considers that they may have done the cruelest thing of all, lived their lives, not in love or hate, but with indifference to each other.<br />Like Thornton Wilder's Our Town, The Heaven of Mercury is a paean to small-town America, especially the South. Mercury is an example of the simple life, the face of downtown Anywhere, USA before industrialization and invention forever alter demographics. The people in Watson's novel have lived through almost a century, witnessed immeasurable changes in the name of progress. And although Finus never divorces Avis, his love for Birdie is constant.<br />For anyone at all nostalgic for the long-ago days at the beginning of a new century, when the sounds of nature were louder than the roar of traffic, The Heaven of Mercury is an excellent choice.  Finus is an astute guide to the past, with his dignified gentleman's ways, relating the memories of a romantic young man full of dreams. At a time when everything is filtered through the white noise of television, this beautiful novel quietly opens a door to a past that no longer exists, where faded photographs come to life, if only for a while. Luan Gaines/2003.wood.&quot; Looking back on his experience with Avis, Finus considers that they may have done the cruelest thing of all, lived their lives, not in love or hate, but with indifference to each other.<br />Like Thornton Wilder's Our Town, The Heaven of Mercury is a paean to small-town America, especially the South. Mercury is an example of the simple life, the face of downtown Anywhere, USA before industrialization and invention forever alter demographics. The people in Watson's novel have lived through almost a century, witnessed immeasurable changes in the name of progress. And although Finus never divorces Avis, his love for Birdie is constant. <br />For anyone at all nostalgic for the long-ago days at the beginning of a new century, when the sounds of nature were louder than the roar of traffic, The Heaven of Mercury is an excellent choice.  Finus is an astute guide to the past, with his dignified gentleman's ways, relating the memories of a romantic young man full of dreams. At a time when everything is filtered through the white noise of television, this beautiful novel quietly opens a door to a past that no longer exists, where faded photographs come to life, if only for a while. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-05-09
1141387:US	51010391	R30B3UYYWBPFMX	0446531510	765311385	Land of the Living (French, Nicci)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Don't look behind you...	This is a harrowing tale of a young woman's worst nightmare come true. What a shivery pleasure it is, compulsively turning the pages of this thriller and thinking \\"just one more chapter\\"... Fearful of what the last page will reveal, I still keep reading, not nearly as brave as the heroine.<br />We first make the acquaintance of Abbie Devereaux when she is in a most extreme condition: her hands and feet are bound, there is a canvas bag over her head, a wire around her neck and a filthy gag in her mouth. But she perseveres, willing herself to survive this horrendous ordeal. Day by day, Abbie keeps her mind alert, imagining familiar images, anything not to lose hope, although she eventually starts to lose touch with reality, almost willing to die. Periodically tormented by her kidnapper, he sometimes leaves her alone for long periods. At an unexpected opportunity Abbie escapes, fleeing blindly into the night, sure her captor is but a breath behind. Finally, she sees a dim light. Collapsing, she wakes up in a hospital, police waiting to question her. Then comes the ultimate betrayal. No one believes her story.<br />There is no hard evidence for the police to track down Abbie's attacker and only her word for proof that anything happened at all. After a thorough examination, a clever therapist convinces the police that this incident is only a young woman's hysteria, a patient, in fact, prone to depression. Even Abbie's closest friends aren't sure whether or not she is telling the truth. Disheartened, Abbie is driven to prove the truth, haunted by nightmares and the knowledge that her would-be murderer is somewhere out there, waiting to finish the job. Danger stalks her every waking moment. Having cheated death, Abbie plumbs unexpected inner resources, unwilling to fail herself. Thus begins the arduous task of tracking her own footsteps, piecing together remnants of thoughts and scraps of information, ever closer to unfathomable fear and reviving the ordeal.<br />Tired of the same bored authors glibly churning out mysteries with hackneyed plots, it is a pleasure to find this well-crafted thriller. Nicci French meticulously plots each step of the action, not missing a beat. The author reveals a different side of this young woman with such an apparently routine life, where nothing's as it seems in a world of lost memories. Undaunted, Abbie makes her way through a maze of incongruent evidence, sifting and sorting, following her instincts. With courage born of desperation, she trusts no one but herself. Finally, Abbie embarks upon a nerve-wracking pursuit, coming face to face with true evil. Keep the lights on.f the same bored authors glibly churning out mysteries with hackneyed plots, it is a pleasure to find this well-crafted thriller. Nicci French meticulously plots each step of the action, not missing a beat. The author reveals a different side of this young woman with such an apparently routine life, where nothing's as it seems in a world of lost memories. Undaunted, Abbie makes her way through a maze of incongruent evidence, sifting and sorting, following her instincts. With courage born of desperation, she trusts no one but herself. Finally, Abbie embarks upon a nerve-wracking pursuit, coming face to face with true evil. Keep the lights on.	2003-04-29
1153035:US	51010391	RBD7PNKV2EFT5	0316738956	634639403	Hunger: A Novel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Humanity in a crucible.....	This small, but soulful journey is stripped of affectation and rationalization as a group of scientists at the Soviet's premier botanical institute use their knowledge to isolate and preserve particular seeds for future use. They take a vow not to eat their small cache of seeds when they are subjected to the siege of Leningrad in the fall of 1941. The German aggressors tear a page from history, surrounding the city, eventually cutting off all supplies, waiting patiently for the isolated citizens to expire from starvation. Each individual will be tested as time slowly passes and all grow gaunt with longing, their vivid imaginations the only source of abundance.<br />The narrator of Hunger is an old man looking back over the years of a long and often emotionally painful life. He has lost his beloved wife during the siege and now seeks to expiate the guilt that weighs upon his conscience. From the beginning, he betrays the marriage in a series of opportunistic sexual adventures, affairs that now diminish his sense of self and the memories of a marriage that should offer comfort rather than regret. In contrast, his wife's courage looms large, a constant reminder of his own shortcomings.<br />The scientist plumbs his memories of Leningrad in 1941, evoking scenes of people trapped in a situation where starvation dictates their thoughts and actions. In their solitude, the prisoners witness the horrific manifestation of the slow rigors of starvation. Yet this same starvation is the catalyst for acts of unexpected bravery or cowardice, when the drive to live supercedes even moral imperatives.<br />The struggle of these individuals, particularly the contrasting mores of the man and his wife, are a reminder of the humanity that links all of us, dramatizing how extreme circumstances diminish our capacity for empathy, kinder, gentler selves defeated by the urge for survival. Of necessity, the body reverts to the most elementary conditions, requiring moral vigilance when temptation lurks and loved ones are left behind. Such is the conundrum. It is one thing to ponder such extremity, quite another to live with the reality. Hunger can alter the mind as well as the soul, compassion an unwanted by-product, a luxury that proves unsustainable, after all.<br />Blackwell lifts this moment from history and illustrates the nature of the ordeal and how sorely one's resources are tested. This thoughtful and revealing novel illuminates the spirit, suffused with the generosity and grace inherent in all humanity. Luan Gaines/2003.ion lurks and loved ones are left behind. Such is the conundrum. It is one thing to ponder such extremity, quite another to live with the reality. Hunger can alter the mind as well as the soul, compassion an unwanted by-product, a luxury that proves unsustainable, after all.<br />Blackwell lifts this moment from history and illustrates the nature of the ordeal and how sorely one's resources are tested. This thoughtful and revealing novel illuminates the spirit, suffused with the generosity and grace inherent in all humanity. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-04-19
1153290:US	51010391	R2LVM2JKXH1XGR	0316782262	563997838	All He Ever Wanted	Books	4	9	11	N	N	When addiction masquerades as "love"	On a lone journey by rail, having now lived many years alone and reflecting on his past, Nicholas Van Tassel begins a memoir of his marriage from 1899 to 1915. The archaic prose, the style of the last century, is the first hint to the reader that this tale begins in another time and place. Restricted by Victorian mores, Van Tassel's manner is inhibited and constrained by the particular social customs and strict codes of conscience of the era. Any mention of sexuality is forbidden to Victorians in mixed company and women are protected from life's crude realities, their sensitivities wrapped in a diaphanous cloak of romanticism. Men may be men, with base carnal appetites, but women must remain unsullied, their virginity preserved for marriage. Even then, it is unacceptable for a woman to express any carnal physical needs; a woman's duty is to bear and raise children, creating a nurturing and comfortable home. It is the dawn of a new Century and the world is full of amazing inventions and conveniences, the future brimming with promise. Nicholas Van Tassel, Professor of Literature and Rhetoric at a small New England college, is, at thirty, self-effacing and modestly aware of his shortcomings, not quite handsome and not quite brilliant. One evening when a fire breaks out in the restaurant where he is dining, senses heightened in the moment of incipient danger, Van Tassel notices a particular young woman. From that moment on, he is obsessed with her, unable to find peace until he has captured her attentions. Van Tassel sets his mind to the courtship and marriage of Etna Bliss, sensing that her circumstances are not advantageous enough for her to refuse his suit. He is unable to withstand the compulsion of his desire, aware that Etna does not return his affection, yet undaunted. Etna clearly declares that she does not love Nicholas before she accepts his affections and agrees to the marriage. Like the typical Victorian romantic, Van Tassel is sure Etna will come to love him in time. True to form, he stubbornly denies all semblance of reality, save his own unquenchable needs.<br />Shreve's protagonist advances from his first insufferable demeanor of propriety, over time, to the reality of his true nature, a base man whose self-importance is so consuming that he is incapable of empathy for another human being. When he marries Etna, Van Tassel knows the bargain does not include her love. By accepting less from his spouse, he, in fact, extracts his pound of flesh, chipping away at the marriage's meager foundation. Bit by intrusive bit, Nicholas suffocates the beleaguered Etna. For her part, Etna has signed her own pact with the devil, never imaging the enormous price she will be asked to pay.<br />The true nature of obsession is not denied or veiled with romanticism in order to make it bearable. Stripping this particular emotion of any appeal, Shreve acknowledges the truth: deluded by ego into despicable actions, demanding that fate bend to his will with astounding hubris, Van Tassel is unworthy even of the reader's sympathy. The failings he so freely claims are actually conceits, his excuse to blindly pursue his own fulfillment, sublimating all else. Unflinching in the face of such a distortion of love, Shreve pens a story of true obsession without guile or artifice, an obsession as craven and venal as any of the Seven Deadly Sins. Luan Gaines/2003.m in time. True to form, he stubbornly denies all semblance of reality, save his own unquenchable needs.<br />Shreve's protagonist advances from his first insufferable demeanor of propriety, over time, to the reality of his true nature, a base man whose self-importance is so consuming that he is incapable of empathy for another human being. When he marries Etna, Van Tassel knows the bargain does not include her love. By accepting less from his spouse, he, in fact, extracts his pound of flesh, chipping away at the marriage's meager foundation. Bit by intrusive bit, Nicholas suffocates the beleaguered Etna. For her part, Etna has signed her own pact with the devil, never imaging the enormous price she will be asked to pay.<br />The true nature of obsession is not denied or veiled with romanticism in order to make it bearable. Stripping this particular emotion of any appeal, Shreve acknowledges the truth: deluded by ego into despicable actions, demanding that fate bend to his will with astounding hubris, Van Tassel is unworthy even of the reader's sympathy. The failings he so freely claims are actually conceits, his excuse to blindly pursue his own fulfillment, sublimating all else. Unflinching in the face of such a distortion of love, Shreve pens a story of true obsession without guile or artifice, an obsession as craven and venal as any of the Seven Deadly Sins. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-04-19
1153386:US	51010391	R2309RG05O6F3M	0393323994	625683320	Red Dust: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Addressing the evils of Aparteid...	Since 1985, during The Emergency that tore open the faade of apartheid in South Africa, the citizens of the township of Smitsrivier have waited for the Truth Hearings. The hearings are scheduled to facilitate the amnesty of political prisoners, usually former policemen and other government agents who perpetrated violence against the blacks. In return for telling all of the circumstances of torture and other brutality, including murder, the Commission will decide whether to allow amnesty for each current appeal.<br />The central figure of the Truth Commission in this case is Dirk Hendricks, a former policeman applying for amnesty for the beating and torture of Alex Mpondo. Hendricks is the critical link between Mpondo and Steve Sizela, Alex's compatriot, who was also arrested and beaten, only Steve's body was never recovered. Alex holds the key to Steve's murder, but has been unable to remember anything clearly since his beating, whether Hendricks participated in Steve's murder or has knowledge of who actually did the deed. Alex engages in a dangerous dance with his tormentor, allowing Hendricks to prick his memory with questions and insinuations, hoping to remember. At issue is Alex's participation without allowing his further victimization.<br />A successful young New York lawyer, Sarah Barcant, is summoned to Smitsrivier to manage Alex's case. Her mentor, Ben Hoffman, who is dying, places a phone call requesting her help. He knows he cannot be refused, due to the ties of the past. Sarah and Ben hope, as part of the process, to uncover Steve's murderer and ascertain where he is buried, that his still grieving parents may see their son properly interred.<br />Using Sarah as a vehicle, Alex confronts Dirk Hendricks, willing to suffer the indignity of facing his tormentor all over again when they are face to face. But Alex is outraged when Hendricks declares himself a sufferer of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder while \\"doing his job\\", a critical factor in Hendricks' defense. Hendricks assumes the mantle of victim, giving a brilliant performance before the Committee while on the witness stand. Sarah's task, given Alex's newly awakening insights, is to unmask the policeman for the monster that he really is. This will necessitate drawing out the personality Hendricks seeks to hide from his audience, the darkness waiting to surface.<br />The denouement of the murderer and restoration of Steve Sizela's body to his parents serve to begin a healing process in only one of the towns so devastated by long years of apartheid, a land too long immersed in fear and hatred. Racial tension and animosity still exist in Smitsrivier, where black and white exist side by side, but in a more subtle and insidious form. Yet Slovo's South Africa is a gorgeous and fascinating country, ripe with promise, reaping the rewards of a revolution against inequality and repression of the human spirit. The task is to harness that great source of humanity for the good of a country whose past cannot be allowed to govern the future. The idyllic prose is as rich as this vast land in transition, an important contribution toward the understanding of a new South Africa. Luan Gaines/2003.defense. Hendricks assumes the mantle of victim, giving a brilliant performance before the Committee while on the witness stand. Sarah's task, given Alex's newly awakening insights, is to unmask the policeman for the monster that he really is. This will necessitate drawing out the personality Hendricks seeks to hide from his audience, the darkness waiting to surface.<br />The denouement of the murderer and restoration of Steve Sizela's body to his parents serve to begin a healing process in only one of the towns so devastated by long years of apartheid, a land too long immersed in fear and hatred. Racial tension and animosity still exist in Smitsrivier, where black and white exist side by side, but in a more subtle and insidious form. Yet Slovo's South Africa is a gorgeous and fascinating country, ripe with promise, reaping the rewards of a revolution against inequality and repression of the human spirit. The task is to harness that great source of humanity for the good of a country whose past cannot be allowed to govern the future. The idyllic prose is as rich as this vast land in transition, an important contribution toward the understanding of a new South Africa. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-04-19
1153607:US	51010391	R1HCBVMBKWIHBE	1889330817	687665122	Pushed to Shore: A Short Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The culture shock of immigration...	Blending hope and heartbreak, Pushed to Shore delves fearlessly into the nature of loneliness, both cultural and personal, and, at the same time, opens a window on the commonality of humanity without regard for racial differences. Janet Hunter is a teacher in an ESL (English/Second Language) class of relative-sponsored Vietnamese and Hmong high school students in Missoula, Montana.<br />Montana in winter is covered with snow and nothing like the verdant homeland these young people have left, and they must adapt to this entirely different and unfamiliar terrain. Unlike the other students in their high school, who are a jumble of enthusiastic adolescents on the cusp of adulthood, Hunter's special students are subdued and introverted, many with life experiences far exceeding their teenage peers. In their short lives, they have already known abandonment, violence and deprivation, with little comfort, luxury or leisure time for childish adventures. Unaware of her own personal deficiencies, Hunter feels emotionally drawn to her students, willing to lend her skills to help mold their futures in this unfamiliar land.<br />Acculturation is a difficult process, at best. Hunter is keenly aware of her shortcomings as a teacher, unable to pronounce or understand more than a few phrases of her student's dialects. She clumsily attempts to master language skills that seem beyond her reach and can only imagine their frustration without the English phrases necessary to communicate with fellow students. A lack of language skills is a primary obstacle to success. Hunter takes her job seriously; she must conscientiously prepare her students for economically feasible futures and it is her goal to help them graduate with the required level of education. As she interacts with her students, Hunter becomes aware of their subtle, yet critical differences. Gadbow avoids categorizing these young Southeast Asians, concentrating instead on their variety, the traits and idiosyncrasies that make each student a distinct individual. For all their ethnic similarities, each has a definitive personality, a variety of goals and ambitions.<br />At the same time, Hunter becomes aware of her lack of a personal life. In a sense, she realizes the extent of her self-obsession and self-protection, finally prepared to join the world around her, buoyed by the daily courage of her students. Like Sleeping Beauty, Hunter awakens to the real necessity for developing more extensive friendships and interests, with or without a man. When the opportunity presents itself, she begins a relationship, the first since a painful divorce eight years ago. Because of her willingness to engage in the new affair, Hunter gains some valuable insight into the real difficulties inherent in any risk, let alone a complete change of life-style.<br />With incredible perseverance, the students work diligently in their adopted country and Hunter is amazed at the enormous fortitude and courage they exhibit along with their indomitable will to survive. The clean, spare story describes the difficulty of merging cultures and the unceasing commitment involved, undertaken here with the courage and spirit of the early immigrants who first came to the distant shores of America.. Luan Gaines/2003.ch student a distinct individual. For all their ethnic similarities, each has a definitive personality, a variety of goals and ambitions.<br />At the same time, Hunter becomes aware of her lack of a personal life. In a sense, she realizes the extent of her self-obsession and self-protection, finally prepared to join the world around her, buoyed by the daily courage of her students. Like Sleeping Beauty, Hunter awakens to the real necessity for developing more extensive friendships and interests, with or without a man. When the opportunity presents itself, she begins a relationship, the first since a painful divorce eight years ago. Because of her willingness to engage in the new affair, Hunter gains some valuable insight into the real difficulties inherent in any risk, let alone a complete change of life-style.<br />With incredible perseverance, the students work diligently in their adopted country and Hunter is amazed at the enormous fortitude and courage they exhibit along with their indomitable will to survive. The clean, spare story describes the difficulty of merging cultures and the unceasing commitment involved, undertaken here with the courage and spirit of the early immigrants who first came to the distant shores of America.. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-04-19
1178108:US	51010391	R1LFN4DA49IIVK	031228375X	162596119	Wintering: A Novel of Sylvia Plath	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Art illuminated...	This first work of fiction by Kate Moses accomplishes the impossible: Sylvia Plath comes to life, chapter by chapter, in a way that is accessible and full of extraordinary grace. Immersing herself in the literature of and by Plath, Moses portrays the inner turmoil, spirit and longing that define the poet's genius. Plath is present in each moment of her exceptional existence, whether writer, wife, mother or simply a visionary observer of the world she inhabits.<br />After a traumatic break with her unfaithful husband, Plath is devastated. She rents a cottage, formerly that of the poet Yates, and spends the next few months exploring the nature of her grief, purifying the language of loss and redemption, yet buoyed with hope for the future. At the same time, she cherishes her two small children, inhaling their sweet smells, their innocence, and prepares a comforting home that nurtures them as well as her own surging creativity. Rather than be tormented by ever-present insomnia, Plath instead embraces it, using the sleepless pre-dawn hours to pen her last defining manuscript of poetry, Ariel.<br />As a companion to Wintering, the poems contained in Ariel are revealed in a new light. The poet is energized, cleansed by her newest work and ready to begin the future. As her wayward husband reads the new manuscript, Sylvia understands that she has finally pierced his armor, but at great cost to herself. Exhausted by the fierce emotional battle of the last months, her physical and psychological resources are bankrupt, her once idyllic life shattered. Eventually, Sylvia Plath releases her hold on the world and commits suicide.<br />Wintering is so perfectly rendered as to offer the reader a transcendent experience. Through this luminous novel, a door is opened, revealing the poet's soul, Plath's soaring talent filling the pages with a fire that cannot be extinguished, even by death. This remarkable poet is a staggering talent to be preserved for the next generation to discover anew. Luan Gaines/2003.anew. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-03-28
1178212:US	51010391	R188FQ0RD4NSDM	0060198362	970639823	Oyster: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	(3.5) Fear and loathing in the bayou...	Oyster is set in the heart of the Louisiana bayou, a tale replete with strange characters, infidelity, greed and murder. It is a world filled with violence as ominous and sudden as the bite of a crocodile.<br />The Petitjean's own the richest oyster beds in the parish, but they are heavily in debt to their rivals, the Bruneau's. \\"Horse\\" Bruneau and his three sons are ready to take over all the beds still producing in spite of the ongoing damage from the oil companies that are slowly polluting the waters. Planning to join the holdings of both families through a marriage of convenience, Horse Bruneau pursues Therese Petitjean. But Therese is not about to be tendered as a piece of merchandise, although she does realize that the union would benefit her family financially. Family loyalty is paramount in both clans, and blood defines every action.<br />Suddenly, violence erupts, two are dead and there are questions that cannot easily be answered. Local citizens are curious about the crimes, but never surprised by bizarre circumstances. Sheriff Christovitch, a man who is familiar with the histories of all the suspects and has a past of his own, attempts to ascertain exactly the who, how and why of the murders.<br />As twisted and mysterious as the murky bayou, the novel takes one unexpected turn after another. Some of the more colorful characters, including Horse and Horse, Junior, have natures as bent and narrow as the gnarled roots of the ancient trees that extend deep below the waterline. A challenge to man's true nature, there is no pity, or easy answer when life and death are at stake. Two wrongs never make a right. Or do they? Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-03-28
1178288:US	51010391	R3U0NK9588KEGZ	0316095567	432057248	House of Women: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The many faces of obsession...	This remarkably complex novel is as multi-layered as humanity itself, a caution against the folly of premature assumptions. Truth, after all, lies in personal perceptions.<br />Nalia and her daughter, Theodora, live in a house surrounded by a fence with a padlocked gate, immune to the passions of the outside world. A Holocaust survivor, Nalia wishes to keep her daughter close as a shadow, perhaps even growing old together, so that she need never be alone. Nalia understands men and their selfish ways and considers them untrustworthy buffoons, including Thea's philandering father, as he briefly drifts in and out of their lives.<br />The years pass, and Thea's childish innocence is replaced by the romantic musings of adolescence; she begins to chafe at her mother's claustrophobic constraints. The years of living so intimately have corrupted their mother/daughter relationship's progression through it's natural stages into the roles of captor and prisoner. In one shocking afternoon, the padlock on the gate is broken open and Thea elopes with a mysterious older man, her father's old friend, leaving a desolate Nalia howling with despair.<br />Nalia is alone, after all, without her beloved companion and Thea finds herself isolated on an island with a possessive husband that refuses to release her. Even when she becomes pregnant and gives birth to twins, he will not allow her to leave and take the children to meet their grandmother, fearful that she won't return. The two women struggle, each in their own way, to survive their forced separation, both filled with regret. They are, after all, the victims of time, which can never be contained, no matter how carefully its reality is avoided.<br />Finally, seduced by memory, Nalia and Thea are tormented by their intense longing to see each other, to renew their closeness, and unable to find release from the power of their fierce emotions. Their bond of blood, as old as time, cannot be severed. Lives complicated by ancient lies and hidden truths, each must find the way back, to forgive the unforgivable. With consummate skill, Freed's vibrant characters fill the pages of House of Women, flaunting their obsessions, passions, and finally, their deep love for one another. Luan Gaines/2003.hidden truths, each must find the way back, to forgive the unforgivable. With consummate skill, Freed's vibrant characters fill the pages of House of Women, flaunting their obsessions, passions, and finally, their deep love for one another. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-03-28
1186604:US	51010391	RMO6BP6M0GP72	0385336403	293114026	Cloud of Sparrows	Books	3	0	0	N	N	(3.5) The Art of war...	The first novel from this author focuses on the great East-West clash of 1861, as Japan is finally forced to open itself to commerce and contact with other nations, especially the British and the Americans. When a number of foreign vessels drop anchor in a major Japanese port, the Japanese are stunned by the size and maneuverability of these amazing new instruments of war. One ship in particular, an American one, although smaller than the others, carries a more potent future threat. This ship has transported a group of American missionaries, fired with zeal and packing bibles. Most are anxious to carry the message of Christianity to the Unbelievers. Two Americans have come for other purposes, a woman, for escape, and a man, for revenge.<br />The Japanese have long maintained the Art of the Samurai, as they are insulated from technological advances in the rest of the world and unaware of innovative weaponry. War, as practiced by the Samurai, is an art form, each precise movement an integral part of the performance. Each chapter is preceded with a quote from a respected master, a lesson in discipline: \\"Every battle is not won by advance. Every retreat is not loss. Advance is strategy. Retreat is also strategy\\" (Chapter 7).<br />Lord Genji is a handsome and clever young nobleman who literally sees the future. Descended from a clan who have been guided by their visions of the future, one member of each generation has the gift. The Japan Genji envisions has a drastically changing face, with munitions, cannons and a fleet of ships. Genji's journey through the countryside, gathering his troops and fending off attackers, is the most impressive part of the novel, combining visual images with non-stop action.<br />The two Americans, Emily and Matthew, accompany the warriors: Emily because she wants to stay in Japan and Matthew because he is seeking a man from his past. A famous geisha of notable beauty, Genji's consort is also accompanying the group. In unexpected ways, all three contribute to the success of ensuring battles as they are attacked along the perilous journey. Matsuoka vividly describes the warriors of each opposing faction, as well as their personal eccentricities and contrasts their violent struggles against a gorgeous winter landscape, where the pristine snow is stained by bright red blood.<br />Genji is the last of a dying breed, the Samurai, as a once unbeatable warrior-driven culture gives way to the march of progress and the incursion of Western weapons that render hand-to-hand combat unnecessary. Matsuoka uses Genji and his other characters to paint a picture of classical Japan, a country clinging to tradition as the future waits impatiently in the wings.<br />This novel deserves more credit than it has been given. When a work of fiction is compared to Clavell's Shogun, it is at a disadvantage. After all, Shogun is probably Clavell's greatest contribution to this genre. Ignoring the comparisons (that are used, after all, as a PR ploy to sell more copies), I find Cloud of Sparrows to be well plotted and carefully crafted, especially for a first effort. In fact, if the author expanded on his main protagonists, the story would be even richer and a fascinating view into the interior of feudal Japan. Luan Gaines/2003.three contribute to the success of ensuring battles as they are attacked along the perilous journey. Matsuoka vividly describes the warriors of each opposing faction, as well as their personal eccentricities and contrasts their violent struggles against a gorgeous winter landscape, where the pristine snow is stained by bright red blood.<br />Genji is the last of a dying breed, the Samurai, as a once unbeatable warrior-driven culture gives way to the march of progress and the incursion of Western weapons that render hand-to-hand combat unnecessary. Matsuoka uses Genji and his other characters to paint a picture of classical Japan, a country clinging to tradition as the future waits impatiently in the wings.<br />This novel deserves more credit than it has been given. When a work of fiction is compared to Clavell's Shogun, it is at a disadvantage. After all, Shogun is probably Clavell's greatest contribution to this genre. Ignoring the comparisons (that are used, after all, as a PR ploy to sell more copies), I find Cloud of Sparrows to be well plotted and carefully crafted, especially for a first effort. In fact, if the author expanded on his main protagonists, the story would be even richer and a fascinating view into the interior of feudal Japan. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-03-20
1192246:US	51010391	RKBPGJA0O0WAW	0786868201	46568081	The Girl from the Coast: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A celebration of the human spirit...	Pramoedya Toer has created a poignant and moving portrait of courage in The Girl from the Coast. Inspired by his family history, the author also lends a personal perspective. He is a dissident in Indonesia, once imprisoned for seventeen years for his own beliefs. In his many novels, Toer writes of the struggle of the common man, the need for respect for each individual, not only by rank of noble birth. He is the voice of those exploited and abused by a repressive government.<br />Known to the reader only as &quot;the girl&quot;, the principal character in The Girl from the Coast is profoundly affecting. This amazing young woman shines throughout the pages with an irrepressible spirit. Taken from her simple fishing village for an arranged marriage to a city nobleman, the girl leaves the safety of her parents to begin a life for which she is totally unprepared. She is isolated and frightened in an untenable situation where she has no skills. She has one servant, who counsels the girl in the ways of the household. But when the servant is dismissed, her husband becomes the central figure in her world, and her days are spent awaiting his visits. The girl understands that her entire world depends upon his good will alone. To her dismay, she is informed that hers is only a &quot;practice&quot; marriage, not binding at all should the &quot;Bendoro&quot;, or master, choose to divorce her.<br />This is a story about powerlessness, the impoverished vs. the privileged in a society that turns a deaf ear to anyone not of noble birth. But the girl is extraordinarily courageous in the face of terrible choices and heartbreaking circumstances, yet hopeful, for her spirit burns brightly. Alone and isolated, she uncovers her hidden strengths and nurtures her independence.<br />The Girl from the Coast is sprinkled throughout with intimate descriptions that draw the reader into the somber air of the very rooms the girl inhales in her solitude. This novel ripples with the energy of the plot as the story unfurls in unexpected ways. We witness the girl's plight as she is thrust along a path into the future, one that is almost preordained by a system that denies the humanity of the disenfranchised. In spite of her trials, the girl triumphs as the embodiment of the will to survive and to live a life of contentment, if not fulfillment.<br />With each stroke of Toer's pen, this country comes alive, his vital prose full of love for the people and the land, the intensely blue skies, waves breaking against a beach, the sound of a young girl's heart breaking. He defines the bond of commonality found in all humanity. His seductive language is as fluid as poetry: &quot;At that moment it was only the dancing wind that ruled the world. Time moved forward, sometimes creeping slowly, sometimes advancing in wild leaps&quot;. The Girl from the Coast will haunt this reader long after the last page is turned. Luan Gaines/ 2003.ot as the story unfurls in unexpected ways. We witness the girl's plight as she is thrust along a path into the future, one that is almost preordained by a system that denies the humanity of the disenfranchised. In spite of her trials, the girl triumphs as the embodiment of the will to survive and to live a life of contentment, if not fulfillment.<br />With each stroke of Toer's pen, this country comes alive, his vital prose full of love for the people and the land, the intensely blue skies, waves breaking against a beach, the sound of a young girl's heart breaking. He defines the bond of commonality found in all humanity. His seductive language is as fluid as poetry: &quot;At that moment it was only the dancing wind that ruled the world. Time moved forward, sometimes creeping slowly, sometimes advancing in wild leaps&quot;. The Girl from the Coast will haunt this reader long after the last page is turned. Luan Gaines/ 2003.	2003-03-16
1192419:US	51010391	R1NZ790IE0V8EL	0609609742	303660294	Lucrezia Borgia: A Novel	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Another take on the corruption and power of the Borgias...	Lucrezia, the illegitimate daughter of Rodrigo Borgia, assumes the privilege of birth to justify the arrogance that characterizes her entire family. Raised alongside her \\"golden\\" brother, Cesare, the fortunate children live openly with Archbishop Borgia and their mother. Rather than forego worldly pleasures, the clergy frequently install their mistresses in accessible quarters. There Church officials live flagrantly with their mistresses and offspring. The Church decrees celibacy for all priests in 15th century Rome, as it seeks to keep the monies \\"in-house\\", and thereby insure that their riches will revert to the Church coffers, the families no longer beneficiaries of this vast wealth.<br />Once Archbishop Borgia is elected by the College of Cardinals to the highest position in the temporal world, as Pope Alexander VI, he installs his children, but not their mother, in sumptuously maintained Vatican apartments, with their own servants and tutors. As the new representative of God on Earth, the pope is required to honor at least the appearance of purity and occupies his own private quarters seperately.<br />A gorgeous and immoral young woman, Lucrezia has a thirst for knowledge at a time when the viability of women's souls is still hotly debated. Lucrezia's source of information is the extensive library of classics and world literature available in the Vatican library.  Her fascination with Virgil, Dante and all things Italian sparks an unquenchable fire in Lucrezia's thirsty soul. While the usual Machiavellian court intrigues surround the Borgia's, Cesare's ruthless and covetous intentions place brother and sister squarely in the vortex of violence that so defines the Borgia mythology. Their fates intricately twined, the family has vaguely suggested incestuous ties, albeit shrouded in secrecy.<br /> In 1494, at the age of fourteen, Lucrezia is promised in marriage to the Count Giovanni Sfoza of Pesaro, in a brilliant political maneuver plotted by her father and brother. (Note: The indigenous hypocrisy prevalent in the Papal Court occurs when Lucrezia is henceforth referred to as Pope Alexander's niece.) A willing pawn in her family's ambitions, Lucrezia marries three times in all, declared \\"virgin\\" by Pope Alexander for the second and third marriage ceremonies. The Borgia's infamous reign ends in a bloody battle for dominance, forever drenched in rumor and supposition. An obvious moral dilemma arises when the loftiest pinnacle of sanctity is riddled with spiritual corruption, concupiscence and greed.<br />Lurezia is so self-obsessed that she scarcely notices the enormous impact of the Inquisition, passing the days on Vatican Hill in esoteric pomp and splendor. Only occasionally does she mention the burning and torture of heretics in the villages of France and Spain, the Inquisitors impervious to cries for mercy. Lucrezia thinks, \\"could we actually be torturing people?\\" but easily dismisses hsuch troubling thoughts. Casting herself in the role of victim, Lucrezia rationalizes every situation, all the bloodshed and chaos engendered by her family, in denial of the true extent of her family's involvement and self-serving aggrandizement.<br />Faunce's impressive research of Church history adds layers of theological sophistication to the novel, enticing the reader to explore often shocking and unconventional explanations for the adoption of Church dogma. Erudite and intellectually stimulating, Faunce's clever writing is unexpected, a welcome bonus. Though much has been written about the Borgia's, Faunce's dramatic rendering paints a vivid image of tumultuous times in the reader's mind. As an author with an eye for the visual, Faunce adds another layer of personality to a family who made their mark on history through hubris, avarice and duplicity. Luan Gaines/2003.rother. (Note: The indigenous hypocrisy prevalent in the Papal Court occurs when Lucrezia is henceforth referred to as Pope Alexander's niece.) A willing pawn in her family's ambitions, Lucrezia marries three times in all, declared \\"virgin\\" by Pope Alexander for the second and third marriage ceremonies. The Borgia's infamous reign ends in a bloody battle for dominance, forever drenched in rumor and supposition. An obvious moral dilemma arises when the loftiest pinnacle of sanctity is riddled with spiritual corruption, concupiscence and greed. <br />Lurezia is so self-obsessed that she scarcely notices the enormous impact of the Inquisition, passing the days on Vatican Hill in esoteric pomp and splendor. Only occasionally does she mention the burning and torture of heretics in the villages of France and Spain, the Inquisitors impervious to cries for mercy. Lucrezia thinks, \\"could we actually be torturing people?\\" but easily dismisses hsuch troubling thoughts. Casting herself in the role of victim, Lucrezia rationalizes every situation, all the bloodshed and chaos engendered by her family, in denial of the true extent of her family's involvement and self-serving aggrandizement.<br />Faunce's impressive research of Church history adds layers of theological sophistication to the novel, enticing the reader to explore often shocking and unconventional explanations for the adoption of Church dogma. Erudite and intellectually stimulating, Faunce's clever writing is unexpected, a welcome bonus. Though much has been written about the Borgia's, Faunce's dramatic rendering paints a vivid image of tumultuous times in the reader's mind. As an author with an eye for the visual, Faunce adds another layer of personality to a family who made their mark on history through hubris, avarice and duplicity. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-03-15
1192910:US	51010391	R3OUVNJN8J02CE	0345396723	952360082	Time and Chance: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The historical clash of titans...	Penman takes her continuing saga of Medieval England to the next level with the rule of Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitane. It is Henry's intention to bring peace to a country too long divided by the bloodshed of civil strife. Henry's command of statecraft is exceptional, the force of his personality equal to the task of leadership so necessary to a prosperous kingdom.<br />As ever in this defining period of history, the Church wields enormous power and Henry chafes at the constant demands of Rome. Enter Thomas Becket, chancellor to the king. Henry prevails on Becket to accept the position of Archbishop of Canterbury, thereby performing a dual role as representative of the Church and advisor to the King. As history proves, this is the most critical error of Henry's reign. Henry's refusal to heed the advice of his counselors, particularly of Eleanor, is his most critical and costly mistake, one that will ultimately define his reign.<br />The first hint of trouble comes when Becket returns the seal of Office of Chancellor, throwing down a gauntlet, the first of many. Still in denial, Henry cannot believe he has so misjudged Thomas Becket. Throughout the novel, Becket and the King engage in the most intricate and convoluted arguments, all revolving around the separation of Church and State. Henry wants the Church to attend to its own business and leave the work of kings to the King. But Becket is determined to protect the Church's holdings and preserve established rights to monies and yearly tithes.<br />Penman enriches her historical perspective by the addition of family members and wives of the protagonists. Her women not only add a romantic element, but they serve as further definitions of the men they love. For instance, Eleanor adds dimension to Henry's motives and concerns, as reflected in her communications with him. Henry's mother, Maud, brings out another aspect of her son, his loyalty, devotion and infamous Angevin temper.<br />That said, Becket and Henry II are by far the most important personalities in Time and Chance, often at the expense of other plot development. (It is interesting to note, however, Becket's single-mindedness and arrogance; cloaked in the guise of religion, Becket is fanatical and riddled with pride, as he suffers in his much-noted hair shirts.) Much of the interplay between Eleanor and Henry is lost with the focus on Becket and Henry, even when Henry eventually distances himself from Eleanor and becomes enamoured with a new woman. Everything else seems nothing more than window-dressing. This in itself isn't a flaw, but one of Penman's consistent strengths is character development and how these characters add to the overall view of such richly historical times. Perhaps because Thomas Becket and Henry II do dominate these years in a seminal way, Time and Chance is essentially concerned with the ultimate battle between Church and State that ends in bloody murder. Luan Gaines/2003.are by far the most important personalities in Time and Chance, often at the expense of other plot development. (It is interesting to note, however, Becket's single-mindedness and arrogance; cloaked in the guise of religion, Becket is fanatical and riddled with pride, as he suffers in his much-noted hair shirts.) Much of the interplay between Eleanor and Henry is lost with the focus on Becket and Henry, even when Henry eventually distances himself from Eleanor and becomes enamoured with a new woman. Everything else seems nothing more than window-dressing. This in itself isn't a flaw, but one of Penman's consistent strengths is character development and how these characters add to the overall view of such richly historical times. Perhaps because Thomas Becket and Henry II do dominate these years in a seminal way, Time and Chance is essentially concerned with the ultimate battle between Church and State that ends in bloody murder. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-03-15
1200175:US	51010391	R3RS4VIHD2SJEU	0972392807	223782707	Matri, Letters from the Mother	Books	4	0	0	N	N	In the words of the Mother...	This small, but powerful book reinforces the necessity of balance, shakti, chi, grace: the life-giving, life-sustaining energy contained in the feminine principle in a world of duality. A call for balance and harmony, this series of &quot;Letters from the Mother&quot; of all is a wonderful compendium of brief, yet potent meditations for women who seek balance and empowerment through increased spiritual awareness.<br />To read Matri is to begin a journey toward reaffirming and regaining our lives and contributing to a refreshed world without dissembling or rationalization. Step by step, we are led through a daily practice of clarity and renewal, beginning with the interior self. As daughters, we are reminded to occupy our personal space respectfully, enjoy harmonious unions based on the renewal of spiritual energy and respond appropriately to the needs of the world we inhabit.<br />Like the soothing rhythm of the ocean breaking upon the shore, the key to a balanced and fruitful life lies in the most subtle nuances, the calm voice of the Mother urging us to our better selves that we might begin to infuse the world with peace. Listen carefully, not for answers, but understanding. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-03-10
1202528:US	51010391	RYB3TPTOL4AKL	0312300530	663145094	The Last Jew: A Novel of The Spanish Inquisition	Books	3	7	10	N	N	(3.5)Religious Fanaticism and the Inquisition...	The Spanish monarchs, Ferdinand and Isabella, guided by the machinations of the infamous monk, Torquemada, order the immediate expulsion of all Jews in Spain in 1489. Thus begins the tortured drama of the Spanish Inquisition, when the all-powerful Catholic Church recognizes the necessity for the removal of alternative belief systems as a source of temptation for Christians, particularly Judaism.<br />Through the sacrament of Baptism, Jews are given the opportunity to become Christians, thus creating a class of \\"conversos\\", or New Christians. This is the only means by which former Jews are allowed to remain in Spain. The conversos are never entirely safe from persecution, however, and continue to be targets of the auto-da-fe (act of the faith), a public burning of heretics for the moral edification of Christians. Those denounced as heretics are also subject to indiscriminate acts of revenge, jealousy and avarice, as an accusation is as good as a confession. Fear is endemic to these troubled and dangerous times.<br /><br />Yonah Toledano is a young Jew, son of a silversmith, orphaned by the powerful priest, Fra Bonestruca, during a raid on the elder Toledano's house. A polar opposite, Bonestruca is doubtless Yonah's nemesis, as the friar appears throughout the following years while Yonah continues his wandering. Like most people at their first meeting, Yonah is struck by the friar's unusually attractive face, a countenance that belies a violent and avaricious nature.<br />For self-preservation, Yonah assumes the name Ramon Callico. His travels lead him throughout Spain, while he poses as an Old Christian, but secretly considers himself the embodiment of \\"the last Jew\\". In each new place he selects someone to trust with his true identity. Unbelievably, Yonah is never betrayed by any of these mentors.<br />Over and over, Yonah/Ramon reinvents himself, until he apprentices as a physician. Finally, as a licensed physician of some reputation, Yonah finds a sense of direction for the rest of his life. In his capacity as healer, Yonah ministers to Bonestruca in the final agonizing days before the friar's swift descent into madness. Nature accomplishes what Yonah cannot, as Bonestruca's years of transgressions are punished, a result of his own actions. In fact, Gordon's protagonist leads a charmed life, as most of Yonah's enemies are vanquished and good triumphs over evil, in an often too transparent plot.<br />Noah Gordon hasn't the unique gifts of Sharon Kay Penman, but his writing sustains the reader's interest, particularly the details: the methods of torture used by the Inquisitors, the lucrative black-market for sacred relics and the massive relocation of beleaguered Jews. This anecdotal retelling of the Jewish Diaspora from Spain is historically accurate, but would better were the characters not so black and white. Yonah is the epitome of kindness, with few notable exceptions, while his enemies are riddled with faults and inadequacies. Yet the essence of humanity is found in the ambiguity of human nature, where the moral imperatives are subjective and choice is often determined by mitigating circumstances.<br />Reading sacred Jewish text on retribution, Yonah wonders, \\"If Jews were in power instead of the Church, would they also use God to destroy unbelievers? Was it an axiom that absolute religious power must bring with it religious cruelty?\\" Good question. Luan Gaines/2003.n for the rest of his life. In his capacity as healer, Yonah ministers to Bonestruca in the final agonizing days before the friar's swift descent into madness. Nature accomplishes what Yonah cannot, as Bonestruca's years of transgressions are punished, a result of his own actions. In fact, Gordon's protagonist leads a charmed life, as most of Yonah's enemies are vanquished and good triumphs over evil, in an often too transparent plot. <br />Noah Gordon hasn't the unique gifts of Sharon Kay Penman, but his writing sustains the reader's interest, particularly the details: the methods of torture used by the Inquisitors, the lucrative black-market for sacred relics and the massive relocation of beleaguered Jews. This anecdotal retelling of the Jewish Diaspora from Spain is historically accurate, but would better were the characters not so black and white. Yonah is the epitome of kindness, with few notable exceptions, while his enemies are riddled with faults and inadequacies. Yet the essence of humanity is found in the ambiguity of human nature, where the moral imperatives are subjective and choice is often determined by mitigating circumstances.<br />Reading sacred Jewish text on retribution, Yonah wonders, \\"If Jews were in power instead of the Church, would they also use God to destroy unbelievers? Was it an axiom that absolute religious power must bring with it religious cruelty?\\" Good question. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-03-07
1203030:US	51010391	RXE5PNQ24GHUD	0743203658	425935816	Q Road: A Novel	Books	4	12	12	N	N	The strange faces of love...	As carefully stitched together as a patchwork quilt, with colorful squares made of quirky characters, the inhabitants of Greenland Township, Michigan, are bound by the commonality of their daily labor and innate love of their farmland. This is the heartland of America, land that has sustained generation after generation. But as much as a failing farm economy, suburbia encroaches upon this pastoral existence, and city people are willing to tolerate only so much discomfort in their newly constructed rural environment. Once sprawled across the countryside, secure from city confines, the old families are slowly replaced by pre-fab housing developments.<br />Q Road's three main protagonists are strikingly different people, each with particular idiosyncrasies, forming their own core family: father, child-bride, and son, love filling the solitary loneliness so long entrenched in their hearts. The spirited 17-year-old Rachel, a new bride who has married for the security of owning land, smashes through life with no guidance or socialization, save that of her own invention. George Harland, her middle-age-plus husband, is a sixth-generation farmer who knows only that his days are suddenly more bearable with Rachel sharing their backbreaking work and love-drenched nights. George cannot imagine life without Rachel.<br />When twelve-year-old David is drawn to the Harlands, it is for George's fatherly protection and Rachel's pure female strength, his own mother ever more distant and self-involved. On a clear day when trouble hovers in the air, David is the catalyst for catastrophe, his one breach of judgment forever changing the landscape of their future. For the three of them, life will never be the same again.<br />The Darwinian inevitability of nature vs. progress lurks around the perimeter of Greenland Township and Campbell skillfully portrays the hardships and realities of farming, as even the vigorous landscape becomes a vital player in the drama. Campbell's reality is hard-edged and she never shies away from its blunt and often brutal surfaces. Yet the eccentric characters of Q Road fit snugly into the environment, their own edges sharpened early by experience.<br />Q Road is like an Alice Hoffman novel with sharp teeth and a rapacious appetite. At the same time, the peculiar township inhabitants have many of the intransigent qualities of Carolyn Chute's Beans of Egypt, Maine. Sprinkled with quirky individuals, neighborhood malcontents and busybodies, Q Road is overflowing with the many faces of humanity, as they reach bravely toward their better selves. Luan Gaines/2003.d-edged and she never shies away from its blunt and often brutal surfaces. Yet the eccentric characters of Q Road fit snugly into the environment, their own edges sharpened early by experience. <br />Q Road is like an Alice Hoffman novel with sharp teeth and a rapacious appetite. At the same time, the peculiar township inhabitants have many of the intransigent qualities of Carolyn Chute's Beans of Egypt, Maine. Sprinkled with quirky individuals, neighborhood malcontents and busybodies, Q Road is overflowing with the many faces of humanity, as they reach bravely toward their better selves. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-03-07
1219721:US	51010391	R2B5I4OQGBM8LE	0385337639	738011644	Crow Lake (Today Show Book Club #7)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A story of familial triumph...	Crow Lake is a poignant and clear-eyed portrayal of loss, a novel whose pages are haunted with the regret of missed chances. The Morrison family suffers overwhelming personal tragedy when the parents are killed in an accident. The parents leave behind seven-year-old Kate, her younger sister, Bo, and two older brothers, Luke and Matt. Their particular tragedy is swift and final, but serves to unite the children in common purpose.<br />The four children's isolated world is Crow Lake, where the harsh indifference of nature is tempered by the necessity of strict physical limitations, when often only changing seasons bring relief through renewal. Compromises are made and dreams delayed, in the pursuit of the basic needs of this small family, especially for Luke and Matt. But children often survive unimaginable misfortune, and the Morrisons cling to each other, overcoming substantial odds to remain together in the family home. The intrepid Kate, as she grows, chronicles their struggles with the immediacy of hard-won experience.<br />There is a deeper, more relentless violence visited on their neighbors, the Pyes. The domestic discord of the Pye family is both generational and pervasive, slowly escalating as the years pass. Eventually, the two worlds collide in unexpected ways.<br />It is Kate, after all, who becomes the achiever, with a career as a scientist, once her beloved brother and mentor, Matt's dream. Kate's acceptance of herself and her resolution of conflict and ultimate commitment to success is the key for all of them, bridging the past and accepting the grace of the present.<br />This novel is a testament to the courage of siblings, where fear and mistrust collapse under the combined strength of familial bonds, an awareness of peace in spite of the vagaries of fate. Lawson's pure and arresting prose gently guides her readers through the complexities of a world suddenly turned upside down, with the promise, at last, of comfort, acceptance and forgiveness. Luan Gaines/2003.Gaines/2003.	2003-02-21
1220325:US	51010391	R97SMT6I5R3JI	0743230213	397792464	Harem: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	The women behind the veil...	Mossanen's Harem is a fragrant mix of mythology, fancy, historical detail. The sultanas in the royal harem live for the pleasure of their Shah. They are attended by eunuchs vested in their own self-interest, all of them hidden from the eyes of the world. Surrounded by the trappings of wealth and luxury, the sultanas' activities are severely restricted by structure of harem protocol. The pungent scent of opium fills the air wherever these women idle away their days awaiting the Shah's pleasure.<br />Other parts of the city are defined by abject poverty, especially the Jewish Quarter, where piles of garbage are often the only source of food for beggars. As everywhere in this society, women are the possessions of their husbands and guardians. When young Rebekah is sold in marriage to Jacob the Fatherless, before attaining womanhood, she survives by using her wits and beauty. Undaunted, Rebekah offers her only daughter, Gold Dust, to the Shah for his harem. Soon chosen as the \\"favorite\\", Gold Dust conceives a daughter with the Shah, Raven, a stunning albino princess who will eventually rule in her own right.<br /><br />Seemingly defenseless in the world of men, Rebekah propels her daughter and granddaughter into a life of luxury and privilege. The three women are an allegory for the power behind the veil, with their talent for adaptation, using whatever resources are available to them. As the matriarch, Rebekah, not a woman to be crossed, accomplishes amazing feats on behalf of her family. Once widowed, she removes herself from the entrapment of marriage, wielding her agile mind as deftly as the Shah cuts with his crested sword, carving a place in history for the future generations of her tribe. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-02-21
1230941:US	51010391	RUXP5KHNAINXT	0743230213	397792464	Harem: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	(3.5)The Three Graces of Persia....	The Three Graces of Persia...<br />Mossanen dips her honeyed pen into a fragrant mix of mythology, fancy and historical detail. In 14th Century Persia, the sultanas in the royal harem exist for the pleasure of their Shah. These sheltered women are attended by royal eunuchs, who arevested in their own self-interest. Hidden from the eyes of the world and enveloped in the trappings of opulence and excess, the sultanas are forever restricted by the rigid structure of harem protocol. The pungent scent of opium hovers as these sheltered women idle away the days, often years, awaiting the Shah's pleasure.<br />Other parts of the city are defined by abject poverty, especially the Jewish Quarter, where piles of refuse are the source of sustenance for starving beggars. As everywhere in this society, women are possessions of their husbands as dictated by law. Here in the Jewish Quarter, the youthful Rebekah is sold in marriage before she even attains her womanhood. Her new husband, Jacob the Fatherless, is a base and cruel man who enjoys demeaning and beating his innocent bride, excited only by the scent of her fear mingled with his own avarice. Rebekah survives only by virtue of her wits, vowing to survive her desperate situation.<br />The single joy produced from a loveless and brutal marriage, Gold Dust, Rebekah's only child, has unique qualities of her own and some of the striking looks of her mother. Rebekah schemes to situate Gold Dust safely in the sequestered harem of the Shah. Once this is accomplished, Gold Dust quickly becomes the favorite, to the exclusion of the other sultanas, which makes her an object of jealousy. Gold Dust produces a girl child by her beloved Shah, a strangely beautiful albino princess who is her father's delight. This child is called Raven; she will eventually sit on the throne of Persia.<br />The three women are an allegory for the power behind the veil, defined by their ability to adapt and advance their interests. The matriarch, Rebekah, never a woman to be crossed or scorned, is capable of amazing feats on behalf of her family. Gifted with unusual beauty and a clever mind, Rebekah envisions her family thriving beyond the entrapment of marriage. To this end, she wields her agile mind as deftly as the Shah slashes his enemies with the royal crested sword, carving a place in history for the future generations of her tribe. A seemingly defenseless woman in the world of men, Rebekah's ambition propels her daughter and granddaughter into a life of untold luxury and privilege. <br />This haunting tale is shrouded in layers of imagination as rich as the emeralds and rubies that adorn the Shah and his women. Opiate dreams mix freely with desire, mystery, greed and revenge. Mossanen invents a world of a thousand and one Persian nights, each more intriguing than the last. Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-02-12
1231429:US	51010391	R2CXJG1JTYH5UE	0399147500	442919769	Sister Noon	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A quirky and enchanting novel...	At the center of Sister Noon is the intrepid Lizzie Hayes, a member of the San Francisco elite with a lively and compassionate heart. Lizzie serves on the board of The Ladies Relief and Protection Society Home, known as the Brown Ark, an apt description of its somber but sturdy faade. The Brown Ark houses children whose parents are unable to provide for their basic needs, such as food and shelter. In 1890's San Francisco, Lizzie dedicates her days to good works, a respectable and valued member of society.<br />When Mrs. Mary Ellen Pleasant requests Lizzie's aid in placing a young girl, Jenny, at the home, Lizzie finds the child a bed and anticipates no complications because of her generosity. As it happens, Lizzie is indeed called upon to account for her decision. Later, as Lizzie's questionable relationship with Mrs. Pleasant becomes grist for gossip, Lizzie's first inclination is accede to the ladies' demands and shun the infamous Mrs. Pleasant. Yet she grows more uncomfortable with this compliance and a small rebellion seethes beneath her outwardly placid demeanor.<br />As for little Jenny, a five-year-old child of questionable parentage, she is a convenient target for the petty meanness of the other girls at the home. As a result, the tormented Jenny longs for escape to a place of safety.<br />When Mr. Finny, a shady con man, contacts Lizzie Hayes, he insinuates that there is reason to doubt her own personal history and hints at a possible connection to Jenny. Seeking more specific information via the household of Mrs. Pleasant, a woman, after all, who is privy to many of the city's darkest secrets, Lizzie is further confused, but determined to unravel the mystery that confronts her. A truly stalwart soul, Lizzie is eventually forced to act on her beliefs and consider a life-changing decision.<br />Sister Noon is peppered with idiosyncratic details at a time when newspaper articles  include personal opinion, flowery verbiage and the excessive phrasing of a society far too conscious of its every nuance. Hyperbole is rampant, as well as the exaltation of virtue and condemnation of vice. The unconventional is suspect by its very nature and carefully scrutinized for the taint of immorality. Plainly, the upper classes are righteous busybodies who delight in destroying a reputation over afternoon of tea.<br />Fowler captures Victorian San Francisco beautifully. Her scenes are richly painted with historical detail and an extraordinary sense of place. The trivia and occasional drama of life in the Brown Ark is revealed in all its shabby refinement, dressed in good intentions, flaws hidden in shadowy rooms like unwelcome guests. This novel is a small jewel, awash with the restrained emotions so familiar in such a socially constricted society. Fowler's Lizzie Hayes rises above her circumstances, fulfilling the promise of a life honorably lived, her goodness sustained throughout in a personal triumph over circumstances.Luan Gaines/2003.iety far too conscious of its every nuance. Hyperbole is rampant, as well as the exaltation of virtue and condemnation of vice. The unconventional is suspect by its very nature and carefully scrutinized for the taint of immorality. Plainly, the upper classes are righteous busybodies who delight in destroying a reputation over afternoon of tea.<br />Fowler captures Victorian San Francisco beautifully. Her scenes are richly painted with historical detail and an extraordinary sense of place. The trivia and occasional drama of life in the Brown Ark is revealed in all its shabby refinement, dressed in good intentions, flaws hidden in shadowy rooms like unwelcome guests. This novel is a small jewel, awash with the restrained emotions so familiar in such a socially constricted society. Fowler's Lizzie Hayes rises above her circumstances, fulfilling the promise of a life honorably lived, her goodness sustained throughout in a personal triumph over circumstances.Luan Gaines/2003.	2003-02-12
1237715:US	51010391	R1BF0WVSXHPICK	0060989238	966190047	Hunger Point: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	(4.5) Just "taking the edge off...."	In her eerily accurate portrayal of a family in crisis, Medoff fearlessly tackles her subject head on. Couched in the abrasive humor of a dysfunctional family run amok, Frannie Hunter is on the inside looking out. At 26, Frannie moves home, her own financial and emotional resources in a state of collapse. Frannie retreats to the bedroom of her childhood, at first burrowing into the comfort of sleep. Finding a job becomes less important than navigating the treacherous waters of family ties.<br />A supposedly \\"well-meaning\\" and ineffective mother hectors both daughters all their lives, chanting her mantra, \\"don't get fat\\". The distant father does the family food shopping and meal preparation, but otherwise refuses to engage in the family dynamic. With a critical eye, Frannie watches her parents brittle dance, their lack of connections ever more obvious.<br />For all her quirky comments, Frannie is ineffective at best and cannot tempt younger sister, Shelly, back from her free fall into anorexia nervosa. When Shelly becomes dangerously thin and is hospitalized, Frannie feels invisible and lost. In contrast to Shelly's literal starvation, Frannie compulsively consumes everything in the refrigerator, indiscriminate, a vain attempt to assuage her gnawing fear of what may happen. But there is no panacea for Frannie's pain, and neither sex, sleep nor food, offer the relief she so desperately desires.<br />The family concentrates on Shelly's critical condition, while Frannie marks the poignant distinctions of life in her parent's house as \\"ominous and depressing, weighted with the feeling of someone about to burst into tears\\". Adept at denial, the remaining family members struggle to maintain the status quo in the face of inevitability, unsure of the future and unable to comfort each other.<br />Medoff writes with unassailable conviction, flaying the myths that surround food and self-image, the young women and their mother victims of a society that disproportionately values packaging over content. Her incisive wit cuts through situations riddled with pain, and Medoff's account of the Hunter family is pitch-perfect.<br />There are certainly pitfalls in a novel that deals with such agonizing issues, one of which is the fine line between writing about a disease and authoring a do-it-yourself manual for anorexics. Medoff successfully refuses to pander to anorexia in this way. This story is cautionary, full of details about the seductive nature of addiction and the ease with which families evolve into a paradigm that allows denial to camouflage truth. Brutally honest, tempered with the wry humor of self-examination, Frannie is a character reference for hope and recovery. Luan Gaines/ 2003.packaging over content. Her incisive wit cuts through situations riddled with pain, and Medoff's account of the Hunter family is pitch-perfect.<br />There are certainly pitfalls in a novel that deals with such agonizing issues, one of which is the fine line between writing about a disease and authoring a do-it-yourself manual for anorexics. Medoff successfully refuses to pander to anorexia in this way. This story is cautionary, full of details about the seductive nature of addiction and the ease with which families evolve into a paradigm that allows denial to camouflage truth. Brutally honest, tempered with the wry humor of self-examination, Frannie is a character reference for hope and recovery. Luan Gaines/ 2003.	2003-02-07
1241768:US	51010391	RFTJ5U05BI38Y	0345450892	431887144	The Lake of Dead Languages (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	(3.5)A classic case of unfinished business...	Her youthful past shattered by tragic loss and a recent divorce, the solace of routine drives Jane Hudson back to the Heart Lake School for Girls, in the Adirondacks of upstate New York. The school has its own mythological past, the legendary drowning of three sisters, daughters of the family who establish the school. Rumors pass from ear to ear over the years, until the myth itself takes on the ring of truth and will not be denied.<br />Attending Heart Lake as a scholarship student, Jane finds inclusion with two roommates, Lucy and Deirdre. But each of these young women meet untimely deaths, feeding the gossip mill regarding the Lake's unquenchable thirst for more sacrifices. Twenty years later, Jane returns as a teacher of Latin Classics, drawn back into a world she's never quite forgotten. As a teacher, her favorite Latin students are enthralled by the Heart Lake drowning legend and obsessed by their own life struggles, dressing all in black like Goths, self-cutting and a perverse attraction to suicide. When pages from Jane's senior year journal appear, along with other mysterious events, it is clear that Jane's new life is plagued by unfinished business.<br />The story moves forward, alternating past and present, the classical Latin studies lending authenticity to the unique perspective of misdirected youthful passion when taken to extremes. A variety of characters introduce clues, although the clues become quite transparent. However, Goodman's sense of place is excellent, permeated with the hovering shadows of danger and menace. The current students are precociously rendered, with their nervy bravery and unconscious vulnerability, wildly colored hair and outrageous personal habits.<br />Jane's best friends at Heart Lake are a less successful endeavor. Lucy and Deirdre are actually Jane's only friends at school, and Jane does appear to be a gullible pawn for the two of them. The lonely Jane aches for acceptance by her peers without ever making a case of her attraction for the roommates. This slightly unformed image of Jane and her subtle lack of definition unleash a dissonance in the novel. Yet Goodman does well in tying up the story line at the end, when the mystery is unveiled as yet another tragic consequence of the past.action for the roommates. This slightly unformed image of Jane and her subtle lack of definition unleash a dissonance in the novel. Yet Goodman does well in tying up the story line at the end, when the mystery is unveiled as yet another tragic consequence of the past.	2003-02-03
1245855:US	51010391	RTDJLS2R1JPW9	0743203232	615922706	The Nature of Water and Air	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	A lyrical labor of love, loss and beginning...	As dense with fable and mystery as the Irish coast, this is the work of a poet whose images are cast in the clothes of her luminous prose. The recurring theme throughout is of love and death, the bonds of attachment and the anguish of loss. This tale is so seductive as to draw the reader ever closer to the line between mythology and truth, where life is divided between reality and the insistent song of the sea. \\"It seemed to be the nature of water and air, to be random, heartless\\". Not so, this novel.<br />Young Clodagh Sheehy lives in thrall of her distant mother, Agatha, who comes from the world of itinerant tinkers, and listens carefully to the call of this wild land where they live. Agatha's actions are shrouded with secrecy and full of sexual innuendo, and she drifts just beyond her daughter's knowing, unwilling to be trapped by the child's need and loneliness.<br />Clodagh's fragile twin sister, Mare, has died and the girl wills Mare to remain, if only as her other half, the opposite coin of her identity. She plays the piano one-handed, leaving the other part, the other hand, for Mare, and sometimes stares into the cloudy mirror, hoping for a glimpse of her other self. Their father, Frank Sheehy, dies before the twin's birth, and Clodagh, in anguished desperation, clings to the only person remaining, her mother. But like the mythological selkie, half-seal, half-woman, Agatha returns to the depths of the sea, now lost as well. Cut adrift and friendless, but for a loving housekeeper, Clodagh begins a journey toward self-discovery, often tangled between the worlds of reality and superstition. In reaching out to identify the face of her mother, Clodagh discovers the truth of herself. Her adolescence is often painful and life changing, her passion for music frequently the only solace. Clodagh's dead father Frank, her possibly-alive real father, a tinker, and her early foray into sexuality are without satisfaction until she breaks free and claims herself.<br />McBride's novel is flooded with page after page of images. The vast canvas of such rugged, gorgeous geography serves as the background for dreams and emotions as tumultuous and changeable as the storm-tossed waves that beat along the coast. This author has accomplished more than storytelling, she has offered a glimpse of the true nature of Ireland, the very nature of water and air. Luan Gaineside's novel is flooded with page after page of images. The vast canvas of such rugged, gorgeous geography serves as the background for dreams and emotions as tumultuous and changeable as the storm-tossed waves that beat along the coast. This author has accomplished more than storytelling, she has offered a glimpse of the true nature of Ireland, the very nature of water and air. Luan Gaines	2003-01-31
1246280:US	51010391	R2R2GLIJY64EW0	157322197X	926203739	The Good Men	Books	4	9	12	N	N	(4.5) The curse of civilization...	This novel of 13-14th Century heresy in France carries a message of isolation. The female characters, from Marquise to Fabrisse to Echo, fend for themselves in a hostile world, existing in their narrow circumstances of birth and at the mercy of indifferent men.  Of the predominant male characters, Bernard, the Dominican orphan and Chief Inquisitioner, and Pierre Clerque, the wayward reverend, orbit each other as opposing forces of \\"good\\" and \\"evil\\". Bernard has never known a mother other than Mother Church, and is driven by a sense of \\"otherness\\", his only personal dialogue with God alone. And the twisted body and soul of Pierre Clerque, a priest unable to quell his body's lust for women and his attraction to heretical doctrines, pursues his pleasure with abandon. All of these disturbed souls meet in the village of Montaillou, in an era rife with superstition, where the Roman Church rules with an iron will, torturing and burning any accused of heretical beliefs.<br />The moral rectitude of the Inquisition, which began in France in 1206 and continued into the 14th Century, presents a conundrum of sorts, one that is demonstrated the lives of the villagers. For the most part illiterate, the humble are particularly vulnerable to superstitious assumptions. Only the priests and friars are literate and serve as intermediaries between God and such simple folk. The villagers are rendered incapable of didactic reasoning in spiritual matters, especially with the abundance of belief systems passed through the countryside. The quality of life in the 13-14th Centuries doesn't allow for subtlety and the Church is threatened by any deviation of established doctrine. So, in a way, the peasants are the victims in a clash between philosophies, as sheep led to graze from one field to another. As well, the villagers protect the heretics, who are often treated with as much reverence as Church officials. It is a pitched battle for the minds and souls of uneducated men. Like a great spider, the Church wields its power to maintain control and collect tithes.<br />The intolerable plight of medieval women impacts the story, in stark relief against the machinations of men, at a time when women are less than chattels, servants to the men who dominate their intractable and dreary days. Without the shelter of family, these women, especially Fabrisse and her daughter, have few resources for daily survival, often with nothing left to barter but their bodies. They cling together, keening in despair, unseen and irrelevant in their identities.<br />Craig's writing is precise, often that of an observer, much like the Inquisitors themselves, distanced by calculation. As tormented as some of the characters are, particularly Pierre Clerque and Arnaud, the cobbler, we are aware of their fragile humanity, although Pierre's actions seem without benefit of conscience. Throughout, the book is burdened by a lack of hope, as ignorant and superstition-riddled peasants cringe before the rage of the Inquisition. In contrast, one young woman, Echo (a.k.a. Grazida, daughter of Fabrisse) renounces a life of victimization, marries Arnaud and bears a daughter, Merce. It is this nurturing union that allows Echo to stand accused before the court of the Inquisition.<br />The novel struggles under the weight of everyday brutality, as well as the passionless Church officials who burn and imprison the ignorant with impunity and without mercy. There is no evidence of Christian compassion or forgiveness for the village people. The Good Men is a powerful indictment of a Church that allows slaughter in the name of religion. More than a black mark against the history of the most powerful church in Christianity, the Inquisition is a blight on civilization, an unforgettable travesty that cannot be forgotten. Luan Gaines, the Church wields its power to maintain control and collect tithes.<br />The intolerable plight of medieval women impacts the story, in stark relief against the machinations of men, at a time when women are less than chattels, servants to the men who dominate their intractable and dreary days. Without the shelter of family, these women, especially Fabrisse and her daughter, have few resources for daily survival, often with nothing left to barter but their bodies. They cling together, keening in despair, unseen and irrelevant in their identities.<br />Craig's writing is precise, often that of an observer, much like the Inquisitors themselves, distanced by calculation. As tormented as some of the characters are, particularly Pierre Clerque and Arnaud, the cobbler, we are aware of their fragile humanity, although Pierre's actions seem without benefit of conscience. Throughout, the book is burdened by a lack of hope, as ignorant and superstition-riddled peasants cringe before the rage of the Inquisition. In contrast, one young woman, Echo (a.k.a. Grazida, daughter of Fabrisse) renounces a life of victimization, marries Arnaud and bears a daughter, Merce. It is this nurturing union that allows Echo to stand accused before the court of the Inquisition.<br />The novel struggles under the weight of everyday brutality, as well as the passionless Church officials who burn and imprison the ignorant with impunity and without mercy. There is no evidence of Christian compassion or forgiveness for the village people. The Good Men is a powerful indictment of a Church that allows slaughter in the name of religion. More than a black mark against the history of the most powerful church in Christianity, the Inquisition is a blight on civilization, an unforgettable travesty that cannot be forgotten. Luan Gaines	2003-01-31
1258194:US	51010391	RAXYV43RHX4CK	0060505257	226416014	The Archer's Tale (The Grail Quest, Book 1)	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	Life and death on a medieval battlefield	The historical battle detail is impeccable and as violent as the era, 1343, when the English and French clash on French soil at the beginning of The Hundred Years War. The Archer's Tale is a bloody romp through medieval battlefields strewn with slaughtered soldiers, fighting with the most primitive weapons along with the specialized skills of English archers, often unbeatable in their precision.<br />This is a new series for Cornwell fans, with the young archer Thomas Hookton in search of the Holy Grail, a burden he assumes reluctantly, preferring the simple camp life of the English archer. As replete with minute details of ground skirmishes and the intimate brutality of hand to hand combat, Cornwell serves up another satisfying tale for his fans.<br />That said, my purchase of this book illustrates the difficulty of choosing a book online. Over the past few years, my state, CA, has suffered the loss of some excellent and affordable bookstores. The available corporate-owned vendors are both expensive and distant. While buying online is a welcome service, I cannot really browse and choose as carefully as I would like. Although I ordinarily would not have purchased this novel, the writing is excellent and I recommend it to fans of this genre. Although not in my area of interest, The Archer's Tale is an accomplished and satisfying read.	2003-01-21
1258683:US	51010391	R1L92FCYE32GKG	0399149368	309604858	Prince of Lost Places	Books	2	3	6	N	N	(2.5) Characters sacrificed for plot...	Hepinstall's lyrical prose suffers in the glare of a fragile vision in Prince of Lost Places. In small revelations, Martha Warden is able to reveal the nature of her trauma, a bombing at her son Duncan's school that triggers a need for flight and safety with her young son, escape from a world gone mad. Her husband is left behind when he cannot comprehend the depth of her terror. In his own desperation, David Warden hires a detective.<br />By the end of the novel, I realize the reasons for the disconnected dialog between a fearful mother and the child she has kidnapped, as they set up camp in a remote, if accessible, cave. I can also understand her gradual friendship with the stranger who helps her cope. By the time the real world intrudes, with the appearance of husband David, Martha is floundering badly, unable to sustain this idealized wilderness life on her own resources.<br />I can almost sense Hepinstall's thought process in cautiously building her story. But, in the telling, the characters become caricatures, unlike those who people her stylized and carefully crafted previous novels, The House of Gentle Men and The Absence of Nectar. I began reading with  prejudice in favor of Hepinstall's effort, but the characters lack attraction other than as vehicles for the plot. As for Martha, the mother, what is she thinking, doing such a strange thing in the first place? By the end, \\"Frankly, Scarlett, I don't give a damn\\". (luansos)	2003-01-21
1263098:US	51010391	R2CDPC6BTO2QZG	0871138433	964368876	Lost Nation	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	The Wild, Wild North......	This latest effort by Jeffrey Lent escapes traditional confines in the service of an innovative writing style. Lost Nation challenges the accepted format of his first novel, unrestricted by conventional standards, more edgy and jagged, yet unlike stream-of-consciousness, with an overpowering sense of immediacy.<br />When Blood tethers child-prostitute Sally to the back of his cart and pushes off from Maine toward the vast northern wilderness, his intent is a simple life carved from the unyielding soil of a remote settlement. Blood is singular in purpose, beholden to no man, almost primal in his response to indifferent surroundings. Sally is but an opportunity, a commodity to be bartered as the need arises. Lent draws Blood in coarse, primitive strokes, a fearsome man who lacks the nuances of civilized society. Sally, as well, is spare and quick, by necessity ever watchful. As they adapt to the rigors of the journey north toward Canada's challenging landscape, their tentative relationship is defined less by personality than circumstance and immediate need. Over time, the blunt manner in which Blood discloses himself to Sally binds the story in subtle threads of tension. Can Lent sustain the impetus of this tale throughout? Yes, and he does so consistently. The world Sally and Blood inhabit is laced with imminent danger, the threat of the unknown never farther away than the trees that ring the rough-hewn tavern/trading post where Blood finally settles.<br />Peopled with pioneers, ideologues and misfits, the families settled before Blood and Sally on the land, for all their civilized pretensions, often seem to circle the trader and his young helper like a pack of hungry wolves waiting for the opportunity to strike. Blood remains neutral, in reality more moral than the other settlers, serving his customers with dispassionate regard. Always an outcast, this driven but damaged man becomes a target of their discontent. Aside from his personal demons, Blood remains a sympathetic character throughout, scarred by his past actions and sentenced to live out the agonizing years ahead, a self-inflicted endeavor of repentance. Meanwhile, Sally, her spirit newly awakened, begins to raise her head, less fearful of an intolerant and brutal environment. Blood's uncommon strength allows her to consider a life other than one constricted by survival. The plot moves inexorably towards a violent conclusion, a drama of treachery, betrayal, passion, loyalty, loss and redemption.<br />In Lost Nation, Jeffrey Lent has hit his stride as an author, with powerful, confident prose that rarely disappoints and frequently surprises with moments of unexpected tenderness. His novel is an insightful journey into the heart of darkness, limned with courage and a commitment to the enlightenment of shared grace.thetic character throughout, scarred by his past actions and sentenced to live out the agonizing years ahead, a self-inflicted endeavor of repentance. Meanwhile, Sally, her spirit newly awakened, begins to raise her head, less fearful of an intolerant and brutal environment. Blood's uncommon strength allows her to consider a life other than one constricted by survival. The plot moves inexorably towards a violent conclusion, a drama of treachery, betrayal, passion, loyalty, loss and redemption.<br />In Lost Nation, Jeffrey Lent has hit his stride as an author, with powerful, confident prose that rarely disappoints and frequently surprises with moments of unexpected tenderness. His novel is an insightful journey into the heart of darkness, limned with courage and a commitment to the enlightenment of shared grace.	2003-01-17
1264441:US	51010391	R1VQWATJHZOA5C	0316780375	480327121	The Weight of Water	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	The unalterable shape of passion, past and present...	Shreve has an undeniable gift for storytelling, as evidenced by the popularity of her novels. More importantly, the strength of her tale lies in fertile and seemingly endless permutations of the human condition. The Weight of Water is finely balanced between action and emotion, often juxtaposed in such a way as to move from the plot line of the protagonist to the historical personal documents she is reading. Jean, a photojournalist, is researching a century-old crime on one of the islands of The Isle of Shoals, Smuttynose Island, off the rough-hewn New Hampshire coast. Seduced by the intensely personal memoirs of the lone survivor of the murders, Jean's thoughts are constantly drawn to the difficult and barren life of Maren Honvent. At the same time, she is instinctively aware of an imbalance in the tensions among the four adults sailing to the island. The presence of Jean's small daughter alleviates some of this tension, her youth allowing a measure of levity and innocence.<br />Originally structured, the novel moves forward flawlessly, with a stunning and unexpected climax. Shreve's natural mastery of images and language is accomplished. Yet I think of Shreve's work as an ensemble of possibilities, a &quot;skimmer&quot;, an action-oriented story that flows toward denouement. A compulsively quick read, I am left desiring more. I crave more substance from her characters, increased depth and motivation, less facile, albeit dramatic, resolution of issues. It's all there, &quot;skimming&quot; the surface, teasing the imagination, but I need something additional from this gifted writer. I cannot help but wonder what a hundred or so pages would bring, a fleshing out of her multi-faceted ensemble. With a style similar to that of Alice Hoffman, another wonderful talent, Shreve offers lyrical phrasing and an interesting themes, but, selfishly, I would love to see this artist's work mature, fulfilling its rich promise.	2003-01-16
1264803:US	51010391	R2DIGF0ZE37I9Y	0140230033	522563359	Banished Children of Eve, A Novel of Civil War New York	Books	3	13	15	N	N	(3.5)Fear and Loathing in 1863 New York...	Peopled with carefully constructed and multi-layered individuals, the history of each life is inserted with the introduction of every new character, although diverse in background, social pretensions and aspirations. The subtle nuance of class-consciousness ripples near the surface of even the most polite dialog. There is a constant jockeying of rationalization, from the hypocritical \\"do-goodism\\" of the wealthy to the racial obsessions of those who discover themselves straddling the lowest rung of the societal ladder. The skillful presentation of pervasive class distinctions is one of the major accomplishments of Quinn's ambitious novel.<br />The possibility of great wealth ignites an already raging blaze of fundamental competition for financial independence in an era of manifest destiny. Classism is clearly rooted in ancestral experience and identity, alongside a Darwinian struggle for survival. The old guard financiers are surrounded by a ragtag mob of enthusiastic young men seeking entrance to the halls of privilege, men willing to speculate their way to success. The imperative of that success is inevitable, a rising tide that washes ashore on a wave of progress and opportunity. This relentless pursuit of success, coupled with a looming fear of ruin, drives Quinn's characters, allowing them more humanity, albeit with questionable morals. Indeed, their failings are tempered by the exigent circumstances of birth.<br />The streets are teeming with bustling crowds, either headed uptown to the financial and business district or downtown toward the docks, where shabby streets are lined with garbage and taverns, gambling halls and brothels. From this morass of opportunity, deals are struck. Wall Street investors, flushed with success, are perfect targets for hustlers, one scam or another created to relieve the mark of his money. Add to this the uncertainties of war with a mandated draft, and emotions run rampant through crowds of immigrants disappointed by the actual brutality of life in America in 1863 New York, the great melting pot of hope and ambition. Agitated by the summer heat, new conscription laws and the tension of the politics of war, Quinn's numerous characters finally swirl in the confusion of their particular agendas.<br />Halfway through the novel I lost interest, burdened with too much information about the history of every character, an oddity that seriously confused the direction of the novel. But I picked the book up again, curious to see Quinn's treatment of the Draft Riots portrayed so vividly in Kevin Baker's Paradise Alley. Quinn simply pours too much into these pages, often drowning the thread of the story and I frequently skipped pages. After all this effort, the Draft Riots are all but lost amid Quinn's superfluous detail. Ultimately, this lack of focus exhausted me and rendered The Banished Children of Eve less than rewarding.rutality of life in America in 1863 New York, the great melting pot of hope and ambition. Agitated by the summer heat, new conscription laws and the tension of the politics of war, Quinn's numerous characters finally swirl in the confusion of their particular agendas.<br />Halfway through the novel I lost interest, burdened with too much information about the history of every character, an oddity that seriously confused the direction of the novel. But I picked the book up again, curious to see Quinn's treatment of the Draft Riots portrayed so vividly in Kevin Baker's Paradise Alley. Quinn simply pours too much into these pages, often drowning the thread of the story and I frequently skipped pages. After all this effort, the Draft Riots are all but lost amid Quinn's superfluous detail. Ultimately, this lack of focus exhausted me and rendered The Banished Children of Eve less than rewarding.	2003-01-16
1282423:US	51010391	RGOCI8QMZWHO0	0375414657	321194841	The Piano Tuner	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Great potential, but lacking passion...	This novel has everything going for it: exotic locale, a distant and ancient culture and the awaking of a constricted Victorian English heart. When Edgar Drake is commissioned to tune a piano in the jungles of Burma at the request of Surgeon-Major Anthony Carroll, the temptation is too great to resist. He begins his mission with the purity of intent of a man possessed with music and the intricacies of tuning a beautifully crafted piano. His experiences as he reaches the remote jungle destination are surreal. The lure of ancient lands is an aphrodisiac to this congenitally shy man, often blurring the edges of reality.<br />The British officers he meets, the native guides and common people open a world for Drake that is both seductive and dangerous. And when he finally arrives at the village to tune the piano, he is enchanted by the lush surroundings, trusting his own integrity to deliver him from the confusing distractions offered by the charismatic Doctor Carroll. Confused and conflicted by Carroll's requests, Drake attempts to follow the compass of his own conscience, secure in his own English values.<br />The great disappointment of this novel is the dry, pedantic descriptions of a fascinating country, thick with detail but lacking in passion. Perhaps Mason is attempting to contrast Drake's Victorian constrictions against the tropical temptations of Burma; in this endeavor, the passion that awakens in Edgar Drake never surfaces. Ever tentative, Drake is more like a Victorian maiden than a fully fleshed male. In the last chapter, the action accelerates and Drake is caught in the conundrum of his own illusions, desperately trying to cope with reality. Other than the impetus of the final pages, the novel reads like a travelogue, often as distant and lifeless as a textbook. What should have been an adventure of discovery, curiously fails to engage the imagination, regardless of the opulent and mysterious Burmese landscape.	2003-01-03
1287738:US	51010391	R2O5HFX388DHLB	0375504567	862994848	Pasadena	Books	3	23	24	N	Y	Familiar pickings in Old California	Entangled in the past and driven by conflicted loyalties, the protagonists are introduced via the curiosity of Andrew Jackson Blackwood, a real estate entrepreneur with a shady past. Using Blackwood as a device, this &quot;Wuthering Heights&quot; plot unfolds with Linda Stamp (Cathy) and Bruder (Heathcliff) as the star-crossed lovers. Their drama is played out in the early years of the 20th Century, when California falls prey to the avid schemes of developers.<br />Part of Pasadena takes place just a few miles south of where I live, so I chose this book partly for the familiarity of place. Often Ebershoff's descriptive passages are as perfect as the rows of orange trees that once filled the acres of Southern California. But at other times, his extravagant phrases grow tedious, describing myriad flora and fauna native to the state. If I hadn't known the lush hillsides and pure blue skies, now smog-filled and over-built, it is possible to glean a bit of the former beauty of California. As well, the profligate wealth of the era and the careless use of natural resources plundered by entitlement are stark reminders of the disrespect for nature's generosity.<br />In the beginning, the story is enchanting in its praise of simple farm life and the rewards of hard work in a setting of natural splendor. But by the time the novel moves to Pasadena, the dialog is thick with duplicity, complications, misunderstandings and secrets. In the city of Pasadena, affluence exists side by side with poverty, an uneasy coexistence, with the workers who sustain the privileged lifestyle crammed into inadequate housing, the rambling estates surrounded by acres of groves. That said, Ebershoff does a fine job of portraying wealthy Pasadenans as vapid, elitist and full of energy to better the lives of those less fortunate, ad nauseum. That the upper classes of the 1900's consider the immigrant workers less capable is obvious and belabored.<br />The great flaw in Pasadena is the promise of its title. Pasadena, the novel, connotes a more comprehensive attention to the city and its origins, yet the book, but for a few asides, is located on one private estate of producing groves, and limited to this very specific world. All of this is historically accurate, but not really of the scope the title suggests. The story is quite compelling on its own, with the psychological twists and turns of the characters, rendering Mr. Blackwood unnecessary. Some incisive editing of about 100 pages might have made this novel more memorable. But there is still the problem of the lover's complete inability to communicate with each other, and the tiresome denouement of their choices.title. Pasadena, the novel, connotes a more comprehensive attention to the city and its origins, yet the book, but for a few asides, is located on one private estate of producing groves, and limited to this very specific world. All of this is historically accurate, but not really of the scope the title suggests. The story is quite compelling on its own, with the psychological twists and turns of the characters, rendering Mr. Blackwood unnecessary. Some incisive editing of about 100 pages might have made this novel more memorable. But there is still the problem of the lover's complete inability to communicate with each other, and the tiresome denouement of their choices.	2002-12-31
1295850:US	51010391	RK2C2G2F8KWG7	0345342496	710919189	A Flag for Sunrise	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	A Third World Apocalypse...	The incendiary hint of Revolution simmers on the surface of a South American country beset by poverty and the all-consuming appetite of corporate gluttony.  The rolling green hills and sparkling beaches of Tecan are perfect for exploitation. The land is already littered with an assortment of \\"investors\\" jockeying for inside information. Revolution spells opportunity, out with the old regime, in with the new, and a tidy profit to be made along the way. The only question is whether to \\"run with the Rabbit or hunt with the Hare?\\"<br />Saints and sinners compete in this Third World nightmare, each with a different agenda. It's an ideological train wreck and the ultimate victims are the disenfranchised. The name of the game is greed and the players are the usual: privately owned corporations, interested governments, a militia trained to fight insurrection, various criminals, religious zealots and a panoply of hired spies and assorted operatives. Our personal guide is Frank Holliwell, an American anthropologist with \\"Company\\" ties from his days in Vietnam, visiting the region ostensibly to give a lecture. Holliwell becomes one more pawn in a dangerous game with incredibly high stakes.<br />In the final act, no one is who he seems in this Darwinian struggle for dominance. The common people are disposable, the cause is mutable and the quality of civilization a casualty of events. Enter at your own risk, this is Robert Stone at his best. But know this: you step into chaos in this novel (with no separate chapters) that jolts from one state of anxiety to another, watching over your shoulder at every turn.	2002-12-23
1297172:US	51010391	R2X613C2FTFDHQ	051513239X	461044774	The Music of the Spheres	Books	3	4	7	N	Y	(3.5) A nest of vipers...	In the last five years of the 18th Century, England is at war, defending the Lowlands and London is beset with spies, aristocratic French Royalist fugitives, who have fled the mob brutality of the French Revolution. These French spies are everywhere, as are modern men of science intent on recent discoveries in Astrology, fascinated by revelations uncovered by the powerful lens of the telescope. But this is London, so there is also murder afoot, namely the very particular murder of red-haired young prostitutes.<br />While French &eacute;migr&eacute; astrologers spin their web of intrigue, two estranged brothers become involved in the intricate machinations of the Royalist spies, desperate to undermine England in the war and return to their homeland. These English brothers are central to the unfolding plot: Jonathan, an official of the Home Office, and Alexander, a fervent astrologer. Alexander is drawn into the circle of the Montpellier's, who study the movement of the galaxy from a powerful telescope on their country estate, in hopes of discovering a planet they name \\"Serena\\". The Montpellier's, brother and sister, Guy and Auguste, are orbited by an assortment of nefarious characters who have their own subversive agendas.<br />As Jonathan seeks to discover the spies as well as the murderer of his young daughter, the first strangled red-haired prostitute, he falls into ill repute, ultimately endangering his prestigious position. And Alexander becomes more involved, albeit unwittingly, in the web of intrigue at the Montpellier's estate, most seriously damaged by his association with the expatriate spies because he is a victim of his own generous nature.<br />The novel ends in a cataclysm of violent acts, redeeming the faltering plot. The book loses impetus in the middle, so the increase in action renders the rest of the read more likable. The story line is finally tied together, but the main weakness in Music of the Spheres is that it is often more a well-practiced exercise than a harmonious composition.ercise than a harmonious composition.	2002-12-21
1304048:US	51010391	R3RFIPWRT2FBKW	0060007575	226907048	In Sunlight, in a Beautiful Garden: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Life before an epic catastrophe...	At the end of the 19th Century, America is a nation of vast opportunity and evolving values, certainly obsessed with the vast fortunes amassed by the likes of Carnegie, Henry Clay Frick and Andrew Mellon. Their private resort above the industrialized town of Johnstown, PA, is a jewel in the crown of the vast wealth of these Robber Barons. The South Fork Fishing and Hunting Lodge features a man-made lake braced by an ill-repaired dam that ultimately imperils the town resting at its valley floor.<br />Using personal detail to humanize this disaster, Cambor introduces complex characters from Johnstown as well as one family who summers for a brief two weeks each year at South Fork, albeit a family not of the highest level of that very particular pecking order. In Johnstown we meet Julia of the broken spirit and her husband Frank, helpless against life's random cruelties, their proud son Daniel, and Grace, a runaway from an unbearably lonely life. Representing South Fork is the idealistic Nora, a child of fortune who reaches beyond her personal limitations before everything changes forever.<br />The novel actually ends with the flood, a vast surge of water from the ruptured dam, unleashing death and devastation that Memorial Day, May 30, 1889, obliterating Johnstown in minutes. I confess I wanted more detail about the actual flood and its physical consequences, who survived and who took responsibility. This is but a small complaint in a rich novel of American life on the cusp of a new century, a time when the American Dream still twinkles in the eye of the working man and when hard work promises a guarantee, security for a man's family after a life of labor. Detail is crafted into every page, days lived in hope and reason, pride and dignity. But, lest I wax too nostalgic, their time is cut short by nature's wrath and the enormous cost of privilege for the few. The novel opens with this quote, setting the tone for the quiet unfolding of catastrophe: \\"I have been watching you; you were there, unconcerned perhaps, but with the strange distraught air of someone forever expecting a great misfortune, in sunlight, in a beautiful garden\\" (Maurice Maeterlinck). Indeed, such disasters do create a sense of vigilance, of dreams discarded and the sad loss of innocence.you; you were there, unconcerned perhaps, but with the strange distraught air of someone forever expecting a great misfortune, in sunlight, in a beautiful garden\\" (Maurice Maeterlinck). Indeed, such disasters do create a sense of vigilance, of dreams discarded and the sad loss of innocence.	2002-12-15
1305552:US	51010391	R6ZVX95SY8ST0	0684869241	257401006	The Burning Times: A Novel	Books	2	10	15	N	Y	The (disingenuous) Season of the Witch...	It is 1531, Carcassonne, France, a corner of the world beset by twin evils: the Inquisition and the Plague. In the vigilant pursuit of \\"witches\\", the French arm of the Inquisition tortures Mother Marie Francoise, aka Sybille, a nun denounced for \\"slaughter of innocent children, intercourse with the Devil and maleficeum against Pope Innocent\\". Of course, all so-called witches are charged with the same offences, the documents prepared and waiting for signatures. There are those in Carcassonne who see Mother Marie as a saint, but the die is cast, her death by burning at the stake preordained.<br />The illiterate peasants are systematically seduced by the powerful Roman Church, whose hierarchy find it necessary to retain some of the \\"Goddess\\" or \\"pagan\\" myths and rituals, albeit in another form. Hence the \\"Goddess\\" becomes the \\"Virgin Mary\\", \\"earth\\" celebrations become feast days, etc.<br />When Sister Marie, or Sybille, recounts her story to her Inquisitor, Michel (a former lover in another incarnation), the tale becomes tedious and simplistic, as a young Sybille is initiated into the ways of the Goddess. Historical fiction does bear some burden of truth. Ms. Kalogridis use of the infamous Inquisition as a vehicle for the Goddess gospel is disingenuous. Sybille is a so-called \\"good\\" or \\"white\\" witch, as opposed to the black arts. But here the whole thing becomes a fairytale of Avalon(ish) proportions. Assuming the myth is necessary to the rest of the novel, the Inquisition is merely a tool for evil deeds, a shield for sham, as it were. In reality, the Inquisition bred its own brand of evil and served to rid the Church of heretics and Jews. Given the superstition of the times, just the accusation of \\"witch\\" was an almost certain death sentence. But Ms. Kalogridis' use of the Inquisition as a venue for spreading the Goddess myth smacks of hubris in this silly story. The characters are stereotypical and shallow, the writing sophomoric. More correctly described as a Medieval fantasy, the tale would be much more believable and probably enjoyed by fans of that genre. The weight of this historical(?) tale barely tips the scale.val fantasy, the tale would be much more believable and probably enjoyed by fans of that genre. The weight of this historical(?) tale barely tips the scale.	2002-12-14
1313036:US	51010391	R1L53EW7WTKG4B	0060195827	630596025	Paradise Alley: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	(4.5)The brutality of Paradise Lost	With the passage of the Conscription Law in 1863, the citizens of Manhattan are outraged, since most of them will never have the $300 necessary to buy freedom from service in the Union Army. Mostly Irish immigrants, their daily lives are barely less brutal than the years of hardship suffered during the Potato Famine in the land of their birth. Over a few short but violent days, these men stage a riot that is the largest incident of civil disobedience in United States history, exploding into a marauding mob venting its rage and frustration. Many in their path are killed, the majority hapless blacks made all too visible by their skin color, strung up and gutted, male or female, necessary grist for the giant maw of prejudice.<br />In an era dense with innovation and the complexities of human nature and ambition, these simple men are overwhelmed with the urgency to overcome their desperate circumstances. They yield to the swift justice of mob mentality. Yet their story is sprinkled throughout with the occasional brilliance of innocence in a hopeless world. Mired in the great conflict of mankind's struggle to survive in a fractured and unfair society, one riddled with injustice and depravity, these men daily watch the rich stride over the grasping hands of the destitute, deaf to their cries for help, oblivious to their need. This is a world where wealth and power drive the gears of poverty and the Yellow Brick Road is paved over with the dreams of immigrants and cast-offs.<br />In these short days of incidental violence, the words of one survivor, a prostitute named Maddy, are indicative of the random forces at work: \\"Men were always disappointed with something. That was the first thing to know about them. They were rarely satisfied, and when they weren't, they liked to blame it on something else- a rich man or woman. God in His infinite mercy... in truth it was all the same, the thing that stopped them. Best not to be mistaken for it.\\" In unsparing prose, Baker tackles all the details, from the devastating famine in Ireland to the senseless torture of innocent blacks by fellow citizens. He portrays three couples to follow through this turmoil, an Irish couple, a mixed race couple and an unmarried couple, each with their own issues. To their lives he adds an unspeakable villain, who has survived life from one inhumanity to the next. It is a scathing story of depravity, frequently painful with detail and memorable for its potent message.all the details, from the devastating famine in Ireland to the senseless torture of innocent blacks by fellow citizens. He portrays three couples to follow through this turmoil, an Irish couple, a mixed race couple and an unmarried couple, each with their own issues. To their lives he adds an unspeakable villain, who has survived life from one inhumanity to the next. It is a scathing story of depravity, frequently painful with detail and memorable for its potent message.	2002-12-08
1323255:US	51010391	R1Z7VXTS89N5PO	0802138578	555805000	Artemisia: A Novel	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A magnificent canvas of a remarkable woman painter	One of two recent popular novels about the female artist Artemisia Gentileschi, I found this a fascinating read, lush with historical detail and the true drama of the world of the artist. Certainly an early model for the feminist movement, this artist was governed by her need to paint her interpretation of art on canvas; her life was defined by light, the shadows and the subtleties of color, the scent and texture of her paints.  She lived in a period in which European monarchs emptied state coffers in their passion for the possession of splendor and artifacts, where the artist flourished in a society that used its artists as the instruments of their power. Well-known masters in this Baroque period of the 17th Century were Velasquez, Rubens, Van Dyke and Caravaggio.<br />In Rome, the Pope was not just the spiritual head of Christendom, he was the temporal sovereign and monarch over all the territories belonging to the Church. After the Council of Trent, the Church accelerated from repressive to preventive, with zero tolerance for disobedience. The artist's task was to bear witness for the martyrs of the Church. From around 1605 the principal programs derived from the Council of Trent were aimed at the Reformation, to dazzle the eye with Rome's brilliance, particularly found in the style of Baroque art, proof of the Church's supremacy.<br />Draped in the cloak of 17th Century Italy , the denizens of the art world come alive through the pen of Alexandra Lapierre. Using court records and other legal documents to buttress her story, Lapierre brings Artemisia Gentileschi vividly alive, as well as her father-painter, Orazio Gentileschi and Agostino Tassi, the man who deflowered Artemisia and later spurned her demand for marriage. Tassi may not have been free to marry, involved as he was in an incestuous relationship with a sister-in-law. Or he may simply have been a scoundrel, whose lust leveled any conscience in the forced seduction of the virginal Artemisia.<br />Lapierre's Artemisia is rendered as a confused and driven young woman striving to be a painter in her own right like her father and to gain his recognition. She is, as well, a spirited young woman who needs a legal marriage to free her from her father's possessive grip on her very identity as an artist. Swept along by the bureaucratic layers of a Papacy determined to assert itself against the forces of the Reformists, Artemisia, Orazio and Agostino become puppets of these vested interests, ever under the watchful eye of the Inquisitors. Even in the face of torture, Artemisia refuses to renounce her rape by Tassi, truth her only shield in a world rife with snickers and innuendoes.<br />The author displays a fine grasp of the particular world the artist inhabits, one drenched in emotion, drama, passion and color. The tapestry she weaves of the backdrop against which they created their masterpieces defines the complexity of a society caught up in the love of objects and the call of fame and recognition. Artemisia is a wonderful experience, one to be appreciated and savored.rre's Artemisia is rendered as a confused and driven young woman striving to be a painter in her own right like her father and to gain his recognition. She is, as well, a spirited young woman who needs a legal marriage to free her from her father's possessive grip on her very identity as an artist. Swept along by the bureaucratic layers of a Papacy determined to assert itself against the forces of the Reformists, Artemisia, Orazio and Agostino become puppets of these vested interests, ever under the watchful eye of the Inquisitors. Even in the face of torture, Artemisia refuses to renounce her rape by Tassi, truth her only shield in a world rife with snickers and innuendoes.<br />The author displays a fine grasp of the particular world the artist inhabits, one drenched in emotion, drama, passion and color. The tapestry she weaves of the backdrop against which they created their masterpieces defines the complexity of a society caught up in the love of objects and the call of fame and recognition. Artemisia is a wonderful experience, one to be appreciated and savored.	2002-11-29
1329418:US	51010391	ROS2PBHEFLH4K	0670894494	939558795	The Passion of Artemisia	Books	3	3	3	N	N	(3.5)The woman who wouldn't stay in her place...	There are two recent novels about the life of Artemisia Gentileschi, the daughter of a prominent artist, who became an artist in her own right. I chose to read The Passion of Artemisia by Susan Vreeland, the author of The Girl in Hyacinth Blue, also set in the rarified world of artists. Early in the 17th Century, men dominated the art world, painting in the Baroque style, with emphasis on light and shadow. Artemisia is notable for her memorable and complicated paintings, but even more infamous for taking her father's best friend, Agostino Tassi, to court, charging him with rape. Unfortunately the male-dominated court of the Inquisition put her on trial and it was her reputation that suffered.<br />Vreeland's prose acquires the nuanced perspective of the artist and her personal and imaginative perspective of the world around her. The author captures details that carry the ring of truth, as seen through Artemisia's eyes: \\"A dusty beam from a high window fell on his hands and lightened the fold of his sleeve to lavender.\\" Another: \\"...a small man swathed in deep purple was sharpening his quills with a knife, letting the shavings fall to the floor.\\" Simple observations, really, but I immediately trusted Vreeland to portray the story with a visual perspective.<br />In society at the time, successful artists were revered, especially when favored by Church patrons who were intent upon establishing the Church of Rome as a jewel in the eyes of a world beset by heresy. In accusing Tassi of rape, Artemisia took on the male hierarchical establishment and the ponderous weight of the Church, but she refused to dishonor herself and back down, even when tortured by her Inquisitors. Even witnesses were fodder for torture in trials, in order to ascertain truthfulness and expose liars. Circumstances were complicated by the fact that Agostino Tassi was Artemisia's father's best friend and the two often collaborated on projects, Tassi painting the architecture and Orazio the human figures.<br />After the trial, Artemisia was married quietly to an obscure painter and moved to Florence, where she and her new husband painted together. This young woman couldn't exist in the narrow space society allowed, driven to create her own interpretations of historical, predominantly Biblical,  subjects.  Artemisia found a patron willing to sponsor her, and left Florence with her young daughter, leaving her husband on his own. An extraordinary and talented woman, Artemisia was an aberration in the society that formed her. But Vreeland's novel ultimately disappoints, following Artemisia's tumultuous life with no well-planned ending to the story. All the energy is in the first few chapters, the drama of the rape trial and the undeniable drive to live as an artist. By the ending, the \\"Passion of Artemisia\\" seems to have dissipated...es. <br />After the trial, Artemisia was married quietly to an obscure painter and moved to Florence, where she and her new husband painted together. This young woman couldn't exist in the narrow space society allowed, driven to create her own interpretations of historical, predominantly Biblical,  subjects.  Artemisia found a patron willing to sponsor her, and left Florence with her young daughter, leaving her husband on his own. An extraordinary and talented woman, Artemisia was an aberration in the society that formed her. But Vreeland's novel ultimately disappoints, following Artemisia's tumultuous life with no well-planned ending to the story. All the energy is in the first few chapters, the drama of the rape trial and the undeniable drive to live as an artist. By the ending, the \\"Passion of Artemisia\\" seems to have dissipated...	2002-11-24
1329678:US	51010391	R121PJ4HX448Y9	0060007834	654075233	Unnatural Fire: A Countess Ashby de la Zouche Mystery (Countess Ashby de La Zouche Mysteries)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	A devious duo solve a mystery	Out of expedience, two women on the fringes of society in Restoration England become embroiled in a mystery far more complicated than what it first appears. Lady Anastasia Ashby de la Zouche and her trusted servant Alpiew exist from day to day in that part of London where the demimonde earn their living by taking advantage of opportunity. Just released from debtor's prison, the two women have contracted to uncover shocking stories for a scandal sheet, even if they have to fabricate the details. In the context of researching a story, they are hired by a respectable woman to follow her husband, who the wife suspects of infidelity. Not exactly inconspicuous, the two bumbling sleuths eventually witness the husband's brutal murder, although they cannot get a good look at the perpetrator. When the wife herself is accused of murder for hire, Lady Ashby and Alpiew delve into the dark passages of nighttime London, replete with murderers, thieves and cutpurses, on a mission for truth.<br />The result is a comedy of errors as the aging Countess Ashby exploits her memorable dalliance with the former King Charles II, now deceased. With the buxom and youthful Alpiew as a partner, the two unlikely detectives uncover more fodder for gossip and accusation than anticipated, from secret experiments to an alchemist's laboratory and suspects in high places. The two women are as engaging as they are foolish and impetuous and render the story with a broad wink at the vagaries of human nature. And, of course, in the nick of time, all is made right and fortunes restored. Snappy dialog and quirky characters make this back alley romp a pleasant experience.	2002-11-23
1329895:US	51010391	R32YM4THEHTQLP	0375411038	593236463	Snow Mountain Passage	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A stunning contrast of extremes....	Most Californians are familiar with the infamous Donner Party. Attempting to cross the Sierra Nevada Mountains before the winter storms in1846, the wagon train has fragmented along the difficult terrain, prey to the harsh weather, unfortunate decisions and other unforseeable perils. Two separate camps are forced to build shelters for the winter, to wait for rescue, with negligible food and resources.<br />Jim Reed is one of the driving forces behind the wagon train, hundreds of hopeful settlers willing to gamble their future for a new life in California, a land of infinite opportunities for the enterprising settlers. Reed has the grandest wagon, specially built for his wife and four children, stocked with all the household items necessary for comfort, including a cast iron stove. Tempers grow short as the dispirited families near the final obstacle, the Sierra Nevada Mountains; they will have to work together, even disassembling the wagons and goods to traverse the craggy mountain terrain. During an altercation, Jim Reed stabs another man to death and is ostracized from the camp. He travels ahead, crossing the mountains that are already covered with an early snow, a sign of the devastating winter to come. It is Reed's intention to form a rescue party, men, horses and food, and return to help the settlers to safety. Weather and circumstances combine to thwart his best efforts, putting the pioneers in grave danger before he can return.<br />Most novels about the Donner Party dwell on the primitive conditions where families struggle with bitter cold and starvation, desperately reverting to cannibalism to survive. The voice of the Donner Party is Patty Reed, who is only eight years old, watching her siblings and neighbors starve. In her eighties, she looks back over the years and ponders her memories, wondering how it could have been different.<br />In contrast, most of the story revolves around the adventures of Jim Reed after his journey through the mountains. California is in the middle of a struggle between Mexico and the US military, in an attempt to establish California as a state. Reed fights alongside the soldiers and meets influential acquaintances that will later support his bid for land. Greedy men set their sights on land too rich and fertile to be left in the hands of Mexicans or Indians, whom they plan to use as laborers. Later, when the Mormon settlers arrive, they find that California has already been plundered, divided among the most influential and powerful settlers. The prose is flawless, contrasting the extremes of fortune: Reed adventuring through the country he has longed for, rich with friendship and camaraderie and the tragic straits of starving pioneers, thankful to remain alive day by day.rnia is in the middle of a struggle between Mexico and the US military, in an attempt to establish California as a state. Reed fights alongside the soldiers and meets influential acquaintances that will later support his bid for land. Greedy men set their sights on land too rich and fertile to be left in the hands of Mexicans or Indians, whom they plan to use as laborers. Later, when the Mormon settlers arrive, they find that California has already been plundered, divided among the most influential and powerful settlers. The prose is flawless, contrasting the extremes of fortune: Reed adventuring through the country he has longed for, rich with friendship and camaraderie and the tragic straits of starving pioneers, thankful to remain alive day by day.	2002-11-23
1342827:US	51010391	R1KP3T9LMHU53T	0393050475	805494676	Grand Ambition: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Man vs. Nature: Legend or Folly?	Based on an intriguing premise, Grand Ambition is a novel I wanted to savor. But I couldn't, because once I started, I found myself turning the pages compulsively. This is a story that spawned it's own urban legends for more than 70 years. Newlyweds Glen and Bessie Hyde spend their honeymoon in 1928 shooting the rapids through the Grand Canyon on a scow designed by Glen, who has dreamed of this journey. Although Bessie has no experience, she has great enthusiasm and a willingness to take a bite out of what life has to offer her. They hope to set a record for speed, but if not that, then Bessie will be the first woman to successfully shoot the rapids. After the trip, they plan to lecture and write a book describing the adventure, using Bessie's skills as an artist to illustrate their story.<br />But something goes wrong. After a last sighting, the couple are never seen or heard from again. Glen's father, Hyde Sr., launches a rescue effort to discover the fate of his son and daughter-in-law, hoping to find them still alive. Mr. Hyde contacts everyone who has had contact with the young couple and religiously follows up every clue. When their scow is found floating lose with all necessary supplies still on board, the obvious becomes more and more ominous.<br />Michaels alternates chapters between the events as they happen to Bessie and Glen and the desperate rescue attempt by Glen's father, with a tension seesawing between hope and despair. The character of Bessie is finely tuned, her youth ultimately allowing fear to overshadow her expectations that Glen can really keep her safe on this increasingly terrifying dance over the whitecaps. Has Bessie put too much faith in Glen's strengths rather than her own? What if Glen, for all his brave posturing, is wrong?<br />The terrible truth is there from the beginning, but Michaels' characters, particularly Bessie and her father-in-law, are so courageous, so full of spirit, that the final pages come too soon. So little is really known about this couple and their fate that the author gives them voice and dreams, even those that shatter.known about this couple and their fate that the author gives them voice and dreams, even those that shatter.	2002-11-12
1342922:US	51010391	R3MDO4CT7VSRD5	1892327988	521383232	Sunk Without A Sound	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	Debunking the myths...	Outrageous adventures that capture the imagination, like Lindberg's trans-Atlantic flight, often personify the American spirit, especially in the youth of a new century. But the 1928 honeymoon excursion down the rapids of the Grand Canyon by Glen and Bessie Hyde ended in tragedy, their bodies never recovered, the whole trip shrouded in mystery. This book sets out to tell their story with as many facts as are available, recount the rescue efforts and determine some answers after all these years of speculation.<br />After reading Grand Ambition, a novel by Lisa Michael's, about the couple's fateful honeymoon, I was curious to know more of the details and explore the lore surrounding the disappearance of Bessie and Glen. Author Dimock gathers what few pertinent facts are available and reconstructs the Hyde's journey, physically experiencing parts of it himself. He even builds a replica of their craft, hoping to ascertain what happened as they moved from one dangerous whitewater course to another. Literally, only speculation remains, because their flat-bottomed scow was found drifting, intact and packed with provisions with no evidence of the bodies. Did they die, or escape? The author also carefully goes over each step of the rescue party's unsuccessful search. As an extra service to the reader, he spends some time debunking the many urban legends that have sprung up over the years, passed from campfire to campfire, further clouding the truth.<br />The most satisfying part of this book is Dimock's exacting concentration on each phase of the journey given the modernization of river rafting techniques and experience. Easy answers are simply not acceptable to Dimock, and he unfailingly covers every possible situation in the attempt to arrive at a feasible conclusion. In his conscientious writing, this author postulates some scenarios that set my mind at rest. When he fits the pieces of the puzzle together, it's as likely a fit as will be found at this time. And I was relieved to put aside those rumors and innuendoes told with a broad wink, because I would like to think of this couple in peace after such a short and harrowing twist of fate.eved to put aside those rumors and innuendoes told with a broad wink, because I would like to think of this couple in peace after such a short and harrowing twist of fate.	2002-11-12
1345317:US	51010391	R1C3D8T3MMK8S4	0312274777	952114862	The Secret Wife of King George IV	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	The woman who would not be Queen	This is the story of the ultimate damsel in distress. When Maria Fitzherbert came to London in the 1784, she knew little about the infamous son of the King, George IV, heir to the throne, other than his reputation. George lived a profligate life as a gambler, womanizer and drunkard. In his early twenties, a few years younger than the widow Fitzherbert, he became obsessed with her, demanding that they marry, although she was a fervent Catholic, abhorrent to the Crown at that time because of her religion. Swayed by the intensity of their mutual passion, the couple secretly married and she was issued a Papal degree of the validity of the union before God.<br />Rumors were rife: either they were married and breaking the law, which put Maria and her family in jeopardy, or they weren't. But Prince George would make no statement one way or another. Son of the Mad King George III, the impetuous Prince had been feuding with his father for years in a power struggle he, George IV, believed would end soon, upon the death of the King. Frequently ill and raving, it seemed impossible that the King could live very much longer. With this in mind, George IV gambled his future and the success of his marriage, planning for his wife to become his Queen. But there was such antipathy toward the Papists in England at the time that there was no question of a Catholic as Queen.<br />The couple was extremely happy, although they never had children, and George was able to put his wild youthful ways behind him. Unfortunately, the one constant working against them, time, was immutable. The mad King did not die, but stubbornly continued on until 85 years of age. Meanwhile, George IV temporized his positions in order to appease everyone and keep his wife. He made promises that he was later forced to break, and Maria valued his word above all else. They separated twice, and were unable to reunite, although each mourned the loss of the other over the years.<br />The story is based on historical fact, but most of the dialog and scenes are pure fiction. Haeger is well known as a Romance writer, and in some areas of the novel, she slips into \\"Romantic-speak\\". At these times, the novel loses any sense of believability, although doubtless well researched on appropriate details. But there are frequent asides (in italics), as Maria thinks to herself: \\"And God help me\\" she thought.\\"I know I shall never stop loving you\\". Tightened up and unflounced, this could have been an engaging story of love gone wrong., but most of the dialog and scenes are pure fiction. Haeger is well known as a Romance writer, and in some areas of the novel, she slips into \\"Romantic-speak\\". At these times, the novel loses any sense of believability, although doubtless well researched on appropriate details. But there are frequent asides (in italics), as Maria thinks to herself: \\"And God help me\\" she thought.\\"I know I shall never stop loving you\\". Tightened up and unflounced, this could have been an engaging story of love gone wrong.	2002-11-10
1345383:US	51010391	R2IPSHNGOEOJ02	0066214440	416657694	Enemy Women: A Novel	Books	3	16	19	N	N	(3.5) Collateral Damage	During the Civil War, the citizens of Missouri were torn by conflicting loyalties. Some citizens were joining the fight for the South, while Union military troops were garrisoned nearby, and women prisoners retained, those with suspected loyalties or Confederate family ties. Overcrowded and teeming with a varied population, the women were house and reviewed in an effort to place them in an appropriate facility. Young Adair Colley is thrown into this mix after her father is murdered and she is separated from her two younger sisters. Long without their mother, Adair has been the de facto mother of the Colley brood. From the moment of her incarceration, Adair schemes to escape and join with her sisters to salvage whatever family remnants may remain.<br />Adair is nothing if not spirited. When interviewed by a Union officer, it is her express intent to captivate him and manipulate her ultimate freedom from the frequently violent women's prison. But the young soldier, Neumann, detests his duty and yearns to serve a more noble effort.  Against his best intentions, Neumann cannot remain impassive to Adair's plight and eventually engineers the inevitability of her escape. Out of the chaos of brother against brother, the two young people are drawn to each other, although each must pursue a separate path before the journey is completed.<br />Each chapter of the book is prefaced by actual Civil War  journal entries, making the story more relevant in the face of day to day cruelties, as various persons are accounted for. What would otherwise be a simple love story of opposites gains more credulity by the historical reality of the journals, which illustrate clearly the confusion of the times as well as the loss of loved ones. Jiles is an engaging writer whose lively characters reflect their quirky backgrounds and eccentricities. There is a finely honed sense of the incredible chaos that upended so many lives and changed future generations of Americans.	2002-11-10
1345801:US	51010391	R3TRTYC3DX3NQ5	0385499256	413536750	A Walk Through Darkness: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	A soul in pursuit of freedom	The institution of slavery in America is a chapter rife with the shame of profit made on the backs others. But even more pervasive is the system that allows this condition, not only to exist but to thrive. The damage to the human spirit of enslaved individuals remains immeasurable, but the strength of character and heroic survival against incredible odds is written on the pages of history. Walk Through Darkness is one of those stories.<br />William, a strong young Maryland slave who has never considered running away, finds himself in the very act when Dover, the mother of his as yet unborn child is sent to live in a city in the North. He walks away in the dead of night from the mind-numbing physical burden that has made each day a burden, where brutality hangs in the air like a threatening fog, ready to pounce on the unwary. William soon learns that the immutable violence follows him, as he is doggedly pursued. One man in particular, Morrison, a Scotsman, joins the posse searching for this particular slave. Morrison nurtures distant memories that will ultimately bring him face to face with William as they take measure of one another.<br />On the endless days of his terrible journey, William draws nearer to Dover and Morrison to William. In that volatile time right before the Civil War the events of this intense chase mirror the chaos and destruction as the maws of History yield it's most shameful secrets, man's inhumanity to man.  Durham's images are as precise as the cold lenses of a camera, as exact and unsparing, but always tempered with compassion for the humanity of his characters	2002-11-10
1360168:US	51010391	R3UF1C5RMT7U2F	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A modern-day "Our Town"...	The theme of a dead girl looking down on her family and friends isn't a new one, for so did Emily in \\"Our Town\\",  a play that Sebold even mentions in Lovely Bones. Sebold reworks the subject by having the girl, Susie Salmon, the victim of a violent crime that remains unsolved.<br />From Susie's unique perspective in a heaven \\"where nothing changes and everything is like yesterday\\", Susie looks down upon her family. She watches the anguish of each family member, as they search for ways to deal with their grief. Most memorable is the mother, Abigail, whose overwhelming sense of denial about the murder sends her away from husband and children, as she lives in solitude and loneliness. But the husband and father, Jack, refuses to release his first-born child to memory and keeps her close in the secret chambers of his wounded heart. He comforts himself by nurturing the intuition that Susie is still present.<br />Sebold is gentle with her characters, perhaps too gentle, peeling away the layers of a family bound by love and loss, exposed to the harsh reality of Fate's implacability. Most painful to watch are the devastated parents, whose pain sends them spinning in opposite directions, where they are unable to heal themselves, let alone one another. There is one scene at the end, involving Susie's would-have-been-first-boyfriend, so unbelievable that the story becomes a fantasy. This novel may be most appreciated by a young audience, who may require less emotional depth than drama and romance. For Susie is imbued with the naivete of adolescence, caught forever in the conundrum of innocence betrayed.	2002-10-28
1360833:US	51010391	RP8MTFO8GKA6M	0743427149	427242449	The Twentieth Wife: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A youthful passion fulfilled	Invoking desert life in the time of the Mughal empire, Sundaresan draws the reader into a rich tapestry of Emperors, life behind the wall of the zenana, and the drumbeat of hooves galloping over sand toward the heat of battle.<br />The beautiful, fated Mehrunnisa, jewel of her family, falls in love with Salim, next in line to be Emperor after his father, when he will be named Jahangir. She is only eight years old. But she is a dutiful and respectful daughter and keeps her secret to herself, never knowing that someday her dream will come to fruition, if not for many years. During that time, Mehrunnisa is married to an honorable soldier and bears a child. She is familiar since youth with the corridors of power and the insulated, yet powerful life in the zenana, living with the women of the royal family. Her journey is through the intervening years until Jahangir finally takes her as his wife.<br />Mehrunnisa, later known as Nurjahan, becomes one of India's most powerful and controversial empresses, but this novel concerns her journey to that point. Hopefully, Sundaresan's next novel will contain the most fascinating years of Mehrunnisa's life, when she achieves her goals as wife and empress, a power of her own.	2002-10-28
1374026:US	51010391	R1KH1D4THKS36O	0618221360	816467301	Versailles: A Novel	Books	1	2	8	N	Y	(1.5) History Lite	Perhaps this &quot;one afternoon book&quot; contains all there really is to know of Marie Antoinette's short reign at the side of Louis XVI of France before the French Revolution occasioned the loss of her head. Indeed, the book cover suggests some revelations about Mirabeau, DuBarry, and Robespierre. Unfortunately, they are only mentioned in passing among the rambling, if poetic, musings of Marie Antoniette. As simple as a diary, truth is a matter of perception, so the truth can't be faulted with historical inaccuracy. It can, however, be faulted for lack of substance. Like cotton candy, this book is all fluff, the Editorial reviews more substantive than the novel. Not that Versailles isn't a pleasant read. It is. It just doesn't deserve the credit of a novel, and I would have felt less cheated and more willing to indulge the writer's fancies, had I not been duped by the hard sell.	2002-10-16
1374589:US	51010391	R2A6SGBELO4E82	0618221360	595727191	Versailles: A Novel	Books	1	3	6	N	Y	(1.5) History Lite	Perhaps this &quot;one afternoon book&quot; contains all there really is to know of Marie Antoinette's short reign at the side of Louis XVI of France before the French Revolution occasioned the loss of her head. Indeed, the book cover suggests some revelations about Mirabeau, DuBarry, and Robespierre. Unfortunately, they are only mentioned in passing among the rambling, if poetic, musings of Marie Antoniette. As simple as a diary, truth is a matter of perception, so the truth can't be faulted with historical inaccuracy. It can, however, be faulted for lack of substance. Like cotton candy, this book is all fluff, the Editorial reviews more substantive than the novel. Not that Versailles isn't a pleasant read. It is. It just doesn't deserve the credit of a novel, and I would have felt less cheated and more willing to indulge the writer's fancies, had I not been duped by the hard sell.	2002-10-16
1374618:US	51010391	R3FXDL3OMFZ1GU	0385264763	36712065	Midaq Alley	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	An intimate perspective	This novel is the perfect distillation of Mafouz' brilliance as a writer. A slice-of-life in Midaq Alley, the characters are carefully wrought and distinct, complete with idiosyncrasies. From Uum Hamida, who brokers a marriage for the well-heeled Mrs. Saniya Afify, to Zaitas the cripple-maker, each has a role in the tapestry of life as lived in the alley.<br />Like the Cairo Trilogy, Mafouz creates his own rhythm and style while adapting the novel format, one not commonly found in Arabic literature when he began writing novels. His plot revolves around the denizens of Midaq Alley and their every day yearnings for happiness, love and prosperity. Whether you are familiar with this author, or this is your first Mafouz novel, it is an excellent example of the unique talent that allows the reader an intimate view of the characters common to this man's vast insight into humanity.	2002-10-16
1374865:US	51010391	R1SAHEL5083VXD	0393321096	423928723	The Abyssinian	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	(3.5) The long and winding road...	Followed by a second historical novel, The Siege of Isfahan, The Abyssinian sets much of the groundwork for the politics of the 17th Century European attempt to inject Christianity into a world reluctant to receive it. The Pope, via the French Court, intent upon sending Jesuit missionaries to the \\"heathens\\" as far away as Abyssinia, now Ethiopia, invokes the use of embassies to bring the good offices from the French King, Louis XIV.<br />In the person of a physician, an emissary is sent from the French Embassy in Cairo to the negus (ruler) of Abyssinia, who has requested treatment for a debilitating illness. In a world surrounded by Islam, Abyssinia is viewed as a solitary opportunity for the incursion of Christianity into the region, particularly since the negus has been baptized in the Roman Church. The young physician chosen, Poncet, is, in fact, only an apothecary, but willing to accept the mission to increase his status in life, thereby becoming eligible to marry the French Ambassador's daughter. The romance is his raison de etre and his adventures on the journey and in the French court make up the story. Translated from the French, Rufin has done an impressive job of historical detail, but the book often becomes tedious under the exacting weight of this detail. The main characters, Poncet and Alix, as well as Francois and Maitre Juremi are well developed, but the many others are frequently one-dimensional, no doubt due to the preponderance of events at each stage of the journey. Perhaps these flaws have been corrected in The Siege of Isfahan, as its reviews are superior to The Abyssinian. In that case, I look forward to reading this second novel, as Rufin's prose opens up a world of possibilities in an unfamiliar land	2002-10-16
1393896:US	51010391	R3T0GH6N4SAOD0	0312194390	627904901	The Autobiography of Henry VIII: With Notes by His Fool, Will Somers: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A fascinating view of Tudor England	Not at all put off by the extravagant length of this novel, this was, in fact, my second reading. The life of Henry VIII is remarkable in its historical perspective: his break with the auspices of the Roman Church changed the course of history. As well, in his new role as Delegate of God on Earth, Henry uses his power to grant himself the dissolution of his marriage to his Spanish Queen, Katherine of Aragon. This very act establishes a precedent for divorce, endangering wives who could be put aside by their husbands. Until Henry's pronouncement, marriage has been a sacrament and inviolable. However, the desperate Henry needs a legitimate male heir, a living heir. Katherine has indeed produced boys, but none of them survive, leaving the king without issue. The strength of the English Crown dictates the need for a male heir to continue the dynasty.<br />A brilliant politician, Henry seems the fool in his romantic yearnings for the love of young women. While it is true that he needs a son, he is also singular in his pursuit of any woman he desires, driven by his lust, particularly for Anne Boleyn. She manages to remain chaste for almost 5 years until their marriage, when she is finally crowned Queen, albeit unpopular with the citizens. Thus the impetus of Henry's first and second marriage set the pace for the following marriages. Once set upon his frantic quest, ostensibly for a son, Henry moves from woman to woman, each choice more aberrant. At the bottom of this behavior is Henry's inability to tolerate any situation requiring patience, especially regarding the fulfillment of romance, accustomed to immediate gratification of his every need, surrounded by a constantly fawning court. His marriage to Katherine of Aragon is the longest, followed by a five year courtship of Anne Boleyn, all the while sparring with the Pope in Rome.<br />Aside from his weakness for women, Henry VIII is an extraordinary king, a brilliant strategist and a powerful personality. His break with the Roman Church changes the future of England, establishing the Church of England, with Henry as God's delegate. The Tudor line is so vested in power that two of his daughters, Mary and Elizabeth rule after his death.<br />Well researched and beautifully written, George has given us an England brimming with details and a real sense of the majesty and mayhem of Henry's reign. The occasional footnote by Henry's \\"fool\\" adds a bit of levity to Henry's pomposity and histrionics. A thoroughly satisfying journey into the heart of Tudor England.the Roman Church changes the future of England, establishing the Church of England, with Henry as God's delegate. The Tudor line is so vested in power that two of his daughters, Mary and Elizabeth rule after his death.<br />Well researched and beautifully written, George has given us an England brimming with details and a real sense of the majesty and mayhem of Henry's reign. The occasional footnote by Henry's \\"fool\\" adds a bit of levity to Henry's pomposity and histrionics. A thoroughly satisfying journey into the heart of Tudor England.	2002-09-29
1394077:US	51010391	RY39T9K3B4PA6	0684859114	371330467	Damascus Gate	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Alice down the rabbit hole	Never having read Robert Stone, I picked up this novel because it is fairly current in time frame and takes place in a fascinating part of the world, Jerusalem, the beginning and the end, so to speak. I quickly found myself out of my depth with phrases from other languages, concepts of philosophy and Greek gods left behind in college. But the mix of personalities and agendas was intriguing, and I let myself fall into a phantasmagoric tale of nationalities, religions and strange bedfellows in the pragmatism of politics.<br />In a melange of extremists, fanatics, true believers and innocent bystanders, journalist Christopher Lucas immerses himself in a seething cauldron of plots and counter-plots, where one man's heaven is another man's hell. In the explosive outcome, each protagonist moves a piece on the New World game board, some better positioned than others. Lucas, as the seeking Everyman, wants desperately to believe, a product of lapsed Catholicism, which leaves a permanent imprint on the unfortunate psyche. His particular curse, however, is the ability to comprehend more than one side of an issue, which renders him an ineffectual apologist. In the end, perhaps it is Lucas whose soul is the most seared.<br />Set in pre-millenium Jerusalem, Damascus Gate focuses the energy of the combatants in the place in the world where great religions collide: \\"Life was so self-conscious in Jerusalem, so lived at close quarters by competing moralizers.\\" I was surprised at the number of negative reviews, speaking of extremes. But Damascus Gate did for me what any good fiction does, piqued my curiosity to learn more about a part of the world poised for the clash of the Titans: \\"Where what was above met what was below, where that which was before met that which was to come. The garden of marble fountains where death, madness, heresy and salvation were all to be found.\\"	2002-09-29
1400859:US	51010391	R5R8CBC9OWYWD	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	A Machiavellian Masterpiece	Much has been written about this turbulent time in English history, the reign of Henry VIII, when the English Court changed course, breaking from the Roman Church in order to dissolve Henry's marriage to Katherine of Aragon, who could not bear a living heir to the throne.<br />The fortunes of the great aristocratic families, who fill the courts and fawn upon the King, are immensely enriched when they gain the King's favor and attention. Comely as a young king, Henry VIII is accustomed to garnering the flattery of the young women who serve as the Queen's attendants. The Boleyn/Howard family holds a prominent position in Henry's court in the early 1520's, as Katherine of Aragon becomes ever more desperate in her need to supply an heir and keep the King's affection.<br />The Howards and Boleyns have many young women available to the court, and when Henry first takes note of Mary Boleyn Carey, she is already married. It is acceptable behavior for the King to tryst with her as a paramour, which would be scandalous if she were not married. Mary's sister, Anne, recently returned from the French Court, is one of the clever minds pushing Mary to prominence.  The third Boleyn, George, their brother, is also a pet of the Tudor Court, forming the family triumvirate that is to be part of the intrigue surrounding the eventual dissolution of marriage to Katherine of Aragon that will set a precedent and change history.<br />Eventually Mary is replaced in the King's favor by her sister Anne, and George and Mary are instructed to hold their positions, this time in support of the clever, if unlikable, Anne. For five long years Anne tempts and challenges Henry, until she herself is crowned Queen. Never beloved, Anne's temperament is equal to Henry's and she hasn't the wisdom or patience to turn the other cheek on dalliances as Katherine did. Eventually, Henry tires of Anne's scolding and constant demands, his attention newly captured by the seemingly docile and pure behavior of a simpering Jane Seymour. Anne must live with the precedent she's established, swept aside by the King in his desperate pursuit of another to provide a male heir.<br />Gregory's characters are incisive, the story masterfully told, the plots and counter-plots necessary for political viability fascinating to follow. No less complicated than modern day affairs, the degree of scheming is truly of Machiavellian design. Engaging and thought provoking, Gregory's beautifully crafted novel overflows with intrigue and ambition, with scheming characters who bet everything of the whims of a puerile King. The result is magnificent.ring Jane Seymour. Anne must live with the precedent she's established, swept aside by the King in his desperate pursuit of another to provide a male heir. <br />Gregory's characters are incisive, the story masterfully told, the plots and counter-plots necessary for political viability fascinating to follow. No less complicated than modern day affairs, the degree of scheming is truly of Machiavellian design. Engaging and thought provoking, Gregory's beautifully crafted novel overflows with intrigue and ambition, with scheming characters who bet everything of the whims of a puerile King. The result is magnificent.	2002-09-22
1400877:US	51010391	RA2QMOB7U15BB	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	An odyssey of courage	Cold Mountain is the elegiac odyssey of one man who has fought for the South in the Civil War, after he is nearly mortally wounded. During a long convalescence, his mind attends carefully to the reasoning and waste of war, and the dehumanization of its participants. At some point in his musings, Inman makes a decision and begins his fateful journey home to Cold Mountain and the young woman he hopes is still waiting. At no point on his journey will he be safe, as the roads are patrolled by soldiers searching for such as he, deserters.<br />An uncommon man, Inman would not call himself so, but rather be driven to humility and a need for a simple life after the nightmarish memories of war and death on the battlefield. He goes on foot, fearing that a horse will attract too much unwanted attention, although his wounds have scarcely healed. But he sets out with purpose and determination, set on that one goal, a return to the brutal but beloved Cold Mountain.<br />The woman he walks toward is Ada Monroe, a Charleston minister's daughter, who has lived alone on her father's small farm on Cold Mountain after her father's death, refusing to return to Charleston. Ada knows nothing of farming or survival, although it is her intention to keep the farm and learn to run it. A young woman comes into Ada's hapless life, Ruby, who strikes a bargain for their mutual survival: Ruby has the knowledge and Ada has the land. They form a strong partnership that slowly grows into a respectful friendship, determined, each in her way, to survive the war and the approaching winter. Ruby is an able teacher, and Ada a willing pupil. Together they prepare the farm for the rigors of planting grain, caught up in the rhythm of daily life that depends on itself for sustenance, and they realize that their bargain was well made.<br />Each tedious day of his endless journey, Inman finds himself changing in unexpected ways, mentally tougher, spiritually stronger, although his body is decimated by long bouts of hunger. Ada has become a different person herself, a woman able to provide food and work the land with her hands, no longer the daughter of privilege. As they draw closer to each other, they are more suited, hardship honing their characters, sharpening their perceptions of what is meaningful. Like life, the truest road is in the journey, not the destination. And this journey is filled with wisdom and the appreciation of nature in all its forms, the simple-gratification of a day well lived.ts of hunger. Ada has become a different person herself, a woman able to provide food and work the land with her hands, no longer the daughter of privilege. As they draw closer to each other, they are more suited, hardship honing their characters, sharpening their perceptions of what is meaningful. Like life, the truest road is in the journey, not the destination. And this journey is filled with wisdom and the appreciation of nature in all its forms, the simple-gratification of a day well lived.	2002-09-22
1401397:US	51010391	R17CYLA8RBKAAA	0446678457	77058110	Cane River (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	(3.5) A small matriarchy	Out of the most heinous situations the strongest human character will survive and adapt. For one Cane River family, from slavery and beyond, the women find the strength to continue their bloodline, as the men are sold to distant places and the white man helps himself to the spoils. No woman of color is safe once a free man has set his gaze upon her. But the children she bears will never be legitimate, because, pre- and post-abolition, a white man cannot legally marry a woman of color, although he may live with her at the expense of enjoying the respect of white society. And he can expect his family to be terrorized and his house to be burnt by ignorant purist zealots. The women gather their children about them, generation after generation, firm in their commitment to a future without fear and loss.<br />The popularity of this novel lies in the successful struggle for survival that is so familiar to Black families that have begun in slavery. Since the women are chattels of their powerful white owners and freemen, the once strong color of their line is diluted into many equally beautiful shades. It is left up to these women to maintain the strength and integrity of their family line. In this effort, they are all successful, from Elizabeth to Suzette to Philomene, and finally, to Emily. This is a story of hope in the face of heartbreaking loss, the courage to continue for the sake of family members yet to come.	2002-09-22
1401607:US	51010391	R1U9TF5Y03JHLZ	1585671967	736542120	The Royal Physician's Visit	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Caught in a web of idealogy	In the cold and dank corridors of power in the North, King Christian VII cannot escape his petite size or his madness, and his court is in chaos. But it is the Age of Enlightenment. In a futile search for his own enlightenment, Christian comes to the attention of a philosopher/physician, Dr. Struensee. Attracted to the pitiful King in a way he cannot fathom, Struensee steps into history, unsure of his part, save to comfort and aid the suffering mad King. During Strunsee's short attendance on the King, a mere four years, great reforms are begun: unrestricted freedom of the press, religious freedom, tariffs to the state instead of the royal household, a ban on torture during interrogations. Later the French Revolution would adapt some of the same reform measures enacted in Denmark during this period of social upheaval.<br />Strunsee's great failure is that he is drawn into a love affair with Christian's young Queen, Catherine Mathilde, sister of England's Charles III. She actually gives birth to Struensee's child, a girl, later claimed by the King as his own. As well, the physician lacks the ability to protect himself from his many foes at court. When Christian's mental illness, actually madness, creates a vacuum in the center of power, Strunsee fills the void, to the good of the kingdom. But when his enemies inevitably prevail, others are prepared to strike him down and assume the mantle, demanding Strunsee's execution.<br />The beauty of this novel is in the writing: people and events are presented in such a way as to give a glimpse into the insanity of Christian's reign, the vacuum in leadership and the strange aura of madness that permeates the court. There is a real sense of the unreality that infects everyone at the top, the secrecey and intrigue, illustrating with frightening clarity the true peril in having a puppet for a leader.	2002-09-22
1436451:US	51010391	RT6V9GZV8EVED	0380809362	838030657	The House of Gentle Men: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Love and redemption for damaged souls	This first novel by Kathy Hepinstall, The House of Gentle Men, is better seen as an allegory than a feminist treatise as opined by some editorial reviewers. Hepinstall uses broad strokes to fill in the vagaries of human behavior, the kind of violence that often leaves men and women on opposite sides, with a vast chasm between them. A  feminist rant may chose to widen this chasm, but Hepinstall uses her considerable talents to draw the protagonists closer.<br />The rigors of wartime often create monsters of formerly kind men as they are cast into a nightmare of survival. They return home changed, hardened in ways they never imagined and can't explain. And the women who have waited find themselves living with strangers. But the human condition requires the hope of redemption. The House of Gentle Men is the arena for this process, where men who have learned violence learn to offer kindness to women who have felt either the weight of fists or cold rejection. The women come willingly, night after night, trying to mend, and the men learn to speak softly again and touch with gentle hands, that all may return to the world with some sense of healing.<br />Charlotte has been grievously hurt and given away her voice to the intolerable humiliation and pain in order to survive. Only her younger brother, Milo, keeps watch on this young woman, frozen in her own isolation. But even Milo has his demons. When Charlotte finds her way to The House of Gentle Men, she finds Justin, and her healing begins. Humans being human, jealousy weaves its way into the heart of Louise, who believes she also loves Justin. Not every aliment can be cured, nor every problem solved. And selfish deeds cause complications, confusion, and finally, real danger. Hepinstall weaves her characters into a knot of redemption for some, unraveling into loss for others. She has a poetic flair that makes this countryside sing with the changing seasons, her characters rendered layered and complex. I think her second novel, The Absence of Nectar, shows more nuance of language and plot, but Hepinstall writes with consummate grace, and I will avidly follow her progress.vel, The Absence of Nectar, shows more nuance of language and plot, but Hepinstall writes with consummate grace, and I will avidly follow her progress.	2002-08-19
1436742:US	51010391	RL8TD8QSQC4IW	0425185303	808525278	Staircase of a Thousand Steps	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	The weight of loss under a desert sun	In the small village of Ein Fadr, just before the advent of the 1967 Israeli war, the world has hardly changed for centuries. The villagers live as if their ancestors still walk among them, nothing forgotten in the long history of generations that tread round and round, in the same deliberate path.<br />Jammana wishes to see her grandfather, drawn to him by recurring dream's of her mother's difficult birth. Soon to leave Egypt for America, Rafa, takes her daughter across the desert miles for a last visit. She leaves Jammana in the care of her grandfather, Harif, and her great-aunt Khalah, of the gentle hands, as well as the village midwife, Faridah, who assisted in Rafa's delivery many years ago. The midwife is the one person Jammana secretly wants to question, because Faridah is also in the dream and Jammana had known and loved her all her young life. The very familiarity of Faridah is comforting to the child, her smells, her habits, her gathering of herbs to treat villager's ailments.<br />When Harif's wife dies during her second confinement, Harif is at last free to be with the true and lasting love of his heart. Harif  will be ostracized by this union of unequals, so, sacrificing her future, Faridah refuses his offer; they remain dear friends, but never man and wife. Over the years their bonds strengthen, allowing them a closeness that they treasure.<br />But there is trouble brewing in this small village, as the ancestors seem to crowd upon their living relatives, and secrets are uncovered while old hostilities are rekindled. Ein Fadr is beset with petty complaints and jealousies and Harif finds himself accused of duplicity and no longer trusted. But he has troubles of his own, too preoccupied to worry about gossip, as the tension increases. Jammana continues to be haunted by her vivid dreams, anxious for Faridah and her grandfather, confused by the unsettled air of the village, where time passes but nothing changes. Finally, for Harif and Jammana everything changes, as the hot desert sun holds everything motionless in its fierce and unflinching gaze.anges, as the hot desert sun holds everything motionless in its fierce and unflinching gaze.	2002-08-19
1436884:US	51010391	R1E33Z4HH30VKX	067091021X	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	(3.5)Atonement as a path to redemption	In 1666, While London is under assault from the infamous Black Plague, a remote mountain village would be free from the scourge that takes the lives of rich or poor without discrimination. However, infected bolts of cloth arrive by coach, ordered by the village tailor, George Viccars, a man whose needlework is in great demand. Even when Viccars sickens and dies of a mysterious plague-like ailment, the villagers are loathe to name it Plague. They demand their new clothing, unwilling to pass up the rare opportunity for new clothing in their humble lives. They refuse to credit warnings that their clothing may contain the seeds of contamination. Later, as whole families perish, there is little doubt of the source of infection.<br />The Puritanical church-goers band together in the beginning. The rector, Mr. Mompellion, preaches that they are, indeed, the \\"chosen\\". Only if these poor people bear the wrath of God's curse upon their uncleanness of spirit, via the plague, will His thirst be slaked. A poverty-riddled, God-fearing flock, the congregation agrees to voluntarily quarantine themselves from the surrounding villages. By the time that over half the villagers are dead, the congregation rebels, turning to witchcraft and superstition, anything to ward off this monstrous death.<br />Anna Frith, a young widow, tells the story of these people she has known all her life. After she loses her own young children to the plague, she becomes a nurse/helper wherever possible, working with the minister's wife to decipher herbal remedies and curatives, soon adept at the healing arts herself. Yet the plague will have it's deadly quota. Well-researched and detailed, it is through Anna's voice that we learn of these village folk, who is merciful and kind, and who is vile and ruthless, including her own father.<br />With such thorough research and careful accounting of facts, the novel is sadly lacking in any real passion, although Anna is swept into a misguided romance after all her trials. But the ending is purely absurd, and too quickly achieved in the final few pages. Would that Brooks had spent more energy in developing the complete course of her story, instead of relying on the momentum gathered from the devastation of the plague without thought to resolution of loose ends.trials. But the ending is purely absurd, and too quickly achieved in the final few pages. Would that Brooks had spent more energy in developing the complete course of her story, instead of relying on the momentum gathered from the devastation of the plague without thought to resolution of loose ends.	2002-08-19
1452178:US	51010391	R11D34VCQQ8BC9	0425167720	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Reserving judgment, seeking truth...	This highly enjoyable historical mystery personifies the difficulty of sorting through clues to determine the real culprit in a murder by poisoning. Combined with the egos of learned men and political intrigue, An Instance of the Fingerpost illustrates that while there may be more than one \\"personalized\\" version, there will only be one true account. Take nothing on face value, and assess all motives before reaching an informed conclusion.<br />We have four points of view, with varying contradictions and/or agreements, but, by its nature, only one accurate perception. The first treatise is that of Marco DaCola, an educated Venetian, aspiring to be a physician in 1660's Oxford. But first he must clear up pressing family business matters. A flamboyant and articulate gentleman, DaCola finds himself without funds, and dependent upon the generosity of new acquaintances. Upon his arrival in Oxford, he is called upon to treat the mother of Sarah Blundy, the young woman finally indicted and found guilty of the crime. DaCola is out of his element, constantly adapting to the rules of the gentleman's society in which he hopes to remain. The second tale is that of Jack Prescott, a young man obsessed with clearing his father's name, besmirched with the accusation of treason. Jack Prescott is excitable with a flair for the dramatic and much difficulty with self-control. The more he learns of circumstances, the more he attempts to mold these events to his best advantage. The third viewpoint is from John Wallis, a gifted mathematician who collects diaries and assorted papers to lend credibility to his hypothesis. With a tendency toward the judgmental, Wallis is adept at cryptography, a talent which avails him intimate knowledge of circumstances. And finally, Mr. Wood has the benefit of reading all the other views before offering his own very important details.<br />The beauty of this book is how affecting each story seems, rich in detail and supposition. Each account reveals a little more of the truth, until the reader has all the facts and therein the d&eacute;nouement of the mystery.e more of the truth, until the reader has all the facts and therein the dnouement of the mystery.	2002-08-04
1452936:US	51010391	R32DO42T4V3NQO	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	"I could not sleep..."	...until I turned the last page, once I'd begun this extraordinarily powerful tale of innocence and evil. When stepchildren Alice and Boone try to warn their mother of her new husband's evil intentions, she refuses the knowledge, her desire for happiness so overwhelming. Their eyes beg her to see what she will not see, and the intransigent Meg won't hear ill of Simon Jester. Until one night, she whispers to her children, \\"Run\\".<br />Once an average, happy family, they are broken apart by a father who abandons all for another woman. Meg is shattered, unlovable, her children left to care for themselves. Simon magically appears, the obvious answer to Meg's despair. In a dramatic, fateful rescue of Meg, as drowning, she flails helplessly about, Simon wins her heart and her hand in marriage. But Simon Jester demands loyalty, from Meg most of all, even at the expense of her children. Then, like the preacher in \\"Night of the Hunter\\", Simon shouts with the voice of Wrath and Righteousness, fervent disciple of the Biblical God of the Old Testament.<br /><br />Sensitive Alice intuits Simon's dangerous flaws and becomes cautious, watchful, aware of Meg's penchant for denial. Boone's God is forgiving, temperate and merciful, allowing Boone to hold all things capable of at least some small amount of goodness, even Simon. But the slow-building tension in the house sends chills down Alice's back as Simon stares malevolently at her and her brother. And Alice can find no real God to answer her prayers.<br />Poor inept Meg, so unsure of her worth, is terrified of losing Simon and not being loved. Finally pregnant, Meg nurtures a desperate surge of hope, of giving Simon a new son, another family to replace the one he lost so tragically. Slowly the brother and sister are pushed away from their weak mother, as Simon looms, feeding his hatred, overshadowing this small family, bending all to his will. Tragedy fills the air like the static of a fast moving storm. The power of innocence breeds courage, as rage breeds betrayal, desperation and finally a torrent of violence. Amidst the terror, Boone loses his heart to the wild and complicated Persley Snow, and Alice has a glimpse of the passionate attachments of first love.<br />Hepinstall has reached inside the darkest chambers of the human heart, unleashing the demons as well as the angels. Her metaphors are clean and powerful, a trenchant refusal of palliatives, fearless in the face of truth. Alice, Boone and Persley are cast into a world that contains the extremes of good and evil, each in constant battle. Their strength is ultimately drawn from the hubris of youth: that they could even lose such a contest gives them the courage to fight for their lives.courage, as rage breeds betrayal, desperation and finally a torrent of violence. Amidst the terror, Boone loses his heart to the wild and complicated Persley Snow, and Alice has a glimpse of the passionate attachments of first love.<br />Hepinstall has reached inside the darkest chambers of the human heart, unleashing the demons as well as the angels. Her metaphors are clean and powerful, a trenchant refusal of palliatives, fearless in the face of truth. Alice, Boone and Persley are cast into a world that contains the extremes of good and evil, each in constant battle. Their strength is ultimately drawn from the hubris of youth: that they could even lose such a contest gives them the courage to fight for their lives.	2002-08-04
1453037:US	51010391	R3MU49R2J7MJND	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	4	4	5	N	N	When Life imitates Art...	As art imitates life, so would a group of strangers enjoy the bounty and joyful camaraderie of the most simple activities. An assortment of dignitaries, most unknown to eachother, gather for a birthday celebration in an unnamed South American country, in honor of Mr. Hosokawa, a Japanese CEO. For his entertainment, the hosts have imported an extraordinary opera diva, his favorite soprano, Roxanne Coss. Her performance stuns the audience, the power and beauty of her voice astonishing. The lights go out. When they come back on, life has changed forever for these people, as the partygoers are taken hostage by a small, ragtag band of insurrectionists. The real target of the attack, the country's President, has not attended the party. Thrown into indecision, the soldiers are instructed to take the guests hostage. Unsure of their future, hostages and captives settle in, and the vivid edges of violence slowly recede as boundaries become blurred and differences are muted.<br />Suddenly the captives have a renewed awareness of the value of each day, each moment; they become aware, as well, of the humanity of their captors, dressed in raggedy uniforms with duct-taped combat boots, all abandoning fear for curiosity. Eventually all the women are released, save one, the soprano with the voice that lifts them all into the rarified art of true genius. Her greatest fan, Mr. Hosokawa, is gratified to remain a prisoner alongside the singer, and his multi-languaged intrepretor, Gen, is drafted as translator for the multi-cultural group's communications. In spite of the language difficulties, all these strangers, thrown together by fate, live in intimate proximity for months, developing their own particular society with its concessions and rules of deportment. Surprisingly, captors and captives exist in unexpected harmony as life becomes simple.<br />Patchett takes this melange of personalities and cultures and handles them with unexpected grace, allowing each their very human foibles and eccentricities. It is easy to imagine living in this suspended world, before it all comes to an end. But not before the unlikely become lovers, the unconventional become cronies, and the bonds of friendship and compassion criss-cross through the hearts of strangers, brushing each with the essence of mankind.and eccentricities. It is easy to imagine living in this suspended world, before it all comes to an end. But not before the unlikely become lovers, the unconventional become cronies, and the bonds of friendship and compassion criss-cross through the hearts of strangers, brushing each with the essence of mankind.	2002-08-04
1465190:US	51010391	R1NY4MIQ0SNKT1	0451204948	838594392	A Day Late and a Dollar Short	Books	3	0	0	N	N	(3.5) Lost and Found, Family-Style	MacMillan is a writer who knows her audience and delivers the goods. The stuff of real life goes into her lively characters, in this case four siblings with a big-hearted Mama, and assorted relatives garanteed to sound familiar.<br />Mama Vi is ready to enjoy life. To that end, she works hard, prompting her grown children to resolve their problems and relieve her of worry. The dialog is quick and true, and each character has issues, heartbreak, and children who need guidance. Most important, all Vi's children have loving hearts. This story is about reconnecting, strengthening bonds and finding hope in tomorrow. Even at the end, Mama is still holding court, and her children are proud to listen.<br />MacMillan does again what she does so well: fill a story with a sometimes squabbling family, recognizable folks to fill in the rooms, and a way to the center of the love that holds it all together. She finds her rhythm unerringly and gives us another chapter of human nature and the blessings of a large family.	2002-07-23
1467552:US	51010391	R25LNJZAE6065B	0385720467	133960389	Disobedience: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	(3.5) Secrets and lies...	An interesting premise: a young man, about to leave the nest for college and a life of his own, accidentally discovers that his mother is having an extramarital affair. Via access to the lover's emails (which he prints out and saves in a huge file), he assumes the role of voyeur, daily witness to the unfolding romance. The Shaws are an unusual family with eclectic interests: Beth, the mother, is a career pianist of archaic compositions and husband Kevin is dedicated to historical reenactment of Civil War battles with his daughter, Elvira, a petulant tomboy.<br />Henry grows ever more fascinated by his mother's secret and nurtures his own isolation, certain no one is privy to the affair but him. The object of Beth's Shaw's affection, Richard Polloco (or Rpoll), is a fellow musician with a romantically tragic past. Obsessed with the minutiae of the affair, Henry expends a great deal of youthful energy copying the electronic correspondence and pondering the exact meaning of Beth's disloyalty to the Shaws. This nuclear family is quite eccentric, from Beth's obscure musical career to historical reenactment, not to mention giving their children the names Henry and Elvira. It is, as well, a bit disturbing, even oedipal, that the son is driven to relentlessly spy on his mother. Subsequently, Henry's behavior changes radically. The formerly perfect son is in turns secretive, sarcastic and rude, and, in his heart, unforgiving.<br />The awareness that a grown woman is writing the persona of a 17-year-old boy is often awkward and intrusive, and Henry frequently sounds prissy and middle-aged. But Hamilton makes use of inventive plot twists to resolve awkward situations and the family's very idiosyncrasies  provide their ultimate salvation. In any case, the sooner Henry begins living out his own aspirations, the better for all concerned. When good sense finally prevails, both parents and children move smoothly beyond the disturbing behavior that nearly unravels them all.	2002-07-21
1467953:US	51010391	RJTXTWU1HWLFA	0786869011	516097065	My Forbidden Face: Growing Up Under the Taliban: A Young Woman's Story	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The truth behind the veil	A young woman bravely chronicles her coming-of-age under the heel of the Taliban in Afghanistan. Her life hardly begun, \\"Latifa\\" describes the effect of the harsh regime on the hopes and aspirations of a generation of young women in war-torn Afghanistan, their dreams imprisoned behind restrictive laws meant to subjugate women.<br />When the Taliban regime gained control of Afghanistan in the mid-nineties, Latifa was preparing to extend her education and pursue a career in Journalism. All that changed as Afghani women were forced to remain behind closed doors, forego careers and higher education in order to survive. The window of the world slammed shut on these women. The restrictive laws of the fundamentalist Taliban enforced secondary citizenship for Muslim women, whose faces must remain hidden at all times when in public. It is shocking to realize the unquestioning acceptance of the government of the Taliban by Western nations while ignoring the human rights of the Afghani women. So rarely do we have access to anything written about the plight of these women behind the burkas, that each small story is important, each reveals a way of life they have been forced to endure. Nothing is so powerful as the soft-spoken words from behind the veil, where sight is limited and the world obscured. Families live quietly imprisoned by the walls of their homes, shadows in contrast with the former cultural diversity and expectations they enjoyed, patiently waiting to live once more in the light of day. Latifa speaks for these women who cannot be seen or heard. She speaks with the unsophisticated voice of a young woman who still nurtures her dreams. It is time to listen.	2002-07-21
1475352:US	51010391	R3IS6R0LLOCH7E	0679722025	873992849	A Bend in the River	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Because the personal is political...	A young Indian man, a Muslim, decides to leave the family compound on the African coast and travel inland, having purchased a small shop in a village. Struggling for a definition of himself, and sensing impending vast changes, he dreams of success, hoping to avoid the civil war that has spread along the coast. The Europeans have left their mark on post-colonial Africa and all of Salim's ideas have been dictated by European values.<br />Salim moves through the shabby streets of his new village, carefully assessing everything, as is his way. Eventually, his decisions, often foolish and impulsive, find him mired in the same corrupt bureaucracy and confusion, avarice and fear that grip the rest of Africa. Formerly burdened with a surfeit of time to make decisions for the future, suddenly, there is no more time, and understanding the confluence of events becomes critical to survival. The ebb and flow of daily life, the fears of a town hearing distant sounds of battle, create an awareness of the incipient brutality.<br />Naipaul's prose is full of discovery, constantly enlarging and changing the world. Precise and impeccable descriptions scorch the mind with their truth, humanity viewed through unflinching eyes. The life that once seemed so intractable is at once as changeable as the flow of the river and emerging politics of a country caught between the old and rapidly evolving new. There is confusion on a scale possible in third world countries, inexorable movement toward inevitable cataclysm. The fine tremor of tragedy vibrates through the most trivial of days: something momentous hovers on the horizon. Finally, there is no structure, and the little civilized behavior remaining begins to collapse. Greed and fear join forces as desperate men reel about, searching for escape, knowing they are trapped in the history of a violently evolving nation. Salim is frantic, one step ahead of oblivion; the suspense is unbearable. A Bend in the River is larger than life, terrifying in import and a magnificent accomplishment.in import and a magnificent accomplishment.	2002-07-15
1478145:US	51010391	R342JF1ET7SQPP	0670894729	132185765	The Floating City	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	An indefensible tragedy	Interspersed between the chapters of Floating City, are short historical vignettes, documenting the events that destroyed Hawaiian society in its original tribal innocence and system of government.. Near the end of the novel, the historical events merge into actual time with the story line. Ultimately, Hawaii's self-governance is destroyed by the consummate greed of her conquerors, a fertile territory to poach and plunder, until Hawaii is finally attached to the U.S. as a state.<br />As the main characters are introduced, they are defined by the perceptions of Eva Hanson, a haole, native for caucasian, with reputed psychic abilities. However, Eva's unusual talents exist in the form of psychic intuitions, often experienced as a hyper-awareness of imminent personal danger. Because of her race, Eva's attempts to remain in the background of events are virtually impossible, and she remains disconcertingly visible to government officials. Nothing, and no one, is what it seems, and Eva is constantly reminded of the delicacy of her position. This heightened awareness of the unexpected persists, coloring all the events with a certain air of unreality.<br />1890's Hawaii is a country caught in the accelerating turmoil of political upheaval, the characters churning through this historical evolution that will determine the future of their culture, from innocence to corruption, greed and decay. With haunting familiarity, an ancestral way of life is cannibalized by an amoral society whose value system is defined by acquisition of much for the few, particularly the rapacious European/American investors. History continually repeats itself; today the locusts have moved on to the next part of the world with natural resources vulnerable to exploitation, leaving the residue for the survivors to reconstruct.	2002-07-12
1478389:US	51010391	R36W95ZAH51YRD	1401033148	448346249	Inexquisite Eye	Books	3	4	4	N	N	(3.5)Self-absorption: the ultimate seduction	Reading this book was like living in a dysfunctional family, w/ intermittent respite from the emotional turmoil. To understand this dynamic and plot it so well, increasing and decreasing the pressure when necessary, requires some extraordinary skills as a writer. Not only does this author maintain the tension, but he releases it carefully, allowing the reader to relax before starting up another emotional hill.<br />The story concerns the self-obsessed Elissa, one of five siblings in an extremely codependent family. Elissa works through her general dissatisfactions with life while pursuing a career as an attorney, and her relationship with Warren Boyd, her boyfriend. When Elissa is viewed in the bosom of her family, the stage is set for her bizarre behavior. A group of well-educated East Coasters, the family members have grown accustomed to critiquing every detail of their days, a habit that consistently influences Elissa's self-perception and need for control.<br />Warren enters as a breath of fresh air; without him the emotional construct of the story would be unbearable and depressing. He introduces hope and patience Elissa's life, tossing a lifeline to the floundering young woman. The question: can Elissa remove her eyes from herself long enough to accept Warren's generosity of spirit? Unfortunately Elissa's world is suffocatingly insular, and that is her fatal flaw, an inability to appreciate any sense of beauty in the moment. Finally, Warren offers redemption from her self-obsession. Ultimately she must make a decision: the pain and joy of everyday interaction, or premature grief for what she cannot allow. Will her intellectual parsimony dictate the future?  Is Elissa even capable of nuturing the growth of the young woman beneath the faade?	2002-07-12
1478616:US	51010391	ROZLLXIA6PX7W	0156012898	909218232	A Case of Curiosities	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	A well-examined life	A unique adventure lurks in the pages of a Case of Curiosities: one mans life, dreams, aspirations, failures and adventures following a highly unusual vocation. Stimulated to curiosity after the purchase of a memory box, the author begins a very detailed journey through 18th century France, Paris in particular, following the adventures of Claude Page, an apprentice to the dark side of human nature.<br />Regardless of the era, Victorian, Puritanical, unconventional or morally restrictive, there is always a lucrative market for anything of sexual interest, particularly perversions of every variety. Young Claude, living in extreme poverty, is offered an opportunity to apprentice as a painter of ivory, a skill requiring considerable dexterity and artistry. His relative innocence is irrelevant, as long as Claude can wield a paintbrush. He is charged with depicting tiny scenes of sexual deviance on objects such as pocket watches, personal jewelry, wherever the surface allows the rendition of perverse portraits. The network of purveyors and collectors is well established and rife with connoisseurs of this unusual art. In spite of the opportunity, Claude soon becomes bored with his latest endeavors, until he stumbles upon a new interest: the intricate mechanics of movement. This new curiosity becomes his quest, eventually leading him to the streets and underbelly of Paris and a myriad of experiences with the many faces of humanity, as friend and foe.<br />Claude's dreams remain unfulfilled, and he is driven to discover the knowledge that will unlock the key of his mind's invention. Along the way, Claude has attracted an unusual and urbane assortment of friends, denizens of the streets, who recognize his incipient genius. Eventually, their support and innovative methods of procurement enable Claude to achieve his goal: a fully mechanized figure, an innovative engineering coup that finds its creator heaped with praise and recognition. From the beginning of this intricate novel to the end, a whole layer of Parisian society is uncovered, one that lives by wit alone, surviving the dangers on the streets of the demimonde. Against this fascinating canvas, Claude's life is meticulously wrought, year by year, as he struggles for self-definition and the satisfaction of pursuing his particular path.l to the end, a whole layer of Parisian society is uncovered, one that lives by wit alone, surviving the dangers on the streets of the demimonde. Against this fascinating canvas, Claude's life is meticulously wrought, year by year, as he struggles for self-definition and the satisfaction of pursuing his particular path.	2002-07-12
1510562:US	51010391	R24FMSNKL90JM1	0066212545	978444632	The House of Blue Mangoes: A Novel	Books	3	21	23	N	Y	(3.5) House of Blues....	I wanted this book to be as fascinating as the first hundred pages. Certainly all of the elements are present: the family patriarchy, feuding neighbors, an entrenched caste system in precarious balance.<br />Three generations of Dorais act out this familial drama, male characters predominant, from Solomon Dorai to his sons Aaron and Daniel, and Daniel's son Kammel. In each generation, at least one son is banished to make his way among strangers. In Daniel's case, because he could not fight to preserve the family's honor, and was sent away with the women and children before the battle that cost the lives of many important Dorai men. Much later, Daniel returns to accept his birthright. But later, Daniel's own son willingly leaves, unable to make peace within the family hierarchy. Yet all roads lead to the Dorai compound, where relatives live together in common purpose, keeping the land intact. In a tribute to Solomon, who first had the dream, Daniel names the enclave The House of Blue Mangoes. Years later, as David lies dying, Kamman returns to assume the role of his father's successor, with the same purpose, the continuation of the family name and property. There is plentiful material to fuel the plot, particularly the political unrest prior to the Partition in 1947.<br />There is no question that the British trampled the land and the people, Her Majesty's representatives bloated with their own importance and dreams of Empire. But Davidar's characters are difficult to understand, seeming cutouts before the vast panoply of social change, who only parrot historical facts, often with little interest. I wanted a sense of the people themselves, their passions, dreams and fears, not an explanation like a school primer. For example, Daniel becomes a physician, trained by a charitable benefactor to help the poor and indigent; he passes the clinic on to Daniel. But Daniel makes his fortune on patent medicines and moves back to his home village to establish the family colony, never looking back. Then Kammal, Daniel's son, works on a tea plantation after marrying an inappropriate woman chosen in a romantic stupor, she part Indian, part English. On the English run plantation, Kammal's wife is never accepted, but he toady's to his bosses, believing himself part of their society. In fact, he is their pawn. Kannan deals with his self-concept and particular circumstances in an almost simple-minded fashion. He has no substance, obsequious and self-effacing.<br />I have enjoyed many finely written Indian novels, among them The God of Small Things and A Fine Balance, and Cracking India, and love to immerse myself in this country and its history. Unfortunately, House of Blue Mangoes does not meet this standard. Davidar writes such muddled sentences as: \\"Michael drove very carefully, but the road was a familiar one, and there was no other vehicle about, so they made good progress.\\" Yet the first chapter begins: \\"...as the lonely violence of dawn sweeps across the sky\\", with vivid imagery. Perhaps the story just got away from him, but in the final third of the novel the wooden dialog of the British literally put me into a stupor, bludgeoned by idiotic conversations. Because of Davidar's descriptive and poetic abilities, I believe this author has the talent to write about what he knows so well. All the stories and history are locked within him, perhaps more approachable on a smaller scale or more intimate characterization.never looking back. Then Kammal, Daniel's son, works on a tea plantation after marrying an inappropriate woman chosen in a romantic stupor, she part Indian, part English. On the English run plantation, Kammal's wife is never accepted, but he toady's to his bosses, believing himself part of their society. In fact, he is their pawn. Kannan deals with his self-concept and particular circumstances in an almost simple-minded fashion. He has no substance, obsequious and self-effacing.<br />I have enjoyed many finely written Indian novels, among them The God of Small Things and A Fine Balance, and Cracking India, and love to immerse myself in this country and its history. Unfortunately, House of Blue Mangoes does not meet this standard. Davidar writes such muddled sentences as: \\"Michael drove very carefully, but the road was a familiar one, and there was no other vehicle about, so they made good progress.\\" Yet the first chapter begins: \\"...as the lonely violence of dawn sweeps across the sky\\", with vivid imagery. Perhaps the story just got away from him, but in the final third of the novel the wooden dialog of the British literally put me into a stupor, bludgeoned by idiotic conversations. Because of Davidar's descriptive and poetic abilities, I believe this author has the talent to write about what he knows so well. All the stories and history are locked within him, perhaps more approachable on a smaller scale or more intimate characterization.	2002-06-13
1528495:US	51010391	R3NK0KZO1YFKUZ	0786885688	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A larger canvas than it first appears...	At first sight, Shopgirl is an intimate portrait on a small canvas. But the vision of the artist enlarges in ever-broadening strokes. Martin's characters are vivid, alive, even though some are shallow and misguided. He breathes animation into each, as if this writer has temporarily inhabited that &quot;self&quot; long enough to realize an accurate portrayal. What I most appreciate: this novella opens a door that I can enter, experience, then leave, confident in the truth distilled from each individual. Reading Shopgirl, I had the sense that this author sees the world as I do, observant, yet unencumbered by the need for judgment.<br />Some of the phrasing is idiosyncratic: &quot;the smell of Thanksgiving is in the air, which means that Christmas is in the oven.&quot; Other passages are striking for their insight into male/female behavior: (her)&quot;...everytime she sacrifices a bit of herself, she gives him a little more of her that her cannot give back.&quot; And (him)&quot;...not understanding that what he is taking from her is torn from her, believes that the arrangement is fair.&quot; Then, &quot;She has learned that her body is precious and mustn't be offered carelessly, as it holds a direct connection to her heart. She sheathes herself...and learns never to give away more than is given to her.&quot;<br />What seems to be a tale of the loneliness and arbitrary impulses of the single life, albeit with the possibility of a happy ending, is actually a perceptive portrait of the transitional stages of life, seen through the images of an artist who paints in words.	2002-05-28
1528866:US	51010391	R24CF5UA0ICRPK	B000062UHX	184600193	Never Change	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The changing seasons of compassion	I chose this book incidentally, thinking Berg's name familiar. I doubted that the story of a 52-year-old woman nursing a dying former classmate through his final days could hold much more interest than a TV movie. I was wrong. Never Change is a clean, precise novel that walks through what could be mordantly sentimental, with grace and compassion.<br />Myra Lipinsky, a nurse who has never married, uses her skills for in-home visiting care, her patients an assortment of characters as familiar as our next-door neighbors and aged relatives, who need a little extra help in performing small daily functions. From the absent-minded to the stroke-impaired, Myra unwittingly carves a bit of herself into each of their lives. To most of them, her visits are an event, an opportunity to interact with the diminishing outside world.<br />When Myra takes on a new patient, Chip Reardon, a former classmate, her memories of their high school years are as vivid as yesterday, without sophomoric romanticism. Chip was one of the popular guys in school, his girlfriend one of the predictable energetic beauties who draw all eyes by simply entering a room. Myra watched them both from afar, anonymous in her plain adolescence. So she is pleased that Chip has become a genuinely nice man and spending time with him brings an unexpected fullness to her life, a companionship that she finds comfortable and welcome. Soon enough, Myra will need to assist Chip through each debilitating transition he faces. It is not difficult for her to love Chip; she is a loving, nurturing woman, unaware of her own value. In fact, Myra's own transitions are the most fascinating aspect of the book. She has an ability to adapt to change, a fluidity in her definitions of life. The decisions she makes, the truths she must realize, are not done in a vacuum. There is a circle of friends, many her patients, who gather around her like soft pillows, until Myra allows herself to be loveable.<br />This refreshing novel has a clarity that only comes from an author who knows her own nature and understands her true self. Berg reminds us how many generous souls, like Myra, people the world we live in and how we benefit from their existence.ty that only comes from an author who knows her own nature and understands her true self. Berg reminds us how many generous souls, like Myra, people the world we live in and how we benefit from their existence.	2002-05-28
1529500:US	51010391	RNM5UMSNF6NW8	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	A terrible inevitability....	There are so many comprehensive reviews on Atonement, that I will only add some impressions. Reading Atonement was a fairly wrenching experience. Once begun, I was driven to finish. The growing tension of the story made it impossible for me to stop reading until the advent of a new course of action and I was released me until the next time.<br />In the innocence of childhood, precocious talents are encouraged, applauded. But by the next stage of development, adolescents are often capable of spite and revenge, and exhibit a certain primal sense of justice. Things are black and white, not mitigated, by circumstance and inside a clever young mind, a twisted labyrinth of perplexing ideation emerges. Simultaneously the ripe possibility of consequence is irresistible, hanging suspended, the flash of guillotine glinting above the prisoner's exposed, perhaps innocent, neck. When the blade descends, imagination prances about, dressed as truth and clearly believable. The young girl, Briony, is so perfectly realized that I recognized myself in her, caught in the consuming greed for notice, compelling the adults to admit the correctness of her new-found maturity, rather than the unstable perceptions of a child. All is contained in the moment, not the consequences, for Briony is immersed in her own self-importance. She is incapable of perceiving the degree to which lives are altered, incapable of such consideration. I can barely forgive her this hubris, no matter what her age.<br />Two other characters are drastically affected, their lives irrevocably changed: Cecilia, Briony's older sister, and Robbie, grown son of a family retainer. Helpless to change the course of events, Cecilia bitterly carves out a life she can endure, unwilling to meet with her sister for years. Eventually, as Briony truly matures, she begins to fathom the nature of her misdeed and the moral burden she bears. In her guilty angst, Briony is humanized and made available as just another flawed human being. There is an indictment, through Briony, of the class-consciousness that enables accusation and judgment without the need of adequate proof. The lower classes of 1935 London are, in Briony's perception, simply incapable of the finer instincts of her class and therefore culpable by default. Social acceptance by virtue of birth or background creates a false sense of entitlement, eroding the society that gives it credence. By the end, I felt in need of redemption myself. But then, isn't that the point?There is an indictment, through Briony, of the class-consciousness that enables accusation and judgment without the need of adequate proof. The lower classes of 1935 London are, in Briony's perception, simply incapable of the finer instincts of her class and therefore culpable by default. Social acceptance by virtue of birth or background creates a false sense of entitlement, eroding the society that gives it credence. By the end, I felt in need of redemption myself. But then, isn't that the point?	2002-05-28
1538106:US	51010391	R25VHTECB3QC8T	0385482388	887532070	The Mistress of Spices: A Novel	Books	3	25	25	N	N	Suspended between two worlds...	Divakaruni's first novel reads like a fable, as she blends Old World India with New World America. An aged woman, Tilo, an Indian immigrant, serves as the &quot;mistress&quot; of spices. She unravels her mythic past to set the stage for the present. Highly fantastical, it is necessary to suspend belief in the reasonable as Tilo describes her early life, training for this unusual vocation. Using traditional Indian spices, some with particularly healing properties and required rituals, to attend to the various physical and emotional ills of her customers, Tilo carries on a constant dialog with the spices, and each chapter introduces another spice and its uses. The language is often poetic, her descriptions full of visual impressions: &quot;my cloak dragging in salt dust like a torn wing&quot;.<br />Divakaruni cleverly uses her story line as a vehicle for exposing the social stigma of immigration, as well as the ills of modern cities riddled with poverty and crime. Where it could be strident, instead the writer introduces her character's problems and complexities in the context of understanding. In the course of her conscientious ministrations, Tilo unwittingly falls in love with a man she calls the &quot;American&quot;. She cannot fathom his motives in their mutual attraction, as she is &quot;disguised&quot; as an old woman and he is a man in his prime. Soon the present pulls as strongly as the past, and desire clashes with duty. Her serenity shattered, Tilo is forced to make life-altering decisions, agonizing over her choices; in the end, the direction is clear, without doubt.<br />With the aura of a fable, I often felt too aware of the transition from the believable to the unbelievable; the author's device should not have been so obvious. In her following work, however, particularly Sister of My Heart, Divakaruni is able to overcome such flaws without losing her power or her poetry.	2002-05-20
1540535:US	51010391	R3RE734D9SC7BW	031228473X	739252869	Undressing the Moon	Books	3	4	5	N	N	(3.5) The sound of broken glass ...	I have been an ardent admirer of T. Greenwood since her first novel. She adorns her pages with such beautiful imaginary, that the effect is often stunning. Perhaps Greenwood's greatest gift to her readers is the ability to clearly draw the hidden parameters of the heart, with such phrasing as: \\"Hope is really just desire disguised, just desperation, aching, dressed up like a prayer.\\" As well, her character descriptions are incisive: \\"Her eyes were set far apart, and her face looked like an old glove\\".<br />Undressing the Moon has an ambitious plot for its length. There are traumatic upheavals in the life of 14-year-old Piper's life: abandonment, rape, catastrophic illness, all of which the author allows to drift into natural, rather than forced, conclusions. I tried to like Mr. Hammond, Piper's bereft teacher-mentor, but couldn't ignore his responsibility for his actions, finding myself far less understanding than Piper. Also, Piper's father with his considerable personal flaws and random wretched girlfriends, seemed an unnecessary complication. Ultimately, 30-year-old Piper, facing the ravages of breast cancer, pens a powerful tribute  to her childhood friend, Becca, who steps in to fill all the empty spaces left by premature emotional loss.<br />I have come to expect disciplined, sensitive novels from Greenwood. I suspect Undressing the Moon is an earlier effort, before the author found her clear, pure voice. I hope this young writer will redefine her focus in the next novel, because she possesses prodigious talent.	2002-05-17
1547600:US	51010391	RJPZ9SFL9HFMH	0345444566	60371707	A Trick of Nature (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	(3.5)The fallacy of middle-class security....	The most lasting impression I gleaned from this well-rendered novel is that middle-class life in the suburbs is full of land mines. Middle-class values and rewards have been a central theme, an award for lifetime achievement in the United States until only recently. But larger numbers of people have begun to harbor the dream of instant wealth (and thereby safety) via state lotteries, game shows, or whatever current carrot (opportunity) is dangled by the media PR machine. But as lower middle-class and poverty-level families have long realized, the seemingly mundane middle-class still offers, at least figuratively, the appearance of safety in an ever more unsafe world. A Trick of Nature serves as a subtle reminder that appearance is often deceptive. Two college-educated parents with well-paying, stable jobs, and their twin teenage daughters are just as vulnerable to the random assaults of fate as anyone. The June and Ward Cleavers are a figment of 50's pop culture, as society's ills continue to infect the suburbs, spreading indigenous blight along the way.<br />Greg, the 38-year old father, isn't even middle-aged when a flash of lightening suddenly changes his life, and he makes a series of bad judgments, precipitating a premature mid-life crisis. But his wife, Patty, has more finely honed perceptions, intuiting a crack in the marriage long before the act, yet helpless to alert her complacent husband in time. Greg has adapted the path of least resistance, sliding comfortably into his passive role. The daughters, typical white middle-class American teenagers, are full of youthful complexities: rebellion, angst, rage and adolescent fear of an unknown future. Their parent's problems only serve to accelerate their own insecurities, as they act out their conflicts.<br />Patty is a strong role-model as the mother, but I'm not sure Greg takes on the full coloration of a \\"guy\\"; I was constantly sensitive to a woman writing the male character, often too \\"Women from Venus, Men from Mars\\" stereotypical. Some of Greg's adventures are barely believable, since he is so inured to his middle-class values. However, I like Patty's choices and her ability to bravely face life with each new situation. I can't help thinking that if John Irving (A Widow for One Year) had written on this theme, the weight would be substantial. Perhaps this comparison is unfair, and not my intention. But Matson is still young, and, as some of us have learned the hard way, certain knowledge is only acquired by the passage of years and life experience. Matson certainly has the skills and awareness; I have no doubt that 10 years from now she will be a powerful and accomplished writer. I certainly can't fault her enthusiasm, and look forward to her evolving talent.from Mars\\" stereotypical. Some of Greg's adventures are barely believable, since he is so inured to his middle-class values. However, I like Patty's choices and her ability to bravely face life with each new situation. I can't help thinking that if John Irving (A Widow for One Year) had written on this theme, the weight would be substantial. Perhaps this comparison is unfair, and not my intention. But Matson is still young, and, as some of us have learned the hard way, certain knowledge is only acquired by the passage of years and life experience. Matson certainly has the skills and awareness; I have no doubt that 10 years from now she will be a powerful and accomplished writer. I certainly can't fault her enthusiasm, and look forward to her evolving talent.	2002-05-11
1547760:US	51010391	R2KVSY18V599FA	0345434943	933539537	Song of the Exile (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	17	18	N	N	A drifting song of the islands...	The most promising and interesting theme of this novel is the undaunted spirit of the Hawaiian people. Through the eyes of one particular family, the time frame is the 1930's through World War II, devastating the closely-knit community, many native Hawaiian sons lost in combat. The story moves back and forth: from Hawaii to the New Orleans jazz scene, Shanghai to Paris, and back. In the course of events, one heartbreaking message is the truly ignoble and inhumane use of euphemistically named \\"comfort women\\" by Japanese soldiers. These innocent women were harvested from city streets and villages to service their captors, their tragic borderline existence only recently widely discussed and documented for readers. Released after the war, their original numbers decimated, they became \\"ghost women\\", emaciated and most permanently physically and psychologically damaged.<br />The central theme, however, is the displaced love of Keo and Sunny. A gifted musician, Keo follows his muse and Sunny becomes his most ardent and loyal fan. As Keo disappears into his music, he barely remarks Sunny's search for her own affirmation in the search for her long-lost sister. Tragically parted by the war, Keo and Sunny endure years of separation as each is subjected to horrendous experiences as Japanese captives, each clinging to the memory of the other. But I had no clear sense of Sunny's personality from the beginning of her reciprocated attraction to Keo. Later, when Keo is agonizing over her whereabouts, a more particular sense of what he so desperately misses, other than adoration, would have helped me appreciate Sunny's qualities. The story changes locations frequently, and I found myself wanting more details of Keo's family and their ongoing struggles, how their ties to one another sustain them through loss and separation. I suspect the most potent material rests within the heart of this family.<br />Some editorial cuts may have better centered the story. Perhaps Davenport is intending to illustrate the rambling nature of Keo's search, his frustration and overwhelming loneliness, but I feel the novel loses its original vital focus. There are some hectoring passages at the end of the book on the issue of statehood, but my sympathies were already engaged. While certainly an entertaining and informative read, the novel would resonate more fully with fewer geographic leaps and already acknowledged social injustices added to the forum. An emphasis on the love story and tragic circumstances surrounding the lovers, especially the atrocity of \\"comfort women\\", was certainly sufficient to hold my interest.ing to illustrate the rambling nature of Keo's search, his frustration and overwhelming loneliness, but I feel the novel loses its original vital focus. There are some hectoring passages at the end of the book on the issue of statehood, but my sympathies were already engaged. While certainly an entertaining and informative read, the novel would resonate more fully with fewer geographic leaps and already acknowledged social injustices added to the forum. An emphasis on the love story and tragic circumstances surrounding the lovers, especially the atrocity of \\"comfort women\\", was certainly sufficient to hold my interest.	2002-05-11
1552314:US	51010391	RYE6P7L44M0N3	0375724575	254577781	The Family Orchard	Books	1	5	8	N	N	(1.5) Needs pruning...	The Family Orchard begins with the linking of &quot;what my father says&quot; and &quot;what I say&quot;, alternating perspectives as each new member of the family tree is introduced. As well, each succeeding chapter adds diagrams of the growing family.<br />The scene is Palestine in 1837, certainly a fascinating period of historical perspective. So I was disappointed as I read further into the book and lost any sense of connectedness. I was unable to continue: the relatives became more confusing, their chapters too short to retain in memory. When a writer brings history to life, flesh and blood with human failings, it becomes knowable and informative, almost visual. This book did not offer that reality to me.	2002-05-07
1552922:US	51010391	R2105AF9W1X12C	052594642X	838675611	The Impressionist	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Morphing into identity...	In a tale that winds through the exotic world of Post WWI India to the sacred halls of English education, a young man, who starts his life as Pran, begins the challenge of adaptation, chameleon-like, in a quest for survival. There is a hint of the spoiled, self-centered individual Pran is, before his rude awakening. When Pran's true half-Anglo parentage is revealed, the formerly princely boy is tossed into the maw of the city, quickly devoured by human predators. Vulnerable in his unusual beauty, Pran has no experience in the art of self-protection and soon falls victim. Absorbed into a low class brothel, he is sexually abused and beaten daily, drugged into a stupor that melts one day into another.<br />Purchased for the harem of the Nawab of Fatepur, Pran becomes an unfortunate pawn in a power struggle for the fate of Fatepur in the hands of British colonial rule. Pran/Rukhsama enters the palace disguised as a female, ultimately residing with the court hijras (eunuchs) who intend to offer him as Clive, an English schoolboy, in an absurd attempt to blackmail a British officer. In a mix of nefarious plots and idiosyncratic dignitaries, Rukhsana/Clive escapes and is taken in by Scottish missionaries. There, as Chandra/Pretty Bobby, the young man molds himself to fit his surroundings, changing personalities to accommodate a variety of situations. He is adept at mirroring those around him, stepping in and out as necessary. Political tensions increase as British rule prepares to collapse. In a last daring sleight-of-identity, Chandra/Bobby becomes a young English student bound for Oxford, England, when the real boy is murdered at the hands of a hysterical mob.<br />In taking on the persona of Johnathan Bridgeman, the protagonist seems to accomplish the impossible, the privileged life of an English gentleman of reasonable income, with a promising future. After years of posing, adjusting and adapting, Johnathan falls prey to the unexpected: he falls in love. The object of his sophomoric pining is a young woman who toys with men's attentions, simply because it pleases her. Unfortunately for Johnathan, he has no ability to contend with this situation, and cannot fasten upon a personality that will win her sustained attentions. Desperate, he forges an interest in anthropology in order to remain close to her professor father. Joining the professor on his African expedition to study a remaining tribe of \\"unspoiled\\" natives, Johnathan is swept from the safe shores of England back to the bowels of the darkest continent, where he comes face to face with the knowledge that he has himself become a cipher. As the jungle swallows the English expedition, the young man finally releases himself from any expectations, cloaked in anonymity, and learns to live the journey, rather than the destination.<br />The writing flows from one bizarre incarnation to another, each peppered with absurdity. The protagonist leaps from one identity to the next, honing his skills, his nascent ability to impersonate. Reading the novel, it is tempting to pass over the great sadness that permeates every phase of Pran's life. He has virtually no identity, not Pran, nor Rukhsana, Clive, Chandra/Pretty Bobby or Johnathan. Becoming everyman, he is no man, until he ceases his flight, where nothing from the past is worth keeping. While the language is fluid and well-paced, the author's feat is impressive, his ingenuity stunning in its realization.his sophomoric pining is a young woman who toys with men's attentions, simply because it pleases her. Unfortunately for Johnathan, he has no ability to contend with this situation, and cannot fasten upon a personality that will win her sustained attentions. Desperate, he forges an interest in anthropology in order to remain close to her professor father. Joining the professor on his African expedition to study a remaining tribe of \\"unspoiled\\" natives, Johnathan is swept from the safe shores of England back to the bowels of the darkest continent, where he comes face to face with the knowledge that he has himself become a cipher. As the jungle swallows the English expedition, the young man finally releases himself from any expectations, cloaked in anonymity, and learns to live the journey, rather than the destination. <br />The writing flows from one bizarre incarnation to another, each peppered with absurdity. The protagonist leaps from one identity to the next, honing his skills, his nascent ability to impersonate. Reading the novel, it is tempting to pass over the great sadness that permeates every phase of Pran's life. He has virtually no identity, not Pran, nor Rukhsana, Clive, Chandra/Pretty Bobby or Johnathan. Becoming everyman, he is no man, until he ceases his flight, where nothing from the past is worth keeping. While the language is fluid and well-paced, the author's feat is impressive, his ingenuity stunning in its realization.	2002-05-07
1553100:US	51010391	RUYAIQQ0VXVTM	0679749519	741639462	Remembering Babylon: A Novel	Books	4	2	5	N	Y	The repressive power of fear and conformity...	Gemmy Fairley doesn't belong anywhere. Tossed from the sea upon a wild Australian beach, the boy is a curiosity to the indigenous natives who discover and allow him to tag along, learning their language and customs. A strange yearning assails his dreams, images, memories of a beginning, brutal people and things barely glimpsed.<br />From a truly ignominious beginning, Gemmy schools himself to adapt to circumstances, intuiting acceptable behavior as necessary for survival. Throughout his wanderings with the Aborigines, he assumes the coloring of his surroundings, much as they do. But another voice, a distant curiosity calls Gemmy ever closer to the poverty-riddled settlers who view him as a threat. There is a life-defining moment for two young people, Lachlan and Janet, when they first see Gemmy, perched precariously atop a fence, held for a moment in time that marks their consciousness indelibly. Drawing Gemmy into their world, Lachlan is his mentor, Janet his friend, both protective of his innocence, forever fascinated with that first seminal glimpse.<br />In such an intimate and hardscrabble community, where human connections insure survival, Gemmy is a freak, too strange to be perceived as non-threatening, white, but with the outward visage of a black. Fearful and superstitious, they draw away, repulsed. Eventually, Gemmy finds himself moving back into the bush, unable to manage the demands of such a borderline civilization. Years later, as adults, Lachlan and Janet deeply reconnect over their youthful remembrance, that slender thread that attached them to Gemmy for that short time in their young lives.<br />The writing is powerful and beautifully rendered, with a sense of awareness that pulses with life. Immersed in nature's stark reality, words become feelings, thoughts merge with the heartbeat of humanity at its most vulnerable.	2002-05-07
1553259:US	51010391	RMTDI4TCU3BES	0385720475	753673336	The Cure for Death by Lightning	Books	3	5	5	N	N	(3.5)Clear and resonant prose, exceptional moments.....	This small novel could be a simple coming-of-age story. Or it could be a more complex structure of Canadian farm life, circa WWII, a small town, reservation Indians and common prejudice, nature's random cruelties and the vagaries of family dynamics.<br />The Weeks family depends upon one another for all their needs, in a daily battle for survival, caring for sheep and cows, planting fields, and other continuous farm chores, with the help of two hired hands. At a time when most young men have enlisted, the Weeks farms is envied, their son still at home, as well as two young Indian field workers, also of recruitment age. Nearby farms are plagued by marauding coyotes, as well as another  \\"coyote\\", an animal, according to local lore, that inhabits weak men, causing brutal and barbarous acts against innocent victims, often helpless children. Whether this is fact or rumor, remains a mystery, and no easy explanation is suggested. Further complicating the churning sense of physical and mental exhaustion of farm life is an escalating boundary feud between Beth Week's father and a neighbor, \\"the Swede\\".<br />Beth confronts her own demons and sexual awakening, and discovers an inner core of strength, gleaned from her mother's own stolid self-reliance, a more defined sense of self. Eventually Beth fights off her father's unwanted attentions, and turns her frustration and hate for him into self-determination. He loses the power to stalk her days and nights, as does the frightening specter of the \\"coyote\\", a metaphor for the unknown fears we each carry in our hearts, and she resolves to face her fears, refusing intimidation. Some passages actually reminded me of the blunt honesty in To Kill A Mockingbird, recalling the ability children have to look at things (fears) straight on, unflinching. I felt a vague air of threat following me while I read; I found myself anticipating something, on alert. This particular sense added to the flavor of the novel, a kind of edginess I don't often find.ten find.	2002-05-07
1576299:US	51010391	R1ZPTI3WHBWP72	0316815586	337143594	These Granite Islands: A Novel	Books	3	6	8	N	Y	(3.5) The geography of friendship in another time and place.	Water serves as a powerful metaphor for isolation, death and conquering personal fears. The searing heat of summer, the frozen fingers of Fate in winter, all form the images of a story lived against Nature's immutable canvas. At the end of a long, often lonely life, Isobel Howard replays each chapter behind failing sensibilities, as her last living child, Thomas, holds his own vigil at her bedside.<br />The most defining attachments in Isobel's lifetime are her marriage to Victor Howard and a summer friendship in 1936 with Cathryn Malley, who has come to the mining town in Minnesota with her husband, who travels often on business. That this short acquaintance so impresses Isobel's remaining years, says much about the repression of the times, as Isobel vicariously experiences Cathryn's infidelity, drawn to the adventure and unpredictability of Cathryn's inclinations. In reality, Cathryn suffers from a yet undiagnosed mental illness, and remains untreated, as do many whose errant behavior is labeled wildly inappropriate at that time.<br />Cathryn tumbles into Isobel's world as a funny, generous, helpful surprise while the more stolid Isobel struggles to fill the summer with an enterprise of her own, as Victor and her two young sons camp on a nearby island he purchased for his family's enjoyment. Isobel remains at home with her young daughter, hurt that Victor has failed to comprehend her innate dread of water, although she's never mentioned this fear to him.<br />When Cathryn becomes emeshed in an affair with Jack, an island man, Isobel is both attracted and repulsed by their unbridled passion, and shamefully implicit; Isobel inevitably conquers her own fear of water, paddling daily in a canoe as she serves as sentry, prepared to alert the lovers should Liam return unexpectedly.  Aware that this affair can only end in tragedy, Isobel remains a passive onlooker, unable to precipitate any action, a choice that will haunt her conscience forever. At the end of that fateful summer, Cathryn, Jack and Liam are shrouded in the mystery of disappearance and death, the town humming with supposition and suspicion. Victor returns to comfort his wife, and Isobel carries her questions to the grave without resolution save her own imagination.<br />It is unclear at what age Isobel is widowed. Since her marriage and children are the foundation of her contentment and the fulfillment of her early years, I found it incongruous that the death of her son Henry was given so little attention, while the passion of a short-time friend consumed so much energy throughout the many years ahead. From the beginning it is clear that Isobel is at the final destination of her long life, tying the loose threads together in her mind; Stonich handles these particular moments with a subtle awareness. While the story line is somewhat frayed, Stonich has written some beautifully descriptive passages, intuiting a softening of memory and the need for a last peaceful compromise with the immanence of death.ul summer, Cathryn, Jack and Liam are shrouded in the mystery of disappearance and death, the town humming with supposition and suspicion. Victor returns to comfort his wife, and Isobel carries her questions to the grave without resolution save her own imagination. <br />It is unclear at what age Isobel is widowed. Since her marriage and children are the foundation of her contentment and the fulfillment of her early years, I found it incongruous that the death of her son Henry was given so little attention, while the passion of a short-time friend consumed so much energy throughout the many years ahead. From the beginning it is clear that Isobel is at the final destination of her long life, tying the loose threads together in her mind; Stonich handles these particular moments with a subtle awareness. While the story line is somewhat frayed, Stonich has written some beautifully descriptive passages, intuiting a softening of memory and the need for a last peaceful compromise with the immanence of death.	2002-04-17
1582505:US	51010391	R2V6Q8KM470PJ1	0375758615	878221461	Mapping the Edge: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Stunning and beautifully crafted...	Characterized by crisp phrasing and an impressive clarity of description, Dunant has fashioned a story that easily transcends the typical mystery-thriller genre. With a practiced and skillful hand, Dunant steers her readers through the intricacies of familial relationships and affairs of the heart.<br />At the core of it all is Anna, a single mother who adores her daughter, Lily, and has constructed a loving, if unconventional family with the help of close friends. In her almost obsessive love for Lily, the beautiful, independent Anna begins to fear the loss of herself in the constant fascination of the ever-changing Lily. So she takes a short holiday to Italy, there to renew neglected facets of her life in a tryst with a new lover, seeking the assurance that motherhood hasn't robbed her of the stimulation of physical and emotional passion she occasionally craves. Anticipating a short escape into the arms of pleasure, Anna's finely tuned intelligence senses something amiss in her personal Garden of Eden. Her brief but intense affair with the mysterious \\"Samuel\\" sends a shiver of uncertainty below the seemingly uncomplicated cloak of pleasure, while Lily remains safely ensconced at home in London with her mother's dearest friend, Estelle, and \\"surrogate\\" father, Paul. But pinpricks of anxiety also begin to intrude upon their purposefully domestic facade, segueing into the worst-case scenario when Anna fails to return as planned. For the child's sake, the adults maintain a united front, quietly enduring an increasing sense of impending tragedy.<br />Anna's motherhood is finely rendered, artfully exposed and vulnerable, her character the very essence of rapturous first-time motherhood, the pure joy of watching a child bloom, whose very existence is celebrated by those who surround her. Equally comfortable in her sensual skin, Anna explores the boundaries of a sexual relationship with a natural earthiness that is seductive and imaginative. There is a genuine engagement of intelligence by this author, beyond solving a clever crime, and the reader wants nothing so much as to see this child reunited with this mother, to put that small, but perfect, universe back in balance. Dunant clearly respects the aptitude of her audience, the ability to appreciate the blending of intellectual curiosity and mystery, in a compelling tale of love, betrayal and compassion.of intelligence by this author, beyond solving a clever crime, and the reader wants nothing so much as to see this child reunited with this mother, to put that small, but perfect, universe back in balance. Dunant clearly respects the aptitude of her audience, the ability to appreciate the blending of intellectual curiosity and mystery, in a compelling tale of love, betrayal and compassion.	2002-04-12
1582576:US	51010391	R2Z2J22JYO79LH	0802132219	606672071	Train to Pakistan	Books	5	65	67	N	Y	A harrowing journey to the inevitable...	The summer of the Partition of India in 1947 marked a season of bloodshed that stunned and horrified those living through the nightmare. Entire families were forced to abandon their land for resettlement to Muslim Pakistan and Hindu India. Once that fateful line was drawn in the sand, the threat of destruction became a reality of stunning proportions. Travelers clogged the roads on carts, on foot, but mostly on trains, where they perched precariously on the roofs, clung to the sides, wherever grasping fingers could find purchase. Muslim turned against Hindu, Hindu against Muslim, in their frantic effort to escape the encroaching massacre. But the violence followed the refugees. The farther from the cities they ran, the more the indiscriminate killing infected the countryside, only to collide again and again in a futile attempt to reach safety. Almost ten million people were assigned for relocation and by the end of this bloody chapter, nearly a million were slain. A particular brutality overtook the frenzied mobs, driven frantic by rage and fear. Women were raped before the anguished eyes of their husbands, entire families robbed, dismembered, murdered and thrown aside like garbage until the streets were cluttered with human carnage.<br />The trains kept running. For many remote villages the supply trains were part of the clockwork of daily life, until even those over-burdened trains, off-schedule, pulled into the stations, silent, no lights or signs of humanity, their fateful cargo quiet as the grave.  At first the villagers of tiny Mano Majra were unconcerned, complacent in their cooperative lifestyle, Hindu, Sikh, Muslim and quasi-Christian. Lulled by distance and a false sense of security, the villagers depended upon one another to sustain their meager quality of life, a balanced system that served everyone's needs. There had been rumors of the arrival of the silent \\"ghost trains\\" that moved quietly along the tracks, grinding slowly to a halt at the end of the line, filled with slaughtered refugees.<br />When the first ghost train came to Mano Majra the villagers were stunned. Abandoning chores, they gathered on rooftops to watch in silent fascination. With the second train, they were ordered to participate in burying the dead before the approaching monsoons made burial impossible. But reality struck fear into their simple hearts when all the Muslims of Mano Majra were ordered to evacuate immediately, stripped of property other than what they could carry. The remaining Hindus and Sikhs were ordered to prepare for an attack on the next train to Pakistan, with few weapons other than clubs and spears. The soldiers controlled the arms supply and would begin the attack with a volley of shots. When the people realized that this particular train would be carrying their own former friends and neighbors, they too were caught, helpless in the iron fist of history, save one disreputable (Hindu) dacoit whose intended (Muslim) wife sat among her fellow refugees. The story builds impressive steam as it lurches toward destiny, begging for the relief of action. In the end, the inevitable collision of conscience and expediency looms like a nacreous cloud above the hearts of these unsophisticated men, a mere slender thread of hope creating unbearable tension.<br />I was impressed with the power of Singh's timeless narrative, as the characters are propelled toward a shattering climax, as potentially devastating as any incomprehensible actions of mankind's penchant for destruction. I was struck also, by the irony: how the proliferation of a rail system that infused previously unknown economic growth potential to formerly remote areas, also became the particular transport of Death. Only a few years earlier, a rail system in another part of the world carried innumerable Jews to Hitler's ovens, another recent barbaric use of Progress, originally intended to further enrich the potential accomplishments of the human race.ine, filled with slaughtered refugees.<br />When the first ghost train came to Mano Majra the villagers were stunned. Abandoning chores, they gathered on rooftops to watch in silent fascination. With the second train, they were ordered to participate in burying the dead before the approaching monsoons made burial impossible. But reality struck fear into their simple hearts when all the Muslims of Mano Majra were ordered to evacuate immediately, stripped of property other than what they could carry. The remaining Hindus and Sikhs were ordered to prepare for an attack on the next train to Pakistan, with few weapons other than clubs and spears. The soldiers controlled the arms supply and would begin the attack with a volley of shots. When the people realized that this particular train would be carrying their own former friends and neighbors, they too were caught, helpless in the iron fist of history, save one disreputable (Hindu) dacoit whose intended (Muslim) wife sat among her fellow refugees. The story builds impressive steam as it lurches toward destiny, begging for the relief of action. In the end, the inevitable collision of conscience and expediency looms like a nacreous cloud above the hearts of these unsophisticated men, a mere slender thread of hope creating unbearable tension. <br />I was impressed with the power of Singh's timeless narrative, as the characters are propelled toward a shattering climax, as potentially devastating as any incomprehensible actions of mankind's penchant for destruction. I was struck also, by the irony: how the proliferation of a rail system that infused previously unknown economic growth potential to formerly remote areas, also became the particular transport of Death. Only a few years earlier, a rail system in another part of the world carried innumerable Jews to Hitler's ovens, another recent barbaric use of Progress, originally intended to further enrich the potential accomplishments of the human race.	2002-04-12
1582881:US	51010391	R21DHA2MHTTAMI	0915943565	876961039	Cracking India: A Novel	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	Loss of innocence and national chaos	Wrenched from the security of the familiar, a young girl gleans intimate knowledge of the nature of betrayal. As a cosseted child, Lenny's short life is defined by the affection of family, friends and her beloved Ayah. As most children who have the blessing of regularity in their lives and know the indulgence of boredom, Lenny is on an intimate terms with mundane household affairs and neighborhood gossip, her extended family ever available for entertainment and amusing peccadilloes. The family's simple life changes forever with the Partition of India in 1947 and the creation of Pakistan for Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs remaining in the state of India. As citizens of the newly formed Pakistan, this family's everyday reality begins to shift with the changing times, threatening to destroy a child's security and trust forever.<br />In Lahore, a city that has welcomed differences and encouraged variety, Muslims, Sikhs and Hindus have mixed without incident. After the Partition, the dangers of alliance permanently stamp the mark of change and entire families begin to disappear overnight. In agonizing stages, Sidwha relates this tragic account through Lenny's eyes. And it is that vision, with glimpses of violence flashing around the periphery, that ultimately alerts Lenny to the shape of the future. The juxtaposition of family life and national chaos outlines an insider's interpretation of daily routine and a whole country spinning out of control. Peopled with eccentric characters and quirky personalities, one of the most romantic and beloved is Lenny's beautiful and desirable Ayah. Ultimately, the abrupt disappearance of that Ayah, who has been kidnapped by nefarious characters, is central to the theme of this carefully wrought tale. All sense of harmony and continuity is abruptly shattered by the miasma of violence that seeps under closed doors at night like a poisonous invisible fog. This book is a stunning reminder of the nature of impermanence, \\"collateral damage\\" in the form of a loving Ayah, whose lovely spirit is virtually destroyed along with Lenny's innocence.form of a loving Ayah, whose lovely spirit is virtually destroyed along with Lenny's innocence.	2002-04-12
1601961:US	51010391	R1EFQ6TX08V7JF	0151006725	216165989	Slammerkin: A Loose Dress, A Loose Woman	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The shattered life of a "working girl"....	This gritty account of the short life of Mary Saunders proposes a likely scenario for this ill-fated young woman. On the streets of 1760's London and pregnant at 14, Mary does what desperate women have done since the beginning of recorded time. While the facts may differ, Mary's short life as a street hustler, befriended by Doll, another prostitute, is an old one. By circumstance and the imminence of violence, Mary finds herself on the road to distant rural Monmouth, offering her services as a maid/seamstress to her mother's former schoolmate, Jane Jones.<br />Finding acceptance in the household, there is a great moral cataclysm for Mary as she struggles to define her daily life in this remote area. Mrs. Jones, for her part, has an inexplicable fondness for the simple girl, her country naivete allowing Jane to overlook the obvious. And Mary is strangely drawn to the comfort of \\"family\\" of a sort, but unable to relinquish her obsession to save money for an unknown future, clandestinely servicing travelers. Under the weighty yoke of womanhood forced through the body of an adolescent, Mary trusts only her intimate knowledge of life's bitter hazards. With one hand groping for security and safe harbor, the other reaches instinctively toward devastation and the annihilation of her own small spark of life. Mary spends her final days waiting for the hangman, feeling the fetid breath of Death upon her neck: \\"Mary knew now that death moved through the crowd wearing the face of an ordinary stranger, and tapped you on the shoulder with no warning. Better to run into his embrace.\\"<br />Much like THE DRESS LODGER, SLAMMERKIN is richly detailed and profoundly disturbing. How many women have passed without note, in a world where their only worth is judged by the usefulness of flesh and transient value to the natural needs of man? At Mary's hanging, a fellow servant and one-time suitor muses, \\"how easily the worst in oneself could rise up and strike a blow. How even the most enlightened man had little power over his own darkness.\\" And how fortunate we are, those of us who have the luxury of reading this haunting tale, freed from the necessity of living its brutal realityened man had little power over his own darkness.\\" And how fortunate we are, those of us who have the luxury of reading this haunting tale, freed from the necessity of living its brutal reality	2002-03-28
1602849:US	51010391	R13SGLJGR43IV	1573222038	595147475	Fingersmith	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Innocents, villains, scoundrels and greed	Young Sue Trinder, a denizen of back-alley 1860's London, considers herself most fortunate, raised by the likes of Mrs. Sucksby, a \\"baby farmer\\" who oversees a dilapidated house of \\"fingersmiths\\" (pickpockets) and assorted petty criminals. After all, hasn't Mrs. Sucksby raised Sue as if she were her own daughter? So when Gentleman, a dapper con-artist, appears in the damp and murky kitchen of the house on Lant Street requesting Sue's assistance in a swindle with great potential, who can refuse? Mrs. Sucksby appreciates this opportunity for Sue to make her fortune (half of which will go to Mrs. Sucksby) and seventeen-year-old Sue agrees with a heavy heart, reluctant to leave the only security she's ever known. After rigorous practice as a \\"lady's maid\\", Sue leaves London with Gentleman bound for the quiet countryside, well-rehearsed for her entry into polite society. Her assignment is to please Gentleman's \\"mark\\", the heiress Miss Maud Lilly, and gain her confidence.<br />As with Water's previous novel, AFFINITY, the reader settles willingly upon a spider web as skillful and innovative as any this author has written. Everything seems obvious on the surface, and yet nothing is ever as it first appears. With a firm grip, Waters draws her readers into unimaginable situations, through frightful experiences and harrowing ordeals, only to surface inside-out at the turn of a page. The original shock is delivered at the beginning of the second half of the novel, but from then on, beware. Peopled with villainous \\"gentlemen\\", cruel servants and warped intentions, this is a dangerous world, to be navigated with utmost caution, ready to scream bloody murder. And only Sarah Waters can deliver you safely.	2002-03-28
1611835:US	51010391	R2Y72ABO2RQK91	0385720688	645229148	The Banyan Tree: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The lush prose of a simple woman's life	I read this brilliant novel thanks to an Amazon friend, entirely unfamiliar with this gifted author. From the first page, I willingly immersed my imagination in his uncommon phrasing and particular eye for description, where the ordinary becomes extraordinary and the plain beautiful. A simple tale of a mother's last years of widowhood and patient wait for worldly release becomes a transforming journey through the corridors of her soul, one not unlike the hidden beauty of my own mother's heart, perhaps, eventually, even of mine. For Minnie O'Brien is, at the core, the essence of motherhood at its most elemental and complex. We learn of her marriage and children through a loving wife and mother's eyes, she who remembers those precious childhood moments, when such sweet intimacy can pierce a heart with pain and joy in equal measure.<br />From the start, Minnie and Peter O'Brien form a love match that sustains them through the years, raising three children. Brendan, the first-born, is enamored of a life in the Church, begun as a missionary, leading ultimately to a position as a Bishop. Their daughter, Sheila, has set down her own roots in England, established her own family. And the youngest O'Brien, Frankie, has heard the siren-call of wanderlust, impatient to begin his vague pursuit of worldly travel. Each of the O'Brien children step impulsively into their own futures, but of all, Minnie's heart refuses to relinquish the hope that Frankie, the prodigal son, will one day return. Into her eighth decade, she wills her aching bones and weary mind to keep moving through the daily necessities of their small farm, frequently lost in reverie, dancing over the fields of yesterday, reliving the passions of her youth.<br />THE BANYAN TREE pulses with extravagant language, reforming archaic definitions, rendering sentences fresh and beautiful as the Emperor's New Clothes. The pages resonate with a passion for life, the intransigence of beauty, and, of course, the ultimate expectation of forgiveness. Don't read this book unless you love the taste of words on your tongue, or the turn of phrase as sensitive as a lover's glance that spreads across your face like fire. This novel is a treasure for those with an insatiable thirst for the road less traveled, the impulse to scale walls of words that become fanciful towers of impossible heights... and, as well, a willingness to abandon reasoning to genius.ation of forgiveness. Don't read this book unless you love the taste of words on your tongue, or the turn of phrase as sensitive as a lover's glance that spreads across your face like fire. This novel is a treasure for those with an insatiable thirst for the road less traveled, the impulse to scale walls of words that become fanciful towers of impossible heights... and, as well, a willingness to abandon reasoning to genius.	2002-03-20
1619302:US	51010391	R2Z5W3SKVYHBAQ	0743237188	434448992	Fall On Your Knees (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	"Oh what tangled webs we weave..."	I had reservations about reading this book, but on the advice of a friend, took the plunge.  Not to be facetious, but James Piper, the patriarch of this family saga, should never have gotten married, considering the grief he brought on his family. The style and quality of writing throughout is excellent; in her larger-than-life approach to multiple family tragedy, Macdonald has created a great melange of family-run-amok. In the beginning, a marriage takes place that is highly inappropriate, yet none of the characters question it, not even the girl's parents. From there, Macdonald moves along to domestic violence, incest, rape, etc. The four daughters in the story, daddy's girls all, have not the vaguest notion how to define themselves as healthy individuals. They bounce from one disaster to another, with no possibility of self-definition. At the same time, the author manages to give each girl a unique personality with the human qualities we all share, and each daughter has her own distinct characteristics.<br />This first-time author may have saddled a horse she couldn't ride, as the story got bigger and more convoluted with each chapter, presenting many issues needing resolution by the end, which, although abrupt, revealed the long-buried family skeletons.  I wish Macdonald had more faith in her readers, that the descriptive and stylish writing would carry us along with her to the final pages. I was somewhat disturbed by the way she used the black characters in the story, who appeared flat and one-dimensional.  Certainly Macdonald has the talent to make all of her characters as fully fleshed as the Piper family. There was meager hope to be found in this saga, which, at one time or another, featured virtually every form of dysfunctional family antics, but for a first novel, it is impressive. I expect this author to write continually more satisfying novels as she refines her writing skills.	2002-03-14
1620051:US	51010391	RHG5VZXPMHKR0	0375407375	175582861	Half a Life	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Is half a life better than none?	This spare novel of one man's journey through half of his life making decisions of convenience is impressive and erudite. Naipaul dips into the soul of Willie Chandran, whose father's own sense of impermanence imbues the son with the same tentativeness. Born a brahmin, the father chooses to marry out of his caste, in the spirit of Mahatma Ghandi. His mother is from the \\"backwards\\" class, as different from the father (and therefore repulsive) as possible. Between such opposites, Willie listens as both parents lament their unhappy reality.<br />Willie never appears to have a sense of himself, usually choosing the path of least resistance. When Willie leaves an undistinguished youth in India to pursue a degree in London, he takes his cultural cues from those who befriend him, their social groups, their sexual forays. With life-after-graduation looming, Willie meets a young woman who writes asking to meet him; she has an exotic Portugese-sounding name and has lived in the African bush. Intrigued, he marries her, borrows her life and moves to Africa with her. Once again his days become a patchwork of other people's adventures and friendships. Finally, Willie sees his pattern, disgusted by his inability to \\"be\\" himself. But Willie comes to understand that in the nature of life \\"everything goes on a bias. The world should stop, but it goes on\\". And such a life is half a life.	2002-03-14
1620090:US	51010391	R3CRKT6GTZLHWY	014026390X	383126260	A Matter of Time	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The wonderfully complex hearts of women	As a writer, Deshpande speaks with the voice of truth. The core of her talent is a profound understanding of the layered complexities of women's familial interactions, the nurturing friendships and smoldering silences of past deeds. She weaves the story of four generations of Indian women caught in the &quot;metaphor of silence&quot;.<br />When Gopal, in a rush of existential angst, tells his wife, Sumi, that he cannot stay married, he makes this decision in good faith. Unable to find joy in the small moments of family, he is hyper-aware of the fleeting nature of happiness. With the simple intention to be true to himself, he sets in place a series of events with tragic consequences. The most wrenching change is for Sumi, Gopal's beautiful still-young wife, who must return to live in her parents home with three young daughters. In her struggle for a new definition of herself, Sumi grieves and accepts the loss of her marriage, discovers untapped strengths within herself and possibilities for her future. Sumi begins anew knowing that &quot;where I stand is always the center to me&quot;. Of the girls, Anu, the oldest, struggles hardest to understand how her everyday simplicity could change so drastically. She watches the grownups carefully: her mother, Sumi, her grandmother, Kalyani, and distant grandfather, Shripati. And Anu listens to old family stories in an attempt to comprehend the intricacies of the women's subtle alliances.<br />No one is prepared for tragedy as they attempt to reassemble their hopes and dreams with an eye to the future. But life is ever unpredictable and this Indian family is dealt a blow that leaves them staggering for balance. In her powerful, quiet way, Deshpande lovingly renders her complex characters, bringing the reader into their home just long enough to love these women too, and mourn their loss, a rare gift in a writer.	2002-03-14
1652742:US	51010391	R30VEBY8197IRZ	0312280041	821860031	Grange House: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	(3.5) Plot-driven Victo-Goth....	When I saw the title and read a few pages, I fell right into this novel, attracted to the eccentricities of the Victorian era. GRANGE HOUSE begins as a summer adventure, an annual family vacation to the coast of Maine. But tragedy looms, as two young lovers drown on the first day of the visit, and Maisie Thomas sees one of them as a ghost. Miss Thomas is only 17, impressionable and nave, her innocent world circumscribed by her parents. Her sympathies and curiosity lie with the reclusive owner of Grange House, the spinster Nell Grange. Every summer, Maisie anticipates the hours spent with Miss Grange, her aura of secrecy and lost romance. There is a secret, of course, and a necessity for Maisie to uncover her role in the story. That same summer, when we first meet Maisie, a tragic accident changes everything. From that point on, the story unfolds with all its attendant complications. Returning to Grange House the following summer, Maisie experiences a sense of purpose. She feels connected to the Grange family history, determined to understand its mysteries.<br />In a very subtle manner, GRANGE HOUSE makes a feminist statement, defining the limited opportunities for Victorian women, forever in the shadow of their husbands. Even after the death of a husband, a woman is referred to as \\"Widow  _____\\". Victorian social conventions are structured to control the behavior of young, single women, if not the male counterparts.<br />The writing is perfect Victoriana: ornate descriptions, shadowed rooms, lonely wind-swept graves, boat accidents, a dilapidated quarry. And there is romance, complete with complications, as Maisie is torn between two suitors. In fact, there are so many issues needing resolution, that they all tumble together, crashing together at the end. By then, so few pages remain, it is impossible to adequately complete the story line. Once the action really starts, almost halfway through the book, it snowballs, gathering momentum and characters along the way. The Gothic element is often forced, and far too many bodies litter the pages, leaving Grange House in need of a boat full of new guests to fill the empty rooms. However, for a first novel, this author has done a beautiful job with language and atmosphere.. The Gothic element is often forced, and far too many bodies litter the pages, leaving Grange House in need of a boat full of new guests to fill the empty rooms. However, for a first novel, this author has done a beautiful job with language and atmosphere.	2002-02-16
1653115:US	51010391	R2OVFDJTBHUDPQ	0449909662	561353583	The Holder of the World	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Virtual history: being there	The more I ponder this book, the more intriguing I find the story. Beigh Masters is an &quot;asset-hunter&quot; in search of a legendary diamond from India, The Emperor's Tear. Her research leads to a connection with a distant relative, Hannah Easton, who lived in Salem, Mass., in the 1670's. Now fascinated by her own familial ties, Beigh traces Hannah's life from New England to the Coromandel Coast and the powerful East India Trading Company. Most extraordinary, Hannah becomes the &quot;Salem Bibi&quot;, the white lover of a Hindu Raja, carving herself a place in history.<br />But there is more: the novel is so brilliantly themed, the premise so unique, that this reader was guided through a journey of staggering originality. Beigh's lover/companion, Venn, is developing a computer program that would allow an individual to experience a few moments in the past, set to a specific time frame, with pertinent information entered into the program. Beigh provides the structural facts, creating the opportunity to ......? Is it really even possible? This is not &quot;time-travel&quot; as usually written, but Virtual participation in real time.  Mukerjee actually ties the threads of history together, from one side of the world to the other, suggesting infinite permutations. Not your traditional historical novel, Mukerjee fashions an ending worthy of any mystery-adventure devotee. Experiencing this story is an adventure in itself.	2002-02-15
1658720:US	51010391	R6U044JIMN6C5	014200023X	885194498	A Heart of Stone	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	A heartbreaking quest for forgiveness	I knew from the first page that this small, powerful book would break my heart. What begins as the tale of happy, bustling family life, becomes the macabre unraveling of a crime so heinous, that the surviving daughter can barely function years after the event.<br />Ellen informs the reader from the very beginning that she has escaped from a nightmare, a waking dream that has haunted every action since her 12th birthday. We discover what happened, page by taunting page, until finally glimpsing the enormity of Ellen's alienation. The horrific details are revealed slowly, building a sense of impending doom. What might have been a simple Gothic mystery, is instead a journey toward salvation. Alternating events, present and past, serve as the author's vehicle.<br />At 12 years of age Ellen experienced a bitter lesson: home, the safest place for a child, is transformed, at the blink of an eye, into the most dangerous place, the site of an unspeakable crime. As one of the two remaining siblings, Ellen has spent her years squandering herself through promiscuity, false bravado and self-hate. Now pregnant with a stranger's child, in the middle of a divorce, Ellen moves into the vacant family home, recently put on the market. Drawn into the familiar rooms, where it all began and ended so tragically, this sojourn is a means to salvation, unconscious or not. Ellen confronts the demons that pollute her waking moments. The reward is in the journey itself, step by step, as Ellen unlocks the chains of the past and finds the way home to her authentic self.	2002-02-11
1662105:US	51010391	RL0IPJBVS1ZL9	0743418263	452670847	Music & Silence	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Music, court intrigue and unrequited love	17th C. Denmark is the setting. The characters are: King Charles IV; his wife Kirsten; Peter Claire, a lutenist from England; and Emilie, Kirsten's newest lady-in-waiting. The background characters are finely developed as well, each playing his integral part as the story unfolds. All is well orchestrated, moving cleanly to an ending where any loose ends are eventually wrapped in a tidy knot.<br />Peter, the English lutenist, finds himself cast as the King's  &quot;angel&quot; when King Charles becomes moody and distressed by his personal loneliness and the impending poverty of his kingdom. At the same time Charles is perilously besotted with the charms of an adulterous Kirsten. Not particularly kingly, Charles IV is rather a sad lump, much in need of aid in any form; he receives this help through the gracious character of Peter Claire.<br />Then there is Emilie, Kirsten's lady, who wins Peter's heart at their first meeting. But this is not an easy romance, as Queen Kirsten has chosen Emilie as her most trusted lifetime companion. When Kirsten is inevitably banished from the Court for her outrageous misdeeds, she takes Emilie to live in the country as well, now Kirsten's only friend and solace. A durable soul with misplaced loyalty, Emilie becomes an unknowing pawn to the selfish woman's whims.<br />Will the King find happiness and riches sufficient to support his faltering economy? Will Peter and Emilie be forever lost to one another through Kirsten's machinations? By design, the novel moves from place to place, scene to scene, with seemingly unrelated characters. They are, in fact, all moving toward the resolution of the carefully woven plot, and precise detail lends an appealing ambience to the Court. The answers fall gracefully in line in this meticulously manicured maze where the author remains in control throughout.	2002-02-08
1662681:US	51010391	R2U9G8LUX0AHGB	0385334923	414482955	Tulip Fever: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	(3.5)The perfect ingredients for an unusual tale of passion	Romance, betrayal, greed, deception: this novel has everything going for it, as well as a fast-paced narrative. 1630's Amsterdam is a city teeming with pride, culture and accomplishment. The citizens are lawful and moral. Craft guilds are prospering, and well-to-do families display paintings on the walls of their homes that typify the richness of the times. Artists are everywhere, honing their craft, masters and students; many are today considered great Masters, whose paintings hang today in the most prestigious museums.<br />It is in this environment that a smoldering romance is born between an artist, Jan van Loos, and a youthful married woman. Cornelis Sandvoort has contracted with Jan van Loos to paint a portrait, Sandvoort posing with his young wife, Sophie. This elderly husband is a man who both treasures and covets his wife's beauty and youth, never suspecting that Sophie will fall in love with the handsome artist. This young woman married the older Cornelis to better her family fortunes and live in the luxury her husband offers. Sophie has not meant to betray her husband, but finds herself unable to govern her heart. In desperation, Sophie conceives an ingenious plan so precise that it must be perfectly timed to be successful. Jan and Sophie embrace this plan without hesitation, so besotted are they.<br />Perfect timing is crucial to the lovers. In their favor, a phenomenon is raging throughout the land, known as Tulip Fever. A wise investment in tulip production can net a man more than he could make in a lifetime. The fever of speculation runs rampant, even among serious men, let alone a risk-taker like Jan van Loos.  Jan and Sophie see this opportunity for a quick fortune as the final piece in their salvation and proceed to implement their secret plan. The author skillfully builds the pace, chapter by chapter, until the final cataclysmic series of events when fortunes are made and lost, and lives are changed forever.	2002-02-08
1676150:US	51010391	RPV9RZY7YT6TQ	0515130117	852836468	The Sabbathday River	Books	3	9	10	N	Y	"The Scarlet Letter" meets Turow, Grisham, et al.	I'll begin this review with two words: Hester Prynne. The recipient of the \\"scarlet letter\\"  comes to mind as soon as Heather Pratt's love affair and pregnancy becomes the central theme of the story. This novel is a strange brew of three particular women: Naomi (who finds the tiny victims), a (nominal) Jewish feminist collective manager, recently divorced; Judith, a (practicing) Jewish feminist lawyer who becomes Heather's advocate in court; and Heather, an isolated, nave young woman involved in an obsessive affair with a serial adulterer.<br />Raised by her grandmother after her own mother abandoned her, Heather's obsession with the pony-tailed Ashley often renders her seemingly simple-minded, her inability to judge her actions with respect to others almost sociopathic. Heather flaunts her affair and openly carries Ashley's child at the same time his own wife is pregnant. A small town is the stage for this drama, Heather the fuel for gossip. When an infant is discovered facedown in the Sabbathday River, all fingers point to Heather. At this point, Naomi, Heather's employer, asks her friend Judith to represent the hapless girl.<br />But not to worry, all bigotry is laid bare in the courtroom, thanks to Judith's incisive mind and the duplicity of the prosecutor. So many variables are tossed into the ring during the trial, that THE SCARLET LETTER morphs into high courtroom dudgeon. Each mean-spirited and misguided citizen is flayed during the trial by a merciless Judith.<br />I don't want to spend too much time on a novel that is such a bubbling stew of far too many issues, which actually inhibit its potential. In its fashion, THE SABBATHDAY RIVER is a page-turner, but there are too many problems barely resolved by the last page, which has an improbable and abrupt ending. As well, the premise for Heather's indictment is absurd. A criminal case must meet certain standards to proceed, and this case is ludicrous. SABBATHDAY RIVER is plot-driven, rather than character-driven. I would have enjoyed it more had the author spent some time on character development.riven. I would have enjoyed it more had the author spent some time on character development.	2002-01-28
1681524:US	51010391	R2FEHT9TZ702NT	0765341174	632116943	Sarah (Women of Genesis, Book 1)	Books	3	0	3	N	Y	(3.5) A Biblical woman for the ages	This historical novel offers an unusual look at the life of a woman from the Old Testament, Sarah, wife of Abraham. Well-researched, the story follows Sarah through her long life, her marriage to Abraham, and how that marriage enriched her life. The difficulties of a shepherd's wife are gratefully accepted and they live in abundance, even in the midst of want. Joined to Abraham, Sarah becomes an integral part of the foundation of the Tribes of Israel.	2002-01-24
1681638:US	51010391	R3NSLWMJEKQ3J2	1582431817	607572582	A Student of Weather	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The complications of family, love and betrayal	This elegiac novel is full of contrasts: light and dark, truth and deception, love and rejection. Written in prose that illuminates, the story unfolds through the eyes of the youngest of two motherless sisters, Norma Joyce. Small, dark and exotic, Norma Joyce is a square peg that refuses to fit in a round hole. In contrast with her older, golden-haired sister, Lucinda, Norma is passionate about nature, curious and tenacious. From the time Maurice Dove enters their lives, Norma Joyce wraps him through her life as simply as winding her dark hair around a finger. Maurice permeates her world, her interpretation of reality and her definition of beauty for years to come.<br />The tension between the sisters is as old as mankind, and Norma Joyce is unable to do anything but what speaks to her true nature. The sisters peaceful coexistence is threatened by the reality of Maurice, ultimately defining each young woman in unexpected ways.<br />Norma seems at times driven by her own dark desire, even as a child. Her challenge is to live in a way that is self- rather than other-defining. Her true identity remains in shadow until she learns to walk comfortably through the rooms of her own soul, accepting the limitations of her family's inability to express love.<br />The texture of this novel is extraordinary. A first-time read is only the beginning; A STUDENT OF WEATHER will take on new incarnations with each reading.	2002-01-24
1682084:US	51010391	R3TQ4YSTI5X2DB	0375414819	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	(4.5) Brilliant writing, stunning in scope	This layered novel of India is a vivid portrayal of hardship, grief, passion and hope. Mistry's love of India shines through even the darkest passages, unflinching. His four main characters carry the entire story: Maneck, a student; Dina \\"Aunty\\" Dalal, a widow; and Ishvar and Omprakesh, who have abandoned their caste as tanners to become tailors.<br />The tailors, the most destitute of all the characters, carry a message of hope as they overcome each obstacle life places in their path. These four people live under the same roof for a short time, in the interest of mutual survival. Maneck is near the same age as Omprakesh, and they quickly bond with each other. The most impressive and memorable characters are the tailors. They endure the most incredible hardships every day. Their courage and spirit allow Ishvar and Om to triumph over even the most devastating experiences, and their kindness draws others to them, creating a sense of community wherever they go. Even \\"Dina Aunty\\" learns from Ishvar and Om; a stubborn woman, the uncle and his nephew work their magic on her, softening the lines of caste and compassion.<br />A FINE BALANCE portrays the harsh realities of India, always difficult, often appalling. But this writer offers a testament to the human spirit, found in uncomplicated men with extraordinary heart. These people are not the exception, they are the soul of India.	2002-01-24
1692095:US	51010391	RLDUE8FQPMNBX	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	A family's journey into its own wilderness	Kingsolver's most powerful and memorable book to date, THE POISONWOOD BIBLE is multi-faceted: intricate layers become a pattern of endurance and survival in a harsh and demanding land. The missionary family of parents and four daughters undertake to bring their Christian message to the Congo. A land that demands respect, Africa is nothing they could ever have imagined. The father becomes ever more rigid in his beliefs, while the mother and daughters attempt to adjust to this environment and learn from it.<br />The story is told primarily from the viewpoints of the four daughters as the inevitable tragedy unfolds, leaving the family stunned in its aftermath, as their time in Africa changes their lives forever. This tale is an indictment of the missionary hubris that disrespected generations grounded in their own history, the belief that the missionaries could bring &quot;The Word&quot; to &quot;savages&quot;. The brutality of everyday existence is juxtaposed with the incomparable beauty of nature and the stunning images of Kingsolver's phrasing: &quot;As long as I kept moving, my grief streamed out behind me like a swimmer's long hair in water&quot;.<br />The only view we aren't told is Nathan's, he of the implacable judgment, stripped hard as stone by his belief in a righteous and angry God, one with no mercy. Nathan is ultimately destroyed by the blind faith of his beliefs, making idolatry of the very Word he wears like a crown, distorting truth to his own ego-driven ambition: the death of the spiritual self in the aggrandizement of ritual. In the end, &quot;Africa swallowed the conqueror's music and sang a new song of her own&quot;.	2002-01-16
1692220:US	51010391	R1Z04UHWBLC20R	0385264739	745541380	Children of the Alley: A Novel	Books	3	8	10	N	Y	(3.5) A cautionary tale	Through a succession of generations and characters Mafouz makes a strong case for humanity's penchant for forgetting the lessons learned by historical perspective.<br />In the beginning, an eldest son is cast from his father's house, and loses his inheritance, which goes to a son by a different mother. Like the serpent in the Garden of Eden, this next inheriting son is tempted, and also falls prey to his human failings. The two cast-out sons establish residence in the alley outside the opulent security of their father's house. They spend their lives waiting to be forgiven, for their &quot;ancestor&quot; (father) to call them and their families back into the fold. In this way, the sons and the son's sons live the life of the alley, a microcosm of the misery of mankind, where the strong feed on the weak and violence dominates.<br />The story becomes an allegory for all of mankind seeking salvation and forgiveness, a return to the source from which we came. Some of the descendants claim to have visions of their &quot;ancestor&quot; (God), changing their lives completely, spreading a doctrine of love and renewal; as well, each generation in the alley produces a &quot;prophet&quot;. Life becomes so desperate that the people willingly change their ways and temporary peace settles on the alley. In each case, over time, all is forgotten and the people fall into despair again. And so the cycle repeats. The reader is left to look inward at his own role, his own small history, whether to choose the light or the darkness.	2002-01-16
1692368:US	51010391	R2P8Z4SQUUZMVM	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	3	5	8	N	N	(3.5)Difficult read, mostly worth the effort	In some ways THE CORRECTIONS reminds me of BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES,  Tom Wolfe's stunning accomplishment, although clearly not as intricately layered. BONFIRE was a great achievement, but didn't translate to the screen at all, which is just as well. A book should be appreciated for its inherent value, not the visual effects a film may produce. THE CORRECTIONS, while beautifully structured, has the cynicism but not the sophistication of BONFIRE. The author is extremely talented, awesomely so, if jaundiced in his view of nuclear family life and its extensions. That none of the characters are even remotely likeable is part of its charm, the genre even.<br />There was another novel a few years ago THE TURN OF THE CENTURY by Kurt Anderson that seems close to this one, although certainly not superior. I liked those characters even less than those in THE CORRECTIONS. But TURN OF THE CENTURY also had the formula going for it: self-concerned people in pursuit of success/happiness/anything and lots of interesting lifestyle trivia along the way, as well as fascinating ambient information. Finally, we know so much about each character, they are so flawed as to remind us of ourselves, in that we all have hidden parts that do not bear revelation to the light of day. So everyone says, &quot;Really fabulous writing&quot;, meaning, &quot;I'd never have the guts to put that on paper!&quot; The only ones we ever know that well are ourselves, and nobody's telling that ugly stuff. In a way, Franzen is competing in a genre where few authors have been successful. He is one of the successes, without doubt. This book is well worth the effort, if, for nothing else, the information about Parkinson's Disease, as it affects the family as well as the victim. Franzen's novel is rich with the meat of humanity in all it's familial disguises.	2002-01-16
1733226:US	51010391	R1SVCHG7WUWTAU	038548951X	764861011	Sister of My Heart: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	(4.5) A poignant portrait of friendship	Divakaruni is a writer with extraordinary heart, as she exposes her own soul with every word. Two &quot;sisters-by-family&quot;, cousins-by-birth, Sudha and Anju are two sides of one coin, living and educated in a traditional upper class environment, sheltered from the worldly effects of Calcutta. When both of their fathers meet accidental deaths, the girls are raised in a predominantly maternal home.<br />Sudha and Anju have shared everything in their young lives: Anjou is studious, practical, and usually willing to defer to the shining beauty of her cousin; Sudha, perhaps by virtue of her beauty, is hungry for experience and romance, cushioned by an excess of naivete. Plagued by insatiable curiosity, Sudha demands to learn a family secret, which alters her life and personal choices forever, affecting the bond forged since birth.<br />We are party to the subtle changes of each young woman, in alternating chapters, until their maturity, marriage and coincedental pregnancies. As happens to all adults, they are forced to make painful decisions, ultimately drawing their charmed circle around eachother once more. But much of the pleasure of SISTER OF MY HEART is in the reading. I didn't want the story to end, and at the same time, couldn't stop reading it until long after midnight. Divakaruni is a writer to treasure, a writer of the heart.	2001-12-14
1734537:US	51010391	R1LHKBB5SEV1CU	0375501487	197783362	The Glass Palace: A Novel	Books	3	5	7	N	N	(3.5) Comforting, and culturally rich	Ghosh's style of writing is very comforting to me; in a sense, I can relax into his fiction, knowing that the machinations will eventually be clarified. The easy rhythm of his prose is non-judgmental, while the central characters build their lives around their personal ideals and prejudices. Later, Ghosh uses this objective construct to smash the characters against eachother, creating fissures in lives that once seemed so purposful and simple. It is, in fact, these very diffuse constructs that create a multi-layered society, inter-dependent for survival, doomed to experience upheaval. Ghosh's genious is in lending each of his characters a particular believeability, each identity destined to conflict with others.<br />What seems a simple generational novel becomes the mirror through which the entire society is viewed. In THE GLASS PALACE, it is the British-occupied society, &quot;the gentle masters&quot; laid bare, until the iron fist of British rule is destroyed. Dealing with this British quest for world domination, I was reminded of Barry Unsworth's SACRED HUNGER, in Unsworth's case, the importation of Africans in slaveships. There is also the matter of exploitation, evidenced from the beginning of THE GLASS PALACE, when Rajkumar makes his fortune by trickery, importing slaves to work his rubber plantations in Burma.<br />Then there is the matter of the first Indian officers in Her Majesty's Service. These officers feel free from the constraints of tradition, only to discover that, as native Indians, they will never be considered the equals of British officers. Eventually, these Indian officers fight among themselves, sensing that &quot;some are urging you on, while others are waiting for you to fail&quot;, similar to the practice of American slaveholders to use &quot;overseers&quot; to control slaves, giving them the power to inflict punishment, having certain privileges, but never freedom. In fact, when Indian soldiers are seen in Burma, the people comment, &quot;There goes the army of slaves, marching off to catch more slaves for their masters&quot;. The book is full of such observations, leaving lingering questions well after the reader has turned the last page.;There goes the army of slaves, marching off to catch more slaves for their masters&quot;. The book is full of such observations, leaving lingering questions well after the reader has turned the last page.	2001-12-13
1734884:US	51010391	R3UR231OIWPGKS	1565122992	637737764	The Hatbox Baby	Books	2	4	7	N	N	(2.5) A fascinating premise	I was caught from the first by the title. How could the story not live up to the concept? Unfortunately, Ms. Brown fails to imbue her novel with the necessary elements for this reader. Toward the middle of the book, Ms. Brown seems to hit her stride and her momentum pulls the reader along until the ending, in which the characters are still barely fleshed and disappointing. There is such an ambiguous resolution that I was left with more questions than answers.<br />In THE HATBOX BABY, a premature baby is hand-carried to the 1933 World's Fair, where a doctor is attending and exibiting premature babies in incubators of his design. The doctor and two of his neighboring performers at the World's Fair comprise the cast of characters. Having delived the &quot;Hatbox baby&quot;, the young father meets a violent death after viewing the neighboring exhibit, leaving the baby's fate in question.<br />I read Bobbie Mason's FEATHER CROWNS, which told the painful story of five premature infants born to an unsuspecting and poverty-stricken couple around the same time historically. In FEATHER CROWNS, Mason offers a fascinating picture of the consequences for the young parents and their tiny infants. I was hoping THE HATBOX BABY would offer similar satisfaction. My expectations were not met by Brown's short novel, but her writing skills lead me to believe that her book could have been as rich and full with more character and plot development.	2001-12-13
1741828:US	51010391	R2MWLWA1EDL2HL	1565123123	819656342	The Hero's Walk	Books	3	2	3	N	N	(3.5) A family: from boredom and despair to hope....	Peopled with an insular Indian family, this deceptively simple novel allows the reader to peek behind the scenes of everyday familial interactions. This family has moved through the years almost by rote, honoring the old ways and accepting the mundane pattern of their lives.<br />Meanwhile,across the ocean in America, tragedy strikes and an orphaned child appears on their doorstep. This helpless little granddaughter is the catalyst that finally propells the family into the future. In contrast, the great-grandmother tenaciously clings to the past, ever more self-absorbed as her worst traits define her final years.<br />In order to survive, family members redefine their roles, charged with a renewed sense of interest. To nurture the child, they must open themselves to the future, and become more tolerant of eachother in the process. Ms. Badami writes with a straightforward charm, unpeeling the intricacies of her characters layer by layer.	2001-12-07
1742822:US	51010391	R1IGT8VU16ZRII	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	2	1	6	N	N	(2.5) An unexpected twist	I read this book on the recommendation of a friend. After the first couple of chapters, I realized that I had seen the movie, &quot;The Ninth Gate&quot;, based on THE CLUB DUMAS. While I found the book enjoyable, especially the descriptive passages on the nature and fascination of books, the passion of imagination and archival treasures, I became confused by the two plot lines.<br />In addition, I was disappointed to learn that the concurrent themes intersected only in the mind of Lucas Corso, the mercenary book detective. All the characters are questing after Satan's secret map to immortality; unfortunately, they are all reduced to self-seeking greed. Unless a reader is curious about Satanism, I wouldn't consider any of the characters remotely interesting, except for Corso.<br />Possibly the only redeeming character was that of Lucas Corso. But his attraction to the young woman posing as his &quot;guard&quot; seems facile and predictable. Ultimately, I was disappointed in the experience, often prefering the movie images to the confusing passages in the novel.	2001-12-07
1802546:US	51010391	R1MRYRDCXYL2H3	034543885X	867133936	Redemption Song: A Novel	Books	3	0	4	N	N	An allegorical tale...	This short book reads like an allegory, as three people come together as &quot;Adam&quot;, &quot;Eve&quot; and &quot;Mentor&quot;, to discover the truths revealed in a book they read together, &quot;Children of Grace&quot;. Throughout the story, the three become sensitized to their roles in life as Black-Americans who appreciate their heritage. Although brief, REDEMPTION SONG is a call to the future, including &quot;A Recipe for Life&quot;, meant to enrich and encourage. I gave it three stars only because it is written so simply, but at the same time, I believe the author wants to reach as wide an audience as possible, her message one of healing and acceptance.	2001-10-20
1802671:US	51010391	R240WYYH29JNFM	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	3	4	7	N	N	3-in-1	I felt myself to be at a disadvantage after reading other reviews, lacking in knowledge of Virginia Woolfe's background. For that reason, I don't think the novel spoke as clearly to me, although Ms. Woolfe was my favorite character of all.<br />The author weaves three characters together, visiting each with their unique personalities, until they join together at the ending chapter. I found myself frequently wondering how Mr. Cunningham found his way to such a novel approach. However, I probably would not reread THE HOURS, for all its vivid imagery, from dead sparrows to roses. I couldn't seem to locate the depth in those who lived among the pages.	2001-10-20
1803186:US	51010391	R39Y1V21C71NSL	0385487053	301454791	The Wake of the Wind: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	The insidious misery of slavery...	It wasn't until the third chapter that I realized I had read this book before, but the author writes in an engaging manner, so I was glad to reread the story. Cooper accurately portrays the insidious damage that slavery inflicts upon generations, using two main characters as her protagonists, Mor and Lifee. As a couple, Mor and Lifee move from slavery to the early years of freedom, both having lost children and other family to the greedy maws of opression. Together they share what they have with others equally unfortunate, creating a large extended family, using a myriad of characters voices to preach Cooper's &quot;truth&quot;. At times the voices seem too high-minded, too perfect, almost lacking credability. But her forum is one of strength; and Cooper takes advantage of every opportunity to inform the uninformed, to enlighten the unenlightened. In that sense, she has certainly fulfilled her mission, to speak a truth that demands acknowledgement, even while her style is often defined by her mission.	2001-10-20
1819314:US	51010391	R3AEZTSGWE49BP	0316782076	535010736	Searching for Mercy Street: My Journey Back to My Mother, Anne Sexton	Books	4	21	27	N	N	&quot;Mommie Dearest&quot;, deja vu	I have never been a great fan of Anne Sexton, the poet. But after reading the memoir written by her daughter, I doubt that I would cherish the words the poet wrung from the souls of her young.<br />To grow up in a household where genius resides is a terrible burden. I find it amazing that Sexton's daughters, especially Linda, survived at all. It is a book painted with a palette of despair, but never mean-spirited. It was, after all, a story begging to be told:&quot;...I would bring her back to life, but to do so would require that I give up my life to her; to do so would require an act of cannibalism on her part, to reverse this process that every other mother and daughter engage in- the mother-daughter dance, birth and death...&quot;<br />Linda Gray Sexton saves the most painful revelation until last, and it becomes the defining action I will most associate with Anne Sexton. This poet, this mother, unable to attain her own epiphany, extends the cycle of emotional violence into another generation, and the betrayed becomes the betrayer. Linda Gray Sexton did what she could, finally said &quot;no more&quot;. This is by no means an indictment of the daughter. Rather, I applaud her choice for life and freedom, for her own future, for her own children.	2001-10-04
1820471:US	51010391	R2FJ114I6EAVVM	0613033574	674569455	Into The Wild (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	The hubris of youth...	We know the end from the beginning: that a young man walks into the wilds of Alaska, makes a few fatal mistakes, and dies, a victim of his own ego as much as the unforgiving wilderness.<br />Krakauer follows the journey of Christopher McCandless aka Alexander Supertramp in an attempt to recreate the fatal adventure. The author identifies somewhat with the doomed McCandless, having followed a different drummer himself. But I can't help but think that Krakauer would have been more cautious, although he makes allowances periodically for the flawed judgment of McCandless. In fact, Krakauer includes some of his own story as he picks through the debris of McCandless' fateful journey.<br />There is little attraction in this image of McCandless, albeit his friendly persona as a self-styled King of the Road. Interviews with those who met McCandless along the way reveal only dimension, and that gregarious. The darker side, with enough hubris to challenge nature on her own turf, is barely glimpsed. The folly of youth is evidenced in the blind leap into the unknown, McCandless' only provisions a bag of rice, a Waldenesque assortment of paperbacks and a .22 caliber rifle. He was either hopelessly naive or a blatant fool. One is left with a question after all: so?	2001-10-03
1820793:US	51010391	R2K6P6F29X9NWR	014027684X	863499262	Daughter of the Queen of Sheba: A Memoir	Books	3	13	15	N	N	(3.5) A dark and haunting tale...	To travel this memoir with the author, the reader gains some small comprehension of life with a bi-polar personality and how the illness dominates a family, shrinking everyone else into insignificance. Bi-polar disorder or manic depression is a phenomenon recently addressed by a number of women in their memoirs, or any of a myriad of dysfunctional behaviors that tear at the fabric of family structure.<br />In the severest cases a role reversal takes place early in the daughter's life, predictably long before the child has even defined herself. Literally, the child is forced by circumstance to relinquish her childhood; by its very nature, this confusion enables the mother to continue the destructive behavior at the expense of the entire family unit. The price is enormous, as each sibling spends years as an adult trying to recover the child within, forced to be nurturer rather than nurtured. This usurpation of childhood is probably more common than it would appear to an observer because family members cover for eachother, creating a united front.<br />While Lyden paints a vivid picture of the desolation of mental illness, by far the more heartbreaking reality is the years of confusion ahead for the daughter, whose own behavior may have become more risky and outrageous in an effort to compensate. The mother's legacy is a few moments of pure joy in a lifetime of painful distortion.<br />I found the book truthful and brutally honest, until the last chapter. By then I knew everything I ever wanted to know about Lyden's mother. The final chapter, &quot;The Queen of Sheba&quot;, seemed to wrap the package in a bow, as if to say, &quot;See how clever she is, even in her delusions?&quot; At that point I was exhausted by Lyden's mother and her terminal uniqueness. The debris left in the wake of her chaos leaves nothing to the imagination. The memoir spoke entirely to me of a woman's struggle to survive her childhood, warts and all, to purchase a sense of self from the remains.	2001-10-03
1855171:US	51010391	R1DOMEXCEGLNCS	0312276958	132682664	Elizabeth and After: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	An extraordinarily rich novel	Author Matt Cohen has created a layered novel of characters tangled together in unexpected ways. But the most stunning gift is his phrasing; he renders images as clearly as a photograph...&quot;he took her down onto the sweet cool ground and gave her little explosions and tears of pain&quot;...or &quot;the perfect silence of falling snow&quot;.<br />This intimate rendering of the quirky personalities of the inhabitants of West Gull, Ontario, include the gamut of human behavior, from the sociopathic voyeur to the powerless ageing bachelor. Throughout, it is Elizabeth who defines the commonality of life begun with such hope, now left to languish in despair or the comfort of memory. Cohen reaches deep and reminds us that his characters were once young, defined by their hopes and dreams. We know Adam only in the context of his interior life and his awe of Elizabeth. He serves as an example of the complexities within those we love and take for granted, find wanting and toss aside.<br />In Carl McKelvey we find the essence of his mother, Elizabeth. For all his troubles, he retains Elizabeth's authenticity, strength and ability to accurately &quot;read&quot; others. Carl is able to put aside his own pain and frustration in an effort to provide his daughter with the father she deserves.<br />This is an author whose words enrich the life of the reader. He lays out the tapestry of the human experience, making it impossible to dismiss anyone lightly. Covetous, malicious personalities stand beside the foolish, the innocent, the ignorant and the desperate. The landscape of ELIZABETH AND AFTER is a journey into the heart of man, and Cohen is the guide.	2001-08-31
1861977:US	51010391	R1ZWV6MXMWT8TJ	0140181873	627843589	The Home and the World (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	3	11	11	N	Y	A complex allegory	A prolific Bengalese writer, Tagore structured this novel such that three main characters represent the turbulence of the Partition that was yet to come to India in 1947. Nikhil is married to Bimala, living in the traditional domestic manner; for herself, Bimala has no expectation of her life ever deviating from her wifely path. The concept of &quot;Swadeshi&quot;, a renewed appreciation of everything Indian, and a denial of everything British, particularly British imported goods and grains, rages throughout the country. The egocentric Sandip, a guest in Nikhil's home, is a fierce proponant of Swadeshi. Sandip finds himself passionately attracted to Bimala; he idealizes her as the epitome of &quot;Mother&quot; India, and pursues Bimala without reservation. Flattered by Sandip's attention, Bimala begins to question the nature of her marriage, and the three embark upon an emotional journey that will forever alter their lives, just as India begins a lengthy period of upheaval and unrest. Of the three, Sandip is transparantly shallow, while Nikhil thoughtfully considers every aspect before embarking on a course of action. Both men indulge in lengthy discourses, but the introduction by Anita Desai does much to frame this novel in the appropriate perspective. The allegorical nature of this tale is evident as the characters plunge headlong into the future.	2001-08-26
1870076:US	51010391	R1519FNGXJ9AZE	0312264216	784017402	Acts of God: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	An escape to the past as familiar as my own.....	The tight plot of this beautifully crafted novel resonates with a history not unlike my own, growing up in the 50's, a time of indelible experience.<br />After a 30-year class reunion, Tess Winterstone opens doors to the past, some better left unopened. Flooded by unexpected memories, Tess relives her childhood, the reliving the painful discovery that parents have feet of clay. But Tess views the past with a forgiving eye, herself the divorced mother of two grown children that she still refers to as &quot;the children&quot;. Meanwhile childhood friends intrude into the present, and Tess is forced to make difficult choices while attempting to ignore reality. One thing begins, another changes, and life teaches her always to expect the unexpected.<br />Morris writes with a vivid sense of place, whether standing on a cliff overlooking the Pacific Ocean, or a railroad crossing in Illinois, the ground crackling with fallen leaves in Indian summer. This heartfelt novel has the resonance of truth, the familiar aching bones of real life.	2001-08-20
1871292:US	51010391	R22GKKIH7HSGLX	0553111035	975856624	Folly	Books	1	5	10	N	N	(1.5) Suffering from too much imagination	FOLLY will eventually be a mass-market best seller, no doubt, in spite of the fact that the book cried out for a good editor. Read the other reviews for plot; I found it formulaic and clumsy. The heroine, Rae, an artist-woodworker, widowed and depressed, isolates herself on a remote island formerly owned by a mysterious dead relative. Not a huge mystery, but at least the hint of one. King's characters are so wooden and one-dimensional, they never come alive, stuck forever in their blocks. The plots twists in unlikely unresolved ways, leaving the reader with unanswered questions. Then there are endless pages devoted to varieties of wood that fail, however, to interest or enlighten. There is little personal investment by this writer, which says volumes beyond the much-burdened folly of FOLLY.	2001-08-19
1883524:US	51010391	R3Q552L9LL2MQQ	0446608602	375817200	Personal Injuries	Books	3	2	2	N	N	3.5, Sometimes the good guys look like the bad guys.....	Normally I wouldn't review genre fiction such as this, but I thought Turow did an exceptional job of layering his plot and characters.This is the kind of novel where quick value judgments seem appropriate, only later to realize the prudence of reserving judgment.<br />There is a contrast in this story of good vs. evil, but with the caveat that &quot;fighting evil....often comes to evil&quot;. A successful Personal Injury attorney is brought down by the successful machinations of the FBI, in an attempt at massive indictments of corrupt jurists. There is no question who the bad guys are. What becomes a study in the vagaries of human nature is the extreme measures undertaken by government agencies to achieve their goals. Priorities and values shift in deceptive degrees, until it seems that all have lost pieces of their souls or found pieces of their hearts.	2001-08-10
1910838:US	51010391	R1J8KILD6PNDTB	0385720378	3943641	In the Eye of the Sun	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	(4.5) A consuming work of brilliant storytelling	I am consumed, too soon bereft/ shaded figures of my dark imagining/ still spinning images across the pages of my mind/ A thousand and one Arabian Nights pursue my dreams/ creating magic in the midnight hour/ I hold the dream, refusing to awaken/ to leave this exotic world/ only to begin another day....<br />Actually, this book was so lush and flowing, I could barely write a review after finishing it. So instead, I wrote a poem, which is, in a way, a disservice to such an enchanting first novel. Perhaps best known for MAP OF LOVE, Soueif is an extremely talented Egyptian writer who has won a lifetime fan. IN THE EYE OF THE SUN is the epic story of a young Egyptian woman in search of herself, well-educated and refined. The descriptive passages of her beloved country and family are filled with elegant prose. In addition, Soueif is unparalleled in her honesty regarding her character's coming-of-age saga. While living in England, furthering her education, the young woman meets an arrogant poseur. Ambushed by her sense of isolation and homesickness, she falls into a love affair that will have consequences for the rest of her life and ultimately devastate her long-planned marriage. Yet she walks through all with grace and courage.<br />In spite of it's length, IN THE EYE OF THE SUN kept me engrossed, reluctant to reach the last page, so immersed was I in the young woman's struggle to honor family and tradition without dishonoring herself. The only disappointment was toward the very end, in the final resolution of the tale; but for all that, I was hardly disenchanted with this beautifully crafted novel.	2001-07-20
1926722:US	51010391	R254DDZXM5G7I5	0684856085	261981405	The Last Great Dance on Earth	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A glimpse of a mythic romance...	The last in the trilogy based on the life of Josephine, wife of Napolean, humanizes this historical love affair. I actually found this volume before reading the others, but have now bought the trilogy, since the style and quality is so fluid and easy to read.<br />Josephine's point of view is certainly compassionate in regard to Bonaparte, as well as forgiving. The book consists of her journal entries describing the success and coronation of the couple as Emperor and Empress of France. What has begun as a &quot;people's revolution&quot;, gradually takes the form of a benign monarchy as Napolean models his court after other royal courts, albeit Kings and Queens. The attendant corruption is not surprising, as the struggle for power changes hands with flattery and deceit.<br />In Napolean's mind &quot;blood is all&quot;, and the extensive and greedy Napolean clan take full advantage, while Josephine is unable to bear a royal successor. There is unremitting intrigue in the court until Josephine agrees to step aside in order that Napolean may divorce her and re-marry, in hopes of fathering a son. While there is no question that this diary is written with a bias towards Josephine's defense, the scenes are well-written, dramatic and intense. I seldom read novels in a diary format, but found this engaging and informative.	2001-07-09
1927515:US	51010391	R2VW5AQ9BHRM60	1573227889	440138927	Tipping the Velvet: A Novel	Books	3	21	31	N	Y	(3.5) A &quot;Ladies&quot; Guide to Victorian England	I almost decided not to review this first novel by Sarah Waters, as I was quite speechless after finishing it. But having enjoyed AFFINITY, her second novel, I know that Waters is a uniquely talented writer. TIPPING THE VELVET leaves nothing to the imagination, so it's quite a crash course for the uniniated, but certainly worth the effort.<br />In the early 1960's, Harold Robbin's potboiler, THE CARPETBAGGERS, was a source of sexual information, and then some. In much the same way, Waters is fearless as she wades through the lesbian adventures of Victorian England. Nan King propels the reader through an emotional rollercoaster as she embarks upon a career as a music hall entertainer in drag, as well as behind the closed doors of the mansions of wealth and privilege (read: privacy), all with the intensity of new romance and broken hearts. What can I say? I was blushing through most of the book...and I did pass it on to other friends of whatever sexual orientation.	2001-07-09
1930031:US	51010391	R17M5BEPHKHTYI	0679454489	312807149	Merrick (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	(2.5) Transfusing the Vampires.....	I fell off Rice's fanwagon a few years ago. The problem may be market saturation, a good story spread too thin. Rice seems to have fallen prey to her publisher/public-demand, resulting in a series of inferior Vampire tales. But Rice has set her own standards. This current story, MERRICK, is an attempt to marry the Mayfair witches to the ageless Vampires.<br />Enter Merrick Mayfair, who magically stuns any man who lays eyes on her fine self. However lush the praise, nothing in Merrick's character justifies this awe. The reader is not seduced by Merrick, only the Vampires, and the reader is left questioning this attraction. The story wanders around until the final chapters, when Louis and Lestat surface just in the nick of time. Louis falls instantly in love; even the intrepid Lestat returns from his topor, smitten himself (??????). Lestat bows to no one, mortal or immortal, and it strains credibility that he would share the spotlight with Merrick.<br />Another major character in this novel, David Talbot, once afflicted by old age, has now assumed the body of a younger man for his Vampiric adventures. Talbot is now ready to rock and roll with the best of them. In his &quot;old&quot; suit, David has &quot;known&quot; passion with the youthful Merrick (shades of pedophilia....???). The entire plot appears to have one purpose: to create the scenario for the further adventures of three Vampires and a little lady.<br />Other reviews have questioned where Anne Rice has gone, and with good reason. Certainly she established her strong characters and reaped the monetary benefits. Of course readers want more, but we want our blood rich and thick, not diluted by inferior quality. My personal favorites are the Mayfair Witch trilogy, so I know superior writing is possible. Perhaps Rice could reassess her priorities: checkbook or quality. I have put Rice on &quot;library&quot; status, no longer buy-to-keep.	2001-07-06
1930527:US	51010391	R1EZSS175GQ37D	0385720114	977875409	The Map of Love: A Novel	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	Finding buried treasure...	Having recently read Mahfouz's Cairo Trilogy, MAP OF LOVE was the perfect choice in my desire to learn more about the Middle East. Although the love story parallels one enacted 100 years earlier, Soueif masterfully integrates her characters and storyline.<br />In the course of following a beautiful love story between two unlikely lovers, the reader is offered an historical perspective that has seldom been available to Westerners. Her feet firmly planted in the Egypt of today, the author paints the background in rich and fascinating colors. Indeed, the pull of the past is stronger than present-day reality, as the extraordinary Anna allows herself to follow the dictates of her heart. Anna&quot;s capacity for compassion is stunning, seductive in its simplicity. Even her granddaughter's parallel love story pales in comparison.<br />Against this dramatic background, Soueif delivers a much-needed history lesson. Rather than widening the chasm, this writer gives her readers the opportunity for increased awareness. A culture that appears so rigid and formalized becomes a way of life defined by love of country with passionate ties to family. There is much to learn from this culture, and the doors of perception are thrown wide open by this talented writer.	2001-07-06
1931161:US	51010391	R3DE26CQ9XAIY5	0670891762	936863572	Nowhere Else on Earth	Books	2	4	15	N	N	Down and Out in Robeson County	I read this book from first page to last, never able to quite put my finger on its pulse. In 1864 the Civil War raged in its 4th year and the &quot;macks&quot; were separatists with zero tolerance for their neighbors in Scuffletown, who hid their eligible young men in the swamp. The macks (Mac this and Mc That), the Scots planters who were original settlers of the North Carolina land, were in constant opposition with the indiginous people of the land. The landscape of Scuffletown changes like shape-shifters, as these proud Indian descendants move from place to place.<br />Rhoda Strong, daughter of Cee, tells this rambling tale of good vs. evil. We follow as she makes life-choices and committments that seem irreversible. Basing her decisions on the attitudes of this poverty-riddled family, she seems proud of two questionable virtues: stubborness and ignorance.	2001-07-06
1981828:US	51010391	RQYKKK8HJLEBL	0786866462	711918396	A Density of Souls	Books	3	1	3	N	N	(3.5) What's in a name?....... entertainment	Apparently, there's a lot in a name if we're considering Christopher Rice, the novelist-son of Ann Rice. This new author cuts his own slice of territory, and is a young writer to watch, his style reminiscent of early (read: good) Dean Koontz. Although the critics are harsh on the characters and plot, Rice, nevertheless, has his finger directly on the pulse of young America New Orleans-style.<br />The main characters personify the mystique of New Orleans from their names to their Southern familial complexities. The four friends, Greg, Brandon, Stephen and Meredith, may only be thirteen at the beginning of the story, but that year's events impact all of their young lives. This group of four ultimately splinters as Stephen Conlin is outcast from the others, labeled &quot;fag&quot;. (There is an interesting juxtaposition between the jocks and their admirers, the need for accolades of physical prowess.) As the only female, Meredith choses sides with Brandon and Greg and the die is cast, although Greg is often violent towards her.<br />Years and family tragedies pass with lasting effects on the survivors. Stephen comes to terms with his homosexuality, but there is still a sense of threat from the long-missing Brandon. Only three of the original four remain, but now Meredith is inclined to re-establish connections with Stephen, feeling protective of her former friend. When Stephen's lover is caught in a bomb explosion meant to include Stephen, the relationships become complex, involving parents, siblings, violence and grief.<br />Some critics have skewered the unbelieveability of the plot, but the fact remains that Rice's story moves along at a healthy pace, believable or not, and all his characters achieve resolution. Although the remaining three do seem sophisticated for their youth, the world they inhabit is, in fact, more knowledgeable, if not jaded. I certainly wouldn't discount this talented young writer. A DENSITY OF SOULS kept my interest more than some I've read lately, and I finished it with the satisfaction of a well-told story, anticipating Christopher Rice's evolution as a novelist.lately, and I finished it with the satisfaction of a well-told story, anticipating Christopher Rice's evolution as a novelist.	2001-05-28
1982068:US	51010391	R35W6T4QT92M0A	0449006158	868561953	The Night Inspector (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	1	4	10	N	N	The unexpected from the Inspector	As a fan of this writer, I enjoyed THE GIRLS and CLOSING ARGUMENTS and found his writing compassionate and above average. So when I purchased THE NIGHT INSPECTOR, I was already anticipating another good read. I was dismayed as time after time, when I picked up the book, I just couldn't find the passion I had come to expect from this author.<br />In an interesting twist, I again found myself confronted by MOBY DICK, this time in the form of it's author, Herman Melville. (My first sighting was IN THE HEART OF THE SEA, the novel that inspired MOBY DICK. Then in AHAB'S WIFE, there was Ahab's wife, full of her own tales and travails.) In THE NIGHT INSPECTOR, Melville strikes again, and I am wondering why there is such a proliferation of whale tales. My first experience with whales in MOBY DICK had already cured me of further curiosity forever.<br />Rumination aside, I simply could not sustain interest in Busch's masked character, although I wish I could as many others obviously enjoyed the novel. So with regret I put it aside, hoping never to run into Melville in any form again.	2001-05-28
1982903:US	51010391	R3GSGNTW7SODXD	0312280513	644476331	Nearer Than the Sky	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	A courageous tale from a fearless writer	This author is nothing less than fearless in the way she tackles a story. She may flinch, but doesn't back down, keeping the pace consistent while looking over her shoulder to be sure the reader is following.<br />Indie is the young woman struggling to make peace between her present reality and past history. In her childhood Indie relentlessly attempts to create sanity out of insanity. As the middle child, Indie's constant companion is an older brother, Bennie, who is retarded. Their youngest sibling, Lily, is emeshed in the the mother's daily routine, a contestant in children's beauty pageants. Lily's performances in these pageants are weighted with an intolerable burden: whatever the pageant results, the children reap the rewards or punishments of their mother's lack of boundaries or self-restraint.<br />Their father owns a neighborhood bar, and spends much of his time there. The bar becomes another world to the children, one where they find safety and nurture. In contrast, their home is filled with emotional landmines, triggered by the misstep of a careless child. The parents have established a pattern of domain: the father's world is the bar and he doesn't interfere with the homeground unless the escalation of events force him to take action. In this way, he is also a particpant in the daily family tragedy.<br />Both Indie and Bennie gravitate to the relative safety of the bar, and spend long hours in the cool darkness it affords. At home, the mother flashes hot and cold, quick with angry outbursts, swiftly punishing hands. The two oldest children learn early to follow their instinct to escape; Lily is not so fortunate, enduring endless visits to the ER for accidents and mysterious ailments.<br />As she matures, Indie lives as far away from her mother as possible. But when Lily calls asking for help, Indie is drawn back into the vortex of her childhood nightmare. She comes face to face with her deepest fears: &quot;...that we inevitably inherit our mother's gestures&quot;, that &quot;... silence is also inherited,... Lily wasn't the only one with a legacy from Ma.&quot; The crux of Indie's dilemma is in finding a way to validate her present while admitting the treachery of the past, to cut her losses and create her own safe place. Now there are more than the sisters involved and the consequences are life-changing. She must honestly confront the past and speak about the unspeakable: Bennie's death, her parent's indefensible collusion, and the death of a mother who has been a monster. Indie rises to the occasion with compassion and strength, finally able to defend herself against the infringement of ambient evil that tainted her childhood. She steps fearlessly forward into her own life, shedding the skin that shaped her past and colored her future.ures&quot;, that &quot;... silence is also inherited,... Lily wasn't the only one with a legacy from Ma.&quot; The crux of Indie's dilemma is in finding a way to validate her present while admitting the treachery of the past, to cut her losses and create her own safe place. Now there are more than the sisters involved and the consequences are life-changing. She must honestly confront the past and speak about the unspeakable: Bennie's death, her parent's indefensible collusion, and the death of a mother who has been a monster. Indie rises to the occasion with compassion and strength, finally able to defend herself against the infringement of ambient evil that tainted her childhood. She steps fearlessly forward into her own life, shedding the skin that shaped her past and colored her future.	2001-05-27
1982936:US	51010391	R337T8PDLKSS4K	0871137658	553666976	In the Fall	Books	3	1	1	N	N	(3.5) An unbroken thread	For me, the character of Leah created the most memorable image and initiated most of my curiosity. A runaway slave who marries a Union soldier from Vermont, Leah puts enough distance between her slave life and her new role as wife and mother to afford her a margin of safety. It is her fate to learn that no matter how far we run, the past follows like a shadow.<br />No matter what events happen in the lives of the Pelhams in the three generations adressed in the novel, Leah is the sole character who permeates the lives of all. Her experiences in Vermont may be mere echoes of her former life, but but the dark shadows of prejudice still lurk everywhere. Mystery surrounds  what happened to Leah Pelham when, after 25 years, she returned to North Carolina to confront her past and search for her mother. The answers profoundly affect the rest of her life and her family.<br />Leah and Norman Pelham have two daughters and one son; the girls remain close to home, but the son, Jaimie, leaves without a word to forge his own path, seemingly adrift from the past. In the final chapters, it is Jaimie's son, Foster, 16, who unravels the mystery. He is the vehicle through which we finally learn the entire story as he returns to Vermont and meets his two aging aunts, the family tree as unique and fascinating as he could ever imagine.<br />The details of Foster's grandmother's quest for closure are significant for the remaining cast of characters, but even without this revelation, the damage to generations is clear. The institution of slavery tainted everyone, North and South, and continues to do so today in it's often more subtle forms. The message is clear: evil engenders evil and plunges roots deep into society that eventually choke the soul of a Nation.<br />The author's prose is often long and wordy and perhaps could have benefited from some editorial restraint. But aside from being a novel with a compelling storyline, IN THE FALL is valuable, as well, as an object lesson in the moral devastation that accompanies slavery in any form. If for no other reason, the book is an important testament to the truth of that reality.	2001-05-27
1983042:US	51010391	R2P9MPD6TDO5CR	0871137658	553666976	In the Fall	Books	3	2	2	N	N	(3.5) An unbroken thread	For me, the character of Leah created the most memorable image and initiated most of my curiosity. A runaway slave who marries a Union soldier from Vermont, Leah puts enough distance between her slave life and her new role as wife and mother to afford her a margin of safety. It is her fate to learn that no matter how far we run, the past follows like a shadow.<br />No matter what events happen in the lives of the Pelhams in the three generations adressed in the novel, Leah is the sole character who permeates the lives of all. Her experiences in Vermont may be mere echoes of her former life, but but the dark shadows of prejudice still lurk everywhere. Mystery surrounds  what happened to Leah Pelham when, after 25 years, she returned to North Carolina to confront her past and search for her mother. The answers profoundly affect the rest of her life and her family.<br />Leah and Norman Pelham have two daughters and one son; the girls remain close to home, but the son, Jaimie, leaves without a word to forge his own path, seemingly adrift from the past. In the final chapters, it is Jaimie's son, Foster, 16, who unravels the mystery. He is the vehicle through which we finally learn the entire story as he returns to Vermont and meets his two aging aunts, the family tree as unique and fascinating as he could ever imagine.<br />The details of Foster's grandmother's quest for closure are significant for the remaining cast of characters, but even without this revelation, the damage to generations is clear. The institution of slavery tainted everyone, North and South, and continues to do so today in it's often more subtle forms. The message is clear: evil engenders evil and plunges roots deep into society that eventually choke the soul of a Nation.<br />The author's prose is often long and wordy and perhaps could have benefited from some editorial restraint. But aside from being a novel with a compelling storyline, IN THE FALL is valuable, as well, as an object lesson in the moral devastation that accompanies slavery in any form. If for no other reason, the book is an important testament to the truth of that reality.ral devastation that accompanies slavery in any form. If for no other reason, the book is an important testament to the truth of that reality.	2001-05-27
2021171:US	51010391	R11GVTQAZKLKMN	0688175848	781670340	The Fires: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	(3.5 stars) ...Turbulent and intense...	This author takes a volatile subject and turns it into a powerful message. Sensing that her life has spun out of control, the promiscious Ella finds her fragile sense of self defined by the unpredictable and dangerous rush of setting fires. As a child, Ella found herself helpless, powerless, drawn into the roar of cleansing flames. As a young woman, Ella's personal disintegration has led to drunken laisons with strangers, further shredding her minimal self-worth. Surrounded by family secrets, covered with burn scars, Ella could be a pathetic creature in lesser hands. But this Ella is a survivor, and Steinke gives her the courage to confront her life. The inner scars are what drive Ella; she can live with those that map her flesh.<br />  It takes consummate skill to propel a story through the stages of renewal and redemption, without resorting  to facile techniques. This writer, in lyrical and visual prose, creates a heroine worthy of notice, deserving of respect.	2001-04-25
2021339:US	51010391	R3ONDZ3NXJRHF2	0684852233	220740010	At Paradise Gate: A Novel	Books	3	20	22	N	N	(3.5 stars) Complexities of family life	Jane Smiley is at her literary best when dealing with intergenerational family issues. Three daughters and a granddaughter gather at their parent's home, concerned with Ike Robison's declining health, solicitous of their mother, Anna. After 36  seminal hours, we find that the daughters could not be more different, yet complementary in ways only close families recognize.<br />  Each of the daughters view their parents from a personal perspective, especially their mother, Anna, projecting their own disillusionment onto her. Meanwhile Anna, mostly silent, muses about the grown daughters who surround her, wondering how they all came to live so close, gather so readily like a flock of restless birds, when she had meant to teach them to fly. Two daughters already widowed, one divorced, the women have all outlived the men, save Ike, and have lost their balance.<br />  When granddaughter Christine comes home to visit, as well, she brings her own distractions. Twenty-three and newly married, Christine is full of the natural exhuberance of youth. The three daughters shift their attention back and forth, from Ike's worsening health to Christine's surprising announcement.<br />  Occasionally a small voice from upstairs calls to Anna, &quot;Mother! Mother!&quot;. Ike wishes only his wife to tend to his few needs. Moving between the two realities, Anna finds time for reflection upon her fifty-some years of marriage. In Anna's ruminations, there is a quiet revelation of her life through the years, as a young girl, as a married woman, years spent washing, cooking, cleaning. Years of service given without a thought to feelings or needs, or to the vagaries of married love. Looking back, her memories are as sharp as thorns and as sweet as new-shelled peas.<br />  The power of the family dynamic seems at first to rest with the daughters, each pushing for her own resolution. They form temporary alliances, based on sibling rivalry, change perspective, shift yet again. Anna finds them engaged in their own busy pursuits; even the granddaughter falls into a deep afternoon slumber. Ultimately, it is Anna who holds our focus in this well crafted novel, her thoughts, her dreams. Never mundane or banal, the dialog is as sharp as the plot.nds them engaged in their own busy pursuits; even the granddaughter falls into a deep afternoon slumber. Ultimately, it is Anna who holds our focus in this well crafted novel, her thoughts, her dreams. Never mundane or banal, the dialog is as sharp as the plot.	2001-04-25
2021600:US	51010391	R7OHBGGYOHHS4	0688177859	894932092	Ahab's Wife: Or, The Star-Gazer: A Novel	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Really 2.75 stars).. a legend in her own mind	In this 663 page novel, we find that the legendary Capt. Ahab, of MOBY DICK fame, has taken a wife. Using liberal creative license, the protagonist, Una Spenser, has varied adventures. Naslund's prose is filled with imagery, both visual and non-visual, often dwelling extensively on Una's pedantic ruminations.<br />  During her travels while Ahab is at sea, Mrs. Ahab widens her social horizons, discoursing with intellectuals and writers as well as common folk. Intellectual fervor reaches a high point in the 18th C., and Una places herself, as a woman, directly in the center of what is considered exclusively male territory. Una has always possessed this independence of spirit, and some of her formative years are spent with relatives who are lighthouse custodians. From then on, she is in love with the sea, attracted to its dangers. It becomes a central theme in her story, as her adventures at sea affect the rest of her life; her first experience with the opposite sex is in the form of two young men who come from the sea.<br />  Naslund's heroine often seems less role-model than drama queen, a manipulative woman who flaunts her intellectual aptitude, yet never ceases to use womanly wiles to her advantage. The hubris of the younger Una is understandable, but reeks of arrogance as she matures. While historically accurate, some of Una's travails are extremely suspect, given the amount of detail given to each moment, save the most life-changing, which is strangely lacking in specifics. In addition, Una's Oedipal attraction to Capt. Ahab is a considerable stretch. Classic though MOBY DICK may be,I recall tortuous hours spent over Melville's book. Not to be outdone, AHAB'S WIFE is certainly as weighty and wordy a tome. 200 fewer pages would have made a livlier read.	2001-04-25
2029099:US	51010391	R3CAASHDP03SGF	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Once again, Nature trumps fiction	In this meticulous recounting of the tragedy of the whaleship Essex, sunk by a sperm whale in the 1800's, the awesome power of nature once more strikes a dramatic pose as man struggles for survival against the elements. In careful perspective, Philbrick takes into account all of the available records, from the erudite second mate, Owen Chase, to the 14-year-old cabin boy, Thomas Nickerson. As well, Captain John Pollard was able to relate his own accounting of the tragedy that forever changed the lives of the few remaining crew.<br />  Taking a sperm whale is fraught with danger, but none of the crew of the Essex could have anticipated the attack on the ship itself. With only seconds to spare, the men gathered what they could from the rapidly sinking vessel, navigational instruments, some fresh water, a modest amount of provisions. Deployed in three boats, the first was manned by the Captain, the second by Owen Chase, the 1st mate, and the third by Mattew Joy, the 2nd mate. The boats attempted to keep within sight of each other, but were later separated by unavoidable circumstances.<br />  Strength and provisions were unequal from the start: the Captain's boat consisted of Nantucketeers, most bonded by blood; the second boat held off-islanders and one black seaman recruited at the last minute; the third boat held the majority of the black crewmen and a 2nd mate already showing signs of ill health. Desperate to steer a course toward land, serious mistakes were made, and the days passed under an unrelenting sun, as provisions grew scarce. The men were at all times obsessed, either by unquenchable thirst or ravaging hunger. As they began to perish, all realized that the next to die would become sustenance for the living.<br />  Cannibalism was not unheard of for seafaring men, and the will to live was preordained. Philbreck makes an interesting psychological and sociologial point when he notes that the first to die and be eaten were the black crew members, already weakened by their shipboard diet, which had far less protein than that of the officers. In addition, there was a familial bonding among the Nantucketeers, survival of the &quot;fittest&quot; never in question.<br />  This is a story to be experienced by each reader, as the strengths and weaknesses of the crew reflect the eternal struggle between life and death. It is amazing that any were found alive after this horrendous experience; those who did survive found their lives irrevocably changed. Man's significance is dwarfed against the epic power of natural forces.ady weakened by their shipboard diet, which had far less protein than that of the officers. In addition, there was a familial bonding among the Nantucketeers, survival of the &quot;fittest&quot; never in question.<br />     This is a story to be experienced by each reader, as the strengths and weaknesses of the crew reflect the eternal struggle between life and death. It is amazing that any were found alive after this horrendous experience; those who did survive found their lives irrevocably changed. Man's significance is dwarfed against the epic power of natural forces.	2001-04-18
2045936:US	51010391	R3RF5M9HSC8W1Z	0312262892	19279237	Breathing Water	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A monstrously beautiful endeavor	This surprisingly beautiful novel moves back and forth in time as a broken, battered young woman returns to her grandparent's cabin in Vermont. Now in disrepair, this rambling old place holds treasured memories of Effie's childhood. Her more recent memories there, three years ago, were tainted by abuse, violence and death. She has returned to heal.<br />  In lyrical rhythm, with images so perfect, so vivid, Greenwood's talent shines through: &quot;The clouds moved across the sky, thin white dresses on an invisible line.&quot; When Effie first meets Max, her not yet abusive boyfriend, we are as intrigued as this young woman by his angst, his pain. Later, Max's need to pass along this pain is inescapable, preordained, had Effie only known the signs. But make no mistake: this is a story of redemption, not destruction. Effie has a strong heart and loving spirit; when given the opportunity to move beyond the scars of the past, she reaches out with both hands. From the first page Effie warns, &quot;Do not ask me for haunted... because I will give you haunted and you will never be the same.&quot;<br />  There have been many books written about domestic violence and the challenge of recovery, Anna Quindlen's BLACK AND BLUE and Alice Hoffman's HEAVEN ON EARTH. But this is a book that swims unerringly toward survival, then embraces the slow healing that follows. This novel is a writer's treasure, illuminated by phrases glowing with truth. I will keep this wonderous book for myself, sharing it sparely, always anxiously awaiting its return.	2001-04-03
2051629:US	51010391	R1I0BKWPD715PW	0399146431	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Generational and Cultural Divide	In her latest novel, Amy Tan does what she does best: dissecting inter-familial relationships with precision and compassion. Rather than a rehash of an old storyline (as some reviewers have said), Ms. Tan steps into new territory in this book: the so-called &quot;sandwich&quot; generation, adults with grown children now dealing with care for ageing parents.<br />  Having recently read PAPER DAUGHTER: A MEMOIR by M. Elaine Mar, I found myself more aware of the huge generational differences between an American-raised daughter and a Chinese-raised mother. The old ways so ingrained in the mother, LuLing, circumscribe an entirely different way of life than that of her American-born daughter, Ruth, one where the loving mother criticizes her child as a way to show love. But in America, with new traditions, Ruth feels demeaned. Fortunately, a sense of the ancestral resonates in Ruth's heart when she attempts to journey through the landscape of the past via LuLing's writings. Ruth discovers her mother's essential spirit, gaining wisdom about the differences in their lives and cultures.<br />  This book also disabuses the reader of any romantic notions concerning rural Chinese life. Tan paints images of decay, death and ghosts, family tragedy and dreams. There are many ways to tell a story, and Amy Tan has mastered the multi-layered art of the Chinese and American. As she develops a tale more American than Chinese, she seems to be trying out other options in her range. For the most part she is successful. The only plot line I found superfluous was the &quot;significant other&quot; that Ruth lives with, as well as his teenaged children. None of these characters were more than props, not significant enough for me to care whether they were still around at the end. Amy Tan has proven herself to be more than a one book writer, and I'm sure she will continue to develop her craft and offer fans more well-wriiten novels.	2001-03-29
2052357:US	51010391	R1CE47M3EZIGJ8	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Lyrical prose, painful reality...	This unique tale of childhood in India is written in the lyrical prose of an artist, whose vivid childhood scenes set the stage for a lifetime of heartbreak. The child's perception is beautifully wrought from the experience of Rahel, two-egg twin of her brother, Estha. Living on the outside edge of family acceptance, the children attempt to divine a cohesive explanation for the circumstances of their young lives and that of their mother, Ammu.<br />  Roy writes compelling dialogue, skillfully rendering the innocence of childish perception, as the child assumes responsibility for the actions of mature family members. And when Ammu is drawn to a man of lower caste, the price for both the lovers and the twins is preordained. The most simple acts have stunning repercusions: the loss and deprivation of a sibling reaches across a lifetime.<br />  This story reads like a fable, much like C.S. Godshalk&quot;s KALIMANTAAN, which I drifted through in much the same way, not seeking explanation or definition. I became apprehensive towards the end, anticipating the loss of smoke and mirrors, but in a graceful coup, Roy gathers the ends of her tapestry into the language of love.  In her hands, a mother and her two children learn that everything in your life can change forever in an instant. But we are left with the taste of love, after all, the sweetest and most generous gift.	2001-03-29
2058319:US	51010391	R12CPGZRNZ9NUJ	0375705198	314955975	Amy and Isabelle: A novel	Books	2	8	10	N	N	A small table for two....	Amy and Isabelle are a mother and daughter grown more distant with each passing year. Completely out of touch, yet each dependent on the other, their private existence is circumscribed by loneliness.<br />  Loneliness makes Amy vulnerable to any attention by a man, and when one of her teachers notices her, Amy's imagination creates a scenario that never exists except in her mind. Throughout the story Amy refers to this man as Mr. Robertson. In Amy's youthful mind, Mr. R must be as obsessed with thoughts of her, as she is of him. But, of course, he is well aware of the inappropriateness of this attraction, able to walk away without a second thought.<br />  Isabelle, the mother, lives a quiet, solitary life, one that is built upon a dark secret, a lie structured to accomodate acceptance in her small town. All of Isabelle's identity is derived from the care of Amy, intent upon teaching her daughter structure and values. She is blind to the pathetic needs of this fragile sixteen year old, until confronted by a harsh reality she cannot avoid.<br />  In a moment of helpless fury, Isabelle hacks off her daughter's long hair, an act she deeply regrets but is unable to change. Through the extended grace of two friends from work, Isabelle is finally drawn into the circle of friendship by her own desperate isolation, and she learns to comfort and to be comforted. In turn, Isabelle reaches out to her daughter, finding a renewed sense of self in this act. In time, Amy sheds her fears and steps out from her mother's world and into her own.<br />  I would like to see more depth in the characters, but the prose is sparse and clean. I found myself wondering how the  movie would be, if the actors would define Amy and Isabelle, giving them more texture and likeability. However, many people love the book written in this simple style, so it is probably a matter of personal taste. What I would give 2 stars, maybe 2.5, other reviewers may give 4. It is ultimately up to the reader to decide.der to decide.	2001-03-23
2058552:US	51010391	R6O9MAWOXLZEZ	0385488564	257749487	Lightning on the Sun: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A soul for sale...	I found this book quite interesting (3.5 stars) and finished it in one sitting. After checking the other reviews, I expected to be disappointed, but wasn't. Not looking for a Conradian HEART OF DARKNESS, I was curious whether this author could draw me into the vortex of violence that accompanies drug trafficking, no matter what the country; the instability of the Cambodian government only adds to the chaos and confusion.<br />  The expatriate journalists represent the vanity and cynicism of the media in the 90's, where random terror and piles of corpses are reported through jaded sensibilities, &quot;psycho warmongers&quot; and &quot;body-count freaks&quot;.<br />  The disintegrating food chain begins with Asher, a man in his thirties who has sold his soul to the twin pleasure-demons of drink and drugs. In Asher's warped perception, in an attempt to return to the United States, this last big score is being executed by himself as a &quot;merchant prince&quot;. In reality, he is merely another rapacious drug vendor. His state-side partner in crime, Julie, initiates her role in the scheme that transports the drugs from Cambodia to the United States. But Julie chooses to eliminate the New York contact, and take charge of sale and delivery herself. This decision puts her in direct contact with the journalist who is the hapless courier. To escape the ensuing heat, she flies to Phnom Penh for a rendezvous with Asher.<br />  Reigniting their physical passion, Asher and Julie undertake their departure from Cambodia like naive American tourists, allowing their own self-indulgence to blind them to risk. Asher, in particular, simply follows Julie's spirit of (mis)adventure, though fully aware of the dangers. In a political system rife with corruption, it is incomprehensible that Asher would believe escape without complication possible. But such is the nature of the addict, &quot;it won't happen to me&quot;.<br />  This novel afforded a fascinating view of one facet of a multi-layered experience. Rather than compare this work with Conrad, the style and imagery seems more parallel to THE BEACH by Alex Garland. I found THE BEACH to be an insipid portrayal of the pursuit of the &quot;high life&quot; by young travelers in Southeast Asia. While THE BEACH had similar setting and characters, LIGHTNING ON THE SUN painted a convincing picture of the deterioration of ethics that seems to plague young ex-pats who pursue escapist pleasures without thought of potential consequences.<br />  I didn't have to like the characters to want to see how the story unfolded. Nor does it change my appreciation of this novel when I learned that the author himself died of a heroin overdose; rather, it adds to the authenticity of his descriptions.of a multi-layered experience. Rather than compare this work with Conrad, the style and imagery seems more parallel to THE BEACH by Alex Garland. I found THE BEACH to be an insipid portrayal of the pursuit of the &quot;high life&quot; by young travelers in Southeast Asia. While THE BEACH had similar setting and characters, LIGHTNING ON THE SUN painted a convincing picture of the deterioration of ethics that seems to plague young ex-pats who pursue escapist pleasures without thought of potential consequences.<br />     I didn't have to like the characters to want to see how the story unfolded. Nor does it change my appreciation of this novel when I learned that the author himself died of a heroin overdose; rather, it adds to the authenticity of his descriptions.	2001-03-23
2067282:US	51010391	R22ZJG9J6AG23T	0684839334	423092038	Living To Tell: A Novel	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Choosing life	This novel begins with a revelation: a young man has caused his grandmother's death in a drunk driving accident and is now returning home, after his incarceration, to a dysfunctional family that lives mostly under one roof, much like a benign patriarchy. The Mabies, Professor and Mrs., own a huge, rambling home large enough for all their grown children to reside comfortably, enabling each to pursue their interests, including romance, drugs and/or alcohol. It should be noted that the Mabies don't feel dysfunctional; their disagreements are few, and their ways familiar.<br />  The divorced Emily inhabits the upstairs apartment with her two children. Mona lives in the main part of the house, having retreated to the safety of family after a suicide attempt over a broken relationship; the brother returning from jail adds to the curious mix. This family unit, along with assorted relatives and friends, work out their domestic complications with open-hearted kindness. When one of them becomes seriously ill, rather than destroying the family, they find a unity based on the value of everyday life.<br />  I would like to see some of the more wordy passages shortened, but this author writes very believable dialog. Her characters, particularly the siblings, are defined by their loving natures and generosity towards eachother. As families go, this one is &quot;functioning dysfunctional&quot;, able to avoid the more serious damage that usually affects this condition.	2001-03-16
2071014:US	51010391	RGMTCW3GFHUAN	0375410538	924994086	Anil's Ghost	Books	2	5	11	N	N	The Killing Fields circa 1985	This is a stark portrait of Sri Lanka from 1985 through the 90's, when the government vs. the insurgents vs. separatist gorillas filled the country with corpses.<br />  In prose that could be a documentary in black and white, we receive images of bleached bone, unidentified corpses, and hospitals overrun with casualties. Into this chaotic horror comes Anil Tissera, a forensic pathologist who has volunteered services to the Centre for Human Rights in Geneva. Paired with a local officail, Sarath Diyasena, Anil's quest is to name at least one anonymous body, thereby giving a face to the rest who have disappeared. She is relentless in her attempts to identify a particular skeleton, Sailor, one of four: Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Sailor, as in the nursery rhyme.<br />  In a juxtaposition of Anil, Sarath and his brother, Gamini, we are acquainted with the more personal aspects of their lives, never quite sure how these characters will influence the plot. Finally, Anil becomes the beneficiary and the messenger, the result of tremendous sacrifice. One brother reaches across the past to anoint the other, the similarities that caused distance in life bring closure in death. Meticulously researched, the author clearly loves his country in all its implications.	2001-03-13
2077060:US	51010391	R2Y26UK1M7CGQP	0688177867	127493012	The Book Borrower: A Novel	Books	1	7	10	N	Y	NY Times Notable Book! Not!	Ouch! Not only does this book get rave Editorial Reviews, but on the cover it is compared to the abilities of Margaret Atwood, a ridiculous ploy. To my disappointment, I believed the Editorial Reviews, bypassing the Customer Reviews. Never again.<br />  The two women friends, who never achieve any depth in their relationship, are cardboard cutouts. The book within a book, &quot;Trolley Girl&quot;, tempts the reader at first, promising historical nuance. Unfortunately, &quot;Trolley Girl&quot; doesn't hold up past the first few entries, a duplicitous &quot;teaser&quot; that falls as flat as the rest of the book.<br />  Maybe it takes a woman who has true long-term friendships to see the vacancies in this novel. Certainly Alice Mattison should have. Only two-thirds finished, I am unwilling to continue, even though Jessie, the real &quot;Trolley Girl&quot; (now in her dottage) enters the story to comfort Toby Ruben after friend Deborah dies. (I'm not giving the plot away. The reader can see it coming.)<br />  I have to say that the cover is truly enticing to a book lover, all the more disappointing as the story disintegrates page by page.	2001-03-08
2077375:US	51010391	R1QTJE2DEXYUKM	0060930527	592171238	Paper Daughter: A Memoir	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	Lonely daughter, sad heart	From the first page, this moving memoir captures the essence of the transplanted life of a jook-kok, a Chinese-American child born in the old country. Born in Hong Kong, Elaine (her &quot;American&quot; name) immigrates to the United States when she is five years old. All her early childhood memories, the safety of a poor but well-ordered life are based on the identity and acceptance of her Hong Kong relatives.<br />  In America, Elaine's nuclear family lives with her father's sister and her family in Denver, Colorado. Most of this extended family works long, ardous hours in the kitchen of a Chinese restaurant, preparing &quot;Chinese&quot; food and washing dishes. With the adults engaged in economic survival, Elaine and her young cousin, San, spend many hours supervised by Elaine's non-English speaking mother.<br />  The most painful hours of Elaine's life are spent in school. She enters first grade with few language skills, unable to express herself adequately. Unable, as well, to defend herself against the taunts of the children, who call her &quot;chink&quot; and &quot;slant-eyes&quot;. Gradually, as her command of language improves, as well as comprehension of American social nuances, Elaine begins to blend in with her classmates. With the longing of a child's heart, she is thrust daily into the fractured world of Chinese vs American. In spite of the painful solitude Elaine endures, she retains a strong sense of self, blindly reaching to make her life tolerable. Her mother will never comprehend the daughter's suffering, she has her own pain, and there are no Chinese words for what the child is experiencing.<br />  This is a heartbreaking story of culture shock and self-survival. Elaine's acceptance in America depends upon her ability to adapt, to read the signs of her environment. Ultimately, her life is split in half, between Chinese and American. She makes difficult choices, at the cost of her Chinese heart. She has written this memoir to reclaim that heart, and to tell her family she has not forgotten. But they cannot read English words and she is forever outside the embrace of her two cultures. In the last sentence, M. Elaine Mar tells us, &quot;Like my grandfather, I'd immigrated, with no way to send for my family.&quot;t heart, and to tell her family she has not forgotten. But they cannot read English words and she is forever outside the embrace of her two cultures. In the last sentence, M. Elaine Mar tells us, &quot;Like my grandfather, I'd immigrated, with no way to send for my family.&quot;	2001-03-07
2077964:US	51010391	R2PW4GCG3MEP2C	0618066136	211393704	Mr. Wroe's Virgins	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Blind Faith or Arrogance?	Mr. Wroe has annointed himself &quot;The Prophet&quot; of a small group of Christian Israelites&quot; at the end of the 1800's. Claiming to hear the voice of God whispering in his ear, Mr. Wroe preaches the approach of doomsday, the end of the world. As the Prophet of God, he quotes, &quot;The Lord has instructed me to take of your number, seven virgins for comfort and succor.&quot;<br />  Of the numerous young women gathered before him, he chooses Joanna, sisters Rachel and Rebecca, Hannah, an unbeliever, Dinah, a cripple, Martha, a mute, and Leah, an unwed mother. As part of the bargain, Leah brings her infant into the home under the guise of a foundling.<br />  The young women soon fall into their natural order, performing household tasks, laundering, planting a vegetable garden, their days filled with neverending chores. Occasionally, Mr. Wroe takes some of the girls along when he preaches to the townspeople, who are mostly illiterate mill workers. Mr. Wroe also requires that one of the virgins read from the Bible to him each evening.<br />  The story is related through the eyes of four of the girls: Joanna, Hannah, Leah and Martha. Joanna is pious, constantly praying for guidance, while Hannah is skeptical but helpful, and Leah opportunistic, with a child to care for. Martha, the mute, eventually finds a means of expression through Joanna's patient teaching; she relives her past while preparing for the future. The story takes an interesting turn when one of the girls makes shocking allegations. Consequently, the household of virgins is disbanded, each left to find her own way.<br />  As a religious period piece, the story creates a particular atmosphere of candle light, rustling petticoats and starched linens, as well as the crackling pages of a well worn Bible.	2001-03-07
2084425:US	51010391	R1X0K0JQD8Q9FP	0618004076	805831017	Becoming Madame Mao	Books	3	4	6	N	N	The Red Menace: Debunking the Myth	Anchee Min gives the life of Mao Tse-Tung a whole new perspective seen through the eyes of his vitriolic third wife. Never a likeable character, nevertheless she is fascinating in all her incarnations. We record her progress and duplicity in placing herself beside Mao on the stage of world history.<br />  We witness the unfolding of Mao's rise to power as the Long March becomes a victorious campaign through the eyes of Madame Mao after Chiang Kai-Shek is defeated by the Red Army. Mao's closest advisors live in a world of intrigue, none more Machiavellian than the man himself.<br />  We are introduced to the future Mrs Mao while she is an actress named Lan Ping. Sensing a challenge, she envisions herself as Chairman after Mao's death. To this end, she schemes and plots, keeping her eye on this lifelong goal, the most ambitious part she will ever play. Lan Ping is driven by self-interest and self-deceit. As a high ranking party member, her name is changed to Madame Mao Jiang Ching.<br />  Lifelong grudges and petty jealousies provide the excuse for revenge, as Jiang Ching struggles to keep a foothold in the power hierarchy. Blinded by her own delusions, a life of denial causes Madame Mao to frequently misread circumstances, creating more political enemies through the years.<br />  It is important to remember that this is an historical novel, as Ms. Min provides an interesting view of Mao's personal life. He is adept at sidestepping responsibility for the lives needlessly squandered in The Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution, an experiment at best. Amazed that the Revolution actually succeeds Mao constructs the Communist agenda out of his imagination.<br />  Considering herself a true Revolutionary, Madame Mao is put to the test when she learns that Mao is enjoying a virgin every day in order to attain longevity. Initially shocked by this betrayal of their marriage vows, her practicality asserts itself when she is secretly informed that he also has syphilis. Ever the pragmatist, she makes adjustments. But there is chaos and rebellion throughout Mao's reign as Party Chairman/Emperor of China, and finally undone by her own machinations, Madame Mao is imprisoned after Mao's death.<br />  It is doubtful that I would read this novel a second time since the characters are so unsympathetic, but it is a fascinating read, especially when recalling the 1950's in America when a tremendous threat was seen in The Red Menace and it's Five Year Plan. It is hard to believe that this menace was quite as potent as we were led to believe by our government. But is was certainly a useful tool in uniting Americans against the &quot;enemy&quot;.hilis. Ever the pragmatist, she makes adjustments. But there is chaos and rebellion throughout Mao's reign as Party Chairman/Emperor of China, and finally undone by her own machinations, Madame Mao is imprisoned after Mao's death.<br />     It is doubtful that I would read this novel a second time since the characters are so unsympathetic, but it is a fascinating read, especially when recalling the 1950's in America when a tremendous threat was seen in The Red Menace and it's Five Year Plan. It is hard to believe that this menace was quite as potent as we were led to believe by our government. But is was certainly a useful tool in uniting Americans against the &quot;enemy&quot;.	2001-03-01
2089667:US	51010391	R2N3SO8ANUZF39	1573221562	595147475	Affinity	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A  Lush Victorian Tale of Suspense	From the beginning, AFFINITY creates a mood of watchful caution: nothing is as it seems. Unclear whether asked to suspend belief and enter the world of the spiritual, the reader awaits the author's direction. If such a plane exists, is it real or fraudulent?<br />It is 1874 in London, at Millbrook Prison, where we meet Margaret Prior, a lady &quot;Visitor&quot; come to offer solace to the female inmates. Miss Prior has been ill, recuperating slowly since the death of her father, determined now to turn her energies on the less fortunate. Millbrook Prison is a huge ediface of gothic proportions, towers and tunnels and geometric patterns leading to the stark chill of individual cells. The greater part of each day is spent in isolation, the inmates given hand-work that they might earn their keep.<br />Almost thirty, Margaret Prior is on the threshold of spinsterhood, studious and well-intentioned. Her sister, Priscilla, is about to be wed. Then Margaret will be alone with their mother, as brother Stephen has married Margaret's former dear friend, Helen. These two women are closer in temperament and sympathy than the family ever suspects; Margaret must discipline herself at family gatherings, lest she gaze too often at Helen, or with naked longing. In her heart, she grieves deeply for this loss.<br />Miss Prior is interested in the lives of the women prisoners, their crimes, their hopes. She visits frequently and many become familiar, and each time she stops last at the cell of Selina Dawes, a spirit medium, jailed for fraud and assault. Selina seems a gentle, if lonely soul. Miss Prior is her solitary visitor, besides the spirits that whisper encouragement every evening when the lights are extinguished.<br />This is Victorian England at its apex, when women of Miss Prior's class are considered innocent and in need of comfort and protection. When Margaret forms an attachment to Selina, as of course she must, she keeps her thoughts to herself, speaking only through the pages of her diary. Margaret starts to entertain the idea that Selina may truly consort with the spirits, opening her mind to such possibilities, even as she receives her nightly sleeping draught, dreaming of Selina. The obsession appears to be mutual. Selina calls Margaret &quot;Aurora&quot;, says she is her &quot;affinity&quot;, two halves of one whole.<br />On January 20th, Miss Prior visits Selina a final time as they have chosen this night for Selina's escape. With assistance by her &quot;spirits&quot;, Selina promises to come for &quot;Aurora&quot; before the light of dawn. For her part, Margaret has made secret preparations: passports, travel arrangements, clothing, adequate funds.Whether the escape occurs, how it happens, and the consequences create the tension that brings AFFINITY to life on each page. Ms. Waters virtually beguiles the reader, leading slowly through a twisting maze, as she leads us to the ending of her masterful tale.ges of her diary. Margaret starts to entertain the idea that Selina may truly consort with the spirits, opening her mind to such possibilities, even as she receives her nightly sleeping draught, dreaming of Selina. The obsession appears to be mutual. Selina calls Margaret &quot;Aurora&quot;, says she is her &quot;affinity&quot;, two halves of one whole.<br />On January 20th, Miss Prior visits Selina a final time as they have chosen this night for Selina's escape. With assistance by her &quot;spirits&quot;, Selina promises to come for &quot;Aurora&quot; before the light of dawn. For her part, Margaret has made secret preparations: passports, travel arrangements, clothing, adequate funds.Whether the escape occurs, how it happens, and the consequences create the tension that brings AFFINITY to life on each page. Ms. Waters virtually beguiles the reader, leading slowly through a twisting maze, as she leads us to the ending of her masterful tale.	2001-02-25
2107668:US	51010391	ROC88N8MWYC2E	014029628X	180693945	Girl in Hyacinth Blue	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Gift of Validation	The simplicity of this book should not be underestimated. What seems at first a simple history of a painting's provenance becomes, in the end, the acknowledgement of the precious moments and visions of everyday life.<br />  Moving backwards in time, from owner to owner, Vreeland offers a unique perspective of those who possess this small Vermeer painting. To some a source of pride of ownership, to others a distant claim on the past, many are touched by a longing to keep this painting near as it finds a spiritual nest in their hearts.<br />  Following this backward continuum, it is difficult to understand how men can dispose of this work of art for need of finances, though they must, while their wives try vainly to excuse keeping such a thing of pure beauty in their usually impoverished homes. The painting shines like a jewel where there is little to make daily living bearable.<br />  When we meet the painter himself in the very act of creation, we begin to understand the power of his need to paint. Vreeland gives us insight into Vermeer's struggle for validation in his work, the deep need to justify such an existence, which so relentlessly lays claim upon the soul.<br />  Fine-tuning once again, we are introduced to the girl in the painting, the model, who is Vermeer's daughter. This young woman has the gift of her father's eyes, the vision of the artist. She herself longs to use the brushes, to mix the vermillion, the ultramarine, the burnt umber, with her own hands, her own vision taking shape on canvas. How fragile and unrealistic her dream; nevertheless, she cannot relinquish this small corner of herself.<br />  In the careful recreation of the story behind Vermeer's painting, Vreeland honors the gift, the act, the opportunity to create art. Perhaps only time validates the true artist, but this author eloquently reminds us to honor the artist in each of us, the importance of the moment, the beauty in simple detail. The &quot;artist&quot; reading THE GIRL IN HYACINTH BLUE smiles in recognition, gratefully accepting this affirmation.THE GIRL IN HYACINTH BLUE smiles in recognition, gratefully accepting this affirmation.	2001-02-11
2112490:US	51010391	R18JU4ZAMKLBXV	0425168700	890485903	Fortune's Daughter	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	A  writer with the Midas Touch	Hoffman spills language before her readers like golden coins, storytelling rich with imagery and texture, words spinning out like fables or folktales.<br />  The characters in FORTUNE'S DAUGHTER are multi-faceted. Rae, a young woman who finds herself pregnant and abandoned by her boyfriend, embraces her approaching motherhood. Distanced from her parents, Rae casts about for someone to help guide her through natural childbirth. She chooses Lila Gray, a pyschic reader of tea leaves, and it is Lila who breaks our hearts.<br />  Living with her own demons, Lila is the most beautifully rendered of all the people in this story. Lila has yet to forgive herself for giving up the baby girl she had at eighteen, allowing her parents to place the infant for adoption. The parents are unwilling to help their daughter, turning their backs as Lila endures the pain of childbirth with only her cousin, a nurse, to help her. The agonies of birth are stunningly rendered, the images powerful and recognizable.<br />  Lila's emotional development is arrested during this mournful time, and death becomes her suitor, courting daily. With the spring thaw, Lila is seduced back to life, falls deeply in love and marries. She spends the following years running from a truth she has been unable to share with her husband.<br />  Rae's advancing pregnancy torments Lila with thoughts of her own lost daughter. She packs her suitcase, leaving with no explanation, determined to find her child.<br />  What Lila discovers is not what she's expected, dreamed about. Returning home, her mind struggles with acceptance, unable to see little else, including her patiently loving husband. The marriage is strained as Lila isolates in her world of imagination. Finally, Lila is given the courage to release the past, lay it to rest, and reach toward the future. Hoffman creates such a fully realized Lila, that she virtually walks off the page, the reader wishing for this woman's happiness.	2001-02-06
2113441:US	51010391	RZ9YVNVF5DEVG	0312203764	933652437	The Language of Threads: A Novel	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Silk Ties That Bind	A sequel to WOMEN OF THE SILK, this novel follows one of the central characters, Pei, from her Chinese sisterhood of silk workers, forced to flee the impending Japanese invasion. In flight to Hong Kong, Pei must leave her dear friends from the silk factory, where she has worked since childhood, sent there by her impoverished family. Pei's beloved friend, Lin, is killed in a fire at the factory, so Pei takes on the responsibility of raising Ji Shen, orphaned since Nanking.<br />  A much different life awaits the travelers in Hong Kong, and Pei seeks employment in a private home while Ji Shen continues her education. Eventually, they are reunited when Pei is hired by an English widow, Mrs. Finch, who loves the girls as her own.<br />  When Hong Kong is overrun by Japanese troops, Mrs. Finch is sent to an interment camp to wait out the war; Pei and Ji Shen look for shelter in a boarding house where other &quot;silk sisters&quot; have sought refuge in common crisis. The young women live by their wits, bartering for necessities in the Black Market. Pei's life is littered with the loss of loved ones, including Ji Shen, who dies in childbirth. Weaving the threads of her life into a meaningful pattern, Pei finally comes full circle, reuniting with her birth sister, Li.<br />  This book isn't as well plotted as WOMEN OF THE SILK, nor do the characters have the same dimensions, although there is a vivid portrayal of the rampant confusion and fear during the Occupation, as well as life in the interment camps. Tsukiyama, pulls the story together for Pei, but she has lost many of her interesting personality traits in the process. It is a stretch to create whole cloth of this story from the threads that tie it to the author's previous novel.	2001-02-06
2115775:US	51010391	RA95XL2UE2XF0	0743203631	780904511	Gap Creek : The Story Of A Marriage (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A Harsh Existence	GAP CREEK is a tough book. Everyday reality for the people in the story is relentless, an unremitting cycle of life and death. 1899 Appalchia doesn't allow much planning other than how to get through the coming winter.<br />  When Julie leaves her birth family to marry Hank, the newlyweds move into a cabin in Gap Creek, where Julie tends to the needs of the cabin's owner, while her husband goes to work in a nearby town. Early on, Julie understands that she'll have to bend herself around Hank's moods and emotional vacancies in order to keep the peace. A strong young woman, only seventeen at the time of her marriage, Julie has long been accustomed to hard work, one of her primary virtues. She finds comfort in her almost constant efforts to scrub, clean and endure.<br />  The author provides vivid images of the daily living conditions of these people, mired in poverty, always at the mercy of an indifferent and cruel natural environment. Barter for goods and services is the primary tool of aquisition, with few, if any, comforts available. They chop their own wood, butcher their hogs, plant their fields and hope for the best.<br />  It is obvious, from the beginning of the marriage, that  Julie, now pregnant, is a stronger character than her husband, who barely has the resources and self control to rise above their frequently unendurable circumstances.<br />  While Julie's personality may be likened to that of Gertie Nevels in THE DOLLMAKER, Julie doesn't possess the hopeful spirit of Harriette Arnow's memorable Gertie. Julie plods through one tragedy after another, settling for little joy in her young life.<br />  There is no mistaking the accurate portrayal of these hard-scrabble lives, spoken in the simple language of their daily struggles. In comparison to 1954's THE DOLLMAKER, long a treasured and important novel, it is perhaps unfair to measure GAP CREEK against Arnow's powerful book. Still, I keep asking myself whether GAP CREEK is a stingy or a generous human story by any standard.nerous human story by any standard.	2001-02-04
2119377:US	51010391	R2JHU2J9A0G51H	1573228281	454004836	A Gesture Life: A Novel	Books	3	13	16	N	N	A Quiet Reflection	&quot;Doc&quot; Hata, a fixture in the upscale town of Bedly Run, is a quiet man who has led a careful life, spending recent days in rumination of his past. As a successful businessman with many acquaintances, Hata's life has touched people mostly around the edges, neither intruding nor being intruded upon. This is his quandry.<br />As a Japanese soldier, although born Korean, Hata does not see action on the front lines, yet witnesses much violence and death. As a medic, his experience with Korean &quot;Comfort women&quot;, euphemistically called &quot;volunteers&quot;,especially the doomed &quot;K&quot;, shatters his fragile sensitivities. But this young soldier takes little action, inured to his soldierly duties and sense of honor.<br />After many years, towards the last of his life, Hata seeks out his estranged adopted daughter and her young son. He finally begins to understand how the past, as a soldier and then too cautious adult, has damaged his connections with those he loves. He must consider how itmay be possible to mend these precious relationships.<br />The writing is very smooth and quiet, in spite of the horrific wartime experiences, almost like Hata is walking through a fog, trying to find his path. There is a flurry of activity towards the end of the story, when circumstances feel somewhat rushed. Up until that point, Lee maintains a steady pace, moving us gently through this person's life, as he slowly opens his eyes.	2001-02-01
2122374:US	51010391	R3MI8JZZGVAX31	0871137534	441036137	The Dress Lodger	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The contagion of poverty and despair	Sheri Holman skillfully uses her considerable talent to expose the ugly face of grinding poverty. A cholera epidemic is spreading rapidly in 18th Century England, the first of many such plagues. Preying primarily on the poor, the authorities are unable to isolate the cause.<br />  A central and most poignant character is Gustine, a potter's apprentice by day and a &quot;Dress Lodger&quot; by night. A Dress Lodger is a young woman hired by a slum landlord, chosen from his boarding house patrons, to wear a dress purchased by him second-hand. Her job is to make nightly rounds selling her favors as a woman of quality, albeit a prostitute. The concept in itself is dehumanizing, but for Gustine, this costume allows her to pretend to be untouched by the men who roughly use her body.<br />  Unwedded, Gustine works two jobs, day and night, in order to provide for her baby, born with his tiny heart almost exposed on his chest. Everything she does is for the care of this helpless infant; he is all she loves in the world. An aged woman assigned by the landlord to watch over the dress, doggedly follows Gustine's every evening, walking the streets like her shadow.<br />  During one evening's excursion, Gustine happens upon a doctor, Henry Chiver, searching for corpses for his anatomy students to dissect, in effect a grave robber. But Gustine believes that Chiver is pure of heart, perhaps the very man to save her baby; but Doctor Chiver demands full possession of Gustine's child, something she is unwilling to concede.<br />  Holman wields her plotlines masterfully toward inevitable resolution, the shocking choices made by the desperate characters, victims of poverty and their own human nature. This is never a pretty story, rather quite a difficult read, but the author challenges the reader for courage enough to face reality as fearlessly as she presents her truth.	2001-01-29
2123129:US	51010391	R2P5EY0LI2KWWG	0393046974	498826779	House of Sand and Fog	Books	5	22	24	N	N	The &quot;Ugly American&quot; at home	In a scathing indictment of the life we Americans take for granted, a careless bureaucratic mistake sets events in place that change ordinary lives into Greek tragedy.  The most potent character, Colonel Behrani, an Iranian, is mystified by the uncivilized behavior he encounters daily, where people do not even show the courtesy of pronouncing his name correctly. His motives are based in a belief system, a lifetime of habit that defines his sense of honor and the care of his family. Seemingly rigid and fundamentalist, his daily self-discipline is all that separates Behrani from the abasement he endures while trying to build a future in America, his new country.<br />  On the other hand, Kathy Nicolo is the victim of her own self-delusion, her life defined by the men she attaches herself to, apparently unaware of her own motivation. She is an accident waiting to happen. When her house is taken by the county for non-payment of taxes, erroneously, then bought at auction by Behrani, Kathy becomes the catalyst that propels the escalation of events.<br />  The third person in this triangle is Lester Burdon, a married police officer who walks into Kathy's life like a knight on a white horse, ready to do battle for her, careless of the price to himself or his wife and children. Lester later admits some truth: that he is fear-driven, using the badge as an extra boost to his manhood.<br />  Kathy and Lester entangle themselves in a sticky web, without the strength to resist their mutual emotional need or sexual fixation, neither willing to assume responsibility for their actions. Unable to maintain control of the unfolding situation, Lester and Kathy, each in their own way, cross over the line to nevermore, holding hands all the while.<br />  The final pages of this novel offer some of the most compelling reading I have found in years. HOUSE OF SAND AND FOG is stunning in its conclusion; I was driven through the final pages, unwilling to accept what I was reading. This is not a novel soon forgotten, its message as pure and clean as an arrow piercing the heart of an endangered species, humanity.ding. This is not a novel soon forgotten, its message as pure and clean as an arrow piercing the heart of an endangered species, humanity.	2001-01-29
2133624:US	51010391	RIZVRB21CLIZZ	0316678104	155429542	Fortune's Rocks: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Passion's rendezvous with Fate	In Anita Shreve's FORTUNE'S ROCKS, we are introduced to fifteen-year-old Olympia Biddeford, during her transition from girl to woman. In the late 1800's young women were expected to marry early, but the social mores were considerably restrictive.<br />  So we have Olympia, vacationing with her parents near the ocean in an area called Fortune's Rocks. Carefully sheltered and well-tutored, Olympia has been raised to follow the usual course for cultured young ladies, marriage and family, in that order.  But Olympia is swept away by the force of her own imagination and falls in love for the first time with a family man, a physician who is a friend of her father.  While it is not uncommon for a young woman of Olympia's years to form an obsessive attachment to an older man, it is surprising that Olympia's passion is returned by 41-year-old John Haskell. His wife and four children are not living with him until their cottage is built. When Haskell reciprocates the fledging attraction, the two begin an ill-fated love affair. Too late, Olympia realizes that their actions will alter the future of both the Biddefords and the Haskells.  The lovers are cunningly exposed and it is impossible to prevent the ensuing scandal. Olympia is with child and her father makes arrangements for the baby to be taken away from his daughter. The child is given to the local orphanage, and later placed with a local French Catholic family as foster parents.  Three years later, when she is able, Olympia returns to Fortune's Rocks and endeavors to recover custody of her child. Her decision at this time and the consequences add much to the overall interest of the story. Olympia's quest leaves her once again with a decision that will impact more people than herself.  Her final choices add the necessary maturity to this character. But we still must contend with the age difference between Olympia and Haskell. It is hard for this reader to understand how John Haskell can credit a fifteen-year-old with more maturity and life experience than is possible or even likely. Olympia eventually carries the weight of her actions credibly, including the tender affection for her first love. The pace of the story is sometimes uneven. Written in the wordy fashion of the times, while occasionally unrealistic, the novel piqued my interest after the lover's denoument, culminating with a thoughtful resolution.John Haskell can credit a fifteen-year-old with more maturity and life experience than is possible or even likely. Olympia eventually carries the weight of her actions credibly, including the tender affection for her first love. The pace of the story is sometimes uneven. Written in the wordy fashion of the times, while occasionally unrealistic, the novel piqued my interest after the lover's denoument, culminating with a thoughtful resolution.	2001-01-20
2139423:US	51010391	R1LWPH1Y2RS82Q	188328516X	455058502	Girls	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A poignant, tender story	I have been a fan of this talented writer since 1972, when I purchased her first novel, HOW SHE DIED. I fell in love with her writing style and time has not diminished her ability to fold words together, creating a feast of images. THE GIRLS is a small but important novel of four elderly sisters, two of whom are dying. The two youngest sisters, Jenny, 80, and Flora, 85, could hardly be so dissimilar, yet so alike. The older sisters, Naomi, 90, and Eva, 95, reside in Miami, as does Flora. We meet them all when Jenny, the baby, travels to Florida from Maine at Flora's request. The older sisters need more intensive care and must be tenderly transitioned into the last place they will ever call home. Each with her own unique personality, the sisters expose their fears and concerns as time moves them all inexorably toward the end. Thanks to the skillful writing of Yglesias, we are able to know these old women not just as they are, but as they used to be, young and full of life. They open to the reader like a photograph album, wrinkles, warts and all. We are reminded that behind each ancient face lurks a childlike spirit, and that family, in the end, is often the only remaining buffer against an uncertain final journey.	2001-01-15
2141522:US	51010391	R2PU9JN9S4IYOJ	0060199652	822422067	Prodigal Summer	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Natural selection and ecology	Kingsolver's current novel, PRODIGAL SUMMER, uses three protagonists to illustrate the natural cycles and indigenous life forms that co-exist on our planet. The three characters are all sensitized to their environment: a forest ranger, A newly widowed farmer's wife and an ageing man.<br />The story begins with Deanna, the forest ranger, who has chosen solitude as a way of healing her soul. There is a predator in her part of the forest and his name is Eddie Bondo. Immediately attracted to eachother, they spend a summer of intense passion. Deanna shares her love of all living species with Eddie, a natural hunter, attempting to imbue each day together with heightened awareness.<br />Lusa, on the other hand, newly wed and newly widowed, lives on the family farm after the accidental death of her young husband. With a reverance for all living creatures, Lusa's challenge is to find the emotional ties that will inextricably bind her to her husband's family. Through the numbing grief of her loss, Lusa is able to share her loving heart, changing the whole family dynamic.<br />Garnett Walker III is a crusty old man, feuding with his neighbor, Nannie Rawley, an elderly woman who refuses to act her age. Nannie is a constant aggravation. As Garnett attempts to put Nannie in her place, they find common ground: She with her organic produce, he with his efforts to preserve the almost extinct chestnut tree. Nannie's patience breaks through the wall Garnett has built around his heart.<br />From  chapter to chapter, the stories touch around the edges. As well, Kinsolver has filled each page with the intimate details of life in all its permutations. The simple characters serve primarily as vehicles for carrying the ecologial message of the book. Very different from THE POISONWOOD BIBLE, Kinsolver offers an education in the interdependency of nature's creatures to the uninitiated.	2001-01-13
2152680:US	51010391	R14IGKLM296YB9	0060987561	406344440	I Know This Much Is True (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Survivor Guilt	Upon reflection, I have mixed feelings about this book. The story is sustained over 900 plus pages, kind of &quot;Everyman's Dysfunctional Dictionary&quot; with a twist: twins. The storyline feels authentic as we flash between the growing years of the twins, Thomas and Dominick. In his twenties Thomas develops schizophrenia, and his brother becomes the caretaker after their mother's death. Dominick does not undertake his task lightly. In fact, it dominates his entire life. However, Dominick is not so much a victim as the survivor trying to find the light of day. He has mixed feelings about their mother, who seems to favor the more sensitive twin, Thomas. The only father figure for the boys is their stepfather, Ray, a man who is verbally and sometimes physically abusive, especially to his wife and Thomas.  As they grow, the twins are confused in finding their manhood, in some part due to the passivity of the mother. Born with a harelip, she is self-effacing and often hides her mouth behind her hand. Before dying of cancer, the mother bestows a manuscript on Dominick, written enitrely in Italian dialect by the maternal grandfather. Due to circumstances, Dominick does not recover the translation of the manuscript until after his mother's death.  When Thomas is institutionalized for amputating his hand in a misguided sacrifice to stop the Gulf War, Dominick tries vainly to free his twin from the bureaucratic mental health system. At the same time, Dominick finds himself reading the translated copy of their grandfather's story, hoping for a clue to the past and the true identity of his father. Instead, he learns what a misanthropic monster his grandfather really was.  Dominick also works closely with the psychiatrist treating Thomas. The psychiatrist not only tries to help Thomas, but tries to make Dominick aware of the shackles his life has placed upon him.  It is amazing that all these plot lines actually make sense in context, even the Scicilian memior. That they do is probably the result of the ability of dysfunction to adapt itself to normalcy. As well, there are a lot of appendage images: Thomas amputates his own hand, Dominick breaks his leg, Ray has a foot amputated because of Diabetes, the mother has a harelip.  The only really false note comes at the end of this lengthy novel. In the space of a few pages, Dominick is reunited with his ex-wife to raise the child of a former girlfriend who dies of AIDS and finds out the identity of his real father. The ending is disingenuous and facile in its resolution of loose ends. While I was never bored through my reading of this novel, I doubt that I would read it a second time.That they do is probably the result of the ability of dysfunction to adapt itself to normalcy. As well, there are a lot of appendage images: Thomas amputates his own hand, Dominick breaks his leg, Ray has a foot amputated because of Diabetes, the mother has a harelip.     The only really false note comes at the end of this lengthy novel. In the space of a few pages, Dominick is reunited with his ex-wife to raise the child of a former girlfriend who dies of AIDS and finds out the identity of his real father. The ending is disingenuous and facile in its resolution of loose ends. While I was never bored through my reading of this novel, I doubt that I would read it a second time.	2001-01-04
2159427:US	51010391	R26Q2Z9J1E3F4P	0670816671	933043104	Madeline Pop-up Book	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	The courage of the young	This book was purchased for my 3 yr old granddaughter for Christmas, as she had already fallen in love with Madeline, and especially Miss Clavell. Each page not only pops up, but also has pull tabs to allow the figures movement. A favorite part is when Madeline goes to the hospital to have her appendix removed, murmuring, &quot;I can do anything. I can do anything...&quot; What better praise that when my graddaughter had to go to the hospital over Christmas, and, afraid, she closed her eyes and said, &quot;I can do anything. I can do anything...&quot; Happily back home, she asks me to read this favorite book to her every day, a little girl who found courage from another little girl, Madeline.	2000-12-30
2160105:US	51010391	R1H056Y4A8C4UG	0553580221	284106836	False Memory	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Muddled metaphors	I find it hard to believe that Dean Koontz actually wrote this book. Maybe he has cloned himself. WATCHERS was interesting, as well as a couple of others, but FALSE MEMORY is what I hope will soon be my false memory. Agonizing, tedious descriptions, similies and metaphors on every page, a ridiculous plot. Granted, Koontz is, at best, a time filler, but at least 350 pages could have been cut. Koontz' edge is that he writes about the area I live in, so that's usually a good hook. But this writing is so banal and sophmoric, I doubt whether I'll ever pick up a Dean Koontz story, no matter how bored I am.	2000-12-30
2160220:US	51010391	R4DN088F2XRXR	0385475721	850910906	The Blind Assassin	Books	4	5	6	N	N	&quot;Little Pitchers Have Big Ears.....&quot;	&quot;...Looks are deceiving. You get what you ask for.&quot; Such are the vacant homilies that define the lives of Iris and Laura Chase, as they attempt to find structure in a confusing world. Their mother has died giving birth, their father drinks himself senseless, but at least they have a home. And a housekeeper, Reenie, their surrogate mother, the fount of endless aphorisms: &quot;Leave well enough alone. Thank God for small mercies.&quot; Nothing is as it seems in this new novel by Margaret Atwood. THE BLIND ASSASSIN is a story within a story, written in the phrases of the 30's and 40's, the Depression Era and World War II. Save the occasional tutor, Iris and Laura grow up in a museum of a house with minimal preparation for the world outside. When their father is on the cusp of losing his factory, a quiet deal is arranged with Industrialist Richard Griffen, a man with a hidden political agenda. Upon Mr. Chase's death, which is imminent, ownership of the Chase Factory is passed along to Mr. Griffen, along with the hand of the oldest daughter, Iris, 18, in marriage. The younger daughter, Laura, 14, is a purist and fervent idealist who chafes at the guardianship of the Griffen family after her father's demise. As the girls mature, circumstances separate their lives. Tragically, Laura is killed in a car crash. Accident? Maybe not. Iris Chase Griffen posthumously publishes a single book of Laura's, one that gains a multitude of fans for this tragic young author. As Iris shares these memories in her waning years, another tale is introduced, &quot;The Blind Assassin&quot;. This story unravels along with an ongoing affair of an idealistic young man and his married paramour. Each clandestine meeting hints at mystery, while the story is early science-fiction of the simplest kind. We find a renewed strength in Iris Chase Griffin; she is no longer malleable or passive. Certainly she is capable of exposing her own behavior, her part in this drama, with a stunning conclusion. Without the armor of self-delusion, Iris makes it clear that &quot;blind&quot; has many definitions indeed.n. Without the armor of self-delusion, Iris makes it clear that &quot;blind&quot; has many definitions indeed.	2000-12-30
2166587:US	51010391	R2A305C0HJZJW7	0860916766	501775230	Shadows of the Pomegranate Tree (The Islam Quintet)	Books	3	68	79	N	Y	The intolerance of 14th Century Christianity	This small novel covers the late 14th Century and the attitudes of the Church that spawned the Inquisition. Many are aware of the damage to the Jews through the cruelty and torture of the Inqisitors. However, there was another target in Spain- the demolition of Moorish culture, particularly Granada. The most spectacular and infamous event in this history is the massive burning of all the great Muslim writings on mathematics, science and religion. Under the watchful eyes of Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain, a fanatical Inquisitor, Ximenes de Cisneros, attempts to thoroughly obliterate the Moorish culture. The book burning is merely the first step in the plan; Cisneros understands that if you can destroy history, traditions and freedom to speak the language, people are more easily subjugated. During this shameful period, the Catholic Church was relentless in its efforts to destroy those who refused conversion. Families who had passed their land and wealth from generation to generation were targeted for assimilation as &quot;conversos&quot; or put to death. We follow the lives of one such family as its members decide to either flee for safety, join forces to fight, or are brutally slain. The story moves slowly throughout, but historically, so did the times. I would like to have had more detail about the activities of the Inquisitors and the beliefs of the Muslims in Granada; the primary statement of belief is stated, &quot;There is only one God and His name is Allah, and his prophet is Mohammed.&quot; At times it almost felt like reading a fable in the style the author used, an ancient story passed along in oral tradition. Unfortunately, it isn't just a fable. This is an area of great interest as belief systems affect modern as well as ancient attitudes.	2000-12-23
2176669:US	51010391	R3S17PKDPIU6RF	0060951982	630472186	The Twentieth Century: A People's History	Books	5	75	85	N	Y	getting caught up	After reading A PEOPLE'S HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES, also by Howard Zinn, I wanted to learn more about our more recent presidents and their legacies. This volume offered some of the info from the original book, in order to keep continuity, but also continued to the Clinton presidency. Due to our current political problems in election 2000, I was able to reference my areas of interest. More specifically, the role of the electoral college, and how the vote is affected by voter turnout. I found, for instance, that due to low voter turnout, Geo. Bush, Sr. got into office with only 27% of the country's vote, claiming the election as &quot;the will of the people&quot;. The same applies to Ronald Reagan. During massive budget cuts in social services, there were significant demonstrations all across the country during the Reagan administration. I hadn't been aware of this information since the media just didn't cover a lot it. The current political climate becomes clear when reviewing events from Zinn's historical perspective. Howver, this is a book written for the common man, not for the mythology of conservatism. If you like Rush Limbaugh or Chris Matthews, you won't like this book, although it isn't partisan, but rather clear and comprehensive.	2000-12-14
2176745:US	51010391	R214AEYG0TNM0M	0374175403	96429552	In America	Books	2	17	21	N	N	My First Time	This book is the first I have read by Susan Sontag. But I thought, National Book Award, it must be excellent. I was disappointed, however, when I had to force my way through the quasi-historical prelude to Chapter One. Relieved to make it to the first chapter, at least by now the characters are making sense. I literally force myself to finish this book. None of the characters are appealing, form Maryna, the actress, to her husband, Bogdon, or her lover, Ryszard, all Polish immigrants. Surely the most self-involved of all is Maryna, her main topic of interest being herself and her effect on other people. The plot and sub-plots all revolve around this woman. She dominates the entire landscape of everyone's thoughts. Why? &quot;Frankly, my dear, to borrow a phrase, I don't give a damn.&quot; All the historical detail in the world cannot save this book. I also purchased THE VOLCANO LOVER, but after this experience, I think I'll pass both books on to those obsessed with 18th century verbage. Historical is one thing, mind-numbing is another.	2000-12-14
2176934:US	51010391	R1UNZ1XSCPBW35	0684818868	458361116	Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong	Books	4	8	11	N	Y	A  Vision of Truth	I'm glad Mr. Loewen took the time to put all this information in a people-friendly book. Had I not already stumbled onto the works of Howard Zinn (A PEOPLE'S HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES), I would have been considerably more shocked by this book. It covers all the misinformation currently offered by textbooks on American History. The most important point he makes, is that we don't have to turn our heroes into mythological icons for their accomplishments. They are people like us, after all, and prone to as many personal mistakes as anyone else. The majority of history texts state only the great accomplishments and events, without reference to circumstances. Perhaps this is why history is a difficult subject for many. Listing names and dates is devoid of any human interest that would cause students to remember and question what happened and why. If we continue to serve up whitewashed versions of the real histoy of America, how are students ever going to feel the passions at the root of the struggle for women's right to vote, the abolition of slavery, the pros and cons of the Vietnam War, The Great Depression? We cannot send our children out to demand respect for America and her institutions if we don't arm them with the truth.	2000-12-14
2187044:US	51010391	RYQ9EGUGPDHXW	0879517921	16853996	The Tent of Orange Mist	Books	3	7	9	N	Y	Revisiting the Japanese invasion of China	THE TENT OF ORANGE MIST is one of the current novels that attempt to describe the horrors visited on the Chinese remaining in Nanking, during the Japanese invasion of 1937. The arbitrary anarchy of the Japanese is visited on anyone in the way, as families are slaughtered, women raped, buildings burned. Scald Ibis is the daughter of an intellectual family who failed to escape. She finds herself alone in the house where she grew up, as the Japanese turn her home into a comfort house. Regardless of the atrocities visited upon her young body, Scald Ibis determines to survive. When she finds her father hiding behind a chimney, she resolves to save them both, using her feminine wiles to turn herself into a giesha. She also makes up stories for the other girls about a priest she had studied in school, Sandro Somatti, S.J. The chapters devoted to the adventures of Sandro seem to dilute the power of the story for me. But seen in context, these chapters do add to the sense of unreality that surrounds this comfort house. I found this book to be less of a satisfying read than some others on this topic.	2000-12-05
2187209:US	51010391	R1DCY7BVIU8K0T	0449907503	729013285	Closing Arguments	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	The real action is not in the courtroom	This is a powerfully written book, centered around a murder trial, but also driven by the personal disintegration of a defense lawyer, Mark Brennan. A former Vietnam Vet, he flashes back continuously to war experiences. A married father of two deeply troubled children, Mark's wife Rochelle tries to pull their crumbling twenty year marriage together by building a Vietnam War Memorial in their town. The whole family has so much difficulty comunicating to eachother, that their encounters seem almost mute. Mark, in a desperate attempt to define himself, takes on the case of a woman charged with murder during &quot;rough sex&quot;. Perhaps inevitably, he becomes involved with this woman sexually. In an effort to understand the nature of the murder, exploring the consequences when people play with limits, he becomes emeshed with her story, blending in his own childhood abuse. The story finally becomes a lonely man's explanation to his wife of his tattered emotional life. This book is not easy to read, but the protagonist flays himself before the reader, making no apologies, expecting no forgiveness.	2000-12-05
2204915:US	51010391	R3OFEZTQI2IX2L	0060925493	836757152	Feather Crowns	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Knowledge determines the difference between life  and death	When quintuplets are born at the beginning of the 20th Century in rural Kentucky, the parents are taken unaware. Misdiagnosed, Christie is amazed when she gives birth to five tiny infants. This is such a bizarre event, five babies at once, that people begin to arrive in droves to see the infants. Reporters, photographers, well-meaning neighbors, family: they see, they touch, they talk, touch some more. Long before medicine has achieved the sophistication to ensure the protection necessary to sustain the babies, many mistakes are made in their care and handling. One by one, the tiny babies die. It is a devastating loss, followed by a crop failure that dilutes the family's already fragile economic resources. With three small children to provide for, Christie and James, burdened by grief and financial hardship, allow themselves to be drawn into a tour with the quints, who are now encased in glass. At each stop in the tour, as the carnival atmosphere reaches a deafening roar, the bereaved parents finally cannot continue. They donate the five infants in their tiny glass coffins to a scientific institution. The story moves as slowly as the times, with enough historical detail to create a vivid portrait. It is a strange and sad tale that portrays the overwhelmed young parents as the saddest of all.	2000-11-19
2205019:US	51010391	RHH9E4L2PCJKI	0786706643	545886775	Voyage to the North Star	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A contrast of good and evil aginst a stark background	There was a time in this country when self-made millionaires were almost given the status of diety, so great was the chasm between the moneyed classes and the common man circa 1932. Carl Schenck is just such a millionaire, a braggart intent upon the collection of successful &quot;kills&quot; to document his arrogance. He takes his fully staffed custom-made luxury yacht to the Arctic in search of indigenous big game. Accompanied by his wife and daughter, the party also includes a sea captain in disgrace, Boden, who signs on as a stoker. Against the stark beauty of the ice floes, such excesses are reached by Schenck as to disgust even the avid hunter. Boden, who loves the harsh beauty of the Arctic and respects the inherent dangers, is forced to witness atrocity after atrocity, as Schenck falls victim to a blood lust that endangers everyone. Boden finds himself unable to help his crewmates who are sacrificed along the way in Schenck's pursuit of bloody prowess. There is constant collision between good and evil, as Boden realizes his folly in joining the ship's crew on this voyage. Shenck, true to form, never has a clue.	2000-11-19
2205031:US	51010391	R30CJXXP0CIDAH	0449912639	375668468	Girls: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Devastating loss and the road to recovery	On the surface, this would appear to be a mystery. Jack is a college cop and spends his days patrolling campus, in an effort to keep affluent students from self-destructive activities. His wife, Fanny, is an ER nurse, facing life and death challenges each time she goes on shift. Neither can deal with the overwhelming grief at the loss of their baby daughter. At the crux of their grief is Fanny's memory that she last saw her daughter in Jack's arms; she can remember little else. The emotionally stronger Jack is afraid should Fanny remember what could destroy her fragile psychological balance. Jack displaces his grief as he joins the search for a missing girl. Although he senses that the missing child is dead, through his investigation Jack finds his own salvation. His struggle towards wellness drives a wedge between Jack and Fanny, who is so desperately trying to maintain her own sanity. The realization of the murderer's identity strikes Jack along with his increasingly stronger grasp of life. Everything comes at a price: a marriage, peace of mind, the ability to make human connections. The reader cannot help but wish that Jack might find light and purpose in his life in this well-written, often poetic novel.	2000-11-19
2205268:US	51010391	R1RK3E3FR4497T	0060926430	350275263	People's History of the United States, A	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	Where was this when I was in school?	Author Howard Zinn has compiled a History of the United States that is as fascinating as any novel I have ever read. My intention was to research particular areas of interest, but once I began reading Chapter One, I didn't stop until the last page. Finally, I was able to find answers within the context of history that explained the circumstances that shaped this country. Written from the point of view of the common man, this isn't just a stale recording of dates and facts. Howard Zinn breathes into the dusty corridors of the past and gives them life. The intricate tapestry of the development of the United States, its principles, flaws, attemps at greatness- all are there for the interested reader to understand. Not only has my personal knowledge been enriched by this compelling book, but I bought a copy for my son. We have since enjoyed many spirited discussions thanks to Mr. Zinn. This history is complete, concise and full of pertinent detail.	2000-11-19
2205656:US	51010391	R1767JJ3QLJF70	0553379615	160413158	Into the Forest	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A lyrical tale of survival and triumph	Everything about this well-written novel draws the reader deeper in the forest of the future. Two sisters, Nell and Eva, and their father, are mourning the recent death of their mother. Set in the near future, structured living gradually disintigrates. First to go is postal service and other such conveniences we take for granted. Then gas is no longer available for driving, nor electricity for power. A sudden brutal accident tears their father from Eva and Nell, and they are left to survive on their own. It all begins to unravel for Eva, who dances to the beat of her metronome, and Nell, an aspiring writer, who is reduced to scribbling on whatever paper scraps she can find. Dwindling supplies and a need for protection draw the sisters together as their beloved rural home becomes a prision with bars of fear. Eva finds herself pregnant after a brutal rape by a stranger, and the girls are challenged to create a safer environment for the birth of Eva's child. Lyrical language gives shape to this struggle, the writing suggestive of the beauty of Margaret Atwood's SURFACING. Hegland's novel, and her awareness of the beauty yet inherent cruelty of nature, should be savored and shared.	2000-11-19
2209144:US	51010391	R2WM384RBRBWSF	014025644X	835043093	Rice	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Man's Inhumanity to Man	Many novels celebrate the triumph of the human spirit. Su Tong has chosen to give the reader a view of the fate of the individuals who haven't the strength of character to prevail. Five Dragons begins his saga as a starving refugee from his impoverished rural home. The city is a hostile environment for which he is no match, in 1930's China before the invasion of the Japanese. Five Dragons cajoles his way into a menial job at The Great Swan Rice Emporium, owned by Proprieter Feng and his two daughters, Cloud Weave and Cloud Silk. The most attractive daughter, Cloud Weave, becomes pregnant and the paternity of the child is in question. She has been receiving the favors of Sixth Master, a wealthy extortionist who takes protection money from shopowners. But Cloud Weave is also receiving night visits from one of Sixth Master's Wharf Rats. Five Dragons, most despised by Proprieter Feng and his daughters, agrees to marry the pregnant daughter. His subsequent denigration as a human being is the result of the direction his life has taken until this point. The child is born resembling Sixth Master and is taken away along with his mother, who will now become Sixth Master's Fifth Concubine. So Five Dragons takes the other sister as wife. The two sons of this bitter union are as emotionally and morally crippled as their parents. This hopeless scenario plays out as would be expected under such circumstances, ending with Five Dragon's imminent death from venereal disease. His lifelong obsession with rice limits his own life into a small space, as well as those of his family. It is a harsh portrait of the truth of a brutal existence, and the author does not flinch from his reality.	2000-11-15
2209188:US	51010391	R2DFQ47YMCC4YA	0385491050	235045723	Surfacing	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Reunited with the personal self	For me the essence of this novel is the journey undertaken by a young woman as she returns to her inner self. Coming home to the island wilderness of her youth in Quebec in search of her missing father, the young artist is accompanied by her lover and a vacuous married couple. All are her recent acquaintances in a life where she has buried many painful experiences subconsiously. Her true self begins to emerge as the remembered becomes familiar and compelling. She finds herself on a solitary journey and the people with her are an impediment to her awakening. She disappears from sight when they leave the island, confidant that she carries a pure new life from her companion-lover, Joe. Now, she is finished with him. Layer by layer, she begins to cleanse her psyche, finally uncovering the woman essential to the nurturing of her unborn child. There are multi-levels of awareness in this novel: progress, pollution, man's encroachment upon nature. Margaret Atwood offers much food for thought. But this book may not be for everyone. It doesn't seem at first as sophisticated as Atwood's later works. I find myself returning again and again to SURFACING, as if each time I am able to wear the skin of the young woman's discovery, surfacing myself.	2000-11-15
2209447:US	51010391	R39CSB62PGOTXG	031218008X	766751470	One Thousand White Women: The Journals of May Dodd	Books	4	10	11	N	N	I had to keep reminding myself this was a novel	The Journals of May Dodd, documenting her participation in the &quot;Brides for Indians&quot; program, secretly sponsored by the US Government, is a riveting read. May Dodd is one of a group of white women (and one black woman) sent to teach the ways of civilization to the &quot;savages&quot;. By the end of the journey, one is left to wonder who the real savages are. The marriages to Cheyenne warriors are mostly successful, even joyful, as men and women of different cultures share daily life on the prairie. It matters little that the women are recruited from prisons and mental institutions, as it was not unusual to place women who didn't fit into &quot;society&quot; into institutions of one kind or another. Sadly, like most dealings of the white man with the Indians, there is betrayal, as the US Army attacks the Cheyenne, supposedly mistaking them for Sioux. The end of this tale is as heartbreaking as the history of the American Indian in this country. May Dodd's Journal is a poignant and beautifully rendered story.	2000-11-15
2209962:US	51010391	R3A8TOUI8LHE7P	0385491050	235045723	Surfacing	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Reunited with the personal self	For me the essence of this novel is the journey undertaken by a young woman as she returns to her inner self. Coming home to the island wilderness of her youth in Quebec in search of her missing father, the young artist is accompanied by her lover and a vacuous married couple. All are her recent acquaintances in a life where she has buried many painful experiences subconsiously. Her true self begins to emerge as the remembered becomes familiar and compelling. She finds herself on a solitary journey and the people with her are an impediment to her awakening. She disappears from sight when they leave the island, confidant that she carries a pure new life from her companion-lover, Joe. Now, she is finished with him. Layer by layer, she begins to cleanse her psyche, finally uncovering the woman essential to the nurturing of her unborn child. There are multi-levels of awareness in this novel: progress, pollution, man's encroachment upon nature. Margaret Atwood offers much food for thought. But this book may not be for everyone. It doesn't seem at first as sophisticated as Atwood's later works. Personally, I find myself returning again and again to SURFACING, as if each time I am able to wear the skin of the young woman's discovery, surfacing myself.	2000-11-15
2213174:US	51010391	RYZ1X2L33DZ3J	0060930306	894620323	In the Night Season: A Novel	Books	3	3	7	N	N	A bi-coastal mystery	The possibilities are all there at the beginning. A young newly-widowed mother, Nora, and her 11-year old son, Jason, are befriended by a neighbor, a black man who offers to check on Jason while Nora works. An element of racism is introduced when both Nora and her neighbor, Edward Bishop, begin receiving hate mail. It would seem that they are being watched. They are. The culprits eventually get to Edward, whom they brutally murder, then move on to the next prey, Jason, home alone. As the men are stalking Jason, I kept thinking, why doesn't he do this or that, but it doesn't matter, because of course they find him and wait for his mother. The story becomes bi-coastal when Nora's parents in Seattle are drawn into the picture. Apparently Nora's dead husband has something to do with all this. After a bloody, facile ending Nora and Jason are rescued as are the grandparents in Seattle. So what did the hate mail have to do with the story? Nothing.	2000-11-12
2213303:US	51010391	RHXTFC21IC279	0385318162	461442529	Sacred Dust	Books	4	3	3	N	N	History comes full circle...	The history of this place in the South, Prince George County, was actually begun 75 yrs ago when all the blacks living there were chased out of town on one infamous night that profoundly changed the lives of the victims and the bigots. Children have grown, married and died in the intervening years, but no one has ever forgotton &quot;The Trouble&quot;. It hangs over the county and its white inhabitants like a cloud of ashes. The swaggering fools who call themselves the Klan, describe themselves as the guardians of their culture. Then, after all this time, one lone black fisherman challenges everything they hold near and dear: hate, bigotry, arrogance. This fisherman, who does indeed know that he is a dead man, camps by their lake and fishes their waters. He ends up with a bullet in his head. The story spins itself out in two elderly women who once were friends before &quot;The Trouble&quot; banished one, a daughter, Rose of Sharon, and her friend Lily. Challenging eachothers lives and marriages, each woman leaves her repective abusive, ignorant husband. Lily seeks to run away in the arms of a young long-haired teacher. Rose of Sharon returns home to live with her mother. Events keep closing the circle of history, until finally, there is a march back into Prince George County, and the white-sheeted cowards have to hide their costumes as the tide is turned once more. This is a skillfully written, often poetic book, told with compassion and understanding of the many voices with which the author tells his story. Truth is a long time coming, but always worth the wait.	2000-11-12
2220836:US	51010391	R21ID9UMZDL8E9	080410297X	986797933	Storming Heaven	Books	5	17	18	N	N	The things they forgot to teach in school	I am grateful for writers like Denise Giardina, who has added immeasurably to my understanding of the coal-mine town, its company stores, and the many brutal attempts to discourage unionization. These are the people who put themselves on the line for the rest of us, we who in later generations have come to dismiss the incredible hardships involved in starting unions that would stand behind the common laborer who could not be heard. Whole families were engaged in this huge American struggle for decent hours and a living wage, and many were killed in the process. This book is full of the simple people who did their jobs well and didn't ask for much in return. They certainly didn't ask for the state militia to be mustered to shut them up. It is even more outrageous that the United States Government would rain bombs and poison gas upon its own citizens in West Virginia in one of the most shameful events in recent American history. My teachers never told me any of this in school, but they did say to remember that history always repeats itself.	2000-11-05
2221796:US	51010391	R25IQKH8XL0WI2	0312099436	900086516	Women of the Silk: A Novel	Books	4	6	10	N	N	I would never underestimate this author	I was immediately engaged by the simplicity and delicate phrasing of Gail Tsukiyama as she introduces her readers to Pei, a farm girl whose wages are necessary in order for her poverty- riddled family to live. One of only two babies who survived their birthing, Pei, as the youngest, is also the most curious. Had her parents not been so cold and distant, she would have constantly asked questions in her natural effort to learn and understand. But both parents are emotionally impoverished and unable to enjoy this daughter so full of life. Pei finds herself on a one-way journey to a house of girls in the village of Yung Kee. There she is left by her father, who has arranged for Pei to work in a silk factory that will send most of her wages to the family. Over the years, Pei finds comfort and safety in the house of Auntie Yee and the other girls. She makes a dear friend, Lin, who becomes like the sister she has lost to the past. Pei discovers that in this house she has an opportunity to determine her own fate, as do many other young women, chosing a life of celibacy over forced marriage. The author offers a sense of each day at the silk factory, young women comforting eachother and finding strength in a common bond. But war is on the horizon, and the Japanese troops get nearer every day, forcing the young women to make decisions whether to flee to an unknown life or stay and hide in the countryside. These are young girls who have very little say in the determination of the future, girls who are to be thrust suddenly into an unexpected and dangerous world. One of the strengths of this novel is found in the bonding between &quot;sisters&quot; and their willingness to aid one another. They actually find the courage to form a strike at the silk factory, unfortunately successful only after one of them is killed. With the impending Japanese invasion, Pei has nowhere to go, and is unable to locate her parents or married sister, but her dear friend Lin makes plans to take her with them to Hong Kong. Pei is afraid, but will attempt anything with Lin's guidance. At the last minute, there is a fire at the silk factory, and Lin is trapped inside this ashen grave. Pei is struck numb with grief, unable to continue but for the need of another young woman, Ji Shen, taken into the house when she was found at the side of the road, nearly dead. The ending is particularly sad as Pei moves on towards life, realizing that Lin would expect her to help care for Ji Shen. There is such tenderness and yet such strength in the book, that I was sorry to finish the story. I look forward to reading more of Gail Tsukiyama's novels. Her writing is both elegant and powerful with the deceptive simplicity that women so often bring to their life's endeavors.th them to Hong Kong. Pei is afraid, but will attempt anything with Lin's guidance. At the last minute, there is a fire at the silk factory, and Lin is trapped inside this ashen grave. Pei is struck numb with grief, unable to continue but for the need of another young woman, Ji Shen, taken into the house when she was found at the side of the road, nearly dead. The ending is particularly sad as Pei moves on towards life, realizing that Lin would expect her to help care for Ji Shen. There is such tenderness and yet such strength in the book, that I was sorry to finish the story. I look forward to reading more of Gail Tsukiyama's novels. Her writing is both elegant and powerful with the deceptive simplicity that women so often bring to their life's endeavors.	2000-11-04
2222256:US	51010391	RR6FZ42TXG9I8	014023828X	480160740	The Tortilla Curtain (Penguin Books with Reading Guides)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The haves and the have-nots	In a compelling contrast between the economic density of the &quot;haves&quot; and the ever-changing paucity of the &quot;have-nots&quot;, this author very skillfully contrasts the lifestyle of the Mossbachers, a family who lives within a gated community, and the much less fortunate, the migrant worker, looking for a place to work and sleep, out of sight of the authorities. Of course Candido and America Rinco are illegal aliens, who in desperation are living just down the hill from the Mossbachers. The homeless couple try to create some kind of a shelter for themselves, while Candido attempts to find work. While crossing a street, Candido is struck by Mossbacher's car, but he disappears into the brush. Now Mossbacher must agonize over whether this 'accident' was planned and if he will be sued for everything he owns. It is a stunning contrast in reality, but if you live like a Mossbacher, you probably won't like this book as well as a reader who sees the faces of the workers and is concerned with moral responsibility more than the price of a lawyer. This is a very powerful story as every nightmare that can happen to the down and out, does happen, and the people behind the gates are not so safe, after all. Someone has to tend their gardens and kitchens and children.	2000-11-04
2233355:US	51010391	RM0WTKTQKEOHZ	1886383839	154486627	Bones Become Flowers	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A journey to  Haiti, thanks to the author	This is the kind of book where the author takes the reader on a journey to Haiti along with the American woman, Tracy, who has in mind to give aid to children in an orphanage. But Tracy is cautious, and sees strange things on the island, at the time inexplicable to her. She keeps her own counsel and begins to allow herself an awareness of the mythic culture surrounding her. She hears of wild boys upon a ship, eventually meets these boys, and becomes fascinated with their lives. All is wrapped in rich jungle fauna, the steaming earth, and Vodoo. Tracy opens herself to unfamiliar concepts and eventually decides upon a course that will change her whole life in unforseen ways. The images are so vivid and rich, I felt myself there on the journey and ever curious for what would come next. The only thing that bothered me was the author's description of Tracy's thoughts, as they seemed not quite on target, as a man writing a woman. This was a minor flaw overall, considering the lush content and fullness of the prose.	2000-10-25
2233713:US	51010391	R2J75ZG1HC0U65	0385478003	286237398	Shot in the Heart	Books	3	12	21	N	N	The pain of being related to an infamous family member	It took me a few pages to realize that this wasn't just any old dysfunctional family, but rather an autobiography written by Gary Gillmore's youngest brother. Gary Gilmore committed two brutal murders in Utah and was the first man to be executed by the state after the reinstatment of the death penalty. The younger Brother, Mikal, seeks to find answers for a lifetime of physical and psychological torture suffered at the hand s of his parents. When Mikal is writing this memoir, only he and older brother Frank are the survivors of the Gilmore clan. Frank is able to fill in many of the early years for his brother, describing events that Mikal was too young to know about. This is obviously a family riddled by alcoholism, rage and mental illness. No one really survived unscathed. Towards the end of the book, Mikal seems to soften towards his mother, find excuses for her outrageous neglect, but it is obvious that the pain brought up for him is unbearable. It's almost as though 'good little Mikal' has stepped in to narrate the story, the way a child would, with full knowledge that he must endure the consequences.	2000-10-25
2237547:US	51010391	R1D0QWSGYGI9F1	038072975X	892493747	Midnight Champagne (Mysteries & Horror)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	I gratefully offer a toast to A. Manette Ansay	This writer gets more interesting with each book. Each time I read one of her novels, I have to plan ahead... no sleep that night. I could not put this simple yet complex story down. The tale of a Valentine's Day wedding in a chapel on the shores of Lake Michigan, we are treated to a fascinating cast of characters who take on more complicated dimensions in their wedding finery. Those boring aunts, uncles, cousins give way to their own inner lives for a while at the wedding of April and Caleb, an event spiced by a snowstorm that makes lights darken and roads impassable. Even the scorned ex-boyfriend is bumbling around, as well as curious children from 8 to 15. All these antics are mixed and frequently stirred to make a soup filled with all varieties of homemade soup. No one means any harm, not even the stranger, staying for Valentine's weekend with is wife at the Hideaway Lodge, just a few snowdrifts behind the Chapel. After a quarrel that escalates into domestic violence, the stranger insinuates himself into the wedding merrymakers, unnoticed, until the finality of this quarrel is discovered. The story is filled with the characters from our own families, with all their endearing faults and temporary dreams. I love the way Ms. Ansay wove these people all together, so that I would want to know what happened on this fateful Valentine's Wedding night. Midnight Champagne is a view of real, everyday Americans, a perfect example of the &quot;melting pot&quot; and it's descendants.	2000-10-22
2237566:US	51010391	R1X0CII1T4UCAV	052594527X	858318999	Girl With a Pearl Earring	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Like a small painting	Only 232 pages, I looked this book over carefully before beginning. I was trying to go to a place in my mind, the kind of place where I am drawn to, say, a small but powerful painting in a museum. So I did go there and experience a moment in time with the author as she passed through the home and family of the painter Vermeer in the Netherlands, circa 1660's. My guide was a young maid, Griet, who worked hard and caught the eye of the great painter. She fell in love in a simple romantic way, as she yearned to mix the palette colors of the Master, Vermeer, to be close to his aura of genius, and to him. She began to notice the simplest detail as he painted, viewing his compositions in her own eye. The story takes this young maid to the brink of fate, when she becomes one of his paintings. He adds one final touch, his wife's pearl earring, a touch that will perfect this work. But it is the end, for once the wife sees the painting she will know about her husband and the young maid. It matters not that the &quot;affair&quot; was never consummated. Such things weren't done in a society so rigidly structured. Griet realizes that she must leave this unhappy home before she disappears into the vision of the painter and his lust for images.	2000-10-22
2240163:US	51010391	RNZN2G53CRT6Z	0316825646	152903978	Evening News	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Starts out with a bang...	This story showed considerable promise, when it began with an errant bullet that struck the baby step-sister of a nine year old boy, Teddy, who is unfortunately wielding the gun while at a neighbor's house. The family starts to disintegrate when the fragmented family cannot deal with this catastrophic event: Dan, the father of baby Trina, Gisele, the mother and her son Teddy, from her first marriage. This second marriage had happened when Gisele transplanted herself and her young son in California, divorcing her first husband in Nebraska. The author never explains why the mother chose California or what plans she may have had for the future. Gisele does the predictable, falling in love and marrying her college professor. She soon finds herself pregnant and their short marital history is emeshed with the birth of Trina. Gisele finds Dan particularly attractive since he is unafraid to express his &quot;feminine&quot; side. He shows this side of his personality after their tiny daughter's death; he cries a lot, reading grief books, and lashing out at the stepson. It becomes clear that Dan will never forgive his stepson, nor does he seem to have much vested in the marriage. He easily slips away, spending late nights at the office writing a tell-all book, joining support groups, etc. This is where the book falls apart for me. There is an interview after the story finishes, where the author states that she feels it is possible to write about this mother's loss off one child and conflicted feelings for the one who did the deed, but I don't think Ms. Swick accomplishes her goal. I can never quite get a fix on the mother, don't even know if I like her. And her second husband is such a stereotype of a &quot;California Dad&quot;, that I can never take anything he says or does seriously. There is so much California bashing in this book, I wonder if that was the motivation for placing the beginning of the story there. It's too convenient, as is the cardboard stepdad, as well as the rock solid mid-west Dad that Teddy longs for. By the end of the book, there is a facile resolution and a not too subtle twist. Overall, the story tracked ok until the resolution of grief became too shallow for me to care much about the characters, especially the mother. I was glad when I read that she was only thirty, maybe too young to plumb real emotional depths that were available to the author, but unfortunately mostly ignored.the rock solid mid-west Dad that Teddy longs for. By the end of the book, there is a facile resolution and a not too subtle twist. Overall, the story tracked ok until the resolution of grief became too shallow for me to care much about the characters, especially the mother. I was glad when I read that she was only thirty, maybe too young to plumb real emotional depths that were available to the author, but unfortunately mostly ignored.	2000-10-19
2266892:US	51010391	R3HU5OOK1FC1EY	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Women's lives from a biblical perspective....	Women are assigned to their rightful place in this biblical view of an early societal structure, depending on your point of view, of course.... Author Diamant has taken an interesting topic, a woman's position in the hierarchy of things, and given it life, following biblical outlines to form her story. I found the Red Tent and it's particular mystery a fascinating image, conjuring up both the ability of women to live in their own mileau, while also defining those monthly periods when a woman is considered 'unclean'. The main character, Dinah, is able to move about the desert camp prior to becoming a woman, giving her some freedom in making judgements and choices. She follows her heart, and since this is, after all, a biblical tale, she must pay the price of straying from expected behavior. The wages of sin, etc...While I enjoyed this book, especially the vivid imagery, desert sand and blood, murder and lust, I was disappointed to I finish so quickly. I wanted a little more, shall we say, 'meat' to make the story fuller and richer. Depending on the reader, appreciation can go either way, but for me, it was starting to slide into Oprah-land, once a good thing, now not so special to this reader. The writing remains consistently elegant and descriptive: I craved more of the really strong writing and less of the romance novel flavor. Would love to see this writer reach farther, perhaps even in the direction of Margaret Atwood.	2000-09-28
2293974:US	51010391	R10WOO6G3180S4	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Makes me think twice about the death penalty	I give author Ellis 1 star for fashion tips, and another star for his  ability to use language skillfully. However, when I read a novel I try to  appreciate the intent, skill, dialog, and PLOT. I finished this book and  took a shower to clean the misogny from my memory. The main character  spends his time spiraling into the disintegration of a personality that  mirrors the crash and burn of American society. Ellis' lengthy descriptions  of sex, gore and body parts fills me with loathing that I am actually  reading this, especially the brutality against women and their fascinating  and disposable sexual organs. I find myself skipping over redundant gore.  It finally occurs to me that by drawing this reader to the end, Ellis makes  me a partner in his literary degradation. At least I only wasted my money;  Ellis has plundered his own talent.	2000-09-05
2294945:US	51010391	R3V8PWJ3KMR7I6	0316785644	658358380	The Fig Eater	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A taste of the obscure	This novel was one of those peculiar adventures that comes along to remind  the reader of the infinite ways of looking at a murder. The dutiful  inspector plods along, doing his forensic research and hoping for insight.  He is followed closely by his wife, knowledgable in the ways of women and  myth. She is fascinated by this case and wraps herself in the endless  permuations of this simple mystery. A bit of a hothouse flower herself, she  seems to come more alive and fascinating to her husband through the nights  they share with eachother. He is somewhat blinded to all else, and she  continues on, as women do, closing the door on the mystery and going home  to bed. The botanical descriptions are a vivid contrast to the blinding  snow, and the sometimes twisted natures of the suspects. A period piece, I  will offer it to friends who will enjoy the unusual and sensuous nature of  this tasteful story.	2000-09-05
2295034:US	51010391	R26NILPM6KYWMW	0805055347	345164845	Kalimantaan: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	For awhile I was transported to another  world	I'm not sure why I found this book so fascinating, except that it allowed  me to enter a world that I might never have known. I didn't like the main  character, Barr, or many of the others, except the children, always the  children, but that wasn't the point. The juxtaposition of good and evil is  beautifully realized as we are slammed from one to the other, feeling the  steaming tropical land, seething, forever changing. The author has somehow  captured the essence of the duality of man and his prideful attemts to  conquer the unconquerable. There were times I wasn't even sure who was  speaking, but it didn't matter. Like Barr's European wife, I just followed  her lead and drifted through this amazing world. It is a wonderful gift  when a writer can offer such a feast to her readers.	2000-09-05
2343493:US	51010391	R23M5VAYMUJNYN	0380729768	507436358	Sister	Books	4	38	41	N	Y	A writer of remarkable depth	A writer of remarkable depth, A. Manette Ansay offers the selective reader a banquet of language in her novel, SISTER. The author fashions exquisite phrases that form  perfect and fragile images. It is a joy to read such  complexity after the current deluge of popular titles, dressed in the quise  of 'simplicity', and seeming more often like 'women's books'. SISTER tells  a story that slowly follows the evolution of a young Catholic girl and her  brother, growing up on an emotionally barren Wisconsin farm. The sister and  brother endure the changes wrought upon the family as the mother takes a  part-time job, while the son's battle with his father escalates with the  passage of time, until the son finally disappears w/o a trace. In the  hollow years that follow her brother's disappearance, the girl becomes a  distant spectator, unable to fill the hole left by her younger brother,  unable to bridge the distance between parents, precariously close to losing  herself in the process. This is a quiet, concise book, a tale particularly  familiar to those who have shared this rigidly structured religious  (Catholic) background. Thoughtfully crafted, SISTER is not a novel for  everyone. But for certain readers it is a work of art, carefully hung  against a bare wall in a gilt frame.	2000-08-01
2454302:US	51010391	R1F9IVJOOOP78J	0679746048	92211220	Girl, Interrupted	Books	2	2	5	N	N	essay, interrupted	Perhaps this work might be titled ESSAY, INTERRUPTED. I am fascinated to imagine how this 'novel' could become a screenplay, starring one of my favorite actresses, Angelina Jolie, although I've yet to see the movie. I  enjoyed the rhythm and the flow of fluid descriptive writing, but feel  disappointed overall. A short novel can be powerful, but there are lots of  us around who can ramble on about our adventures in the sixties.  Additionally, I had trouble keeping the similar characters straight. It's a  smooth essay, but let's not call this work a novel.	2000-05-29
2543622:US	51010391	RX9FK9U6KCMRL	0375500081	193085718	Turn of the Century: A Novel	Books	2	6	10	N	N	There's nothing I like better...	There's nothing I like better than a nice thick book, unless it is this particular one, which could lose 150-200 pages; then the story might be tight enough. As it was, I heard BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES  comparisons  mentioned frequently in reviews, and those references are what ultimately  captured my interest.  The only real comparison of the two books is that  both were rife with dislikeable char'ters; however,while BONFIRE cooked  from beginning to end, CENTURY often made me question why I was continuing  to read this snoozer. The two stars are for the two things I learned most  about... namely, the insane and fickle stock market game, and the finesse  of hacking into major computer systems to create havoc in the market, or  just because... But the characters were stifling in their one dimensional  personalities. Like human paperdolls, George Mactier was just a lucky goof  w/ too much money, and his wife, Lizzie, was just as flat. Too many greedy  people w/ too much disposible income and time, adding nothing to the  quality of modern life, but showing a generational lack of values that is  truly frightening. I would say, and this is a compliment, that if only I  were younger, I would love to be a hacker. Younger readers in the computer  marketing quest, or tv development, might enjoy this book, but so far Kurt  Anderson is no threat to Tom Wolfe.	2000-04-08
2560871:US	51010391	R917UP4NA08ZY	0688180639	979924066	Vinegar Hill: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Not since A THOUSAND ACRES...	Not since A THOUSAND ACRES by Jane Smiley have I been so impressed with an author's ability to reach inside and expose what many of us never uncover until the second half of our lives. No one ever said life was easy, we just  pretend in order to survive circumstances that seem to be untenable and  irreversible. It took Ellen the entire novel to fight her way free of rules  and obligations imposed by a rigid religious and male-dominated society. If  that isn't powerful, maybe you had to be there... or here, in the 1970's  when a generation of women began to wake up. Waking up is one thing,  difficult enough for Ellen (and her daughter looking for guidance): but  finding out what to do to change things can be a painfully long process,  one that the author shares unflinchingly with us. For the most part, the  language is beautifully poetic, the plot only occasionally slow. Some of  the descriptions towards the end when Mary-Margaret has her attack and her  thin blue-veined legs are waving in the air going nowhere are such pure  description, I want to copy the phrase to remember later. I never find the  story even remotely unbelievable... the heart of darkness lies in all of  humankind, and it is to the author's credit that she should reach so far  down into the mud and still come up with a hand full of gold-plate for the  mother and the children. I wouldn't call this story depressing, more that  it is lifelike in the truest way, all the mud and pain washed off by hope  through the safety of the next generation.	2000-04-01
