426565:US	51744771	RH3A09ZLUIBF9	0380977788	425362981	Coraline	Books	2	4	12	N	N	Curiosity kills the cat	By Amber <br /> <br />A quiet little town and a peaceful family thought to be living their lives in serendipity. Until, the quietness is replaced with jaw dropping phenomenons of the paranormal world. Now forcing coralline to race to beat the clock in search for her parents, who mysteriously disappeared. Through trials and tribulations, this once quiet and curious girl, has regrets upon ever opening the door, curiosity kills the cat.  <br /> <br />The book moved too slowly. In the beginning, of the book Coraline, the pace was a lot faster. After about the second or third chapter things started to slow down. It seemed to have a lot of repetitiveness in it which made it seem even slower. It is highly likely would have enjoyed this book if it had a faster pace.  <br /> <br />There was no real high point in this story. Since the book was unsuspenceful, it made it almost impossible to identify the climax. Others may find a climax, but I am discouraged; especially by the way the book seems to continue on with no point or reason. Also, the plot didn't seem to take me to a climax of the story. Overall, the climax did not stand out from the plot.  <br /> <br />I would not recommend this book to an older audience. I would say that it is not for people that want a high climax thriller or an action packed book.  On the whole, I would give this book an overall 2 stars.  <br />	2004-12-12
874006:US	51744771	RP96AT2I3JQNH	0440411394	305245044	Under the Blood-Red Sun	Books	4	2	3	N	N	WAR!	A Review by Jon<br />This book is about a Japanese boy named Tomi and his family, including his grandparents, sister, and mother.  They all live together in the same home in Hawaii.  Tomi plays on a baseball team called the \\"Rats\\" with his best friend, Billy.  On December 7, 1941, the Japanese come in the early morning and bomb Pearl Harbor.  Tomi's family lives near this harbor and they get into trouble with the U.S. army because they are of Japanese descent and follow Japanese traditions.  The reason they got into trouble is they were seen hanging a Japanese flag at their home and were reported by their neighbors.    They try to deal with the attack on the harbor by trying to stay alive as best they can each day.<br />One thing I liked about this book was the characters.  Orr portrayed each character in such a way that it was very clear to know what each one was thinking throughout the story.  Another thing I liked about this book was the clear descriptions and details.  For example, the basic sentence \\"The sky turned black,\\" was replaced with the descriptive wording \\"The sky turned jet black and the smell was like burned rubber and gunpowder.\\"  These words painted a clear picture in my mind about what was really happening in the story.  The thing I liked the most about the book was most of the information was true.  To me, that is what makes a good book.  The only thing I didn't like about the book was it was kind of predictable since the reader would be able to foretell the future based on the words and actions of the characters. <br />This story is a good read for people who like history, action, and adventure, and like to sit at the edge of their seat.	2003-12-07
879711:US	51744771	R1E2XSNBC9A2BH	0064408639	488122738	The Austere Academy (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 5)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not all Stories Have a Happy Ending	A Review by Orion<br />In the fifth book of, \\"A Series of Unfortunate Events, by Lemony Snicket,\\" Count Olaf has once again found the Baudelaire orphans. Now Sunny, Violet and Klaus must find out what sinister plans Count Olaf has this time, and how they can stop him from stealing the Baudelaire fortune. What's more is that now they have a horrible Carmelita Spats, and vice Principal Nero terrorizing and making crude punishments for them. Will the horrors never end at \\"The Austere Academy?\\"<br />In this book I like how it describes each of the main characters. When Lemony Snicket describes Carmelita Spats, he starts off by saying,\\"If you were to give a gold medal to the most undelightful person on Earth, it would have to go to Carmelita Spats.\\"<BR>Another thing I like about \\"The Austere Academy\\" is how it's the only story to not have a happy tale. If you read the summary on the back of the book it tells you, \\"If you were looking for a story about three happy youngsters, look else where.\\" The only down fall to this book is that the level of reading was very easy. The hardest word in this book was \\"veranda,\\" and the book even tells you what it means.<br />I would recommend this book to people you don't mind an unhappy ending. This is an extremely easy book to follow with moderately hard words. Still over all it is great book.<BR>I would give this book 4 out of 5 stars.	2003-12-02
897256:US	51744771	R3C6NNCOD5NMQK	0671731092	333833151	Bad Rap (Hardy Boys Casefiles, No. 73)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Mystery	A Review by Adnan<br />The Hardy's were in their home. When the phone rang, it was Randy Rand, a rapper who needs help. He has counterfeiters copying his album, selling them on the street. The Hardy's arrive, they go to a warehouse. One of the counterfeiter strikes them with a shipment of copied tapes and compact discs. They survive and go to Martinelli and straiten things out. Read to find out what happens next.<br />The action in the story was good. It had no meaning in it. When the ninjas came out from the door in Blue Lou's warehouse, they started to fight the Hardys. How did the Hardys know karate when there is no karate in Bayside were they live. The best characters were the Hardys because they helped people who needed help. In this case Randy Rand is the person in need of their help. The pace of the story helped the story. It was kind of fast. Everything happened so fast that I kind of got confused. It was a overall good book. The dialogues were good for a mystery, but it wasn't excellent like in dramas. For example Frank said,\\"I didn't  like the tone of Tabitha's voice\\".<br />The book was an over all success. It had a lot of clues, steps, and my favorite mystery. The story is good for mystery murder readers. The book is kind of confusing and almost hard. I recommend this book to murder mystery readers who read Sherlock Holmes and the Hardy boys mysteries.	2003-11-17
897587:US	51744771	R27V62CVKSZP24	0374480095	551852778	Tuck Everlasting (A Sunburst book)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Spring of Eternal Life	A Review by Paige<br />The story is about a young girl named Winnie Foster, and the relationship that grows upon this individual and the Tuck family. The mystery surrounds the woods of Tree gap, and a certain water spring and its natural assets. Winnie is kidnapped by the Tucks one day, when she explored out into the woods. Her parents search high and low for her but don't find her until the ending. The Tucks were not cruel people. Actually Winnie considered them to be her friends. She fell in love with Jesse Tuck, the youngest in the Tuck family. A mysterious man in a yellow suit comes up many times throughout the story but his purpose in the story remains a secret until the ending. The Tucks kept Winnie because they have a secret about them that nobody could ever know. They needed to be able to trust her before they let her go. But the shocking surprise is a secret that Winnie keeps until her dying day.<br />Tuck Everlasting has explosive and uplifting spirits and appeal for, everybody. I liked how the author had such an incredible way of creating a mental picture of the beautiful American landscapes and setting. It gave the book a really strong feeling of harmony and serenity. She always gives her theory of life's purpose and how time works in the world, which I personally found interesting. I especially liked the romance that happens to Winnie and Jesse. Also the way the Tuck family lived their lives, in a way that was care-free and spirited. The way the author described the mysterious man in the yellow suit was suspenseful and it gave the book an attitude that made the book very enjoyable.<br />I would recommend this book to any reader who enjoys fantasy, romance, purity, action, and mystery. I think that this book has something that anybody can relate to in some way. This book is extremely easy to follow and I think that many people could find something that they find enjoyable in it. I gave this book two thumbs up.	2003-11-17
904800:US	51744771	R2J3XSJ4TK9T6P	0689826990	169528688	Hatchet	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Spectacular Book	A Review by Bryce<br />The book Hatchet is about a young teenage boy name Brian Robeson, who is on his way to visit his father for the summer. On the way to his fathers cabin, the pilot of the plane has a serious heart attack. In shock Brian is hesitant of what to do, so he crash lands the plane into a lake nearby. After surviving the plane crash, Brian is faced with surviving in the wilderness, until rescuers come. Will her be found? If he does, how long till he will be found? Read and u will find out.<br />Hatchet is a spectacular book; it had many life teaching lessons in it. Like how to survive in the wilderness, by killing animals and looking everywhere for shelter and food. Surviving wasnt the only main point of the story. As the story continued, Brian had kept his composer and became braver as the story went on. As the book concluded, Brian wasnt terrified of anything. He would just wander out to the woods and bring back stuff for dinner or some other helpful supplies. The main reason I gave this book a 5 was because most of the books I read are a pain for me. But on the other hand this book got me hooked from the beginning, with its non-stop action and unexpected endings. But the main reason it was one of my favorite books was because it had nothing I disliked about it.<br />I would recommend this book to people who like adventure stories or to people who like reading in general. I think this book is one of the best books of all time, and Paulsen is a genius by writing this book. If I were you right now and had never read this book before, I would run to the nearest library and check it out as soon as possible!!!	2003-11-11
907633:US	51744771	R20HVJ50MGZUSM	0745188540	304843181	Gambit	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Death by Cocoa	A Review by Alex<br />Jerin is playing the usual twelve players with messengers running in a room with Jerin alone telling the layouts of each board. A man had come in with some hot chocolate for Jerin. The man's name was Blount. Later that night, Jerin dies and Blount is thrown in jail because they all think he did it. Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin have to solve the mystery and see to it that Blount is innocent. The only way they can solve it is the use of his daughter, Sally.<br />I really love and enjoy the fact that this book makes me think and makes it so I use my brain a little. It is a mystery, so therefore I have to be smarter than Archie. I was always trying to figure out if it is someone or not and when I read to find out it's not one person I try to guess who it could be. This book also gave me suspense, I got so excited when they were about to do questioning with someone like Sally or the mother. I always find out something new and clues of the killer. This book was also a perfect read when it came to pages, only 137 pages and the text was a bit on the small side but still made it a perfect size. Not too quick and not too long. This book always gave me a surprise. <br />This is a great mystery for those who love to use their brain figuring things out. Gambit is a really exciting book to discover new suspects and an unexpected murderer. You will dive into the book and not want to put in down caused by the eagerness to read about who did it and why.	2003-11-09
907965:US	51744771	R1ZBM5I5KHZ4BN	0064407675	704463408	The Reptile Room (A Series of Unfortunate Events #2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Return of Evil	A Review by Oleg<br />This book is about three children that are orphans and are forced to live with their uncle name Dr. Montgomery. But first a note from the previous book, the reason they are now going to Dr. Montgomery house is because their caring and loving parents died in a house fire. So they had to live with their cruel and evil relative named Count Olaf which only wanted them for the childrens fortune which their parents had. In the end of the 1st book Count Olaf said he would return to get the fortune. Going back to the story: they were in a car driving to their uncles house because he was going to be their new guardian, they didnt know what he was like and they were all quit frightened that he was going to be mean. But the found out he was very nice. Once they got settled they uncle Montgomery showed them his favorite room, the Reptile Room. He gave them a few minutes to look at the animals until he showed them his prized possession; His highly poisons viper (although it wasnt poisons). As the kids look at it Montgomery let it out of its cage.<BR>The huge snake uncoiled and hissed. The kids saw the two large fangs all the sudden the snake attacked Sunny (the smallest of the children). <br />What I liked about this book was that it always keeps you thinking what is going to happen next. It also gives you a few pages to think what is going on then it goes back to that part of the story. What I dont like is how its a little hard to follow along with the story at some point in time because it flashes back to the other parts in the previous book. It would be a lot better if the writer puts like the first and second book together because the first book is a little small.<br />I would recommend this book to people who like suspense and mystery; its an average book but has some good and bad qualities. It keeps you thinking a lot. I think this book is good for people above 13+ ages.	2003-11-09
907977:US	51744771	R3D5RCX8SPIINQ	0440918057	835409261	Down a Dark Hall	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Weird	A Review by Jacque<br />Kit Gordy is a 15year old who is going to an all girl's boarding school in Blackwood. The first minute she gets there she gets this strange feeling. There were only three other girls in the whole school. Their names were Lynda, Sandy, and Ruth. They all had special talents, but only because of ghosts! The ghosts are the ones who have the talent and they're making the four girls do their unfinished business. Will the girls get out in time or will the ghosts take over their minds?<br />One of the things I really liked was the suspense and mystery that was in this book. For instance, Kit saw someone in the mirror behind her and nobody else saw it. Or when Lynda started to paint significant pictures and she had never taken classes or anything. Another thing I liked was when all of the creepy stuff happened. Especially when I was home alone and jumping at little soundless things. Like this one thing in the book where suddenly a paper in the fireplace lifted out of it. It was pretty weird. I also liked it because whenever I predicted, I was almost always right.<br />I recommend this book to readers that like to read suspense and mystery. Maybe also readers that like to predict, because sometimes you just have a need to predict.	2003-11-09
908132:US	51744771	R1VIYMMY24GK1O	044022828X	113534790	Never Trust a Dead Man	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enemies become Friends	A Review by Sidne<br />Selwyn is an eighteen-year old boy struggling to prove his innocence of murder.  Anora, a young woman Selwyn proposed to was devastated.  She declined Selwyns proposal and accepted Farolds (the man Selwyn was accused of murdering).  Selwyn was dragged from his family and was driven into a cave with Farolds body.  He was tied to a rock nearby.  Just when he was sure he would die he saw a bright green glowing light.  He had no idea what it was and didnt care, whether angel or ghost he just hoped it could prove his innocence.  <br />One thing I didnt enjoy about the book, Never Trust a Dead Man, was that the main character, Selwyn was never descriptive.  He never clearly described how he felt about the situation he was in.  The only description he gave was when he was in the cave and was describing how dark and damp it was.  If I could give suggestions for the book I would have to describe how Selywn thought about his family, Anora, or how he felt about being accused of murder.  I did however, enjoy the humor in the book.  It took a dark fantasy into a humorous mystery.  It made Farolds character seem more likable instead of dark, the author turned death into humor.  Another thing I liked about the book was that the author added magic.  It expanded the thinking of the story and made you think about what you would do in Selwyns situation, since he had the ability to acquire the magic.<br />I enjoyed the book.  I thought it was a fun mystical adventure.  I wouldnt recommend this book for readers that enjoy high action and surprises.  This is a good book however for light readers that enjoy a good fiction.	2003-11-09
911810:US	51744771	R30BZBEKWNTY90	0440972922	153123407	Ransom	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Scariest Bus Ride	A Review by Brian<br />One day five students from a rich neighborhood, Marianne, Glenn, Bruce, Dex, and Jesse, notice that they have a different bus driver. He seems normal and they don't think much of their bus driver. He tells the students that he has to pick up a friend that lives close by, the kids think that it is sort of weird that he is using the bus to pick up his friend but they don't seem to really mind very much. It ends up that his friend and him drive past the neighborhood and tell them they are planning to kidnap them for ransom. They take the kids to a deserted town, and they are held in a cabin in the mountains for a ransom of 15,000 dollars each.<br />The thing I liked in this book is the suspenseful moments. The story shows the characters emotions very well. I like the way the author arranges the events and the way they unfold. I think the best thing he does is describe the characters life's at home and what their parents are doing before the kidnapping and during the kidnapping. I think it was a very good decision that he chose to include the parent's lives and how they are dealing with the situation. I only thing I wish the author would have done was to make the ending more descriptive and gone farther into the story. P>I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a suspenseful and kind of an adventure like book. There aren't many hard words in this book so it can be read by most age groups. I think this is a great book if you like to read mystery stories.	2003-11-06
913533:US	51744771	R31UVWK8PC01TA	0345422384	140729396	Pandora (New Tales of the Vampires)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dead, but still alive	A Review by Alex<br />Pandora takes us back to her modern childhood in ancient Rome. This is where she met and fell in love with the really good-looking mortal Marius. She is forced to leave her home or be killed by the soldiers plotting to take over the city. The story begins in a café in present day Paris, David Talbot a scholar and recently made vampire convinces her to write her life story. Her story is about the survival of the highly educated and independent women born in the time of Augustus Caesar. It is about how she is attracted to mysticism and finally vampirism. And how she must fight for her soul. <br />I really enjoyed how this book takes you from ancient Rome into modern times. I also liked that the differences between people back then and now are not really extreme. The only \\"slow\\" part of this book was when the author would get almost too detailed with descriptions, of even the tiniest things like smells from the city and clothes. But it all seemed to make it easier to imagine and feel what was happening to the characters.  The most interesting thing about this book is that vampires or any other weird people could live among us, because we really don't pay attention to anyone but ourselves. <br />I would suggest this book and the other vampire books to people who like history and fantasy from a personal point of view. I would not recommend this book to the people who are looking for the satanic vampire-killing sprees. The book is much too romantic for them.	2003-11-04
913750:US	51744771	R1H4ZZ9UQONIV6	0785727531	233606056	Big Wander	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Unforgettable Summer	A Review by Kyle<br />Mike and Clay, two brothers from Seattle, are searching for their uncle Clay. Uncle Clay was a famous all-around rodeo star who lived in northern Arizona. He has disappeared. It is up to Mike and Clay to piece together their uncle's fate, their only clue being a mysterious phone call that was so unclear, all they heard was \\"Restaurant Hay.\\" Taking their life savings, and a beat up old truck they bought for $75, they head out to Arizona to spend their summer searching for their uncle.<br />I like how the author blends the era of 1962 with the characters and setting, influencing how they act and what they say, such as Clay mailing a letter to President Kennedy, or having a conversation about the new space program America was developing. The book plays out with the perfect blend of comedy and action, more than enough to keep you reading. The descriptions of all characters and settings are incredibly vivid, giving you a clear picture of what Monument Valley or a Navajo village looks like. The dialogue is simple and easy to understand, and the events are realistic enough that I would believe this story if it were not fiction. The only downside to reading this is that it doesn't seem long enough; I would really like to know what happens after the end.<br />I recommend this book to ages 10+ and to anyone who enjoys survival stories or books about the old west or the author Gary Paulsen..	2003-11-04
914614:US	51744771	R3UUTO7ZFL6FPG	0812627385	867945663	How I Survived My Summer Vacation: And Lived to Write the Story	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Summer Time Vacation	A Review by Mike<br />Jackie, the main character, is on his summer vacation. He wants to write a novel but his mom, dad, and friends keep on interrupting him. He wants to be alone so he can finish his novels. Jackie doesn't know what his friend Nick is up too. Nick, his best friend, is trying to get him a girl friend. He did get him a date. The girl, Jackie, and his best friend and his girl went out on a date. Jackie's parents also try to make Jackie go to camp every summer, but not this time. His parents wanted him to go to computer camp this summer, but he didn't go. <br /> I liked the story How I Survived My Summer Vacation. It was a great book for kids that are writing novels. They could learn how hard it is to write. Jackie, the main character, wasn't all that funny, but you could learn a lot from him. Jackie in the story he gives some good ideas to write about. Things I didn't like about the story are his mom and dad didn't seem all that funny or weren't talked about as much as Jackie was. They seemed like a boring couple of parents. When they said they were going to send Jackie to computer camp, I would have gone because they said if he went they would buy him his own computer to play with. I would have gone for it but he had to finish his novels. <br /> I would recommend this book for people that have a good thinking skill. Plus for people who like novels or like writing novels. This book for starting up the year was awesome. What I mean is it was easy to read and follow in the story. It might also give you some ideas about the summer.	2003-11-04
914690:US	51744771	R6GK5FJ7A1MBU	0425062899	972695419	The Weird of the White Wolf	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Long Journey	A Review by Joe<br />The Book follows an Albino emperor, named Elric who has given up his ruling of his land. Elric has done this in order to find out why he is on earth, why he exists. The book takes the reader along on all of Elric's journeys to find the meaning of life. Elric goes to many lands and fights off many mystical creatures to find this out. He will meet many new friends along the way, and the reader will lose some friends too, as you go along on his journeys.      <BR> <BR>I like how the book always kept me wanting more. The stories in the book are just as exciting as the next. It makes the reader feel like you are right next to Elric. The book is so descriptive. It almost makes the reader think that the monsters are real. I really like this description of Elric and his new found friend Shaarilla mounting their horses. \\"They mounted there swift, black horses and spurred them with abandoned savagery down the hillside towards the marsh, their clocks whipping behind them lashing them high into the air.\\" In the book the vocabulary was easy enough, but I could not understand some of the names. I kept wanting to call Elric, Eric. I really thought that the cities were hard to pronounce like Jharokor, Imrryr, and Melnibone.<br />I recommend this book to readers who like adventure, fantasy books. This book has all of those great genres jammed packed into on whole book.	2003-11-04
914825:US	51744771	R2MO8XBEPW0ZRJ	0689815158	203071037	Flight of the Dragon Kyn	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Gift	A Review by Jessica<br />One day log ago a girl named Kara got Vermillion fever and almost died, but a dragon saved her. This book takes place many years after this incidence. The thing is that Kara remembers nothing that happened. The only things that remind her of the dragon is a name, Flagra, which she screamed in the middle of the night and the gift of being able to call birds down from the sky. A king named Orrick sends for her to come to him, and she dose. What Kara doesn't know is he wants her to call down dragons. The Problem is that Kara has never seen a dragon let alone call one down from the sky. Kara and a group of warriors go out to seek dragons. Kara calls for Flagra and she comes what she doesn't know it that the men are going to kill this dragon, the one that saved her life. As the dragon becomes visible the arrows rise to the deep blue sky and they shoot.<br />In this book I really enjoyed the suspense and adventure. The main character, Kara tells this story in first person. Susan Fletcher is a great author. One thing I like in her books is there is a little hidden love story within them. There is one in this book. It is between Kara and one of the king's men named Kazan. I also like the extreme detail that Susan Fletcher uses. An example of detail is when she describes a falcon she calls. Kara says, \\"I steeped back startled, the gray falcon screamed, tightened her grip on my hand. One wing clouted my head, and then she was flying.\\" The vocabulary in this book is not too hard but not to easy. I also found the dialogue to be very easy to follow. <br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a good adventure with suspense and action. It's a real great read! This book keeps you in the edge of your seat the whole time your reading it.	2003-11-03
914933:US	51744771	R1DEHIKU1Z36K3	0142500275	344304803	A Step From Heaven	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Exciting!	A Review by Jackie<br />If you like a book with a little Korean and American mix then you will love the book A Step from Heaven. Young Ju and her family move to America from Korea and find it difficult to adjust to the way America is and runs, but it is not just America that they are having problems with. To Koreans America means Heaven but when the Park family moves there their whole thought of that meaning totally changed.<br />I find Young Ju or Ju a very strong girl when it comes to her family and mainly her father. She works very hard on her school work and gets a reward for the highest GPA in her ninth grade class. Ju loves her family and tries her best to keep up with them but with everything that is going on she gets caught in the middle. Apa, Jus dad, is also a hard working man but there is something about him that changed as they moved to America. Everybody has changed. I didnt like Apa from the beginning. When the book introduces you to him I could tell that the book is having something to do with him.<br />I recommend this book because it is just a good read. It is not hard and not easy and along the way you learn some of the Korean language. Also if you are just looking for something to read then get this book. This is a book for young and old.	2003-11-03
914964:US	51744771	R1JO6HL38DFU2K	0590485911	283944624	Danger Zone (Point Signature)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Racism	A Reviewby Ian<br />Jimmy Doyle is a high school basketball player from Minnesota that is chosen to play on an All-American team that will travel to Italy to play in a tournament. Jimmy is soon to find out that not all of Jimmys teammates want him on the team, mainly because he is white. Jimmy must endure racism and death threats from people around the world. Jimmy and his teammates must overcome racism to achieve their goals. <BR> <BR>I like how this book keeps you on the edge of your seat. You always want to know what happens next in the story, and how Jimmy handles certain situations. I also admire the main character in the story, Jimmy. Not only is he a good basketball player, but he does a good job handling all of the racism and death threats he receives. Another thing I like about this book is how the team must overcome hostility from an entire country to achieve their goals and win. The team does a good job of sticking together to overcome many things, and not letting racism get the best of them.<br />I would definitely recommend this book to anybody who enjoys basketball, and suspense.  I always wanted to know what was going to happen to Jimmy next. I think it is a really good book and it kept me on the edge of my seat the entire time.	2003-11-03
915055:US	51744771	R3C7CPBRMYZZI8	0590486683	732570387	Slam! (Point Signature (Scholastic))	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Got Game?	A Review by Pat<br />Slam is a book about a fifteen year old basketball player. The story starts out talking about his family. He has a mother, brother, and alcoholic dad who is frequently in and out of jobs. Then the story starts to tell about Slams school and friends. Slam was transferred to a new school because of efforts to change ethnic mix among schools. Lastly, the book talks about how Slam works his way onto the school basketball and the road blocks he overcomes to get there.<BR> <BR>One thing I liked about this book is how well they introduced the characters.  The book really goes in depth and talks about the back rounds of each character well. Secondly, I liked how the author describes each situation. Hew gets down to every last detail in the situation. For this reason the story is easy to follow. Lastly, I liked how the book leaves you guessing. Every page leaves you wondering what could possibly pop up next.<br />I recommend this book for readers who like to get attached to their book. If you like great descriptive settings and detailed characters this book is for you.	2003-11-03
915056:US	51744771	RVY8T6YCBTHFL	038072913X	26810930	The Maze	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Condor Project	A Review by Sam<br />I read the book The Maze which was about a 14 year-old boy named Rick that lived in various foster homes.  But that all changes when he went sent to Blue Canyon Youth Detention Center down by Las Vegas for throwing rocks repeatedly at a stop sign.  Rick was sent there six months on probation and hated it, Rick hated it so much he decided to escape and run.  Rick plans to run as far as he can, even by hitch hiking.  He meets a man named Lon that teaches him about life.<br />I like how this book has good pacing.  It keeps you in suspense so that you want to keep reading.  Also it had some good high points, such as when Rick had escaped from the detention center and when he learned how to hang glide.  Rick had always dreamt about flying.  When he learned how to hang glide he discovers he was a natural.  During Rick's stay at Lon's camp he learns about saving Condors, which are very large birds.  What I liked the most is the realism and the descriptions in this book.  When the author tells the story he gives details that make you feel what the character is feeling and doing.  This story could very well happen in today's place and time.<br />I would give this book a strong four, because of its high points and good pacing.  I would recommend this book to anyone that likes adventure, and that likes to have two or more main characters that bond together and learn from each other.	2003-11-03
915086:US	51744771	R1RS11BGEPIY7X	0671028022	102438310	Jade (Wildflowers)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Third Time Isn't the Charm in this Case	A Review by Amy<br />A familiar word, divorce, is the main part of Jade's life in this third of a series. Jade starts out with Jade talking with three other clients in a therapy office, all in which are girls. Jade is being swarmed by both her mom and dad about divorce issues; who will get custody? While her parents are pressuring Jade to feel that she loves one over the other, she meets someone online; Craig. He has similar family problems to her and Jade soon sets off for a journey of her life to meet him in San Francisco. Jade will never be the same again. <br /> The plot of Jade was boring and dull, and nothing built up to the climax. This was defiantly a quite boring 3rd book. There were no exciting points that made you want to read more. I liked how V.C. Andrews wrote in this book, such as her use of words and characterization, but it still isn't one that I would read again. Andrews usually has a great twist in her story, but this was a little too strange for my liking. It had no relation to the story what so ever. <BR> <BR> I would recommend this story to people who like to be bored as they read a story. V.C. Andrews definitely was not writing her normal here. I don't recommend reading this book at all.	2003-11-03
915164:US	51744771	R2PJBDAUN0CVRA	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Wands Out!	A Review by Valaree<br />Secret clubs, power-hungry teachers, and being named a attention seeking liar is all about Harry Potters fifth year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. On top of that, he is diving head-first into the world of being a teenager. There is a new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Professor Umbridge. She is a toad-like woman working for the Ministry, seeking to put in affect all rules possible to give the Ministry maximum power over Hogwarts. Even with the rapidly approaching O.W.L.S. and suffocation by rules and regulations, Harry still has other things on his mind, Voldemort. Harry is looking into Voldemorts world through dreams. Through this, the question arises, his Voldemort looking into Harrys world, and if so, why? <br />Over all, this was as very enjoyable book, but some things really stood out to me that I found annoying or liked. One thing that I didnt like was the constant reminder that Harry was becoming more and more moody as he gets older. It is good to know what the character is feeling or thinking, but it was a little much. One thing that I did like about the book was the amazing detail all through the book. From the appearance of thestrals to the depths of the Forbidden Forest, it feels as if you are right there at Harry side. Another thing that I liked was learning about new characters, and better understanding the old ones. It was good to find new aurors like Kingsley Shacklebolt and Tonks, and some not so enjoyable characters at Hogwarts like Professor Umbridge and Marietta.<br />I would suggest this book to a person who is looking for a magical escape. Though it might not be the best installment in the series, it is still a book worth reading. I would suggest to read the book before it, so it the story will make more sense.	2003-11-03
915180:US	51744771	R2IE04EX3KVMSN	0064472272	46574095	Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging: Confessions of Georgia Nicolson (Confessions of Georgia Nicolson, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Don't You Wish You Were Me?	A Review by Lynsie<br /> Have you ever wanted to just crawl up and never show your face again? Well in this book, that's exactly how Georgia feels at times. She's not by herself in all of this; she does have her best friend Jas helping her out. Georgia is in love with a boy but doesn't know how to kiss. So, she gets a boy named Peter to help her out. Turns out, he wants a little bit more than just to teach her. Jas and Georgia get invited to their friend's Kate's party and that's the perfect moment to shine for the all in famous \\"Sex God.\\"<br /> I thought it was really funny how descriptive the book was! It makes it like really shocking and really funny all at the same time. I loved the part about how Georgia shaved her eyebrows off all the way! That was hilarious; in fact, I'm laughing about it right now. When Georgia and Jas got invited to Kate's party, which was funny because Jas loved it and Georgia was scared because she couldn't kiss. When Peter offered to teach her, I was really shocked and I thought that was a little bit too forward. Again, this is a 14 year olds life though. I love Angus! He is so cute sounding. The way Georgia's family treats him is funny.  They really treat him like a part of the family.<br /> I personally loved this book and will continue to finish out the series. I would recommend this book to people who like to read comedy books. It tells you what it's like to live as a young woman in these 365 days of	2003-11-03
915182:US	51744771	R4NBFTQ9H8WOY	0374346658	625542235	Losing Louisa	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Teen	A Review by Nichole<br />                     The Book Losing Louisa is told by Lacey the younger sister in the book. Lacey's life hasn't been going very well ever since her parents got divorced. Things just keep getting worse and worse. Lacey is living with her mother Lenora and her older sister Rosie. Her father is living with his new wife and has a baby on the way. During the nights at Lacey's house she hears noises coming from the basement and she is too scared to go down there and see what the noises are. Lacey's mother thinks that it is just the neighbor cats.  The most shocking thing wasn't that it is finding out that Rosie is pregnant and they don't know weather to keep the baby or put it up for adoption. I like how this book has a lot of real teenage things going on and the events aren't fake they are real thing that do happen. I like teen books and this is a teen book so it was worth reading. I usually don't like reading books and I did like reading this book I got really in to it. The things that lacey and the rest of the family are going through are normal and some people who might read this book might be able to relate to things in the book.<br />      I would recommend this book to those of you who like teen books or realistic books. You can really get in to this book and imagine the things going on and how the people are feeling.	2003-11-03
915199:US	51744771	R1QG8EW41I5238	0689855443	409966083	Mates, Dates, and Inflatable Bras	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Crazy Teenage Years	A Review by Johanna<br />In the book Mates Dates and Inflatable Bras Lucy Lovering is going through a very difficult time in her life. Not because of any certain problems but because she 14-years- old and she is learn how to deal with different kinds of situations.  <br />Lucy is learning how to deal with the feeling of both loosing friends and making new ones.  She is also experiencing feelings she has never had before; those would be the feelings of being in love.  Lucy has fallen for a boy and is having to deal with all the feelings of how to act around him, what to say to him, and of course how she can get him to like her back.   But the thing is that at the same time Lucy is dealing with being \\"in love\\" she feels like her best friend has left her for the new girl.  I think that the main reason I liked this book is because I could relate to many of the problems that Lucy was dealing with.<br />I would say that this book is meant for teenage girls, probably more for the early to mid teens.  I would defiantly recommend this book to girls my age because I know that they also have to deal with the same problems.	2003-11-03
915211:US	51744771	RWBGS47ZZTTEF	0064472272	46574095	Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging: Confessions of Georgia Nicolson (Confessions of Georgia Nicolson, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	New Zealand!	A Review by Kayla<br />Georgia's father has dropped the \\"bombshell\\" today that they may be moving to New Zealand! Georgia's father, who she calls Vati, is going on a trip there to see if he likes it. Then if he likes it, the whole family will move to Wangamata, New Zealand. Of course Georgia doesn't want to leave all her friends. She's lived here her whole life. Does the family end up moving to Wangamata? How will she handle it? <br />I really liked the book because I could relate to a lot of the situations Georgia was faced with. She's a real teen dealing with real issues. Some issues she dealt with throughout the book that most girls our age deal with also were first boyfriends, first kiss, what outfits to wear , problems with her best friends, and also her parents. The pace of the book was pretty steady for me. It wasn't too fast or too slow. Also I thought the language was neat. The author used English slang words. If there was a word that I didn't understand, it was most likely in Georgia's dictionary in the back of the book. <br />I would recommend this book to people who like \\"real\\" stories and love comedy. This book is now the best book I've ever read. Sometimes, I couldn't put the book down. The book is easy to follow.	2003-11-03
915301:US	51744771	R1DC14Y5RPPZ3A	0553263218	835646053	The Pigman	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Teen Issues and Exciting Events	A Review by Cassie<br />Vivian who is a fifteen year old werewolf falls in love with Aiden a human.  She and her pack attend school, go to work, and mingle with; but the humans are not aware of the pack's double life.  Vivian is struggling because she wants to reveal her true identity to Aiden.  If she did, this would be a threat to the pack.  People are getting brutally murdered and no one knows who is committing the murders, not even the pack.  Will Vivian tell Aiden she is a werewolf and will the pack survive?<br />     I like how the author put a lot of detail into her descriptions, such as when the characters transform into werewolves.  But in some instances I felt there was too much detail.  For example, \\"He tasted her thoroughly, his tongue caressing her...\\"<BR>I didn't know someone could put so much detail in a kiss.  Even though this book is fictional, the author made it seem real and brought the characters to life.  The dialogue between the main character, Vivian, and the reader was unique because you were able to know her thoughts as well as what Vivian said.<br />     I would recommend this book to readers who enjoy mysteries and adventure.  It captures your attention and makes you want to continue reading.	2003-11-03
915330:US	51744771	R3OLRXVMKUCXHL	0451169522	916592852	Misery	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Trapped!	A Review by Colby<br />Paul Sheldon the main character had gotten into a car crash and both of his legs were shattered, and his pelvis was dislocated. Annie Wilkes picked him up and brought him to her house. He learns that she is his \\"number one fan\\" and that she has all of his books but she likes the Misery books the best. Annie reads the manuscript for a new book and doesn't like it. She gets him a wheelchair and an old typewriter and has him write a new Misery book just for his \\"number one fan\\".<br />I like the book Misery because some of the things that Annie Wilkes does are just completely horrifying. For example, she found out that Paul had snuck out of his room so she performs an operation that she calls \\"hobbling\\", she cuts Paul's foot off with an axe and cauterizes what's left of his leg with a blowtorch. The book has many good conflicts in it. Most of the conflicts are Character VS. Character, most if not all are exciting and or very creepy. Another reason I like Misery is because the plot is something that could really happen, I think what happens in the story could really happen because there are a lot of crazy people in the world and I'm sure that some are really like Annie Wilkes. <br />I would recommend the book Misery to people that like scary stories about people that get trapped and can't control what happens to them. The book is easy to read and exciting.	2003-11-03
915331:US	51744771	R1KHEADHREZP5N	0670887757	637668088	Redhanded	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Final Battle	A Review by Mikel<br />The man character Steven is a boxer and he fights for fun. In the beginning of the book Steven fights a guy named Del Toro. He is supposed to be the best fighter in his division. After the fight he starts to train a lot more because he is joining a tournament. But he does not have enough money to join yet. Eventually he makes it into the tournament so he doubled the time he trained. In the tournament he wins all of his fights and advances to the final round. But they do not tell Steven who he will face till he gets to the match.<br />I like how this book stayed mostly in one place. Like most of the book took place in the gym. Only one time they talked about going some where else then the gym. The book was very realistic. Like all the details in the book when Steven was in the ring fighting. The conflict in this story was pretty obvious in the beginning of the book that he does not like Del Toro. This book keeps you in good suspense. For example it does not tell you who he is going to fight in the last match in the tournament.<br />I would recommend this book to people who are interested in sports and especially boxing. I think this is a good book to read. It was also easy to follow along with the plot.	2003-11-03
915333:US	51744771	R2EUIE1OUQM1MX	0689852223	547932192	The House of the Scorpion	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The House of the Clones	(...)<br />Matt was just a normal boy, so he thought, and he was never taught any different. There wasn't any way he could know any different until he met other people besides his care taker Celia. Most everyone he met said one thing to him, \\"dirty clone,\\" Then just ignored him until he left. Matt could never figure out why it was so bad to be a clone until he started to get older, figure out things like most clones had there brains mashed when they first came in to the world. If clones were so bad then why was he created? Then one day he found out his purpose, he was just a organ donor to the original!<br />This was a great book, but it is all a opinion because if you do not like sci-fi stories you will probably hate this book. It was very well written, and it just flows right through your mind. If you have read the Ear the Eye and the Arm you probably know what I am talking about. I don't really like reading that much because I am really picky about what I read. If it doesn't flow through my brain I won't want to read it. This book also had a very  interesting plot, and it gave some good out look on how cloning human beings could be such a horrible thing.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone that likes sci-fi or books by Nancy Farmer either way you will enjoy this book. It is just a all around good book.	2003-11-03
915418:US	51744771	RH8DGGBEZVE9J	0523485603	549485334	First Book of Swords: The Defender	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Blades	A Review by Tim<br />Mark had a pretty average life for the time. Hunting game for the family and doing household chores for his mom. He probably didn't expect that one day he would have to leave his house to start life anew. But what is the secret behind his father's sword called Townsaver. And what game are the gods talking about. Now the life around Mark is changing, perhaps faster than he would ever would want or expect.<br />This book is a prime example of a fantasy novel. This book was a joy to read and easy to follow. When the story follows Mark excitement is sure to trail. But Fred Saberhagen kept changing point of view every chapter. The many mysteries are unraveled throughout the story, but once one is, a new one springs from it. This feature makes you never want to put the book down. Fred Saberhagen is great at portraying a medieval setting. But it is odd that when the book refers to the old world it seems like it's referring to modern time. <br />I would recommend this book to anybody but anyone into fantasy will love this book. This is a great read I can't wait to finish.	2003-11-03
915463:US	51744771	R27FQZ2EUTFWI	0152022007	729929396	Roughnecks	Books	4	4	4	N	N	High School Football	A Review by Justice<br />Travis Cody is a senior at Oil Camp High school and is a Nose guard on the Roughneck football team. The Roughnecks are ranked second in league, with only one loss.<BR>This loss was to Pineview when Travis was flattened by a Pineview Pelican named Grooms. The day comes for the championship game and Travis will be up against Grooms for the second time. Finally Travis has a chance to prove himself, to his team, to his family, to the college scouts, and to himself.<br />I really liked this book. It was very realistic and understandable. Mostly, it reminded me of my experiences with football. I found that I could really relate to this book and the characters in it. Sometimes I found myself laughing about things that had also happened to me, or to things that characters say that I have heard my coaches also say. Some things that I disliked are how the main character kept having flashbacks to past events and experiences in his life. This sometimes was confusing and out of context, but it did help understand where Travis was coming from. It helped you understand about how some things mean to him. Lastly this book took placer over just one day and, despite some slow parts, was mostly interesting and flowed well.<br />I would recommend this book to people who like and partially understand football. A person that would love this book is someone who is playing or who has played high school football. If you don't like football and know nothing about it you may not like this book.	2003-11-03
915474:US	51744771	R31CQ6B6BXMDC3	0823411508	300038067	I Am an Artichoke	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Reality Check	A Review by Miranda<br />Fifteen-year old Sarah can't wait to start her new summer job as a mother's helper, so she can get away from what she calls her weird family. Finding out that the mother and father are divorced and argue all the time about their daughter, Emily, who has an eating disorder Sarah realizes her family isn't that bad. In the meantime she is trying to help Emily through her troubled times, relieve stress from her mother and tries to get the attention of a cute boy that works downstairs. <br />I liked how the topic of the book was so realistic and a teenager could relate to what was going on. It was easy to follow and it made you want to keep reading. I liked the characters of the book and how each one was totally different. It made the story a lot more interesting, because one character would like to do something one way and the other would want to do it another way. So you're stuck thinking, how are they going to resolve it? The one part about the book that I didn't like was how towards the end it had a great climax but the resolution was weak.<br />I would recommend this book to people who like reality and teen issues. I think it was a wonderful book that makes you want to keep reading and not want to put it down.	2003-11-03
915509:US	51744771	R1QB7AAXXPFY5P	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dark and Terrifying	A Review by Ryan<br />Winston Smith is living in London, a city in the oppressive super-state of Oceania. The year is 1984. Oceania is a nightmare of totalitarianism. The Party controls everything, from Oceania's history to people's freedom of thought. War is peace. Freedom is slavery. Ignorance is strength. Big Brother is always watching you. Winston Smith is a rebel who is desperate to overthrow this all-powerful system. Nineteen Eighty-Four documents his quest for a way to defeat the Party.<br />This book astonished me from beginning to end. The things I love most about it are its unrelenting darkness, each part's unique theme, and its overall message. The dark tone fits the book perfectly. The way everything unfolds paints a picture of bleakness and horror. The layout of the story is what interested me the most. It's organized into three distinct parts: Part I illustrates the world around Winston Smith, Part II describes the hopeful steps Winston takes toward rebellion, and Part III recounts Winston's downfall. Most importantly, I could comprehend the urgency of Orwell's message. The author's purpose was clear: to communicate not the evils of socialism itself, but the dictatorship and tyranny that complements it if it falls into the wrong hands.<br />I strongly recommend reading Nineteen Eighty-Four. It is a landmark classic. The external story is pretty easy to follow, but you'll only truly enjoy it if you are able to interpret its underlying meaning. If you can understand its message, then you, like me, will love this book to death.	2003-11-03
915576:US	51744771	R2DJUK4KRS0SPB	0380795272	488009353	Krondor the Betrayal:: Book One of the Riftwar Legacy	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Wonderful World of Feist	A Review by Trevor<br />Owyn, Gorath, and a duo of the princes' personal squires are in a desperate struggle to save the world.  A Moredhel chieftain claimed that Murmandamus, the only Moredhel to successfully unite the Dark Elves clans, was alive and entombed in Sethenon, an ancient city in the Kingdom.  The Moredhel were being used as pawns by the Tsurani Great Ones to find and destroy Midkemia's \\"ultimate weapon\\". <br />Feist has once more created a wonderful book full of action and tragedy. An award-winning computer game based on this book and two sequels were made to please his fans after the book came out.  Raymond E. Feist is a wonderfully talented writer and entertainer.  I would recommend this book to anyone who has read any of Feist's books before and to anyone who likes good books.	2003-11-03
915596:US	51744771	RDT7ZX8AXMAS1	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Long Wonders	A Review by Ben<br />Harry Potter is a normal teenage boy living a normal life but one day that all changes and he finds out he is a wizard and is going to Hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry. Now he is on his fifth year at Hogwarts with an all new evil Defense against the Dark Arts teacher. He starts his own Defense against the dark arts lessons and they call themselves Dumbledore's Army or DA. He is banned from his favorite thing to do, Quiditch. To find out more get the book and read.  <br />What I really liked about this book is the length of the book because if you just read the book as fast as you can you will miss stuff. I am a person who likes to read long books so I am not done with it in two or three days. I still don't get why Hagrid went into the mountains and nearly killed. I like how Rowling really gave the characters a lot of parts in the book Like with Ron and Hermione prefects. Why would Dumbledore pick them, Harry's best friends? Hmm! <br />I would recommend this book to all people who like long fantasy books. But first of all you have to read the first four books first. If you don't it will be confusing.	2003-11-03
915609:US	51744771	R6NHPOT4TP5MO	0812565959	882430933	Shadow of the Hegemon (The Shadow Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Belongs in the Spotlight	A Review by Kyle<br />After the Formic War is over, Bean, Petra and the other battle school graduates return home.  After 10 years of battle school they all plan to return to a normal life.  Achilles, a student who was expelled from battle school and sent to a mental hospital, does not have the same plan for them.  He has them all kidnapped except for Bean, whom he attempts to kill.  Bean escapes and decides to do all he can to rescue Petra.  <br />Shadow of the Hegemon is another book written extraordinarily well by Orson Scott Card.  The story keeps you guessing each character's next move.  Orson Scott Card switches characters almost flawlessly.  The author keeps the book realistic yet still amazingly interesting, integrating history with the future making the arguments and discussions easier to understand.  The conflicts that the characters endure are perfect for the story.  The author keeps the descriptions short but still full of the detail needed for the book.  The action that Orson Scott Card incorporates into the story is exciting but not too long.   The characters that the author puts in this book are all very realistic, everyday people.  I would not be surprised to meet one of them on the street.<br />Shadow of the Hegemon is a great science fiction book.  I would recommend it to anyone who had read and liked Ender's Game, Ender's Shadow, or any other books by Orson Scott Card.  Even if you haven't read any of those books you might still enjoy Shadow of the Hegemon.	2003-11-03
915670:US	51744771	R297T93ET1VZSW	0606229272	299097612	Night Hoops	Books	5	0	0	N	N	All About B-Ball	A Review by Sean<br />At first it seems like Nick Abbott and Trent Dawson have nothing in common, but throughout this book and their basketball season they must face problems together and find out what true friendship is. This book has many twists and turns in it and it always gives you chances to use your imagination. This book also shows how much a sport can really and unexpectedly change your life. Through out this book you can relate your own life with the story.<br />One thing that really made this book enjoyable for me to read was its pace. Because in this book there is never a dull moment, and there are so many things in this book that could very easily happen to me or anyone else in the world. Another thing I really liked is the fact that the book makes you think. For example you could read this book and while events are happening in this book, it makes you think of events that are happening in your own life. And the final thing that I liked is how everything in this book is related to basketball in someway.   <br />I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reading about sports and to any one that enjoys seeing how sports can make a huge difference in your life.	2003-11-03
915683:US	51744771	R2H5D8QZ8TS47	0451524934	716329241	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Rebellion!	A Review by Jordan<br />1984, by George Orewell is a book about what our Country could be like in a negative point of view in the year 1984. The book begins with a future Government trying to gain complete power of the world and its people. In this world there are no freedoms, no freedom of thought, no freedoms at all. The thoughts of the totalitarian Big Brother and the Party were nothing but complete power. Can you have complete power without pain and torture? The Party and Big Brother control everything, history, science, time, everything. Also the Party and Big Brother believed that if enough people believed something is it not true? They think if enough people believe that 2+2=5 then does it not? <br />I liked how the book kept you in suspense and how it was somewhat dark. The plot is very well done. I also liked how Winston started as a Loyal to Big brother and then changed and joined the rebellion. The author allows your mind run wild with ideas of what is happening or will happen to Winston. I really liked how the author actually made you think that  it is possible for  out government  turn out like this or maybe already headed that way.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes sci-fi books and dark adventures and mysteries.	2003-11-03
915782:US	51744771	R1GS8DELOXKXOZ	0736631607	38570142	Gold Coast	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Not a Sunny Read	A Review by Amanda<br />When Karen DeCilia was widowed for the second time her husband wanted her to be with no one else. So he put a clause in his trust saying she couldn't sleep with any other man. If she did break this factor of the trust she would never receive another dime of his money, the cars, or the estate. In her way is a man named Rowland he wants to ruin it all. She needs Maguire's help, an ex-con, to find a way around Rowland. <br />I really didn't care for this book very much. I didn't like how the pace of the book was<BR>slow and boring. There weren't many, if at all, any real suspenseful parts. The characters never really evolved into anything. Such as Karen she was just a rich girl trying to get out of her late husbands tight hold on her. But that was about it. There was a lot of mention of this girl named Vivian, but it truly never explained who she was or what significance<BR>she was to the story. It was a very difficult story to follow and not a fun read at all. The story never evolved into something interesting. It was just a boring book to read. <br />I recommend you avoid this book. It wasn't any fun to read and had no climax that was interesting. Someone who might enjoy this book is a person who can follow a story really well or just wants to read a book by this author.	2003-11-03
915844:US	51744771	R2PRF4JW2EPOQ7	0064410137	639861521	The Slippery Slope (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 10)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Come Travel a Road Less Traveled	A Review by Josie<br />Starting from where the ninth book ended, The Slippery Slope starts with Violet and Klaus are separated from Sunny. Through out this book, the children get attacked by snow gnats and run into a group of kids celebrating False Spring, led by a person they never thought they see again. Also they see many more fires and come to a point where they must fight fire with fire. They also travel many roads that are less traveled and find out secrets to questions they been asking for months Also they find a surprising person who made it out of a fire alive.  <br />I liked how this book answered the questions that I have been wondering for years. I also liked how it was very descriptive about things like the snow gnats. The book also involved things from other books and poems like the \\"Road Less Traveled.\\" Also how it showed things from the first nine books so you remember some of the things that the children want through. The three main characters are very descriptive and from the book you can tell a lot about them. Like each of their different talents and things they do well. The children are like normal children put in strange spots and I like that I can relate to them. <br />I think it was a great book and if you liked the other nine books you will love this one. It's a great book for people who like funny and dark books. I would not suggest this book if you don't like a bit of a sad story.	2003-11-03
915881:US	51744771	R2PT451WYQXT93	0064472264	605226542	On the Bright Side, I'm Now the Girlfriend of a Sex God (Further Confessions of Georgia Nicolson)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Life Story of a Preteen	A Review by Camille<br />   Georgia Nicholson, lives in England with her mother, father, Libby and Angus. Angus is the Nicholson's over grown cat. This book is about Georgia's life with her family and the sex god Robbie. Robbie is Georgia's, former, boyfriend. Georgia is on a race to get Robbie back, but with Georgia it is no easy task. With her family planning to move to Australia (in other words known as Kiwi-a-go-go land) and Jas, (her best friend) being dimly dumb Georgia's plans aren't going according to plan. This is truly the life of a young teenage girl.<br />   On the bright side I'm now the girlfriend of a sex god is one of the most hilarious books I have ever had the chance to read. Louise Renison who writes the book is also the author of the rest of the books in the series. Renison takes a look into the life of a young girl going through adolescence. I really like how Renison keeps you laughing throughout the whole book. She truly captures a young girl's life in the process from child to woman hood. The characters are so real! It sounds like a girl's diary...wait it is. I love how it is in diary form so the author can use words that are more slang than formal. In the back of the book there is a glossary of all the words that Georgia uses that we Americans wouldn't necessarily know. <br />   If you loved Angus, Thongs, and Full Frontal Snogging you'll absolutely love the further confessions of it, On the bright side I'm now the girl friend of a sex god.	2003-11-03
915938:US	51744771	R38KAHEQ3WXW3L	0441005489	294268861	Redwall: 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Fight For Redwall	A Review by Kyle<br />Rats are horrible creatures.  They most certainly are the most horrible thing that could have happened to the peace loving mice of Redwall.  Cluny the most feared rat in all the land, with his ruthless horde is feared by all.  Cluny seeks to take over Redwall to use those who live the invasion as slaves to gather food for his growing horde.  Cluny has not left any fort still standing in the past, but maybe Cluny and his horde have finally met their match, the mice of Redwall.<br />Some things I really liked about the book is how the author kept me guessing though out the whole entire book as to what was going to happen next.  There were quite a lot of characters, which made it fun to read.  Each character had his or her important role in the book at some time.  This means lots of characters means lots of things that can go wrong and make it harder for the main character or easier.  I don't think it got too much easier for the main character.  Some other things I liked was that the main character lost something very valuable to him at the end of the book. It was the main characters father figure. <br />I recommend this book to anyone who really enjoys an adventure book.  Also to a person who likes a good read.  This book is a book I know I will be reading even more.	2003-11-03
915986:US	51744771	R3ON4FGB06VHXU	0689815158	203071037	Flight of the Dragon Kyn	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Gift	A Review by Jessica<br />One day log ago a girl named Kara got Vermillion fever and almost died, but a dragon saved her. This book takes place many years after this incidence. The thing is that Kara remembers nothing that happened. The only things that remind her of the dragon is a name, Flagra, which she screamed in the middle of the night and the gift of being able to call birds down from the sky. A king named Orrick sends for her to come to him, and she dose. What Kara doesn't know is he wants her to call down dragons. The Problem is that Kara has never seen a dragon let alone call one down from the sky. Kara and a group of warriors go out to seek dragons. Kara calls for Flagra and she comes what she doesn't know it that the men are going to kill this dragon, the one that saved her life. As the dragon becomes visible the arrows rise to the deep blue sky and they shoot.<br />In this book I really enjoyed the suspense and adventure. The main character, Kara tells this story in first person. Susan Fletcher is a great author. One thing I like in her books is there is a little hidden love story within them. There is one in this book. It is between Kara and one of the king's men named Kazan. I also like the extreme detail that Susan Fletcher uses. An example of detail is when she describes a falcon she calls. Kara says, \\"I steeped back startled, the gray falcon screamed, tightened her grip on my hand. One wing clouted my head, and then she was flying.\\" The vocabulary in this book is not too hard but not to easy. I also found the dialogue to be very easy to follow. <br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a good adventure with suspense and action. It's a real great read! This book keeps you in the edge of your seat the whole time your reading it.	2003-11-03
916013:US	51744771	R24H6OEEW0DD2V	0803726023	519996588	One Night	Books	4	0	0	N	N	One Chance	A Review by Nathan<br />Kelly Ray is a recovering heroine addict who works for her famous aunt on radio talk show. It is Kelly's job to pertain information on the people who are soon to be interviewed by her aunt. Her aunt wants an interview with the famous prince, and soon to be king, of Lakveria. The only problem is that he is under tight security and she has no way to get to him. This is where Kelly intervenes. She spends a whole night out on the town with the prince trying to get him on the show. At the same time the two become very close.<br />The book was, overall, very interesting, to put it simply. The characters in the book where very animated and fun. They were not the norm which made the characters that much better. Every character was important to the story or changed it in some way, and it shows that the author took time to make it that way. One thing that I personally did not like, however, was the lack of action. The book had much suspense but never went off into action scenes. There is one final thing that I especially like about the book, and it is a personal thing. Most people like a fast read, and I do too, but this book was slow in the sense that it took time to give all the facts. And when the author takes time like this it makes whatever happens that much better.<br />In recommendation, I say \\"Regardless of whom you are or how old or what you like etc., READ THIS BOOK!! You need to hear this story! It isn't long but it is all worth it!\\"	2003-11-03
916067:US	51744771	RTK34EU3YGNHN	0440226686	357613801	Blood and Chocolate	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Double Life!	A Review by Nikki<br />Vivian who is a fifteen year old werewolf falls in love with Aiden a human.  She and her pack attend school, go to work, and mingle with; but the humans are not aware of the pack's double life.  Vivian is struggling because she wants to reveal her true identity to Aiden.  If she did, this would be a threat to the pack.  People are getting brutally murdered and no one knows who is committing the murders, not even the pack.  Will Vivian tell Aiden she is a werewolf and will the pack survive?<br />     I like how the author put a lot of detail into her descriptions, such as when the characters transform into werewolves.  But in some instances I felt there was too much detail.  For example, \\"He tasted her thoroughly, his tongue caressing her...\\"<BR>I didn't know someone could put so much detail in a kiss.  Even though this book is fictional, the author made it seem real and brought the characters to life.  The dialogue between the main character, Vivian, and the reader was unique because you were able to know her thoughts as well as what Vivian said.<br />     I would recommend this book to readers who enjoy mysteries and adventure.  It captures your attention and makes you want to continue reading.	2003-11-03
916172:US	51744771	R1T6SAS241VAK2	0786817089	857095333	The Arctic Incident (Artemis Fowl, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Suspenseful and Funny	A Review by Danielle<br />Artemis Fowl, The artic Incident, is about a boy named Artemis Fowl. Artemis is a 15 year old boy. Artemis is a very smart boy, in fact he is a genius. Artemis is also a criminal, just like his father. Artemis' father was a criminal for a very long time, that is until he was captured. Artemis' father made a lot of money during his years as a criminal, and when his father was taken Artemis carried on the tradition. Artemis has made thousands of dollars scamming people and doing exactly what his father did. Now he fears his father is dead he hasn't seen him in two years. Artemis gets a mysterious video email and realizes now that his father is alive but in the hands of the Russian Mafia. Artemis must save his father but how....?<br />I really like this book. It was suspenseful and funny. This book is the sequel to Artemis Fowl. This book, The Artic Incident explains and goes into a lot more detail than the first book. I like the fact that it goes into a lot of detail so I really understand the book and what is going on. The book has so much detail that I am sure someone who hasn't read the book would completely understand the book. I had read the other book a long time ago, and still I understood the book and what was happening even though it had been so long.<br />            I would recommend this book to people who really like fantasy books like Harry Potter and are really into reading. These books take a lot of time to finish they are quite long. Even though they are long these books are long they are worth the time to read.	2003-11-03
916174:US	51744771	R36IBSZ43Q7G4H	0590486683	732570387	Slam! (Point Signature (Scholastic))	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Got Game?	A Review by Pat<br />Slam is a book about a fifteen year old basketball player. The story starts out talking about his family. He has a mother, brother, and alcoholic dad who is frequently in and out of jobs. Then the story starts to tell about Slam's school and friends. Slam was transferred to a new school because of efforts to change ethnic mix among schools. Lastly, the book talks about how Slam works his way onto the school basketball and the road blocks he overcomes to get there.<BR> <BR>One thing I liked about this book is how well they introduced the characters.  The book really goes in depth and talks about the back rounds of each character well. Secondly, I liked how the author describes each situation. Hew gets down to every last detail in the situation. For this reason the story is easy to follow. Lastly, I liked how the book leaves you guessing. Every page leaves you wondering what could possibly pop up next.<br />I recommend this book for readers who like to get attached to their book. If you like great descriptive settings and detailed characters this book is for you.	2003-11-03
916240:US	51744771	R1AOG5MKKBGF88	0440227194	944115185	Brian's Winter	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Stranded	A Review by Bryce<br />Brian's winter is a book about a boy that is still stranded in the wilderness after surviving a plane crash. He was left with only a survival pack to stay alive. Whatever wasn't in the survival pack was up to him to make or find. After he had ran out of food from the survival pack, he hunted and fished for his food supply. He made camp by a body of water where his plane had crashed. Brian soon felt the coolness of winter, and before he knew it, there were several feet of snow on the ground. Brian survived for months into the winter until one day he went to explore further than he already had. He walked for a good half hour then he spotted tracks; he thought that they were wolf tracks. He followed the tracks to find a fort with dogs outside. A Native American man walked out of the fort with his wife and kids to invite him to stay for dinner. Brian accepted his offer.<br />I think that Brian's Winter is a fun and exiting book to read. It is also an easy book to read and is just long enough to the point where it is not consuming too much of your time to read it. Brian's Winter is a book full of suspense and action. This book is one of the sequels to Hatchet which was also a good book. I look at this book and I see a book that people of any age from 10-100 would be interested in reading and have fun reading. This is a great book about learning how to survive in the woods with only the close on your back and natural resources around you. <br />I highly suggest anybody from ages 10-100 to read this book, it is not a story for people of certain ages, but fits the category of all people who are interesting in exciting and fun stories. I know that if anybody is interested in action packed stories, they will be very happy with reading this book.	2003-11-03
916257:US	51744771	RYYO9T6HACQ6E	0553472895	944115185	Brian's Winter	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Survival of the Fittest	A Review by Bryan<br />In Brian's Winter he was going to see his uncle when his plane crashed. He was stranded on a lake beach with only a survival pack. As he was sleeping one day he notices that he felt a cold breeze that felt like winter was coming. When he felt that the winter was coming he had to run and waterproof his hut with a mud solution. He also had to go and gather a lot of firewood to keep him warm.<br />I liked the book actually quite a bit. I am kind of and outdoors type of person. I really liked the ways he survived basically because the gun he had had broken so he had to make a bow to hunt with. He actually hunted fairly well with a bow because a bow is hard to hunt with. My favorite part was when the twenty two rifle broke when he was hunting and he had to resort to his bow. If he hadn't had had a piece of bow string he wouldn't have been able to make the bow. The stick he used must have been pretty strong.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes an adventurous type of book. This book is not a sci fi type of book; it is more of a true story. If you are a hunter or an outdoors type of person you should love this book.	2003-11-03
916276:US	51744771	R20QUV73PUSCLR	0064472272	46574095	Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging: Confessions of Georgia Nicolson (Confessions of Georgia Nicolson, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	New Zealand!	A Review by Kayla<br />Georgia's father has dropped the \\"bombshell\\" today that they may be moving to New Zealand! Georgia's father, who she calls Vati, is going on a trip there to see if he likes it. Then if he likes it, the whole family will move to Wangamata, New Zealand. Of course Georgia doesn't want to leave all her friends. She's lived here her whole life. Does the family end up moving to Wangamata? How will she handle it? <br />I really liked the book because I could relate to a lot of the situations Georgia was faced with. She's a real teen dealing with real issues. Some issues she dealt with throughout the book that most girls our age deal with also were first boyfriends, first kiss, what outfits to wear , problems with her best friends, and also her parents. The pace of the book was pretty steady for me. It wasn't too fast or too slow. Also I thought the language was neat. The author used English slang words. If there was a word that I didn't understand, it was most likely in Georgia's dictionary in the back of the book. <br />I would recommend this book to people who like \\"real\\" stories and love comedy. This book is now the best book I've ever read. Sometimes, I couldn't put the book down. The book is easy to follow.	2003-11-03
916385:US	51744771	R29AJZRAXYBBTX	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Book Burning	A Review by Ryan<br />One night, while walking home from work, Guy Montag runs into a girl named Clarisse McClellan. This girl changes Montag's life and helps him notice that he not really happy. This setting is in the future when books are banned both to read and to have possession of. Montag had a job as a firefighter, but he was not assigned to stop fires from spreading. Instead hid job was to burn books and the houses in which they were hidden. Whenever Montag was at work, he always felt wrong when he was burning books. This change occurred after he met Clarisse. She helped him notice that books were a good thing. But one day at work Montag was faced with choice to either burn a book, or to keep the book and read it. I won't tell you what happens next because that would ruin the book.  <br />I liked a lot of things about this book, but the thing that enjoyed most was the amount of description and detail. When you read the book you could just picture yourself as the main character and see clearly in full detail you surroundings. Most authors lack this amount of imagination. Second I like the pace at which this book flows. It wasn't too fast or too slow. It would first fully explain one part of the story before it moved on to another part. I also liked the way he wrote this book. It was in such a way that you just had to keep reading until you finished the whole book. Third, I liked the vocabulary that Bradbury used. The words he used made his book sound professional, but the words were not so complex that you can't understand them. The vocabulary also helps in the descriptions that Bradbury made. <br />I would strongly recommend this book to anyone who has a ninth grade reading level or higher. I think it is the type of book that anyone who reads would enjoy reading this book. People who enjoy science -fiction would like this book even better. I say this is a must read book.	2003-11-02
916410:US	51744771	R1PSKPQXNNT2TX	0064472310	382611831	The Hunting of the Last Dragon	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Watch out, the dragons' coming!	A Review by Tanner<br />The two main characters are Jude and Lizzie.  Jude is an average boy and Lizzie is a freak from the circus.  Jude and Lizzie go on a quest to kill the last dragon.  They go because the dragon has burnt down a bunch of towns, including the town of Doran, where Jude used to live.  On their way they encounter weird people like an old lady that is crazy, the dragon and other exciting things.  Also, Jude and Lizzie need to find stuff to eat, drink and a place to sleep every night of their thrilling journey to kill the last dragon.<br />The thing I liked most about the book is the ending and how the author makes the whole story lead up to the ending.  The author's choice of words are really good, like this sentence in the book, \\"I froze like a hare when it first hears the hunter.\\"  The coolest part is when the author described the dragon, it made you feel like you were in the story.  Another thing I liked was the detail and how the author didn't leave anything out.  The way the chapters end make the book really interesting.  At the end of every chapter it would be almost impossible to stop reading because the author made you sit at the edge of your seat guessing what would happen next.  There wasn't one part in this book that I didn't like.<br />I would recommend this book to people who like adventure, excitement and a bunch of action.  There isn't anybody that wouldn't like this book.  I sure hope the author makes a sequel to this amazing story.  Everybody should give \\"The Hunting of the Last Dragon\\" a try.	2003-11-02
916412:US	51744771	R2K3QE14C05FRP	0141301155	959905089	Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (My Roald Dahl)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	It's Raining Candy	A Review by Danney<br />A young boy by the name of Charlie Bucket living in a low poverty level of an area; in a small wooden house being shared by six other relatives. Young Charlie and his family aren't making a whole lot of money considering that only his mom and dad work. One day Mr. Willy Wonka presents to the public a contest that will allow 5 winners to go into his very own factory and at the end of the day they will go home with a lifetime supply of Wonka candy. Will our Charlie Find a golden ticket and win?<br />I like how this book is very creative with all kinds of things. Like the snozzberries, the edible marshmallow pillows, and the all favored Ommpa-Loompas. I like how the book is very descriptive about what is happening with all of the little children. The climax isn't to suspenseful but the most suspense you get is when something happens to a child. I think Mr. Wonka is very energetic for his old age; but he brings the children to their type of dream worlds, filled with magic and candy.<br />I personally recommend this book to anyone who likes fantasy and humor. The book isn't hard to read and it is fun for children of all ages.	2003-11-02
916441:US	51744771	R9OY66L0L9TSD	0805057293	698236462	Haunted Sister	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Haunted by an unfamiliar voice	A Review by Sarah<br />In this book, Janine Palmer decides to skip class with her boyfriend, Scott, to go to the beach. On their way, they get into a terrible car accident at an intersection. Janine was put into a deep coma. During her coma she sees her dead grandfather and twin sister, Lenore. They try to speak to her and tell her to wake up and go back to her family. Janine then wakes up, but she realizes that she is not alone. Her twin's voice is haunting her. Is Janine having hallucinations from the accident, or is her twin really living in her body?<br />I really liked the characters in this book. Janine really had a lot of personality to her. The way she was described really made her interesting to read about. There wasn't a whole lot of action in this book, but it was suspenseful. I was constantly impatient to find out what was going to happen next. It's really hard to put this book down after you get really into it. The conflicts that Janine and Lenore kept having made it seem so real. They would argue and fight like real sisters do. The descriptions of what made Janine so mad helped you to feel like you were in the character's place. It also made it seem like Lenore was life-like. <br />I would recommend this book to middle school children and older. It might get confusing to kids who are younger than that. You would definitely enjoy this book if you like suspense, mystery and even a little action.	2003-11-02
916544:US	51744771	R27EBJ9DBUYDO8	0385322747	164900378	Life in the Fat Lane	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Fat Girl	A Review by Alexi<br />This book is about how Lara Ardeche's life changes from her school's perfect, California girl, homecoming queen, to being the 220-pound reject at an unfriendly school of people in Montana. After Lara is diagnosed with Axell-Crowne Syndrome her whole life starts to unravel. The disease makes her put on an enormous amount of weight, and to a family whose strive on perfection, this is simply unacceptable. As Lara keeps putting on weight, things happen that reveal all the things that were never so perfect about her life at all. This book is about growing up, dealing with insecurities, and knowing who your true friends are.<br />One of the things I liked a lot about this book was how realistically the author made Lara's feelings. She knew what she was talking about, obviously, because I could relate and understand some of the things Lara was feeling. And although Lara's situation was a bit extreme (gaining 100 pounds in a year) it was also quite believable. I enjoyed the pace at which the book went, too. No huge events ever happen in the book, but there were always little events going on to keep your attention but not put you into shock. The last big thing that really opened up my mind was how the story showed that no matter how perfect you think someone's life may be, there are always imperfections that either are being purposefully hidden or the person is completely oblivious to-but every secret is bound to come out at some time. There wasn't really anything I particularly did not like about this book. <br />I would recommend this book to all girls from 8th to 12th grade. Since most of the addressed issues are relevant to mainly females in that age group, those would be the people most interested in this book. I loved it and I plan on reading all of this of this author's other's other books.	2003-11-02
916563:US	51744771	R29TAZTDTXT3I9	0833559680	852837904	Halfback Tough	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Some things never change	A Review by Keith<br />Joe Atkins is a trouble maker and his parents have made him change schools because they want him to start over.  His new school is Graham High. He decides to join the football team and is the best flanker on the team. Everyone in the school and around the town knows Joe because he is the best receiver and he came out of nowhere. Joe has to overcome many obstacles such as his old friends from Worthington High who make things pretty difficult for Joe to forget his past.<br /> Some of the things I liked about this book were that the games were action packed. There was always something going on whether it is Joe's old friends or him ripping down the sideline for another touchdown. One of the things this book didn't have was big vocabulary. None of the words were a challenge and it wasn't very difficult to read. On the upside it was very easy to follow along with. The book seemed real but some parts weren't that believable such as how Joe scores at least two touchdowns a game. Also how there was a perfect block coming out of nowhere. For example, \\"He cut sharply to his right, toward the sideline, away from the mass of uniforms. The blur of an orange uniform flew into the crowd of white ones. Somebody had delivered a powerful block.\\"<br /> This book was good but it is more of a sixth or seventh grade reading level. The reader who might enjoy this book is the person who love action packed football.	2003-11-02
916585:US	51744771	R9OYN9XGA4N7H	0440224764	999720718	The Partner	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Run Away!	A Review by Jason<br />One day a young lawyer from Memphis -Patrick- snaps. He fakes his own death in a car crash and disappears. Six weeks later ninety million dollars disappears from the firms account. The only person that could have taken the money was Patrick. The firm began its journey to find Patrick. It took them through the Brazilian Rainforests, France, and finally to the small Brazilian town of Ponta Pora. There is only one person who knows were the money is not who you think it is...<br />I like how the book holds you in your seat without wanting to get up to do anything else. It is suspenseful and exciting. John Grisham is a magical writer who makes you \\"see\\" the characters in your head. There are so many points of view here, and from many different places in the world. It brings excitement in every page as you race through the Brazilian Rainforests, the small town of Ponta Pora, and the streets of Memphis. It has theft, murder, the law, and the FBI. It has a ear-shattering climax that explodes.<br />I give this book a four star rating. It has a good plot and is a great story. I would recommend  this book to people of all ages and who like to read big novels.	2003-11-02
916635:US	51744771	R19E8AGJLNE3SZ	9992337818	292159511	Don't Blame the Music	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Definitely Don't Blame the Music	A Review by Carrie<br />Seventeen year-old Susan Hall is excited about her senior year in high school. She is the music editor for the schools yearbook. Susan has the biggest crush on a boy names Anthony, but she has some competition with the chief editor of the yearbook, Shepherd. When everything is going fine for Susan an unsuspected visit from her twenty-five year-old sister, Ashley, turns everything upside-down. Ashley holds a grudge against the family because she was going to be a famous rock star, but everything went wrong and she failed at success. Susan came up with a great idea for the yearbook so she has to ask her scary classmate Whit for help. When Susan starts to talk to Whit she realizes he is not a bad guy at all, and she develops a crush on him. Things at home are not going good for Susan though, Ashley keeps ruining things, and she even tries to kill Susan.<br />I like how the story has a twist at the end. It is a very happy ending too. Everything leads up to the climax perfectly. It is a very fast read. Even if you don't have a psychotic sister you can find something to relate to in the story. Like trying to make things better in your family or trying to impress a guy at school, you can somehow relate.<br />I recommend this book to mostly girl teenagers that like to read about the everyday feelings that we encounter. Also I recommend this book to people that like to read about family issues and people that like happy endings.	2003-11-02
916652:US	51744771	R3311TEAL5QKG2	0670862878	412799818	Virtual World	Books	2	2	2	N	N	When Virtual Reality Turns Real	A Review by Daniel<br />Virtual World by Chris Westwood is a complicated book about virtual reality. In Virtual World you meet Jack, a fourteen year old boy that loves virtual reality games. A new game, Silicon Sphere is coming out soon but a pre-release copy has leaked out onto the internet and thousands of people all over the world are downloading it. When Jack downloads Silicon Sphere he gets more than he bargained for when he finds out that it's more than just a game. When kids start disappearing all over the world it's up to Jack to find out what's happening.<br /> For me Virtual World had to much \\"tech talk\\" in the dialogue through out the story. I like a nice story but all that is so distracting and I ended up just skipping over it. I did like how the story was real, for example, when most kids sit down to play a game, a few minutes will turn to hours, and hours will turn to all night. Also I think there were a few too many characters for my liking, through this book you heard about many characters and it gets to be so many it's like \\"Who was that again?\\". <br /> Even though there were a few things I didn't like about this book it still was a pretty good story so I would be willing to give it 3 out of 5 stars. I would recommend Virtual World to anyone who likes to play, or read about computer games, particularly virtual reality games.	2003-11-02
916698:US	51744771	R29ZSIW2R2EJ9A	0440917409	550630497	Deathwatch	Books	5	0	0	N	N	survival of the fittest	A Review by Daniel<br />On a hot, sunny, summer day in the desert, Ben decides to help a hunter named Madec out on finding and tracking a Big Horn Sheep.  Ben wouldn't normally go on a hunting trip with this man, but Ben needs the money he is offering to pay for his college tuition.  Something terrible happens and Ben finds himself being hunted by an insane man with a .358 magnum gun.  Ben has no clothes, food and a limited amount of time before he runs out of water and dies.<br />There definitely wasn't much to dislike about this book.  The suspense of not knowing how Ben was going to get out of each situation was what kept me from closing up the book.  Robb White writes in a way so that it is easy to follow the story and picture everything in great detail.  I also like how Robb White didn't just end the book where (I believe) the climax of the story is.  He almost has two endings and it keeps the reader entertained all the way through the book.  The only thing wrong with this book is that it's a little bit short (220 pgs).<br />I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who finds themselves interested in adventure novels such as Hatchet by Gary Paulsen and Holes.  If you liked those books, this book has a lot of the same attributes in that it's suspenseful and easy to follow and imagine the different situations.	2003-11-02
916770:US	51744771	R3J1F2BH9KDLDB	1558743669	817918233	A Child Called It: One Child's Courage to Survive	Books	5	0	0	N	N	To Survive or Not to Survive	A Review by Amanda<br />After a boy named David turned seven his mom turned crazy and into an alcoholic. David would get punished for no reason. His mom used to make his life a nightmare. Swallowing Chlorox and Ammonia was his punishment if he didn't do something right, which his mom always seemed to think that. At the age ten David wanted to kill himself because he never got fed and he got beaten too many times. Will the police help David survive or will he have to live like this until he ends up dieing?<br />The things that I liked about a chilled called \\"IT\\" is that Dave Pelzer was very detailed. The things he writes about just makes you want to know what's next. You never want to put the book down. It's suspenseful! The realism seems really real; it feels like you are there! The plot stay's with the story. The author made this book worth my time in reading. This book even has suspense in it and it not even one of those mystery books. Examples of these is when David comes home from school he has to do chores and he always gets punished but you don't know what his moms going to do, and it makes you keep reading to find out. That's why I chose to give this book four stars.<br />My recommendation for this book is to everyone, or to the people who loves sad stories with happy endings. Everyone should give sometime to read this book because I believe David wants his life story to be heard. Plus it's not difficult. All in all I think everyone should read this book.	2003-11-02
916776:US	51744771	R38EUGTWZ25FQ4	0142300705	956102265	A Year Down Yonder	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mary Alice's Trip to Grandma Dowdel's	A Review by Lacey<br />This story all starts when a 14 year old girl named Mary Alice is sent to her grandmas for a year. She is sent there because her family was in a bind and couldn't care for her in the way they needed to. Grandma Dowdel isn't the nicest old lady, so Mary Alice knows that it will be a really long year. Right away Mary Alice starts school and gets picked on by a bully. This makes it even more of a pain. As the school year goes on, Mary Alice gets a huge crush on a boy named Royce, which was one of the smartest kids in the class. Armistice Day was a weird day because all the guys in the town were turkey shooting and the women were cooking burgoo. Except in this case grandma and Mary Alice were with the guys shooting turkeys. Mary Alice received a dollar for her sixteenth birthday. In the end she ends up married to her crush, Royce, and grandma walked her down the isle.<br />In this story I liked the conflicts, one was involving a long, black snake. This book kept me reading, it didn't bore me. It had very well pace not going to long or short about an event or subject. I think that this book should have been longer; it needed to go further into detail about the whole marriage and what happened after it. It had good visual, kind of like you could relate with the story. It had well description of everything that happened making it easier to visualize. This book wasn't too hard or too easy, it was a moderate reading level.<br />I would recommend this book to a person that enjoyed reading situations that would happen in real life, or real life conflicts. I would probably focus on eighth to ninth grade boy or girl.	2003-11-02
916827:US	51744771	R1A1LOJG6TJHD7	0440972922	153123407	Ransom	Books	5	0	0	N	N	bus ride	A Review by Brad<br />School just got out for five very unlucky students. All five of the student's hade the chance to get a ride home from a friend or a parent; but they all chose to ride the stinky bus. These students all lived on the same street. As the bus approached the last stop; the kids noticed he was not slowing down. \\"It was odd this time because we had a substitute who could care less.\\" said Dex. But the bus just whizzed on by. All of the students thought that he was asleep or joking around but the bus driver knew what he had in mind.<br />This is one of the better books that I have read. I really liked how it keeps you on the edge of your seat on not knowing what will happen. This book makes you feel as if you are one of the characters. I really liked how Lois portrayed the students. Some very weak but very smart. Others were very strong but dumb as a nail. They sound just like students at our school. It was hard to follow but this didn't lower the score at all.<br />I would recommend this book to older readers who love cliffhanging suspense, or if you are in dire love of Lois Duncan. I loved this book so much I would read it again and again.	2003-11-02
916832:US	51744771	R1I1E3ITQJSPOJ	0345451325	953390251	The Fall of Reach (Halo, Bk. 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Sci-Fi Shooter	A Review by Jeff<br />If you have played the game Halo, then you'll probably want to read the book Halo: The Fall of Reach. The book tells about what happens before the game. Kind of like background information that helps you understand how the covenant came to be. The planet Reach is a planet that's like a giant military base. The covenant is trying to take over the planet to get the location of earth and wipe the world of the human race. So that the covenant can expand there race.<br />The first thing I like about the book is how it doesn't go all the way into detail which leaves you imagining. Like for example it says the \\"creatures\\", instead of saying the slimy or green creature. The second is how the planets and star systems are real which took a lot of research to find the distances and planet names. For example the planet Reach isn't really a real planet name but it's a real planet with a different name. The third is how the author crated the covenant race. All the characters were created by himself which took him a lot of time. For example the aliens are all different with different personalities.<br />I would recommend the book to anyone who likes science fiction or anyone who has played the sci-fi shooter Halo. It has very good description and you actually learn a lot about astronomy and some elements. Even if you like fiction you should read this book.	2003-11-02
916846:US	51744771	R3F9QKHO6613YP	0439324599	690123527	Cut	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Otay	A Review by Jillian<br />The book Cut is about a girl who cuts her wrists but not deep enough to kill herself just enough to relive herself of stress and frustration. She goes to a mental illness hospital for this reason. After a few months she is very willing to get the needed help from the people and move on with her life. She didn't talk to anyone for a very long time. She gets the help needed and is getting better gradually. <br />I liked the book because it was real and not fake like what people want to hear. It showed what people do sometimes and the things they go through. I like the part were she ran away from the hospital. I didn't like how the book just ended after her dad brought her back to the hospital. I think it would have been better if it showed the aftermath of her life. Over all it was a pretty good book. It showed real life probl4ems most writers and people don't talk about. <br />This is a book foe people that like real life problem. It's pretty easy to understand. But in the beginning it might be a little hard.	2003-11-02
916867:US	51744771	RECB8O5B2NIQ8	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Expelamorous	A Review by Joe<br />Once there was a boy named Harry that lived with his aunt and uncle and his cousin. These people were always mean to him and never did anything for him. One night he was sitting in his room and then his family started to leave the house. Once they were all gone all of a sudden some wizards and witches came down to his house and they told him that they were taking him back to Hogwarts. Once Harry heard this he got all his things packed and they started to leave. A couple of days later Harry was finally back at his school with all of his friends and he was back to saving the day just like always. <br />I really liked this book because of the way Harry snuck around the school trying to be inconspicuous and he would always find out some kind of news that would help him save everyone that was in trouble. In this book the author does a very good job of being descriptive throughout the whole story. Towards the end of the book the author does a very good job at leaving you wanting more. When I read this book it seems like I can actually see the characters (especially if you've seen the movie). <br />I would recommend this book to people that have a really good imagination and people that really like action books. Before you read this book I recommend you read the other four books in this series.	2003-11-02
916874:US	51744771	R32MVUR3QU1LGA	0590109960	467386194	Last Stop (Watchers, No. 1)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Dead or alive	A Review by Teddy<br />David Moore lives in the city. Six months ago, his father disappeared. Now he has seen him again.... in an abandoned subway station, surrounded by ghost like people. No one else can see this happening. Is David's father dead? Or alive? In order to find out David Moore has to enter the world of the Watchers.<br /> I didn't like the way David's friends acted or the way David did really also. There wasn't really any actions accept David seeing his dad and the way it happens, but that is only mysterious and odd. The pace of the story was good and understandable, but you can't drop the book until you find out more about his dad. It was not real enough to happen to you. There were a few conflicts between David and his friends. The relevance to today's world is about how much children today miss their parents or how much they would if their parents went away. <BR> <BR> This was not a very good book unless you like scary mysteries. You would be better off to find another book that more people have ever read. In a way it was hard to stop reading until you find something else out about David's father.	2003-11-02
916980:US	51744771	RVLQHPANT8XGK	0743412273	639916239	Pet Sematary	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Beyond the Cemetery	A Review by Kevin<br />Louis Creed, his wife Rachel, and kids Ellie and Gage move to Ludlow Maine.  They have a neighbor named Jud who becomes a very good family friend.  One day he takes the Creeds to the pet cemetery in the woods behind their house.  Jud tells them many stories about the history of the cemetery.  During Thanksgiving Rachel, Ellie, and Gage fly to Chicago to meet her parents.  While they are away Ellie's beloved cat Church is struck dead.  Jud leads Louis to an ancient burial ground beyond the pet cemetery.  There Jud tells Louis to bury the cat.  That is when the troubles begin.<br /> Stephen King brought the book to life with his Bone chilling descriptions.  The way he described the smell of the cat and the looks of the dying college student were excellent.  The story itself was excellent but dark.  It is gruesome to think of dead bodies raising from the grave, and stealing bodies from a cemetery.  The book was a little disturbing.  The only problem with The Pet Sematary was the fact that it started out slow.  The first seventy-five pages were just of the family settling in their new home and becoming friends with Jud.  Even though the book started a little slow it was still an excellent read.<br /> I highly recommend people to read The Pet Sematary.  The story was colored with descriptions.  This was my first Stephen King book and I loved it.  If you haven't read The Pet Sematary yet, read it.	2003-11-02
917010:US	51744771	R30XTMQMCDXTW6	0380791412	95233212	Annie's Baby: The Diary of Anonymous, a Pregnant Teenager	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Think before you Do something	A Review by Julissa<br />Annie's Baby is about a girl named Annie.  She loves to be a normal teen.  She loves soccer, her mom, and her friends.  Until, she met Danny.  That's when everything changed. He is a teen, just a bit older than her.  She thinks she falls in love right away.  But that's not exactly what happened.  Annie gives up everything for him.  And all he is doing is making her life impossible for her to live.  He makes her do things she doesn't want to do.  And Danny ends up raping her. After a while she finds out she is pregnant.<br />I don't understand why Annie put up with all that stuff Danny did.  When Danny did something horribly bad Annie would be the one ending up on her knees begging for forgiveness. When I was reading this I thought to myself that if any girl was treated like the way Danny treated Annie they would have left in a split second.  But as I can see that is not the case.  But when I read this book it made me see what girls would do just to feel loved.  But they shouldn't do stuff like that. They should always remember that you have your family.<br />But overall I really loved this book. It shows that you should always think before you do something. And if you don't, then expect the worst of the worst consequences. I would recommend this book to all teens.	2003-11-02
917191:US	51744771	R3EEP0VPQLG512	0192751697	159237966	Stones in Water	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Trials	A Review by Josh<br />Stones in Water is about the adventure of Roberto, a 13 year old boy and his friend Sameule, who is also known as Enzo during WWII.  The story starts when Roberto, his brother Sergio, and his friends Memo and Sameule are kidnapped at a movie theater by German soldiers.  All of them are split up except for Sameule, who is now Enzo, and Roberto.  Roberto and Enzo face many different trials and work at a prisoner of war camp.  Roberto ends up escaping from the camp by meeting a group of Italian deserter soldiers and he follows them to Ukraine.  While Roberto is in Ukraine he meets a boy and they fight to stay alive during the cold winter.<br />I really liked this book because of how it was based around a snowy area, which is my favorite type of surrounding.  The book has a wonderful adventurous storyline.  I like the main characters in this book because they are very nice.<br />The book puts you in a first person point of view on WWII, which really helps you to understand the trials of WWII.  I would recommend this book to everyone because of how well it is written.	2003-11-02
917224:US	51744771	R374J6N3UNU6TT	0590485911	283944624	Danger Zone (Point Signature)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Livin' on the Edge	A Review by Stefan<br />Jimmy Doyle, a seventeen year old from Minnesota, is a supremely skilled basketball player. When two scouts from Los Angeles, California come to talk to Jimmy Doyle about playing in an All National seventeen and under team, he accepts but only after being talked into it by his mother and his girlfriend. The team he plays for actually then goes to play in Europe where all the seventeen and under teams play for the world championship. Along the way, Jimmy makes some good friends, a few enemies while dealing with fear, doubt and concentration.<br />One thing that I love about Danger Zone is that David Klass portrays Jimmy in his home town of Granham, Minnesota as being the hometown basketball \\"hero\\". \\"Doyle, Doyle, Doyle went the sound of the bleachers as we walked onto the court for the second half\\". The second thing I like about Danger Zone is the realness it gives me from the coaches despite it being a fictional story. \\"'Okay, all you get your butts over here,' he shouted. `Anybody who wises off will be running wind sprints till their legs fall off.'\\" The third thing I absolutely love about Danger Zone is the way Los Angeles is portrayed with such realism and nothing is held back. (With gangs and violence and such) \\"'You got the PG-13's, the 18th Street East, West, North and South. They don't like blacks too much. We get out of this car and inside five minutes we got guns to our heads.'\\"<br />To every basketball player or fan who has every wondered what its like to be one of the greats in the world at a sport like basketball, this is our book. If you're a kid or an adult who love books about basketball and the realism that lies within basketball, then this book is for you. This is an extremely interesting and intense book and it will keep you on the edge of your seat one hundred and ten percent of the time!	2003-11-02
917260:US	51744771	R24TNGQXSFREA0	0385730586	122662979	Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants (Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Keeping Together the Apart	A Review by Kamy<br />The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants is about four friends and a pair of \\"magical pants\\" that keep them together on their first summer apart.  Four girls, Carmen, Lena, Tibby, and Bridget, discover the pants that they find out to be magical, in that when each person tried them on, the pants formed to fit each girl, despite their different sizes, as well as bring out each one's positive features.  The girls then decide to form a Sisterhood with the pants and pass them around to each other throughout the summer, each leaving memorable experiences with the pants that will last for a lifetime.<br />This book does a great hob of illustrating a real life situation between four friends and their summer vacation.  The author, Ann Brashares, does a great job of describing and bringing the characters to life, to the point that you're uplifted by their individual achievements, and you feel sorrow during their times of misery.  Also, this book is, in a way, compiled of four different stories in one, because of the four girls continuing their lives in four different places around the world.  Having a story set up in this structure can sometimes become confusing to the reader, but I believe that Brashares did a wonderful job in making all four stories meaningful, yet understandable.<br />I recommend this book to anyone who enjoys stories about things or situations they can relate to.  I feel it's really open to anyone who fits the specification, but I believe that the book is more focused towards teenage girls, and would be especially enjoyed by them for this reason.	2003-11-02
917339:US	51744771	R23KN6HPE9CLOO	0671676857	547842780	The New Girl (Fear Street, No. 1)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Hauntingly Horrific Happenings	A Review by Anna<br />Cory Brooks finds himself madly in love with a girl he hardly knows. She is all that he can think about, he cannot concentrate on anything without thinking of her. Lisa Blume, Corys neighbor and best friend also has an obvious love interest. She is constantly trying to get Corys attention towards her while he is repetitively requiting his love for Anna Corwin, the hauntingly beautiful girl whom he is excessively interested in. It was love at first sight, but was she really what Cory had perceived her to be? Is Lisa still only a friend in Corys mind?<br />The only thing I did not enjoy in reading this book was putting it down at night. This book kept my heart at a racing speed with its suspenseful twists and turns leading well up to the climax. The beginning was well informative as to what was going on however it kept me lingering with questions about the events that where occurring. Each event tied in with another because all of the people in the story were connected with the conspiracy going on in their very own town. The threats and attempted pursuing of those threats made me smile with shock and sometimes minor disbelief. The ending perfectly answered all of my questions in a quite refreshingly satisfying way. All of the ends were tied with a long explanation that made so much sense it caused me to wonder why I had not thought of it myself.<br />I would highly recommend this book to anyone who likes a story that keeps them on their toes, even those who dont enjoy reading very often. This book is a great read for people who can appreciate a good mystery or a suspenseful thriller. Those people would love this book.	2003-11-02
918283:US	51744771	R3EZVDDL31IZ7U	051513452X	989309946	The Lunatic Cafe (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Screaming Love for Three	A Review by Rachel<br />Anita Blake has fallen in love with the leader of a local pack of werewolves but the master if the city (vampire) will not let it happen. Anita tries to keep them from killing each other and keep her self out of line of fire and try to find out what happened to eight missing lycanthropes.<br />I loved how this book had no drags and that almost every little thing led to something big so it had no wasted time or drags. All the characters had an important role that made the story really came a live and with Anita's wits I really got inspired by the fact she looks out for her self and doesn't let a man do stuff for her even if she is having a hard time with it. The third best thing about this book was that there was not only a few high points here and there but they were every ware. Danger and suspense incased this book and won't let you go until you pass out from lack of sleep.<br />I would recommend this book to any vampire, lycanthropes, and mystery and romance lovers. It's a real adventure to read and it is very smooth to read.	2003-10-31
918291:US	51744771	R3O1VYVPEGKEOV	0425176932	660955513	Breaking Point (Tom Clancy's Net Force, Book 4)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	An Old Assassin	My book is about Alex Michaels who is the head of the net -force task force. Net - Force is part of the FBI in Washington DC. Michaels and the task force stop people from selling drugs on the internet. They also stop people from hacking into government files. During the time Michaels finds out about HAARP, a low frequency weapon which has the possibility drive a country insane. The U.S Air Force and the Navy were making the weapon.<br />I liked the characters because they were all suspicious in their own way. Alex and his wife divorce his wife and she went out with his Toni. There was an assassin who quit because he was getting old. He quit to become a body guard. I did not like the pace because it went fast and then slow. I also did not like the point of view because it changed between characters, which made it hard to follow.<br />I recommend this book to anyone who likes spy thrillers. The book was a great read I would recommend this to people who like a challenge.	2003-10-31
918296:US	51744771	R1QACP7R2M11U	0671027344	888030084	The Perks of Being a Wallflower	Books	5	1	1	N	N	From the Perks to the Prizes	A Review by Julie<br />Charlie's only friend, Michael, commits suicide, leaving Charlie very alone. One night at a school football game he meets two people, Patrick and Sam. They become best friends and do everything together. Charlie is secretly in love with Sam, at the end of the book you're in for a surprise! On Charlie's seventh birthday his Aunt Helen died, it seemed to him that she was the only person in the family that actually loved him. Life is tough for him in the beginning of the book, but it shows how the power of friendship and love can change who you are.<br />This is an interesting story about Charlie's first year in high school. Charlie's family and friends are very realistic characters. Charlie on the other hand, is partly realistic. He has unrealistic qualities such as he cries way too much for a sixteen year old boy, and it seems unrealistic how so many bad things have happened to him. Otherwise, he is a very realistic boy, Stephen Chbosky tells the story with very careful detail. I liked how the author told about the parties Charlie attended. I also liked how he told about Charlie and Mary Elizabeth going out, when Charlie what put down the phone and use the bathroom and come back and Mary Elizabeth is still talking. I can really imagine a teenage boy doing that! This is a wonderful story!  <br />I would recommend this book to teenagers, especially ones who have experienced the loss of a loved one, or someone that is having a hard time fitting in. This is a very inspirational novel.	2003-10-31
918441:US	51744771	R17K5J2THGO8GT	0316140538	394702671	Dirt Bike Racer	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Lucky Find	A Review by Ryan<br />One day Ron and his friend Tony were out scuba diving and found a YZ80 (which is a dirt bike) at the bottom of the lake. The bike needs fixing up and that takes a lot of money. He gets a job with a rich man named Mr. Perkins and becomes very good friends with him. He fixes up the bike with his friends Mike and Tony. He believes that his dream of racing will finally come true. Little does he know that when he took the job that one person could threaten his dream?<br />I like how this books characters. I can visualize what the characters look like and act by the authors descriptions. Also the characters have there own personality traits that are very strongly written. Another thing I like about this book is the action scenes because they are very suspenseful and the author always keeps you thinking. When you think you know what is going to happen next in a race, he completely fools you with something else. One thing I don't like about this book is the language. I don't like it because he doesn't use the correct words for the races. He uses the word meet instead of moto. <br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes sports and has an interest in dirt bike racing. Also to anyone who likes a lot of action and suspense. I t would be a good book for someone who isn't that good of a reader.	2003-10-31
918460:US	51744771	R3M5WTPDMYQA3L	0064472272	46574095	Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging: Confessions of Georgia Nicolson (Confessions of Georgia Nicolson, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	You won't be able to put it down!	A Review by Kelsey<br />Have you ever had that feeling where you never want to show your face again? That is how Georgia feels sometimes through out this book. The good thing is, is that she has her best friend, Jas, to help her through this. One day Georgia and Jas got invited to Kate's party. Georgia was excited because she found out that her \\"Sex God\\" aka Robbie was going to be there. <br />I really liked this book. I love the way they described everything. It makes you feel like our in the book with them. One of the funniest parts of the book was when Georgia was freaking out because she didn't know how to kiss. So a boy named Peter offered her how too, which is pretty forward on not knowing each other but Georgia is desperate. It turns out that Peter wanted to do more than just teaching her how to kiss, but Georgia only being 14 didn't want that. She wanted to learn so she could kiss her \\"Sex God\\" Robbie.<br />I personally recommend this book to girls who love to laugh. You'll seriously laugh out loud! I can't wait to read the rest of the series.	2003-10-31
918492:US	51744771	RWBQH09SERVET	0805013342	198755712	"A" is for Alibi (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery, Book 1)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Indescribable	A Review by Jeanette<br />This book is about a woman named Kinsey Millhone who is a private investigator licensed in California. She has been divorced twice, has no kids, and no pets. Kinsey is hired to investigate an eight year old murder case of the murder of Laurence Fife. Everyone suspected that it was his wife Nikki who was sent to prison for eight years. Nikki is determined to find out who killed her husband. So Kinsey investigates and in the end she finds out a surprising ending.<br />Overall I really liked this book. It had a lot of descriptive detail, such as when they would talk about the characters. But when it came to the action of the book I felt as if it was leaving out some of the detail. The pacing was a little hard to follow by because it seemed like you were reading all these pages and it doesn't even seem like it would be at a different part of the story. But what I really liked about this book was the vocabulary. Usually I wouldn't understand a word and it would make me stop and think about it.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes old fashion mysteries. But you can only really enjoy this book if you can understand the conflicts.	2003-10-31
918591:US	51744771	R19N5RJ1AZ10H7	0440207290	925672149	Don't Look Behind You	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Don't Tell Anyone Anything!	A Review by Tiera<br />In a family of four, George, Liz, Bram, and April live a normal life. But when their father goes to court for smuggling drugs, and almost gets shot. They all must go into hiding leaving the rest of their family, friends, and school behind. Soon someone finds them and tries to hurt them. So they decide to go into the witness protection program and start a new life somewhere safe. But it doesn't turn out the way they thought it would!<br />I like how this book keeps you thinking, what is going to happen next. It leads up to the high point really clear and with tons of excitement, when the hit man finds out where the family is living. The author describes the characters actions and thoughts really well. Almost as if you could see and hear the person standing right in front of you. This book is very realistic, because while reading it I felt like I was actually in the story with them. The pace of this book is very steady, and it made me want to keep on reading it and not stop.<br />I recommend this book to people who like a good mystery-horror with a lot of suspense. This book will easily be enjoyed by anyone.	2003-10-31
918596:US	51744771	R1XPORS7PTLBZU	0767905180	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel About Ugly Ducklings and Swans	Books	4	1	8	N	N	Thin vs. Fat	A Review by Cassandra<br />Being over weight tends to lead to having a very lonesome life. So Jemima finds herself on her computer at work. While online she discovers chat rooms and starts talking to this guy named Brad. He lives in California, owns a gym, and is absolutely gorgeous. However, Jemima lives in London so she didn't think she'd ever see him. Brad sent her a picture of himself and asked her to send him one of herself. Her friend, Geraldine, talks to a man at work and he edits her picture so she looks very slim and beautiful. Brad asks Jemima if she would like to come visit him. Immediately she goes to the gym and gets a membership. She wants this man to fall in love with her for no one else has before. Jemima soon discovers that someone could've loved her even if she was 100lbs over weight.<br /> In the book I really liked how Jemima was determined to lose weight for a man she didn't even know in real life. When I thought nothing else exciting could've happened something extremely strange did. Jemima knows all about self punishment now. To lose hundred pounds in two-three months is astonishing. Its true that thin people do look down on overweight people. Jemima's roommates had to be one of the cruelest people to her. They only wanted her so she could make them tea. Then there was Ben he worked with Jemima he was gorgeous. They were friends but Ben never knew how Jemima really felt. Eventually he went to work with a TV station so Jemima never did see him again. When Jemima was in California she met up with a certain someone I never knew she'd ever see again. <br /> I really liked this book because it was fiction but based on real life events. When you start to read it you don't want to put it down. I read the entire thing in one night because the events in it were the last things I would've thought would've happened. I recommend this book to a girl who is over the age of thirteen. Enjoy.	2003-10-31
918802:US	51744771	R2C7OFLUGAZFQM	0345359089	812429273	Fast Breaks (Hoops)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Keep Trying	A Review by Matt<br />Brian lives in a small town in Indiana. Everything in their town is about high school basketball. Brian stars on his team. He finds out later he has to move. He doesn't take it too well. So Brian and his family end up moving to Indianapolis. He has to pick up with his school basketball in the middle of the season. Their team is supposed to be really good. They make it to the state tournament. That is all I can tell you without giving away the ending.<br />One thing I didn't like about the book was how it started off. I think it stated off too slow for me. It just started off when Brian was shooting around at practice. It kept going on for a while and that's when it started to get boring. Also I didn't like the action. I mean I liked the action but there wasn't very much of it.  There was no action until about half way through the book when they had their first game. But after that point it was all up hill and action packed. The last thing I didn't like was the descriptions of the characters. You have no clue what the main character looks like except that he is his height. Also you don't know what any of the other characters look like. <br />I would recommend this book for people who like basketball and someone who is a patient reader. You have to wait for the action in this book. It's a good but for about people from the ages of 12-20 who can read a slow book.	2003-10-31
918876:US	51744771	R1L3LW3EI74ZVM	0590328212	407451968	Quarterback Walk-On	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Chance of a Lifetime	A Review by Zach<br />Quarterback Walk-on is about a kid named Denny who is a senior football player in college.  He is a senior and has never played one down in his college career because he is so small.  Originally he wanted to be a quarterback but he is so small so he can't.  He gets a chance of lifetime in the middle of the football season that he never thought he would get.  <br />There were a few things that I liked about this book.  The main thing that I liked about this book was that it was a very exciting and interesting book.  I think I enjoyed it because it is about sports and I am a huge sports fan.  Another thing that I liked about the book was that there was always something going on in the book so it was never boring.  The third thing that I liked about the book was that there was a lot of suspense.  You didn't know what was going to happen to the starting quarterback when he got in trouble,  I didn't expect that the two backup quarterbacks would also get hurt which meant that Denny was going to get to play quarterback.  When Denny got to be the starting quarterback you didn't know if he would do good or bad. <br />If you are a person who likes football you should really consider reading this book.  It is a good book and fun to read.  It always has something interesting going on in it.	2003-10-31
918883:US	51744771	R1OSR7DZ65TM42	0345435737	925808576	Jarka Ruus (High Druid of Shannara, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Keeps You Guessing	A Review by Zach<br />Several years after the end of the Voyage of the Jerle Shannara ends Grianne, the Isle Witch, has formed the third Druid Council in which she is the Ard Ryhs, or head druid. However her position is not safe and worse she doesn't known it. The druids under her are plotting against her with outside forces. So when she disappears after visiting the Northland, it is up to her few supporters and her nephew Pen to go off and save her.<br />I liked the pacing of Jarka Ruus because it wasn't to slow or to fast. It has an easy pace that does not rush or leave anything that is needed for you to understand the events in this book or to follow the storyline of the previous books. For example the first two chapters provide you with both new information and it fills you in on the last book. Also the vocabulary in the book is not too hard so readers of most ages could easily understand most of the book. Also the book has much suspense so it keeps you guessing until later on what Grianne is suffering from. It also contains feelings which are real and understood. This I enjoyed because it made me feel as the characters do. I really understood why Grianne was confused when she woke up in a different place then where she started.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes fantasy or adventure with a twist. This book also follows the previous story line so you can continue his other books.	2003-10-31
918953:US	51744771	R2CMX4BYP69Q5B	0671746693	909897750	The Eagle Has Flown	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Hide and Seek, WWII Style	A Review by Jace<br />The end of the Second World War is near, and Hitler is relentless. British Prime Minister, Winston Churchill, had been kidnapped by a secret Nazi spy group and no one knows his exact location. Except for one man Kurtis Steiner who is being held prisoner by the British forces. Jack Higgins enters the story as a young historian who must now find the keys to unravel the secret mysteries of the Nazi army. He is sent on a mission to Ireland to find the closest link to Kurtis Steiner, but is unknowing of what he will find. Higgins must fight his way through chambers, dungeons and ward of enemy spies and troops. Higgins is in for the fight of his life and he is bringing you along for the ride.<br />This book is a masterpiece. It shows the true horror of war from a different stand point. Many war books show you a view from the U.S. but this book gives you a look from the British and Nazi sidelines. It also has a truckload of suspense. I was awake at night wondering what would happen next. My head was full of predictions and guesses of who was to die next, and what was behind that door. My hair was on end through the entire story. This book also brought along enough action for everybody, and had leftovers. Higgins challenges his mind against the mind of a Nazi general and henchman. Higgins challenges tanks and specially trained troops. This book is a work of art.<br />I would recommend this book to anybody who has read a bond book. This novel blows good old James out of the water. It has mystery, suspense, and action. I was left with my jaw on the floor. Higgins has left his heart in this book, which makes it worth the read.	2003-10-31
918958:US	51744771	R31UYR524XJ30O	0345350472	978657248	Blade Runner (Movie-Tie-In Edition)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?	A Review by Hunter<br />In January 2021, Rick Deckard had been given a license to kill. There were several rogue androids that lurked among the hordes of humans. It was Rick's job to find them and kill them. The only problem was that the androids looked exactly like humans, and they don't want to be found. Will Rick be able to find the androids before they pose a real big threat? <br />I love how this novel makes me want to keep reading, it's action packed. This novel leads up to the climax in a slow but step- by- step kind of way, like when Rick finds one android after the other. The author gives clues about the character and about the characters role in the story. He lets the character tell us during the story and his feelings towards killing. Like when his android detector tells him that an old woman was an android , and he has a hard time believing it. It is difficult to follow when the author changes the point of view, because Rick Deckard the main character is in so many places at one time in the story, and the point of view changes so often. An on the edge conflict of finding deadly androids is really scary because you don't know what is going to happen next. This is a very exciting book , there are some nerve racking moments in the story and if you have seen the movie than you should know. It's too bad that there is not a sequel to this book.<br />I really liked this book, and I recommended it to you and anyone else that likes danger, and excitement. This novel is the kind of book I like to read in my free time. Check it out!	2003-10-31
918967:US	51744771	RNCKRWMIP6XEI	0451205677	579741281	Breed	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Monster Mystery	A Review by Matt<br />Ssabra Onih and Jack Colvin are the two main characters. Ssabra is a tour guide in St. Augustine who gives tours of graveyards and historic buildings. Jack Colvin is a detective living in the same town. Around the time that Jack finds a mysterious murder, SSabra begins hearing a ghost speaking to her. The ghost is giving her clues as to what is killing people, and how she must get assistance and stop it.<br /> This book as to be one of my favorites of all time. The ending of it is a bit pornographic and disturbing, but I believe it was necessary to describe how horrific the monster truly was. The dialogue was very well done, making the characters very true to their heritage. While how she spoke didn't show it, it was mentioned several times that Ssabra had a Native American lit to her voice, which I found an interesting detail to include. Jack Colvin and Ssabra were very well developed, and while some details and characters were not very well developed, since they didn't tend to live long, they truly didn't need to be. The book gave a brief view into their life and goings on, and then something happened to them, and there wasn't much more to say about them, as the author's goal was to get you to feel for the characters who died, not love them. <br /> This book has a very interesting plot, and exciting mystery. While some of it is a bit horrific and pornographic, it is still a book worth reading. I believe that mo matter what your interest, sci-fi or romance, you will enjoy this book, as it has beautiful details of the city, an intense mystery, and some very odd romance.	2003-10-31
919085:US	51744771	R2XPXM5M76UTEW	0833542303	280628093	Accident	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Missing Piece	A Review by Sarah<br />This book was about some teenagers who were drinking one night at a party and got into a car and disaster struck. Most of them were killed but miraculously one teenager survived. There was one kid that didn?t get in the car that was at the party, and his name is Matt. Matt knows something is going on about the accident that the police aren?t telling him, so he starts to investigate. People of the neighborhood are automatically assuming that the driver of the accident was a guy that always gets blamed for bad things and Matt wants to think differently. Matt searches for the missing piece.<br />One thing that I didn?t like about this book is the title. It?s very plain and not exciting at all. This book deserves a more exciting and grabbing catch title for the good read that it has. Also, I loved how Todd Strasser put this book together. It had a good meaning to it and it explains that this is a normal type of accident that happens in life a lot around the world. It describes how drastic accidents like this really are. Lastly, I liked how the scenes were unexpected. I didn?t even suspect what was going to happen next. It kept me on a suspense that made me wasn?t to keep me reading.<br />I recommend this book to teens that have drank alcohol before or even have had thought about it. It could help them change there mind about the situation and save there own o and everybody else?s lives. It?s a good lesson to learn and this book teaches it well.	2003-10-31
919232:US	51744771	R3IJEDH9M6EN0Y	0440210232	650317722	Canyons	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Separated by 100 Years	A Review by Karina<br />Coyote Runs is an Apache Boy who has just become a man, but soon after, soldiers attack his group. Coyote Runs is `executed' with a bullet to his skull. About one hundred years later Brennan is camping near Dog Canyon and finds a skull pierced by a bullet in the forehead. Brennan is mentally taken over by the skull and soon he realizes that he must take it back to its sacred resting place in Dog Canyon. Canyons is about how Brennan must use everyday skills to solve a big mystery.     <br />One thing that sets this book aside from most of Paulsen's books is that the conflict is somewhat internal between Brennan and what the skull is telling him to do... and who to be. That's one of the concepts that I really enjoy about this book. The suspense is supreme in Canyons because even in the beginning Paulsen doesn't introduce the characters through everyday events, but through action. When Brennan is running I can feel as though I'm right with him because of the excruciating detail! However, the difficulty was low mostly because of the elementary vocabulary. The climax is well organized, but I dislike how it ends in a drop off. There is a resolution, however no note to how Brennan's life continues. <br />If you really enjoy a book that you can't put down because of suspense and mystery then Canyons will be a great read for you! Plus it's one of the great books where the main character is intelligent and uses everyday problem solving skills, not super powers!	2003-10-31
919432:US	51744771	R1JS6YR8V68YLA	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Never Give Up	A Review by Britni<br />The Bad Beginning is a book about three young children. They live in a smelly, dirty and very busy city. The Baudelaire's lived in a very large mansion in the middle of the city. They seem to have a perfect life until something bad happens, and everything goes downhill from there. This story is mainly about their lives and all the un-normal things these children go through, but they always figure out a solution to their problems. The children stick together through thick and thin. In the end everything seems to work out for the better. <BR> <BR>Through this story there were many things I liked. I really liked how the author gave good descriptions of the characters; I thought it really helped to understand the story. This book kept me in suspense, which I really liked. For example: one part in the story when it seemed like everything was going good for them something bad or just surprising happened. This just made me want to keep reading so I could know what happened next. This story was very easy to understand. For example: If there was ever a confusing word, the author would define it for you so you could understand it. The whole book stayed at a steady pace and was easy to follow.<BR> <BR>I personally really liked this book. I think that anyone who likes fiction/ adventure stories then this is a book for you. I would suggest this to anyone at a medium reading level from grades 8 and up. Hope you enjoy this book!	2003-10-31
919491:US	51744771	R2ZCLF454S47J7	0842359095	447241201	Silent Night	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Incomprehensible Silence	A Review by K<br />The book &quot;Silent Night&quot; is an autobiography of a woman named Sue Thomas finding her way through the big world with her invisible but life changing culture. When she was only eighteen months old, she went deaf. Instead of learning sign language, she learns how to speak and read lips. She went to a regular school, learned how to ice skate, play the piano and even work in the F.B.I. Though overcoming many obstacles, all she is really focused on is bridging the gap between the deaf and hearing worlds. <br />I like how moving the book is. After reading it, I got a new out-look on life. The author really goes in depth of what happened in her life. The things I knew about Thomas before I read this book, I could see coming. But what I didn't know was what I was missing until I turned to that page. I could easily tell when the mood of the words changed, when to laugh or when to cry. There was much dialogue in the book too, which really brought out the humor, or the seriousness in her words. <br />I would recommend this book to anyone who loves a true inspiring story. Though this book is for all ages, I wouldn't recommend this book to younger children because of some adult situations that happen in Thomas' life.	2003-10-31
919560:US	51744771	R2Q23HSO4OEO5C	0743436849	388882331	The Queen of Everything	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Changing Life	A Review by Janelle<br />Jordan Mackenzie is trying to get through a complex summer. Her whole life is turned upside down in the worst summer of her life. At first her summer is typical, her family is odd, but it always has been. As the school year winds down, though, everything changes. First her father gets involved with a married woman, and becomes distant and childish. A close relative dies, and as if that weren't hard enough on her, a murder is committed in her quiet town. When the murderer comes forward, Jordan knows she's in way over her head.<br />I really enjoyed the story. The plot kept getting more exciting, and had so many unexpected twists. The ending surprised me  more than I could've expected. The idea the plot is so new and different. Although I really enjoyed this book, I think it had some problems with how it was written. It was directed at teen girls, but the way things were described, it became confusing. The descriptions were excessive at some points. It should help you understand what's going on better, instead of confusing you. I also felt that the way it jumped around between past and present was confusing. At some points the way it was written, became hard to differentiate between the past and the present.<br />I recommend this book to anyone, who likes surprise endings. This book was directed at teen girls. If you can't get through a ton of description, then you probably won't enjoy this book.	2003-10-31
1105105:US	51744771	R12F3YIB34LBGF	0689817487	463063412	Soldier Boys	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Their First War	A Review by Alex<br />The book I read is about two kids who are both about seventeen. One is from America and one is from Germany. Both are eager to get into the war and defend their country. They both come from small towns and have never even been anywhere near a war. Right as they join up they are sent into the hart Germany into what is going to be called The Battle of the Bulge. During this battle they learn that war is no place for innocence and sometimes you just have to give all of it and start shooting. Either had never killed before and now are wondering who should they kill next. When they return home they will be looked at by everyone differently they will develop respect for the opposite sides and learn that war is not a pretty thing. <br />One thing I like about this book is that it is told from the inside of the character and what they are felling. It feels like you are right along there with them during a battle. For instance the author keeps switching back and forth between the two kids on there way to their first fight.  One other thing that I liked about this book was that it was easy to read. It really helped the reader focus on the main part of the story while being able to go fast through the boring parts. A third thing I liked was that it seemed like it was written from person who had experienced war before. It just seem to catch the reader in the crossfire.<br />I would recommend this book to people who like war stories and political things. If you don't mind the thought of murder and blood shed this book is for you. If you are anti war I would stay away from this book.	2003-05-31
1116960:US	51744771	R1HYYEWT1RM8ZC	0671027344	888030084	The Perks of Being a Wallflower	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Wallflowers have all the fun	A Review by Kylee<br />The Perk of Being a Wall Flower is about a boy named Charlie and his friendships and new experiences in his first year of High school. He starts out with no friends and being very lonely then as the year goes on he gains new friends and is exposed to drugs, sex and death. By the end of the book you can defiantly tell he has matured by both the way he write and what he writes<br />This book was amazingly written, there are parts were it leaves you in suspense. For example in his letter dated January 4, 1992 he is talking about a New Years Eve party he went to and the crazy things he did it leaves you wondering what he's talking about then in the very last sentence he says that he never wants to do LSD again. He really improved in the way he writes in the book. In the beginning he seems like a very inexperienced writer and wrote in a very mixed up jumbled way. By the end he is able to clearly express what he is feeling.  <br />This Book was such a great book; I had the hardest time putting it down. In fact didn't I had to read it all in one sitting. Since I have read the book I have referred it to other people and they have come back and told me that it was just as good as I thought it was! This book so great that I think everyone should read it!	2003-05-21
1116983:US	51744771	RT84KJ9C2LQ00	1578152372	954102735	Goodbye, Mr. Chips	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A Little bit sad	A Review by Tamame (Japanese exchange student)<br />This book about college professor. His name is Mr. Chips. He likes joking and he likes college students. Specially if he meets new boys, he brings to tea. He learned many thing from college students and other teachers. And many times he is envious to himself. Because he makes fun of his students and after that he look back what he did. And he knew he did stupid things. <BR>He loves college very much. He didn't want to make Brokfield rich. So he fought with a young college teacher. But that man wanted Mr. Chips to retire. But he was so sick. So he retired college and finally he died.   <br />This book makes me confused. I don't know representing overview. I tried to understand but I don't understand. <BR>I like Mr. Chips. Because when Ralston talked with him. He told Mr. Chips he wanted Brokfield to be rich. So this college needed to new stuff. But Mr. Chips didn't want to make rich. I like his opinions. And he is sometimes stupid. But he likes his students a lot. I felt that when I read this book. I like his personality.<br />If students don't like teachers. I would like to recommend reading this book. This book is a little bit sad. But this book gives to us thinking. So I would like to recommend to read this book.	2003-05-21
1125926:US	51744771	RLPJ3HW01PUL0	0531054608	330023010	Do Over	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A normal kid trying to grow up	A Review by Steven<br />Whit the main character in the story I dont know why but he has a problem with girls.  I think he should just ask a girl to go out with him.  He is also having a hard time with his parents because they are getting a divorce.  I know how he feels because that has already happened to me, but he is just a normal kid trying to grow up in a teenage life.  <br />One part I think is funny about this book is how whit has so much trouble trying to get a girl to go out with him.  He is so clumsy when it comes to talking to girls that I find it quite funny.<BR>One part I dont like about the book is that whits parents are getting a divorce.  It really hurts him.  But he will get over it soon.  Another part that I disliked is that he finally when he gets a girlfriend she dumps him instantly and goes out with his other friend.<br />I would recommend this book to 8th graders to about 10th graders who like dramatic and yet funny books.	2003-05-13
1126353:US	51744771	R13HU9PAJSREGJ	0060012358	665449973	The Amazing Maurice and His Educated Rodents (Discworld)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Cat that Talks back	A Review by Chet<br />The only thing keeping these wise rats inline is Maurice, the cat who knows it all, followed closely by his young piper. The rats controlled by Maurice, go around threatening of plague in the Europe during the late 1800s, when paid the piper boy comes to bring the rats to back to do it once again. Agreeing to be there final threat, the rats go into play to get the routine plague but run into a scam in play and get into a mess of trouble.<br />The parts I liked was that that there was always a conflict going on and making you want to read on and discover the solution, whether its internal or external. Another part is that the main character is a cat, not a human but a talking cat thats constantly persuading those around him. Although its a great book, the read switches back and forth between the rats and the cat right at the time something happens, making you forget when it comes back to the last one.<br />I would recommend this book to the younger readers in the age range of 6-8th, though in 9th I received a real thrill out of reading it. Theres a mix of fantasy and drama, along with the occasional humor.	2003-05-13
1128600:US	51744771	R3148Y71OYZEK7	0142300314	463946906	Don't Tell Anyone	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Easy 2 Read	A Review by Cory<br />This book was fun and easy to read, almost at every time there was something important happening....You can't really lose attention to this book or you get lost fast...but its not like you would lose interest anyways.<BR>In this book there is really nothing that I hate. I can't really talk bad about it. To a person who likes to actually read I personally think that you would not find anything wrong with this book. It has conflicts, dialogue, action, it has everything. So the least thing I can say is ENJOY.<BR> This truly is one of very many good books!.	2003-05-10
1128646:US	51744771	R2OH2MYVX7CRAZ	0440226856	77769924	Spirit Seeker	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Innocent until proven guilty	A Review by Shana<br />A guy named Cody is the prime suspect in his parents' murder. Cody's best friend Holly Cambell is the only one that believes that Cody is innocent. So she has to help her friend Cody. Holly's Dad is one of the detectives on the case and he also thinks that Cody is the one that murdered his parents. Holly has no idea how she can help her friend Cody. Holly knows that it is all on her to help her friend because she I s the only that thinks that he is innocent. <br /> This book is a mystery book with a lot of suspense. It is very easy to picture what the characters see, feel and hear. This book is very easy to fallow and keep up with. The book seems so real because of the conflict. Right when the book starts you are into it and it stays that way through out the whole book. The way the author writes makes you feel like you are really there and it is all happening around you. There is relevance to the book and real life because in the real world someone is supposed to be looked at as innocent until proven guilty and it is the same way in the book <br />  I would recommend this book to people who like mystery books with a lot of suspense. This is a really good book and very easy to fallow.	2003-05-10
1128669:US	51744771	R1XIAGUBA7K1VU	037582233X	411811908	Stargirl	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Catchy from Start to End	A Review by Tracy<br />Stargirl was a different girl. She did not care what other people thought, but yet she made it on the cheer squad. Leo was the producer of this show called Hot Seat. He and his friend Kevin made it up for the entertainment of the school. See Mica Area high School was running dry of school spirit. See they had none. So Leo and Kevin where convinced that Stargirl was placed here to bring a little school spirit in the school. But later on in the book Leo and Stargirl start to fall in very deep like.  <br />One thing I really liked about this book was the setting. It took place in Arizona and I grew up in Arizona for 11 years. So I could under stand what they meant when they talked about the area around with the weather to the plant life. Another thing I liked was the character Stargirl. She is a very down to earth girl. Even thought people thought she was from outer space or her parent where hippies she still didn't care what other people thought. And finally. The very being of the story when Leo is rushing around yelling at Kevin asking if he has seen her like she was an angel that fell from the sky.   <br />I would highly recommend this book to anyone. It was a great book and it was not too slow or too fast. I gave this book a 5 because I really don't like to read but this book was just catchy from start to end.	2003-05-10
1128674:US	51744771	R248KHOZAV3NPP	0671872702	427102571	The Visitor	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Punishment	A Review by CJ<br />When Merry lost her boyfriend, she was in a serious panic. Will she ever live through this, will she find a way out.<br />This book was fun to read. The characters were great and funny. You would always want to find what would be next when you read at least one chapter. This book will bring you a lot of laughter once you get in to it. <br />I would recommend this book to people who like horror and adventure.	2003-05-10
1128690:US	51744771	R219A3IX28G5LF	0440904196	798277940	Are You There God? It's Me, Margaret	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Don't Wish to Grow Up too Fast	A Review by Brena<br />Margaret had moved from New York to a smaller community in New Jersey. Wishing all she could do is fit in with the other girls. She joined a club calling them the Pre-teen Sensations. All the girls want to become a woman so fast. Between growing up and fitting in she was trying to decide what religion is right for her only coming to the right resolution for her faith.<br />This story really makes you understand the feelings that Margaret are going through. I really liked that you could very well understand what she feels or how she thinks. Especially when she must start wearing a bra, she still felt herself that she didn't need one, but she wanted to become a woman. It was also very easy to follow along with the pace of the story and dialogue. The language was easy to follow and descriptions were very clear in Margaret's life. The conflicts she faces with religion show great realism to actual life for young children.<br />I would recommend this to people who like to read a young coming-of-age drama. The people to most enjoy this book would be young girls ages 8-14. The audience is mostly young woman.	2003-05-10
1128691:US	51744771	R2Y7GR7E4Z4XU6	0590486683	732570387	Slam! (Point Signature (Scholastic))	Books	4	3	3	N	N	All About Ball	A Review by Amanda<br /> This book was about a teenage boy who loved to play basketball.  His nickname is Slam.  When Slam transfers too a new school, he tries out for their basketball team.  Him and another guy, Nick, were the best ones out there.  He made the team, but then he started having problems with his coaches, schoolwork, home life, and teammates. Slam never started in a game, and he knew that he was the best one.  This was his problem.  His teammates always told him that he had an attitude problem and that's why he never got to start, and Slam didn't like being told this. He only got out in when the team was losing, and he could bring them back for a win.<br /> Three things that I enjoyed about this book is that young adults can easily relate to Slam.  Anyone who loves to play basketball, but who are having trouble in school or anything else, are just like Slam.  I liked the realism because it talked about one of Slam's friend, Ice, was drug dealing.  This book doesn't hide the fact that there are drugs out in the world.  One more thing that I liked about this novel was the attitude this book brought alive.  In the book, Slam wouldn't give up playing ball even though he didn't start.  It just made him work harder to get a starting spot on the team.<br /> I recommend this book to anyone likes realistic books and sports.  This is a great book for teenagers especially because they can relate to it more than others.	2003-05-10
1128692:US	51744771	RCB10Z57EZ5YX	0440917409	351454996	Deathwatch	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Desert Life	A Review by Zach<br />This book is about a man named Ben who is on a hunting trip with this man named Madec. They are hunting bighorn sheep. They are out in the Nevada desert where Ben is getting played to take this man around the area since Ben knows the area very well. Madec thinks he sees a bighorn and shoots it but really it was an old prospector. He accidentally kills him! Know, Madec is trying to talk his way out of Ben to get him not to report this to the police. Madec has different plans though. Madec turns the table on Ben where Ben has to strip down to his underwear and has to walk back to town that is 45 miles east and 35 miles west and all desert. Ben must think fast or this might be his last chance on life!!<br />I really didn't like the writing format in this book. The words were quite difficult to comprehend but other than that I really liked the descriptiveness the book gave my insightful mind. I wish their was more action in the beginning like with shooting animals and stuff but it was all good with me. The characters were well described and actually painted a picture in my head when I read it. The description in this book was really the strong point in this book. Once I started reading it I couldn't put the book down. I plan on reading more and more titles from this author!<br />I recommend this book to any one in need of a great book. The words might get al littler difficult. But all in all I recommend to everyone!!!	2003-05-10
1128717:US	51744771	R22MDCW2IAB0IX	0802786197	288189316	These Are the Rules	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Laugh Out Loud Funny	A Review by Ryan<br />A boy named Colm goes to his lake house for the summer to hang out at Lake Barstow. He goes through many changes mentally while at Lake Barstow with the likes of his mom and dads divorce and girls. Colm is always swimming and by the end of the summer wants to swim the whole lake by himself.  He will first deal with the adversities of his mom and dads divorce. Will Colm pull through and give the swim team another shot. You'll have to read the book to find out!<br />One thing that I liked about this book was that it was so easy to understand the struggles of a high school kid since I am one myself. The book never got off track and it left me thinking each time I put it down. I also like how the authors portrayed the characters in this book. For instance, Colm was a shy kid at first but once he would open up to people, everyone would like him. One thing I didn't like about this book was that it didn't leave me with a shocking feeling that you get with those great books you read. I also thought the climax was weak. It didn't get me on the edge of my seat.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reading a straight forward book that's easy to understand but doest have many high points. However, there were some funny parts in this book.	2003-05-10
1128720:US	51744771	R2IED6D1VF9QY3	0142300675	86018573	Dreamland	Books	4	1	1	N	N	What is Catlin Hiding?	A Review by Sara<br />Catlin woke up on the morning of her sixteenth birthday to find that her sister Cass ran away from home. Ever scene Cass ran away things in Catlin's life have not been the same. With her perfect prom queen, 4.0 sister gone Catlin noticed she was getting all the attention which she was not use to. When Catlin meets her boyfriend Rogerson the popular guy with long brown dread locks, green eyes and a beautiful smile things start to change. Catlin wanders into a Dreamland of drugs she's now entered the life style she never wanted. Catlin is hiding a huge secret from everyone but is too scared to tell. She fears that if she told the result would be death.<br />This book was excellent! I loved how it dealt with issues that teen's are dealing with everyday. The characters in this book came to life. For example I loved her best friend Rina. Bright blonde hair perfect body all the guys drooling over her it was so different from what Cass was. I also loved how they portrayed Rogerson the popular gorgeous guy at school that seemed perfect to all the girls. On the inside Rogerson was a terrible boyfriend, who abused Catlin verbally and physically. It was so realistic just the way Rogerson would abuse Catlin and how Catlin was to afraid to leave him because she thought he would kill her. It sounds like something from a TV show (girlfriend to afraid to leave because she is afraid the boyfriend would hurt them). I loved Boo and Stewart what an odd pair of next door neighbors I would love them to be mine! This book deals with everyday situations that teens and adults deal with everyday it was so realistic it sounded like something I would hear at school. <br />I would recommend this book to anyone that likes realistic stories dealing with real life situations. The story seems to keep a steady pace not being slow or too fast.	2003-05-10
1128722:US	51744771	RO679H9T6GC16	0823415805	794588576	The Voyage of the Continental	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Leave a Hum-Drum Life	A Review by Amanda<br />This book is about a young girl, Emmy, who gets the chance to leave a hum-drum life in Lowell, Massachusetts to start a new one in Seattle, Washington.  A young man by the name of Asa Mercer came to resettle a bunch of woman in Seattle. On the long trip to Seattle Emmy meats many people. One of the people she met was Ruby who became a good friend of hers. Odd things began to happen on the ship and Mr. Mercer begins to act wired. As time passes the make it to Seattle with many twists and turns along the way.<br />Three things I liked about this book were the descriptive narration, the love shared between characters, and the surprising things that happened in this long journey. The descriptions made me feel like I was really there in side the book with Emmy. The love and passion that Rod, the New York Times writer, had for each of the girls on the trip. How the auther placed unexpected things to shock the reader to keep the reader engaged in this book.<br />I think that this book is good for many different people and ages.	2003-05-10
1128741:US	51744771	R2UPTMKRR2MD6O	0689817487	463063412	Soldier Boys	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Read	A Review by Matt<br />A soldier boys is a well written book about two young men in WWII Dietrich Hedrich and Spencer Morgan. Dieter is a young German boy who wanted to fight because over the years has been warped into believing that Hitler was only trying to save the fatherland from the \\"evil\\" Americans and the polish swine. Spencer's brother was in the navy and was at war with the \\"Japs\\" and Spence wanted to be a paratrooper because they where the toughest most battle hardened men...   Both get their wish<br />I really liked the realism of this book, the way it was written makes you feel as thought you where with them every step of the way. It also shows how unaware many Germans where about why they where fighting and how Hitler was controlling their minds.<BR>It also illustrates the evils and gruesome truths of war.<br /> I recommend that anyone who loves WWII or just the books should read this, alternatively if you know little about WWII then it will easily confuse you.	2003-05-10
1128765:US	51744771	R1NSBLYMHP85KT	0380977710	499822603	All the Answers (An Avon Camelot Book)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Teen's Life	A Review by Ryan<br /> Jason is a semi-average kid in his town. He goes to school, has lots of friends, and has confidence in himself. One day the girl of his dreams comes on to the bus but along with her is her better looking, more athletic, and way stronger brother who doesn't like Jason. That's where it all goes downhill. Jason tries to get the girl while avoiding the bully and is also having problems and home. He starts to lose his friends when he starts deceiving them, but is it worth it just for a girl? <br /> I like how this book can relate to me so well. In the first chapter I knew exactly who Jason was. He has trouble with math, doesn't clean his room, and is very carefree until a special girl comes into his life. I also liked all the humor in this book. This book is full of laughs, hilarious characters, and real life challenges for a teen. This book will definitely get you remembering when you were young. The only thing that I did not like about this book is that I didn't really know what was happening until the 3rd chapter. That's not a real bad thing though because it makes you think about what it could be. Also I wish that the books ending was longer because it ended very suddenly but other than that it is a great book. <br />I would recommend this book to anyone who doesn't want a hard read, wants a few laughs, and wants to remember when they were young. I think that this book is a great book since it related to me so well.	2003-05-10
1128791:US	51744771	R32SAQWQL8MY6E	0689841507	231531122	Blue Star Rapture	Books	2	0	0	N	N	The High School Lifestyle	A Review by Dane<br /> This book is about a friendship between two high school basketball players that came too face with one: The stress of grades and scholarships for colleges and two: The death of ones friend and not knowing why they did what they did. The two friends, T.J. and Tyron both play basketball and both get the privilege to play at Full Court Camp. Each of them experience life changing memories at this camp; what those memories are, is something you'll have to find out for yourself.<br />I was unsure when the climax of the story was to take place but after figuring it out I realized how unexpected it hit me, without any warnings. (I'm sure that's how the author intended it; the only hints were when T.J. saw the caution tape surrounding the bridge.)  He only had an idea.  I didn't like the ending of the story; it didn't end with a spark like most stories do. It turned out to be an unhappy ending when T.J. looks down over the bridge were him and LuAnn spoke saw where she may have fallen.  What I did enjoy about this story was that T.J. was determined to know why the death of his friend was so and better understand who pushed her into making the final decision to leap to her death.<br />I would recommend this book to people that enjoy the game of basketball and enjoy the lifestyle of a high school student. All and all it had smooth fluency and was and easy read.	2003-05-10
1128792:US	51744771	RK919U77TC1DK	0152591885	939090845	Pacific Crossing	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Exciting Martial Arts Adventure	A Review by Geoff<br />This book is about a boy named Lincoln and his friend Tony. They are two Mexican-American teenagers who live in San Francisco and get the opportunity to go to Japan on a foreign-exchange student program. Lincoln stays with  Mr.Ono and his family and he studies martial arts with their son Mitsuo. Lincoln is very good and is trying to become a black belt. Lincoln and Tony have an amazing experience in Japan and they have a lot of fun. Lincoln and Mitsuo have lot's of fun and they both work hard in the families fields.<br /> The first thing that I liked about this book was that it's really fun and the book has a fast pace so you don't get bored but it's not too fast so that you don't get lost. The second thing that I like about this book is that Mr.Ono is a big funny man who gives the book some good comic relief. The third thing I liked about this book were the characters because all of them seem so real like they are real people in some far off place in the east. The characters help paint a vivid picture of Japan. <br /> I think that this book would appeal to people who want to enjoy a good martial arts foreign action book.	2003-05-10
1128838:US	51744771	R1W3KBQ1FHTSMM	0590467379	678354994	The Road Home	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A GREAT BOOK!	A Review by Jordan<br />Rebecca Phillips runs away to serve in the military during the Vietnam War as a nurse. While serving in an American hospital in Vietnam she witnesses every atrocity imaginable, the suffering of dear friends and loved ones. Rebecca herself is suffering from an unbearable guilt of a certain event (for the reader to find out) that has changed her once cheery, friendly disposition into a depressed, miserable person that no one wants to be around. This is a story of a young woman who shuts herself out from the world, and her remarkable journey back.   <br />This novel was extremely well written. The author displays true talent. She creates a realistic world with individual characters who are each separately distinguished by there unique character qualities, ways of life, and linguistic styles. I wouldn't say that it is fast past, but that doesn't make it bad. It keeps the reader interested, constantly revealing new information of Rebecca's mysterious, current situation.<br />I definitely recommend this book. Anyone would probably enjoy it, but especially women (though it isn't a chick book). However, it does have an advanced vocabulary. And there is some foul language that may not be suitable for young readers.	2003-05-10
1128840:US	51744771	RC7K54AYFKR2Y	0374349452	552268514	Memories of Summer	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Disappearing Girl	A Review by Laura<br />Lyric and Summer are the best of sisters. In the beginning they live a simple life in the hills in Virginia. Then they move to Michigan with their father to start a new life. Summer has a mental illness that is triggered by the move and change of schools. Summer starts to loose control and the illness takes over causing extreme trauma and hardship in their new life. The family is torn. What will they do to bring Summer back? <br />I liked how this book was written from a young girl's perspective. It shows how difficult young life can be and how you have to do you best to deal with the hardships. It showed a true character of an early teenager. I didn't like how most of the book was dreary but that was how it was meant to be. If you want a happy book you might want to try something else. I do like how the book was written. The author used dialogue that was realistic and represented the time and place that the characters were in. It was a believable story...sad but it was the truth of life.  <br />I would recommend this book to people who want a serious read. It is a book of sadness and a book of family problems. I enjoyed it and it wasn't hard to understand.	2003-05-10
1128864:US	51744771	RRH7ESI2M9SS5	0525468943	103679475	Aimee	Books	5	5	5	N	N	It Should be a Movie	A Review by Tiffany<br />Best Friends with Aimee, Zoë did everything that they every wanted to do. They had the cutest boys in the world. The ones that are caring and won't go tell his best friend everything that they did the night before. But one night everyone's life comes to complete stop. Zoë ends up with charges against her and Aimee is dead by her own hand. After everything went wrong Zoë has been herself since. Her family life is torn apart and the one person she ever loved she can't even see him. <br />I like how this book keeps going back and forth to the past and present. It keeps me reading. It leads up to what she really has now. Her life is a mess. At least her love Chard is still by her side. And that nothing can put them in the way of seeing each other. I learned that every life is precious. That one fatal move can hurt some ones life forever. Mary Beth Miller is one of the best authors. Every page leaves you in a wondering mind. Like what is going to happen on the next page. For a while there I thought it was based on a true story. I think that it should be a movie.<br />I would recommend this to anyone. All ages should read this book in there life. It might make a big difference.	2003-05-10
1128888:US	51744771	R2MPLPUSXQJ0D0	0689806000	668626272	Twisted Summer	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Summer's Murder	A Review by Kristin<br />Cici thought that this summer was going to be a blast, missing the year before made here even more excited to go. Cici and her family, even extended family all go to Crystal Lake every summer. They always have a good time at the lake, but this summer is different. There are some things that need to be figured out. Someone was murdered and Cici has taken the responsibility upon herself to figure what really happened. Cici never thought in a millions year that she would have to go uncover and find some uncovered things out.<br />Some things that I liked about the book was that it was really interesting and exciting. It was also very misleading which a good thing is considering that it is a mystery story. I also think some of the things that Cici had to deal with as being a teen girl are some things that I can relate to.<BR> <BR>I think that it some people can really be hit by this because some of the stuff that is in it are all things that we hear on the news everyday and it really gets you to remember that this type of thing happens a lot, not just in stories. The language was also a good choice because you are able to understand all the words and nothing is too hard that you are completely lost because you don't know what one word means.<BR> <BR>I think this is a good book for everyone to read. It isn't too hard and it isn't too easy. It is also interesting for all age levels. Everyone can enjoy it. One some levels maybe  some people can relate to it and the things that Cici is going through.<br />I would recommend this book to everyone. I think that is a really well written book and that all readers will enjoy it. I think that people will like it because some things people have experienced before and can relate to it.	2003-05-10
1129003:US	51744771	R3621DQ14ZX08X	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Savage Boys	A Review by Nate<br />In Lord of the Flies a group of boys are crash landed on an island after a big storm blew down their airplane leaving them with no adults on the island. Some of the boys take charge and their names are Ralph, Piggy, and Jack. They all go to the top of a mountain and light a fire so boats will see them. Later the boys do different things some go hunting, others play on the beach, and two are left building shelters, and one is Ralph. The boys think there is a beast which is proven to the boys when two see something on top of the mountain that moves. They slowly grow to be more and more savage and even leave pigs heads for the beast. Something bad happens one day and the boys split up into a group of savages and one of boys who are normal. They fight over things the four in the normal group go to the savages. One is left after a capture and a hunt is made for him.<br />Some things I liked about the book are how the events are realistic like how the boys grew to be savages. I also liked how some things that happen just appear there unexplained but are easy to guess how they happened. In some parts something that seems like it doesn't even matter and were just added for no reason changed what happened for everyone. I didn't like how some parts were very insightful but not explained so I had to guess and one character is meant to be religious but it is like things that happen in the bible are related to what happens to him.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes books with a lot of twists and surprises. Although I would not recommend this to anyone who strongly thinks that the human heart is completely pure and no one could do anything bad to anyone else or be savage.	2003-05-10
1129015:US	51744771	R35LRAOP2ZXK95	0763616087	946541919	Stoner & Spaz	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Unlikely Love Story	A Review by Trisha<br /> This book is about a kid named Ben who has a disease called Cerebral Palsy. He meets a stoner named Colleen and soon finds himself in love with her, but she doesn't return the feeling. But feelings change and Colleen sees things in a new light after she nearly loses it all. To keep their new relationship afloat Colleen needs to give up the drugs that she depends on. Can she do it or will she fall back with the same crowd? Read the book to find out.<br /> The best part about this book is the realistic way the author portrays Colleen. She's addicted to more than one drug but she doesn't realize how bad she really is until she nearly dies, and even then she still wants the drugs. That is how a lot of drug addicts are: they get really bad and don't notice it until it is to late. The pace of this book is well balanced, the only part that I thought was boring is when Ben's Grandmother falls ill and nothing really happens for a while in the story but right after that part the book picks up where it left off and stays that way for the rest of the book. The ending of the book is not the best one I've ever read and I didn't personally like it. It leaves you hanging a little too much and doesn't explain where the characters end up. <br /> I like this book over all and I think that it was well written and the unlikely love story would make it good for a romantic person.  The drug aspect of the book would make it good for people who want to understand what drug addicts go through.	2003-05-10
1129028:US	51744771	R1NHAHVASZ7AAW	0385326475	52701382	The Beet Fields: Memories of a Sixteenth Summer	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Finding a Home	A Review by Clint<br />This book is about a boy with a troubled home life so he decides to take a chance and help himself. He finds many friends along the North Dakota prairies that give hope but his old life continues to trouble him. He has troubles with the law, girls and again his former life.<br /> This book seems somewhat real but is still fictional. It fits right in with the rest of the books that you may have read about being lost in this world. The characters in the book are seemingly real almost all are hard working farm hands or illegal Mexicans and some are alcoholics. The book does not have a ton of action but it kept me wanting to know more.<br />I suggest that anyone who has ever read a Gay Paulsen book and liked it read this book. I personally think this book is one of the top 15 books I've ever read.	2003-05-10
1129032:US	51744771	RNQ18JCKGKOT5	037580207X	828902564	Sort of Forever	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Predictable, yes!	A Review by Anna<br />Two seventh graders from Pasadena, CA have a friendship they think we'll last forever, but Cady and Nana have to face something someone their age should never have to. Nana has cancer, and whether or not Nana or Cady want to believe it, Nana will die from this. It shows the journey in Cady's mind and get to expierence these long months ahead of her and all the triumphs and setbacks the two of them have to deal with. <br />For me, this book went kind of slow, it took quite a while to get into this book, and like the title says it was very predictable. Although I think someone the age of these girls could relate to parts of this story and how Cady feels. In this book, it shows that every young girl goes through times where they don't get along with their moms, and so does Nana! I thought that this book was alright. I recommend Sort of Forever for someone around the ages of 13 or younger. One more thing was it was easy to read, and you could understand the vocabulary well. <br />I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone over the age of 14, because it would be too easy of a reading. But if there was a death surrounding your life, it could maybe help you cope with the tragedy, especially if you're young like Cady.	2003-05-10
1129033:US	51744771	R2WTA1K5M8TVGG	0374416982	987847725	Dean Duffy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	90% Mental, 10% Physical	A Review by Corey<br />Dean Duffy is a young adult just out of high school. He was an awesome baseball player his freshman and sophomore years, the he went in to a huge slump his junior and senior years. He could never figure out why. But over the summer he is offered a full scholarship to a college he'd never even heard of. Almost the entire summer he is apartment sitting and doing a little work just to make enough to keep him alive. Not doing much gave him a lot of time to think about what he is going to do with the rest of his life and if he really wants to accept the scholarship.<br />This is an excellent book that allows the reader to connect with it very much (Especially if you are a baseball player). It is very realistic and there are many conflicts that are similar to the world as it is today. The characters definitely keep you in the story because if you are a high school student I'm sure you know what people just like them, such as stoners, arrogant people, and the kind of people who are willing to do anything for you because they believe in you so much. The pace is very nice and you don't get lost from quick changes in characters.<br />I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who loves to play baseball or is just in the mood for a good book because you can relate to almost all of Dean Duffy's problems.	2003-05-10
1129034:US	51744771	R2MTGCC5G0WYKG	0140375988	116715627	Singularity	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Fantastic Fantasy	A Review by Colton<br /> Two identical twins Barry and Harry krasner, Harry is a rough kind of guy who is athletic and in the story he makes a suggestion to watch over there uncles empty farm. Harry who is very different he is gentle and sensitive he thinks, sure why not hoping that they would become close more like brothers instead of rivaling friends or enemies. The people who live near the farm house stay away because there is something scary and chilling about that old abandoned farm house. There is a shed that is locked on there property and they think all these creepy feelings are coming from there what they find in side is crazy and <br />I love the phrase on the front \\"it's not just a play house it is a portal into terror.\\"<BR>And it's not a play house it is a shed I hate that when people do dumb things like that.<BR>And it was really interesting.<br />You should read this book and find out what is in that locked shed it will surprise you	2003-05-10
1129037:US	51744771	R2E86ZPV41UPHM	0671736868	870198150	Scavenger Hunt	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Extraordinary Hunt	A Review by Nick<br />Carl Timmons' Senior Class was to be led on a Scavenger Hunt that led through the city, then deep into the desert. After two of the groups realize they are not seeing anyone else on the hunt, they quickly realize the scavenger hunt is fake, and they were being set up. They soon find themselves righting for there lives, against people that aren't even alive. Will they survive?...Or are they already dead?<br /> I like how this book is pretty action packed. The story quickly picks up from the beginning, and is steadily paced until the shocking end. The Author is very detailed in describing the characters settings and situations. I can relate to a lot of the feelings that were expressed during this book. I liked how \\"Scavenger Hunt\\" can be put in a number of categories. It includes: Horror, mystery, Suspense, Romance, action, and a tad of comedy here and there. I like how you never know what's going to happen next. I would have liked if the story didn't end so abruptly, and said what happened after the end.<br /> I would definitely recommend \\"Scavenger Hunt\\" to anyone that enjoys horror mysteries that lead you in suspense, while having plenty of action and a unique love story tied into it. This is a Great book. READ IT.	2003-05-10
1129042:US	51744771	R3NRDXDQTU0J3B	0689716230	425320817	DRAGON'S MILK (Dragon Chronicles)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Nobody to Trust	A Review by Leah<br />One night, Kaeldra's little sister contracts a disease that can only be cured with dragons milk. Kaeldra makes a deal with a dragon. She will watch her three draclings while she hunts. Unfortunately, one day the mother dragon is killed while hunting. Kaeldra needs to take the draclings where they can be raised properly. There are people searching for them. It is not easy to hide and feed three growing draclings. As the number of allies decreases, the number of enemies increases. Kaeldra doesn't know who she could trust. <br />In this book, I liked how Kaeldra doesn't just get rid of the draclings, and she kept her focus on her goal. I also like the descriptions of the draclings. It makes it easy to picture them running around and flaming at each other. Another thing that I like is Kaeldra's character. I can easily imagine being her, and feeling the uneasiness of the draclings around her, and how scared she was when she found out that people were trying to kill her and the draclings. <br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes fantasy. It was easy to follow and understand. I really enjoyed reading it and it was hard to put down. I would also recommend the other two books in this trilogy.	2003-05-10
1129071:US	51744771	RJTDQC4IIFKFY	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Loner	A Review by Robyn<br />Rayford was flying his plane home when the strangest thing happened; people started to vanish! What was he supposed to do? People were panicking and there was nothing that he could do. After the plane landed, there was chaos all across the world. Rayford comes home to realize that his wife, and son, Raymie, have vanished and he and his daughter, Chloe, are still alive. They will later find out that millions of people, including them, have been left behind.<br /> I really liked this book because it had a lot of suspense. For example, when you hear about all of these people disappearing and you don't know what happened, you are really excited to find out what happens. I think that my favorite character has to be Raymie because he is so little and innocent. He doesn't really have a big part in the book, but I think that his character is still important. He really makes his family about what all they have, and how little time they really have. I liked how this book didn't have too little action, or too much. There was times that it was boring, but at the same time, in the next chapter, there would be just enough action for you. For example, when all the action of people disappearing is happening, you turn to the next chapter, and it's a bunch of dialogue between Buck Williams and government people. Overall I really liked this book and I plan to continue reading the rest of the series.<br /> I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a good suspenseful book. Even though it is a Christian based book, it is still a good read. This book has a lot of interesting things that happen in it and as long as you like to try to figure things out or like your books to be suspenseful, then this would be a good read for you.	2003-05-10
1129082:US	51744771	RB34PT65EKS6S	0440227100	574920372	Don't Scream	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Jessica Donnally's Mystery	A Review by Kristin<br />Jessica Donnally lives in a small in Texas, and life is pretty normal for her, until two different families move into town. Things in this small town seem to go missing, and things around town are kind of weird. The light bulb in the street lights seem to always be shattered and all the cats in the neighborhood seem to be missing. Jessica decides that one of the boys from the new families in town is doing this stuff and she is determine to find out which one of them it is. But will she make it in time to stop him?  <br />I thought that this was a good book. It kept you thinking, wondering, and in suspense the whole time. The story led up to a great ending, which was well worth the wait. In the whole book Jessica get more and more interested in looking for who is doing this two her town and it makes you feel like you are in it doing detective work too. The book is well written and is easily understood. I think that I would read more of her books. She is a great author. The Story goes back from one person to anther, and is putt together very nicely.      <BR> <BR>I would recommend this book to people who like suspenseful mysteries. I really liked this book, and it was easy to read.	2003-05-10
1129092:US	51744771	R1HLVIAOOCZFZN	0395745209	978168385	Run for Your Life	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Track Experience	A Review by Tom<br />Growing up in the projects and having parents who constantly fight Kisha, and her friend Natonia are always looking for ways to keep themselves busy during the summer. That's why when the community center reopened they decided to join the track team. Even with all the problems in her life she stays determined and keeps the will to win.  <br />I think the author did a great job showing how life for Kisha and the projects was like. I found it hard to connect with Kisha because we are so different, I've never lived in the projects and I don't have the problems at home like she does. The conflicts that arose in the story were realistic for someone of that age and situation. It made the story that much more enjoyable because it was based on a true story.  <br />I recommend this book to anybody who thinks they could be able to compare their life with Kisha's. I think that if I was able to connect better with the character I would have enjoyed it much more.	2003-05-10
1129186:US	51744771	R1MZAM16ALTKIQ	0689813805	419541008	War Dog	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Brutal Dog	A Review by James<br />When Jet, the dog, was in the army after his owner went to jail she was a great dog. She saved lives and helped the army. She got hurt once and awhile but immediately went back into active duty as a patrol dog. Soon Jet's owner that went to jail joined in the army and found jet. He didn't take over and was her patrol keeper but he did see her once in awhile. The book ended up the owner telling the class about jet and her heroism and her courage.<BR>Well this book wasn't a joyful book for me but maybe for you. This book has dogs and also about war, how war is bad and such. It was hard to fallow, but I am a slow reader. This book was only a 133 pages but yet it took a long time for me. One thing that I did like about this book is that it set during the beginning of WW2. When the Americans weren't exactly in the war but had some Americans fight for the British army.  The dog part of the book wasn't really a interesting thing for me, Boring.<BR>If you really like dogs and like ww2 then this is the book for you, the book is WAR DOG and get it if you want, I give this book a 3 star rating.	2003-05-10
1129216:US	51744771	R9N0V40ZUOVF5	0679885501	694914807	Crash	Books	4	0	0	N	N	More Than a Stud	A Review by Krisi<br />Crash Coogan is an amazing football player and an all around jock.  In the story Crash is a bully, and is always messing with a kid named Penn Webb.  Penn is a nerdy, skinny, vegetarian Quaker, also a cheerleader.  Although Crash is a football stud, he is envious of Penn.  Penn is a friend to Jane Forbes; the girl Crash has been in love with for ages.  This is reason enough to make Penn's life a living nightmare. Towards the end of the story, Crash's grandfather suffers a stroke.  This is the turning point in Crash's life; he finally realizes that there's more to life then sports.  He discovers the importance of family and friends.<br /> I enjoyed how easy it was to relate my life to Crash's.  Every situation Crash went through I understood exactly how he felt.  For instance, I can completely relate to being turned down and humiliated at a dance.  I also enjoyed the moral of the story.  Without lecturing, Jerry Spinelli was able to include important life lessons regarding family and friends.  The values each character possessed were enough to make you envious and strive to be a better person.  However, I did not like how simple the language was.  I felt that by merely using a larger array of words the authors' message could have been more powerful.<br /> I would recommend this book to anyone who wants an easy to read story with a wonderful message.  This book is packed with great humor that any young adult would enjoy!	2003-05-10
1129222:US	51744771	R1TCBWG69GF01K	0698118545	116486176	A Hero Ain't Nothin' but a Sandwich	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Very Addicting Book	A Review by David<br />Benjie Johnson is a thirteen year ld boy who's family gets addicted to heroin and he is not wanting to take the same path...<br />This book is great, the last time I read a good book was.... Probably about... 8th grade. This book is well written and really makes you want to keep reading. I really like this book I am not just saying that. And this book all leads up to a great climax<br />This book I would recommend to someone who can handle adult words... this book is definitely for a mature reader. This book is a fun to read book and very addicting... I would have to say that you would have to be somewhat of a skilled reader to read this book. All in all... if you want a fun exiting grate climax book.... This is for you.	2003-05-10
1129234:US	51744771	RLIIUSTVTJSQP	0786807695	470169934	Son of the Mob	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A fun and exciting book	A Review by Ryan<br />Vince is getting ready for his big date with one of the popular girls from school. Alex his best friend is going threw a check list of what he needs for his big date. Vince took here to the movies that went ok until when they were at the beach and she needed a blanket, Vince opened up the back of his new car to see a body lying there. His date screamed and ran off it was Jimmy the Rat. Some of his fathers work he guessed. Vince doesn't tell any body what his dad's job is, but things get really wired when he starts dating an FBI agent's daughter.  <br />Over all I think this is one of the best romantic hidden love books out there. You see his dad is in the mob and he starts dating an FBI agent's daughter and there are some really close calls when he is with here. I didn't like the way that Vince got caught but that's my opinion. It was also funny at times and you just can't wait to keep reading. The ending wasn't that great either but I don't want to give it away. This book is kind of like Romeo and Juliet with the two completely different families that hate each other. <br />I would recommend this book for people that like the classic play of Romeo and Juliet for the romance and the action in the book. Its an easy reading book.	2003-05-10
1129253:US	51744771	R3FH7XBL1YQCCC	0152009612	861267771	Emily in Love	Books	5	0	0	N	N	It Can't be a Cruel World	A Review by Allison<br /> \\"Why can't I be like other girls?\\" Emily would often wonder. Emily is a special girl who has trouble doing every day tasks.  She is the target of many harsh remarks at her school and just wants people to know that she has feelings like everyone else. When she falls in love with a guy named Hunt, she tries to prove to her parents that she is grown-up enough to wear makeup and more stylish clothes.  She and her best friend, Molly, even decide to have a party.  Things go horribly wrong- Hunt kisses another girl and Emily gets kissed by her friend, Donny. Where do things go from here?<br />I thought this book was great in all aspects. The characters that were used were well-developed and the visual descriptions and settings fit together wonderfully. This was a fast read- not because it was a short book but because it was interesting and didn't have useless bits of information. It wasn't a particular difficult book to read but it was interesting and had a good story line. The only thing I didn't like about the book was that the ending seemed too abrupt. The language was easy to understand and descriptive. The story didn't seem like it was TOO happy or TOO sad, it was perfect.<br /> I would recommend reading this book to anyone. It may be more for younger readers but something everyone should read.	2003-05-10
1129274:US	51744771	R2UDV4X5RNEZXI	0590461001	910400908	The Hitchhiker	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Spooky good time	A Review by Johnny<br />The book The hitch hiker is a groovy book. The book is about two girls that just got their drivers license and decide to go on a road trip , what they don't know is they got  in store for them. On the way there they find a man who wants a ride. The book kept  me on the edge and I could not set it down. If you  like scary good times you should read this book.<br />The book was very scary and fun .In some parts in the book I got confused because of the triky word play. Over all I really loved this book!!! <br />I recommend this book to little boys and little girls looking for a fun fun book to read.	2003-05-10
1129287:US	51744771	RTYOJYR01QQB9	0842329250	316218934	Soul Harvest: The World Takes Sides (Left Behind No. 4)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Best of the first four in series	A Review by Jessica<br />As prophesized events continue to be hurtled toward the Tribulation Force and the rest of the world, Buck Williams and Rayford Steele are on a search for their lost wives. Just as they had expected, they are now becoming the main target of the Anti- Christ. The Tribulation Force will have to out smart the Anti- Christ's powerful guards, have secrecy among fellow believers, and go into hiding all in order to protect or even save their own lives. <BR> <BR> I loved the amount of action in this book. The authors keep you on the edge of your seat the time. An example of this is of the first seven or eight chapters while Buck and Rayford are continually looking for wives, Chloe and Amanda. Only problem with this is that they are wanted be every Global Community guard and cannot get caught. I also enjoyed reading about each character. Even though they are the same characters as in the first three books, the authors continue to add attributes to each character that keep you hooked on them. The relevance of this book is another thing that influenced me to give this book five stars. Everything that happens in this book is an interpretation of anything that could happen during the actual Tribulation. Although only a fiction story, everything that happens in this book gives you a piece of mind of what Hell on earth might be like.<br /> I would highly recommend this book to anyone who is looking for an action-packed book with non-stop suspense or to readers who are looking for a good Christian story.	2003-05-10
1129363:US	51744771	R33VRCJT220AUA	0141304340	744129404	Lisa, Bright and Dark	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Bright and Dark	A Review by Nicole<br />This book is about a girl named Lisa who is 16. She starts to think that there is something completely wrong with herself. She tries to everyone that she is going crazy, but no one believes her. Some days she has good days and others are even worse she acts horrible, like no one is around. Her parents laugh and tell her she's fine; and her teachers don't believe it either. They don't want to admit that there is something wrong with Lisa. Her friends start to believe her. They try to help her but it's just not working out. Finally something happens and it just pushes her to far her friends know that she needs better help.<br />This book had it's up and downs but one thing I didn't really  like that much was, it was not really how things are dealt with in these times, Teachers would have noticed it right away and they would have taken care of it as soon as possible. Her parents would probably noticed something wrong was going on. I feel bad how Lisa had to wait so long to get help. I liked how her friends cared so much about her and no matter what happened they stuck through thin and thick she should be so great full for good friends like that.  They really over all help her out so much in getting her help.<br /> I think that this is an okay book not to great or not to wonderful but, like I said before it had it's ups and downs. It always had something happening or going on in this book. I think people who like nonviolent action would really like this book. It's not really a book I think guys would like to read. But over all this was an  ok book.	2003-05-10
1129386:US	51744771	R3BG8GUCXPWICW	0441007732	777062090	Legend of Luke (Redwall)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Crunched between two pillars	A Review by Richie<br />This book is basically a book inside of a book. So it is basically Martin and his friends go out to find out whatever happed to his father. Then they travel to the north shore while managing to kill lots of vermin and pick up more crew members. Then after eating and feasting at numerous places. They captured a bout and sailed to the north shore. At the north shore where martin once lived they found an old man called Verg. Who was Luke's best friend. Finally Verg took Martin and his friends to the Arf ship where they start reading the real story The Legend of Luke.<br />I did not like that the book was unfulfilled. I did not understand why when martin was little he left the north shore before his dad came back. I also felt that the ending was too sudden. There where things still hanging in the air. <br />I recommend that be for anyone reads this book they would have to read other Red Wall books like Moss Flower or Martin the Warrior.	2003-05-10
1129415:US	51744771	R333ZJFMARXY8P	1551432382	762622599	The Lottery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An intense sentimental book	A Review by Erin<br />This book is about a 15 year old girl, Sal getting chosen to be a secret societies (Shadow Council) victim. For nearly 4 months she is harassed and made fun of by the students at her school, do to the fact that she is Shadow's \\"victim\\". Her job is to deliver mischeivious duties to the students at Saskatoon Colligant High School. <br />The thing I really liked about The Lottery is that I never wanted to stop reading. The characters all play interesting rolls in the whole scheme of the book. I also liked how Sal, the main character goes on a spiritual journey throughout the book; and ultimately ends up changing her whole view life by the end. For example, Sal ends up forgiving herself for her dad's death. This proves a major change, since for the last 8 years of her life she had blamed herself. In addition, the vocabulary presented a challenge to my level of linguists. It forced me to learn new words and metaphors, expanding my understanding of the English language. The reason I only gave this book 4 stars, is because some of the words were a little bit too difficult for this type of book.  <br /> I believe that most people between the ages of 13-25 would like this book. I think this book is geared toward high school to college level readers. The story has and extremely deep message about high school peer pressure, and I think it would teach people is this reading level an insightful lesson about being your own person.	2003-05-10
1129424:US	51744771	R9M2WCDK6O42T	038072913X	26810930	The Maze	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Exciting Adventure	A Review by John<br />This book is about a troubled boy who keeps getting into trouble. When this story starts Rick is arrested for throwing 20 rocks at a stop sign because he was frustrated. This I thought was kind of a stupid reason but the book gets a lot better. He has no family, not many friends and he has lived in foster homes for along time since his grandmother's death. Check out this amazing exciting book!!! <br />A few things I liked about this book were the adventures and the risks he takes such as in the ending which you will have to read to find out, he is very independent which is cool because he doesn't  have to rely on anybody. Seeing how he is a teen like myself he has a lot more courage than me, because of all the things he has gone through. Another thing is the man who takes him in and helps him hide out, I thought that was pretty cool because the man helped him get away. <br />All around great book check this out for sure!!!	2003-05-10
1129448:US	51744771	R3C72EIAZP3TSZ	0385900244	290454669	Lord of the Nutcracker Men	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good Historical Fiction	A Review by Nate<br />Johny is a young boy living in France in the year 1914.  Johny's father is an amazing toy maker.  He made his son an entire army of nutcracker men.  Johny loves to command his small wooden soldiers across his kitchen floor.  When the war breaks out Johny sees many parades for soldiers going off to fight in the war.  He notices that his father hasn't gone off yet.  Sadly enough it is because his height.  He is far too short.  Eventually the limit is changed enough for johny's dad.  After his father goes to war Johny's mother sends Johny on a train to his aunt's house.  The house is out in the middle of no where.  There he learns many valuable life lessons.  <br />This book is certainly good historical fiction.  The beginning is very good.  It sets the scene quite nicely.  It shows you the characters and how they feel.  The writer gives details in a way you can truly like you are there with Johny every step of the way.  You are there when he is on the kitchen floor or on the crowded train.  You always know how he is feeling.  Where ever he is.  The writer has a great eye for details.  You know what is happening always.  The characters emotions feel very real and quite believable.  I like this book. <br />I would certainly recommend this book to any historical fiction readers.  Even to younger readers.  It is not too long or difficult.	2003-05-10
1129450:US	51744771	R2WWY4ULYWO6VY	0670888745	9388978	Calling the Swan	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Sad Story	A Review by Roxanne<br />This book is about a girl named Skylar and her family. She is a 10th grader who has to take summer school at a school in a new area and new people. She is presently surprised when she gets along with the kids in her class. But in the end everything comes down to there secret.<br />The 3 things I didn't like about this book was it is slow moving, sometimes is hard to follow  and it waited tell the very end to tell the main things u need to know to make the story all come together. For example they talk for chapters about how she is doing in summer school but only talks for a chapter about the main secret. As for the characters Skylar is a typical teenager. For her sister Alexandra they only tell little things about her but develop her as a character later in the story. Her grandmother I believe was the main character as well as Skylar she helped develop the story and she is an admirable character. Her parents are only mentioned a few times and aren't developed but as for her 3 year old brother Ben he was the center of the attention through the story and the story wouldn't be complete without him.<br />I would not recommend this book. It didn't keep my attention, the story line itself was boring and it was so slow moving .Teenagers who are interest in fast action packed books would not like this book but some adults who like sad books that turn out happy this is the book for them. I also think it gives the insight into a teenagers mind.	2003-05-10
1129474:US	51744771	R335QLT1DNQ77E	0688041469	520939297	Wilderness Peril	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Million Dollar Trip	A Review by Travis<br />This book is about two guys who just got out of high school who decide to go on their last two week trip to the BWCA were their going to canoe and camp. Although when they get there all is good until about 3 days into the trip, when they run into a hijacker, who hijacked a plane and stole three-quarters of a million dollars. Then they find the money, and it's now a run for their lives, as the man chases them.<br />One thing that I like a lot about this book is how it kept the reader wanting to read more, like when the boys stole the money, and the man started chasing them, it seemed as if wherever you left off it was a cliffhanger. The one thing the author did not do was start the book off with a boring beginning. The starting of this book was suspenseful in many ways, because it talked about the hijacker and his doings, and it also talked about the history of the boys lives. The book was a little difficult to get in a couple of parts, for example when they keep switching from the minds of the hijacker, the two boys, and the detectives, it got a little confusing, but as you kept on reading, it cleared up.<br />I recommend this book to all teenagers over the age of 13, because even though it's an easy book to read, some parts the words get confusing. A great book for people who like suspenseful, camping books.	2003-05-10
1129483:US	51744771	R38OW94K3HGM49	0743412028	925429454	Pay It Forward	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Would You Pay It Forward?	A Review by Kelly<br />When Trevor got a simple Social Studies assignment to come up with a plan to change the world, he never would of guessed how far 1 favor to 3 people would go if each Paid It Forward. Who would have thought a twelve year-old boy with a dimple idea would really touch so many people and truly change the world. <br />This book was amazing, and inspiring. It showed so much about the Human Race, and that people do care what goes on in their world. This book is sort of hard to follow, and it's quite lengthy, but once you start reading it, you can't put it down. Everything does come together in the end. I also liked the characters, they were very well thought out, and each was very dynamic.<br />I would highly recommend this book to people who are looking for an inspirational book with a lot of emotion. This book was an amazing true story that I would read over and over.	2003-05-10
1129490:US	51744771	R1XIH2NC6AGYJ1	0345378490	694344232	Congo	Books	5	1	3	N	N	You'll Go Bananas	A Review by Brendan<br />Michael Crichton has done it again, he wrote a bestselling book once more. If you liked Jurassic park 1+2 you'll love Congo.in the depths of the jungle in Africa, people have been mysteriously killed by some unknown animal. When one scientist discovers and ape is having bad and unnormal dreams he decides to find out what they are. This book is full of adventure and excitement. If you want to know the rest pick up a copy at your local library.<br />There are so many things Michael Crichton did perfect in this book, but there were a few he could of left out. About 1/3 of the story talks about things we didn't know existed, like all that scientific junk. Do we really care about that? We want the blood and gore{well a lot of us do}.<BR>What he did do well on is the detail and explaining the confusing points. This was a good book and very interesting.<br />I would recommend this book to readers that like blood and gore. I would also recommend this book to people that like science and mathematics. This book is very good and there are always part that include all readers.	2003-05-10
1141121:US	51744771	RIDWIV96NMOVS	0689821026	487297523	Michael, Wait for Me	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Into Romance?	A Review by Kristen<br />Sarahs sister Kim is coming home from college for the summer.  The only problem is that she is bringing home her boyfriend Michael and he gets Sarahs room for the summer.  Kim ends up getting a summer job so Sarahs dad decides to let Michael help him and Sarah with their dog kennel business so he ends up having to work with Sarah all summer.  So now Sarahs upset, he gets her room and now she has to spend the summer with him.  What could be worse?  Well after Sarah and Michael spend a lot of time together she starts to like him.  But just as she is beginning to like him, Kim is no so in love with him as she thought.  Sarah learns why, a deep secret Michael has in his past.  Sarah tries to keep them together, but will this situation work out for anyone?<br />I enjoyed this book very much because it had romance, which I personally enjoy reading, but not so much that it gets old after a while.  The book was full of surprises that I would never have expected.  What I didnt care for in this book though, was the fact that the book took place a lot at Sarahs dog training job.  I wasnt to in to the animal thing so that part wasnt enjoyable for me.  This book was easy to read and not difficult to understand.<br />I really enjoyed this book.  I feel it is a book anyone can read, a boy or a girl, though it might be more preferable for a girl since there wasnt action or violence.  If youre not into romance I wouldnt pick this book.  But if youre into surprises that overthrows the romance and makes it better.	2003-04-29
1141293:US	51744771	R2JEW1709APIOE	0689826990	169528688	Hatchet	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Some unlikely parts	A Review by Kevin<br />One evening, Brian Robinson was on a small, 2 person aircraft on it's way to Canada from New York, when all of a sudden the pilot has a heart attack and dies with 13 year old Brian all along over Canadian Wilderness. Brian crash lands the plane in an \\"L\\" shaped lake. Will Brian be rescued or will he be out there for a lot longer than first thought? Either way the story goes on in, \\"Brian's Winter\\" and, \\"The River\\".<br />I like how this book shows how complete ignorance can spawn into in depth knowledge of how to survive with only small tools such as the hatchet that Brian has through this series. I thought that this book was realistic as far as how he survived but some of the Problems he faced were not, such as a 40 or so year old pilot having a heart attack, and a tornado in the Canadian Wilderness. I believe that although this book had some unlikely parts, that it all in all was a realistic novel and reading it might be able to help someone if they were ever in that sort of a situation.<br />I would recommend this book to people who like realistic adventure novels, although it had some unrealistic parts to it. It is an addictive story and not hard to follow, it keeps you in the book and ready to read more.	2003-04-29
1157327:US	51744771	R3GSMSNGAE8PS1	0064472914	326566303	So Mote It Be (Circle of Three #1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	So Mote It Be	A Review by Ashley<br />Kate was a normal high school sophomore, or so she thought. She never thinks a simple spell from a book could do any harm, but she was wrong. Everything has turned into chaos and she doesn't know what to do. Will anyone be able to help her stop this or is she going to be an outcast? It is up to her to make some new friends to make this entire thing stop and decide between them and her old friends for advice.<br />I like how this book is mesmerizing. You can't get out of it, it is like you can't wait to see what happens to Kate next. Even though it is slow at the beginning, this story keeps you wanting to read more, it is impossible for you to guess what happens to her. For example, when you think Kate is going to get into really big trouble, her new friends show up and save her from making a complete disaster of the case. When this happens you can't believe that she made it through. Isobel bird brings the characters to life. She makes everything that happens to them seem so realistic. Everything that happens to the characters seems to be things that could happen real life. Now I can not wait to read the next book in the series to see what happens to Kate and her friends.<br />I would diffidently recommend this book to anyone who likes fantasy, drama, and adventure all mixed into one. This book really keeps you on your toes though the entire story. It is some what of an easy read and very surprising.	2003-04-15
1157366:US	51744771	R343TM87UTMM3Q	0316142417	405915786	Skateboard Tough (Matt Christopher Sports Classics)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Magical Skateboard	A Review by Timothy<br />     Skateboard Tough is a story about a little children that digs up a skateboard in his front yard. This kids name is Brett Thyson and he has one passion. That is to be a very good skateboarder. He's not the only skateboarder in the town, take Kyle Robinson for instance. Brett has always wanted to be a better skateboarder than Kyle. The skateboard he dug up used to belong to a professional skateboarder named Lance Hawker, according to some other kids in the neighborhood. The witch down the street gives the kids quite a surprise after Brett writes a letter to the local newspaper. The skateboard that he had found in his front yard is supposed to be \\"Magical.\\" He can do any trick on it and he likes it a lot. Everyone else doesn't think it is fair although he just is happy he found it first. Brett has always wanted to beat Kyle in a competition. The problem is that there is no competition in the town.<br />Something that I liked about this book is the realism in the tricks that the young skateboarders did.  Although I don't really think that just because a skateboard belonged to a professional doesn't mean that it can be magical. Also I liked the feud between all the young skaters. W.E, Kyle Robinson, Johnee, Shannon, everyone argued about being a better skater. Even though they were friends they still fought about things. I know I used to fight with my friends and other kids as I was skating down the street performing my nice moves. And whenever Brett skated past Kyle, an argument would always break out unless Kyle knew that Brett was better than him.<br />I recommend this book to young children, at least in the sixth grade. I personally did not like the book myself because I felt it was too childish for me. So hopefully young readers would love this easy read, Skateboard Tough by Matt Christopher	2003-04-15
1157459:US	51744771	R1HR6DZMQ98AUB	0689826990	169528688	Hatchet	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Some Unlikely Parts	One evening, Brian Robinson was on a small, 2 person aircraft on its way to Canada from New York, when all of a sudden the pilot has a heart attack and dies with 13 year old Brian all along over Canadian Wilderness. Brian crash lands the plane in an L shaped lake. Will Brian be rescued or will he be out there for a lot longer than first thought? Either way the story goes on in, Brians Winter and, The River.<br />I like how this book shows how complete ignorance can spawn into in depth knowledge of how to survive with only small tools such as the hatchet that Brian has through this series. I thought that this book was realistic as far as how he survived but some of the Problems he faced were not, such as a 40 or so year old pilot having a heart attack, and a tornado in the Canadian Wilderness. I believe that although this book had some unlikely parts, that it all in all was a realistic novel and reading it might be able to help someone if they were ever in that sort of a situation.<br />I would recommend this book to people who like realistic adventure novels, although it had some unrealistic parts to it. It is an addictive story and not hard to follow, it keeps you in the book and ready to read more.	2003-04-15
1157501:US	51744771	RMCUOJLCLPRYG	078578988X	53377084	Last Safe Place on Earth	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Neighborhood of Wonders	A Review by Taylor<br />There were a couple of good and bad things about the book. One thing that was bad about this book or could have been improved was the difficulty throughout the story, it was not hard to read and that shows that this may be better for younger kids (Middle School). But there were also some good things; the author described every scene with imaginable details. Also the author talks about each person's personality and how they feel about different subjects and how they act around the house or how they are feeling. For example, Todd says \\"I see girls in the shapes the tree trunks make and in the formations of the clouds.\\" That shows how much Todd is into girls. Another good thing is pace in the storyline, it doesn't go too fast, it goes slow and steady so you don't get lost or mixed up about the main subjects or events that happen.<br /> My recommendation for this book is it is good for kids around the ages of 9-12. It would seem to be more interesting to a younger age group of kids. The type of reader for this book would be someone who is into mystery and a little bit of horror. Someone who would like the fast pace type of book would not like this book and should avoid it.	2003-04-15
1157535:US	51744771	RAAVDUMTS3BDM	0785727426	550604760	Out of Control	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Things Taken Too Far	A Review by Jodi<br />This book is about a girl who got attacked by three boys and took this little thing to far. She said that they molested her but they didn't touch her in any wrong or inappropriate ways, but on of the boys feels so bad about it that he tries to talk to her and get it all set right but she wants nothing to do with him. This girl Valerie wrote to the local news paper to tell her story and Rollo is scared about that. And at the end Rollo makes the right decision. <br />The things I didn't liked about this book is that is at the beginning it sounds like they almost killed this girl or something horribly bad to her but didn't, another thing I didn't like about this book is that it went on for to long about how Rollo one of the main characters wants to start talking to her and set everything right and it just gets a bit out of hand after while. But there are some things I did like I liked how it reflected real high school students and high school life. <br />I think the kind of person who would like this book would be someone who is in to high school drama and high school stories.	2003-04-15
1157537:US	51744771	R1ZYLJG13IFS1L	0451161351	381306153	Cujo	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Rabid	A Review by Lela<br />Cujo is a Saint Bernard owned by Joe Chambers. Joe Chambers fixes cars for a living. One day Cujo chases a rabbit into a small cave and gets bit by an infected bat. Cujo turns on everything and everyone near him. <BR>Vic Trenton, his wife Donna, and son Tad move to Castle Rock from New York. Vic has to go to New York for a campaign. While he is in New York Donna and Tad go to Joe Chambers house to get her car fixed. What happens next will keep your heart pumping.<br />What I didn't like about this book is that it is slow and dry in the beginning. All it talks about in the first hundred or so pages is basically the character backgrounds and things that lead up to when Cujo traps Donna and Tad in the car. I like when Cujo went mad sometimes it was told in his perspective. Like when Tad and Donna were in the car Cujo said \\"KILL THE WOMAN. KILL THE BOY. KILL THE WOMAN KILL THE BOY.\\" It's great to see the story from perspective and not just theirs. The other thing I likes about this book is that Stephen King makes you feel like your there with them. Like when Donna is yelling at the guy she was having an affair with you can just imagine the fight taking place right in front of your face.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone that likes horror. Cujo is not for animal lovers because he ends up dead in the end. Also don't read this book if you are squeamish because there is a lot of death in Cujo and it's very graphic when the people are getting killed.	2003-04-15
1157665:US	51744771	RCI4BXGEH4O8W	0374404755	141708104	Bad: A Novel (Aerial Fiction)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Bad Bad or Good Bad	A Review by Sarah<br />Dallas, a normal 16-year-old trouble maker, gets talked into robbing a convenience store with her fiends. Unfortunately, she is the one who gets caught and her father will not let her come home on probation because he has no control over her. The judge sends her to 6 months at a Girl's Rehab Center.<br />What I liked about this book is the topic. The topic of getting in trouble is hardly ever boring. For example, when Dallas and her friends were robbing the convenience store and Dallas got caught because she was holding the gun. One thing that I didn't like about this book is when Dallas first goes to the Rehab Center. Here, the author was mainly informative so my mind was left somewhat wandering. However, after that, which seemed like a never ending introduction to the Rehab Center and people, the book was interesting. It was more interesting because at the Rehab Center the author started telling about the different fights. Another thing that I didn't like about this book is how Dallas's father disowned her. This happened when he said that he would not take her back in because he had no control over her. I don't believe that a good dad would just give up that easily. <br />This book is very rewarding for its ending, so I recommend Bad to any reader that is willing to take the time to get through its mix of informative information and excitement for a meaningful ending. The book is fairly easy to read but may contain some information that may not be appropriate for young readers so I recommend it to reader's from 6th grade and up.	2003-04-15
1157919:US	51744771	R31WNDQCKX9PIZ	0064470660	576945150	Scorpions	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Scorpions not good animals, Not a good book	A Review by Jeff<br />Jamals Family isnt rich. Jamals brother Randy was sent to jail because he killed a man. Jamals mom is working a lot to save up enough money for Randys appeal, $2,000. That is a lot because Jamals father is s deadbeat and Jamal hardly sees him. Jamal has a sister named Sassy who the name really fits. Jamal has a really good friend named Tito. Tito is 11 and Jamal is 12 they both go to the same school. At school a boy named Dawayn gives Jamal a hard time for being poor. Jamal fights him several times and loses everytime. Jamal goes and sees one of randys old friends named Mack. Mack gives Jamal a gun and now the real trouble begins.<br /> Three things that I disliked are the dialoge, lack of good action, and the ending. I didnt like the Dialoge because it was really hard to follow along and understand it. I do understand that the author wantes the reader to get a feel for the surroundings, but it was like a 45 year old trying to sound hip I.E. Let it alone His brother done already blown a dude away. No one talks like that, but they did in the book. The Lack of action is self-explaintory there was action a lot of it but it was all only one and a half pages long even the ending. The ending was almost like Jurassic Park 3s ending yet worse.  It just seemed to end only one problem was solved not all of them.<br />  I personally hated this book thats why my review is a bit harsh. BUT I do recommend this book to anyone who likes an easy to follow book, or some one who likes books about gangs. I warn you that there are not that many action scenes. But the story is nice and I think you should make up your own mind about it...	2003-04-15
1157928:US	51744771	R1C20OU6LRNANY	0141308109	588895472	The Boxes	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Be Careful What You Open	A Review by DJ<br />This book is mostly about my main character Annie who is left with two boxes from her uncle. Her uncle told her not to open those boxes nor tell any one about those boxes. Well, she broke those rules and opened both of the boxes and something incredible happened. She told her friend about the boxes and what was in it and what was happening with those boxes, something that she wasn't suppose to do, which was a very big mistake on her part.<BR> <BR>I like this book because it keeps you glued to it, like you always want to read more and more to see what is going to happen. The book is very easy to read for all ages to a kid to a full grown adult. The book is very smooth; the author leads up to the high point of the book very smooth. But you have to keep in mind what happened in the very beginning of the book, or else you will be lost from the get go. There aren't very many characters and I thought that was plus because usually when I read I get lost in the characters because there are so many.<br />I would recommend this book to any one that likes twisted books, and leaves you hanging just a tad bit.	2003-04-15
1157967:US	51744771	R3RE3SHO0F21P5	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Adventure at Green Lake Camp	A Review by Matt<br />A boy named Stanly Yelnats is a part of a curse that has been passed on through the generations of his family. It started with his no-good-dirty-rotten-pig-stealing-great-great-grandfather. Now Stanly has found a pair of stolen shoes and is accused of stealing them. He is given a choice. He could either go to a juvenile correctional facility or he could go to Camp Green Lake. There is no water at Camp Green Lake. At Camp Green Lake the boys spend all day digging because it builds character. After a while Stanly realizes there is a reason the boys are digging. They are looking for something. But what could be at the bottom of a dry lake?<br /> This book is a wonderful tale of crime, punishment and redemption. Holes keeps up an easy pace that allows the reader to go on for hours. Holes is an easy read for little children, but is still interesting and held my attention through the whole story. There is some way for anyone to relate themselves to any character in the book. The characters feel real and the way they act amongst each other is just like real life. There will be a movie, but just like other books that are turned into movies; I think the book will still be the best.<br />I think this is a great book and everyone should read it at least once. If you like mystery books you will like Holes. This was a great book.	2003-04-15
1158000:US	51744771	R2D38YJF3RGCNB	0441006108	853312415	Mattimeo: A Tale From Redwall	Books	5	0	0	N	N	All Well in Mossflower	A Review by Sarah<br />Trouble brews in Redwall when Slager the fox and his band of slavers come to town. His plot to kidnap the Abbeys' children seems flawless. All except the fact that he has stolen the son of the great warrior Mathias, Mattimeo. Now, Mathias and a gang of odd and comical characters must follow Slager across unknown territory of Mossflower and beyond, leaving their home open for General Ironbeak's attack. Now Mathias and his gang must find their children and bring them safely back to Redwall or they will surely live a life of enslavement and cruelty.   <br />  I like how this book throws you into suspense immediately. Most books it takes awhile to get to the action, but this book starts out with a bang. And the action doesn't stop. One thing after another after another takes place, and it never leaves you bored or confused (such as the cannibals followed by the raging river) It's easy to understand and the characters are very real. I especially liked Baby Rollo. He was so cute and mischievous, like a real human baby. The dialogue is easy, yet colorful and is written how they would speak it (such as the comical accent of the moles and sparrows). It definitely is one of the best books I've ever read. <br />I recommend this book to anyone who likes mid-evil themes, action, wars, humor, and cute (yet very vicious) woodland creatures.	2003-04-15
1158068:US	51744771	R3C6WI100SVYZE	0446677841	55821494	Diamond Dogs	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Missing High School Student	A Review by Kali<br />Neil Garvin is a star athlete and the star quarterback of his high school football team.  After coming home from one night of partying, Neil accidentally hits a kid along the side of the road.  Neil panics and brings the body home with him.  In the morning, the body was mysteriously gone!  Neil tries to keep his murdering a secret from people, but just cant.  Neil ends up telling his best friend Fred.  After that, everything seems to go down hill for Neil.  The FBI agents start getting a lead that Neil did it.  Throughout the whole book, Neil keeps thinking that this is just a dream and that everything will go back to the way it was, but it doesnt. <br />This book keeps you on the edge of your seat.  I liked how everything was solved in the mystery.  Nothing was left out for you to think of how it ended.  At the end of the book, it even talked about what happened to the person that was convicted of the murder and how their life was changed because of it.  The characters in the book were realistic teenage kids.  They went through the same sort of problems that every kid at our age would go through.  They were pressured by some kids to drink and party and by other kids to be successful in life.  The vocabulary and language of the book was not very difficult.  I liked that because it makes the story easy to follow.  The teenagers talked like normal people.  They didnt talk like they were some proper English kid in 1902 or like some kid who was never taught how to talk.  An example is, Dont you see what youre doing? Youre throwing away your life because youre angry with your father.<br />I would recommend this book to a person who likes a suspenseful mystery book.  Diamond Dogs is an easy book to read so you cant get lost in the reading.  I really enjoyed it!	2003-04-15
1158118:US	51744771	R6X63WJ5539NW	0812504798	71877442	The Red Badge of Courage (Tor Classics)	Books	2	5	8	N	N	The Red Badge of Boredom	A Review by Taylor<br />The Red Badge of Courage by Stephen Crane is about young Henry Flemming, who joins the Union Army during the Civil War. He thought he would join the army, prove his courage and manhood, and return home honorably. But from the start of his first battle, he is confronted with all of his fears and inner conflicts. This book is mainly about the transformation Henry goes through, his courage and cowardice, his pride and self-pity as he fights in this country's bloodiest conflict of all time.<br />In my opinion, this book is horrible and extremely overrated. Crane usually identifies the characters using characteristics such as the youth, the tall soldier, and the bearded officer, which makes it difficult to follow and understand at times. The dialogue was also very difficult to understand. Crane really failed at his attempt to write dialogue in the way people talk, often overdoing accents. One example is in the twelfth chapter where a soldier said, \\"Thunder, I wish we was sure 'a findin' our reg'ments t'night. It's goin' t' be long huntin'. But I guess we kin do it.\\" Dialogue like this is very common in the book and it makes it difficult to comprehend and take in. I sometimes had to stop and read a paragraph over again to understand what the person was saying. The One thing that I liked about the book is Crane's descriptions and metaphors. A good example of this is when he wrote, \\"The ground was cluttered with vines and bushes, and the trees grew close and spread out like bouquets...The creepers, catching against his legs, cried out harshly as their sprays were torn from the barks of trees.\\" I generally liked his writing style, though I recall numerous times when his descriptions were rather dull and difficult to understand.<br />I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone really. Unless you really like Civil War books or you are looking for something written in an interesting and different way, don't waste your time and/or money on this book.	2003-04-15
1158134:US	51744771	R2ZFN1XAPY49DS	0140345353	91009783	The Devil's Arithmetic (Puffin Modern Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Holocaust	A Review by Jesse<br />This is a story about a 13 year old Jewish girl. She is very tired about hearing about the Nazis from her grandfather and others. She travels back in time to the year of 1942 in a foreign village called Poland. When she is captured she is put into a concentration camp where she realizes what hear grandfather told her was true. Her best friend befriends her after she teachers her how to fight her way through the camp.<br />This is a very good book if you are interested in the time period of World War II and the holocaust. It was fun to read all the words used then and there that you don't here to much her in the States. It was sad when you got the information of how they died or where tortured in the camps. It was a very realalistic and informational book. It was very good with how it kept you up to date with the death count and facts of what happened. The food that they received when they where in the camp was very sad and made me sick to the stomach because I could just imagine it.   <br />This is a very high-quality book. I would give to 5 stars because it is very emotional and has lots of death and hardships in it. It is very excellent, I couldn't put it down.	2003-04-15
1158168:US	51744771	R3F0QY5SP1TN1P	0618002243	669379389	The Return of the King (Lord of the Rings )	Books	5	1	1	N	N	How it Ended	A Review by Stephen<br />Frodo and Sam are on there way to mount morordor. On there way they meet many evils and survive many great perils. Not known to them is the war going on in the pelader fields where the mighty forces of sauron are waging war with the humans. Bit by bit the forces of sauron are winning and the eye of morordor is growing stronger the forces of good are on the verge of total destruction.<br />This book was a bit of a slow book but don't let that get you down this book has a great storyline fierce battles described areas items and people. There are some hard words but with the surrounding context it is easy to find out what they mean. Everything in this book is well thought out and nobody could match this kind of talent for such a great series. The book it thought overall was too short and it should have been at least 400 pages long and should have had a couple more battles and maybe 1 or 2 more characters to help out and play a major part in the final book.<br />This book was definitely one of the best books I have ever read. I would recommend this book to strong readers and only if you have read the rest of the series and had interest in them. If you want to read this book then do it.	2003-04-15
1158187:US	51744771	R19MZIFOUHVC6X	0152012435	244681246	Live a Little	Books	3	0	0	N	N	"You Just Don't Understand"	A Review by Sasha<br />Live a little by Colin Neenan. The book is about a guy named Hale O'reilly and he has a hard time showing his emotions to others, so on his senior year all this changes. He just started realizing that all his emotions are serious for someone. Then Hale has two best friends and he will never admit it. Sonny is a guy who just got over a real hard time, because his girl friend just broke up then Zoe well she's having hard times in her life right now and then something just started to click. After Hall this Hales emotions exploded one day. <br />This book was alright, but it was difficult to understand at first because, of all the emotions confuse me and all the break ups.  There are many conflicts and fights so that's exciting.  There's one thing that I hate about Hale is he never treats his friends well. He never says thank you or seea later also he does not let other people let him do things for him, but that changes. Sonny is a cool kid he helps and even though he breaks up he also gets someone in return. Zoe, I like she helps Hale even though Hale does not like her to.  <br />I recommend this book to readers who like a little bit of romance and lots of conflicts. Also emotions are very important in this book but, it needs more excitement in the end and the beginning. Go ahead and read it.	2003-04-15
1158318:US	51744771	R1UEEH0MT4TAAI	0345350588	447211642	Source of Magic (Xanth)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Xanths Magic	A Review by Max<br />Bink, the chief explorer for King Trent and Castile Rogan, lives in the magical world of Xanth. Cut off from any mundania \\"normal\\" people. Xanth relies on magic for means of survival. Everyone in Xanth has their own special magic talent. While attending a party, King Trent decides to give Bink the very difficult quest of finding the source of Xanths magic. Aided by a mighty centaur named Chester, a great warrior transformed into a griffin, Cromby, a powerful magician, Humfrey and a golem that can translate any language, called Grundy. They set off on this great adventure knowing not what lies ahead.<br /> I thought this book had a very good plot line and almost every detail in it related somehow with the climax. In the end everything comes together and the author reveals everything. This book has every aspect I enjoy in a novel; comedy, action, mystery, and romance. The fighting scenes become very intense and with the detail Mr. Anthony gives you are put right into the middle of it. The only problem I see with the book is that it gets a little dull and confusing at times.<br /> I would recommend \\"The Source Of Magic\\" to anyone who remotely likes fantasy novels and/or action adventure novels. But if anyone thinks they would like to read this book then I suggest that they read \\"A Spell For Chameleon\\" first, which is the first in the series of Xanth novels, while \\"The Source Of Magic\\" is the second.	2003-04-15
1158346:US	51744771	R3P9WLOD6R1LF2	0689804121	85611359	Tracker	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Chase	A Review by Greg<br />There is a boy named John. He lost his parents when he was very young. He now lives with his grandparents. His grandfather was diagnosed with cancer and cant do much now. John now takes care of the farm. He and his grandfather go deer hunting every year together. Unfortunately not this year. He must go alone. He sets out very early in the morning to go get his deer. He follows a doe day after day after day. He never gets a chance to kill her but he gets a chance to touch her. He was unarmed too. He sets for home and his grandparents expecting his arrival.<br />Three things that I liked about this book is that its about hunting witch really attaches me to that book so really enjoyed reading it. I also liked how John took responsibility and helped out with the farm. I really liked how John looked at life all the way through this book. He looked at it in the best possible way. I really got bored of John always walking up to the deer getting close and the deer ran off. The vocabulary in this book was very childish, wasnt exactly up to my reading level. The characters became so lifelike to me after they described them to me with such detail. This book had a lot of relevance to me because Im a hunter witch made it very interesting. This book was very easy to read and I was up to a little bit more of a challenge.<br />I really recommend someone to read this book. Someone in middle school because its kind of hard. I especially recommend this to someone who really likes adventure book because its full of that.	2003-04-15
1158377:US	51744771	RLQJD27SPGESH	0449703142	427309	Haunted One	Books	4	0	0	N	N	You won't get lost when you read it	A Review by Tricia<br />It was Paul Barrett's eighteenth birthday. He got a job as a lifeguard on a beach at a New Jersey resort and he is also champion swimmer. The summer was going perfect for him when he meets this girl named Jody Miller (a ballet dancer). It was love at first sight. That all changes one night when Jody is calling for him beyond the breakers. He couldn't reach her, but she could she could reach him on the phone, on the street, and on the beach. And now Paul is about to become the haunted one.<br /> I like how this book keeps you on your toes. Like when Jody tries to contact Paul and it is just scary because she is dead. I also like how the book gives you a big twist at the end the end of the book. ...Jay Bennett also gives a lot of description of how Jody looks when Paul firsts sees her and you can really picture what she looks like in your head. You can also get the picture of what the beach looks like every time Paul looks at it. I don't think that there was anything that I didn't like in this book.<br /> I would recommend this book to ages 13 and up. And for people who likes to be on there toes when they read and like suspense a lot. This book is easy to follow so you won't get lost when you read it.	2003-04-15
1158425:US	51744771	R29I1VV1XREM70	0618002235	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Hobbits, Wizards, and Orcs...Oh My!	A Review by Charlie<br /> Frodo and Sam continue their journey to Mordor while Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli are off chasing the orcs that stole Merry and Pippen, (little did they know Merry and Pippen were on their own adventure as well!) Frodo and Sam capture the creature Gollum and make him their guide who is to take them to the black gate of Mordor, or will he? Meanwhile saruman the white plans to kill all the men of middle earth and acts on that plan! Will the story end happily? Only you can find out.<br />I love how this book can creep you out! It's crazy, I mean you'll be reading and cold shiver will go down your spine or you'll jump mid sentence. This is a creepy line near the end of the book: \\"For long now she has been hungry...but nothing of this evil which they had stirred up against them did poor Sam know!\\" I also love the action in this story here's an excerpt from my favorite chapter Helms Deep: An axe swung and swept back, two orcs fell headless, the others fled. The final strongpoint in this novel is in the descriptions of the landscapes, characters, and other things. Here is a description of and Ent's hand: \\"A large knob-knuckled hand was laid on each of their shoulders.\\"<br /> I recommend this book to lovers of fantasy and imaginative stories. I think men may prefer it but women like it too. You should have some free time though, it's kind of long.	2003-04-15
1158449:US	51744771	RVBKPH8MZOYY5	0374404755	141708104	Bad: A Novel (Aerial Fiction)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Repentance	A Review by Teddi<br />Dallas is a 16 year old criminal convicted of armed robbery.  It wasnt really her fault was it?  Her boyfriend pushed her to do it and then un-loyally ran from the cops when they came.  So Dallas gets put in GRC to try and turn her rebellious ways around.  While in GRC she meets a large variety of people such as Darius, a Neo-Nazi, and her roommate Shatasia, a single mother.  Her visit at GRC forces her to deal with problems rooted deep in her soul-like the death of her mother when she was only 4, and why she did bad things.<br /> Bad was a great book mostly because the amount of kids who can relate to it. Dealing with drugs and peer-pressure is a big part of life.  The way the book was worded made it really easy to read and interesting.  I also liked the large variety of characters at the CRG; it was very realistic because it showed people from every walk of life get into trouble.  This book was fun to read, action-packed, and addicting. I especially liked the fact that there was conflict, even in the GRC, where kids are trying to turn their lives around.<br />I recommend Bad to anyone into realistic books about growing up and the conflict that comes with it. But I do think it would suit an audience with more of a baggage in their lives because they could relate to it more and it would hit home with them.  Sensitive people may not like this book because it includes racism and violence.  I think as a whole the majority of youth would enjoy this book.	2003-04-15
1158494:US	51744771	R1SJWYJFCIEEKH	0689848919	680149957	Fever 1793	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Fever, More like homesick	A Review by Alexz<br />This book is about the yellow fever dieses that swept across Philadelphia Pennsylvania in the year 1793. It is also about how it affected a little girl named Mattie, aka Matilda. Not only her, but he Grandfather, a revolutionary war veteran, and her mother, a pig headed, hard working loving mother. These three characters own a coffee shop on the outside part of the town.  When Mattie's mother catches Yellow fever, she decides to send Mattie out of the town to live with a friend who owns a farm outside of Philadelphia. But the journey is much too long and dangerous for just a little girl. So her grandfather decides to go with her. Mattie and her family need to survive until the winter when the coldness will kill of the illness. <br /> One out of many things that I didn't like about this book is that a good chunk of the book is taking place outside of the town. There where so many possibilities of action adventure and story that could take place in the market or a friend's house, or even in the coffee house! Another thing in a list of bad things is that the story seems to drag on a lot, like between chapter 10 and 15. All those chapters have to do with the same thing. They needed more storyline or interesting events. Just about the only thing that I did like about this is that the grandfather character. He is both comical and wise. He brings the only life to most of the book. <br />  I would recommend this book to someone who enjoys life like stories. Someone who likes to read about events that really happened. But caution is advised, you WILL lose interest. Over this entire book was dragged out and dull.	2003-04-15
1170077:US	51744771	R25HE6C8NACT6M	0064401855	208888223	The Fighting Ground	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Boring until the climax	A Review by Tyler<br />A boy named peter was adopted into A Quaker family know as the Shinns when he was 7 years old. When Peter is around 14 him and Mr. Shinn are forced to join in on a hunt for a couple of indentured servants who ran off in the night. When the two take off to look for them they hear shots coming from the south of them. They decide to go check it out, but when they leave Morgans rock Peter left the gun there and is forced to go get it. When he gets the gun back he finds one of the runaways and he has to make a decision on whether or not to let her and the other runaway be free. <BR> <BR>What I liked about this book was that Peter decides to go off with the runaways instead of staying with his Quaker family. It was nice of him to keep his promise to Rebecca about coming back for her when he could have just turned her back to the rightful owner. What I disliked about this book was the event when Peters boat smashed up into pieces and he had to abandon ship into the Delaware. You also think he would be smart enough the first time to float the boat up water instead of trying to float across to the rock against the current. Another thing I disliked about this book was that Peter shoots Rebecca in the arm when he shouldnt have shot her at all. He could have just let her run off into the night instead of putting led into her arm.<br />I wouldnt recommend this book to anyone since its pretty boring up until you get up to second half of this book. The kind of reader that would like this book would be someone who likes books that are boring up until the climax of the book.	2003-04-04
1170136:US	51744771	R113S25RG75SZA	0140376410	275280929	The Ear, the Eye, and the Arm	Books	5	3	3	N	N	To earn the badge	A Review by Ryan<br />Tendia and his two younger siblings are three kids in Africa. But they are about to find out what it like to survive in a world they have never seen. Follow them as they embark on an adventure that they will never forget. Such as when they spend more than half a year in a toxic waste dump. Or as they fight off old world diseases such as Chicken Poxs. Its a very enchanting page turner that will have you on the edge of your seat.<br />Some things that I liked about this book are the ability to relate to the characters. Like when Tendia is struggling to find his purpose in life, or as theyre trying to survive in a modern day world.  Also I like the dramatic point of view as it goes back and forth to the kids and to the detectives. Like when the detectives are arguing next to the subway entrance as the kids are boarding the subway.  Most of the vocab is confusing but at the end of the book you can look up its meaning. I really liked that.<br />I say that any one who like to read adventure or sci fi books would like to read it. Its a real page turner and I would not recommend it to non serious readers.	2003-04-04
1170171:US	51744771	R3T3QSP4CKH7D9	044970369X	711887922	Sing Me a Death Song	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Songs of death	A Review by Sophie<br />The Headlines of a local newspaper caught Jasons eyes. A photo of his mother that is in the paper constantly puts dreadful images in his mind. Her dark cold eyes and her shallow soul give him chills every time he thinks of his mother. For Jasons 18th birthday his mother, Marian Feldon is scheduled to die. Everyone in town even her lawyer thinks that she is guilty for the murder of her lover. Though everybody believes that Marian is guilty, Jason does not. As learns something that could free his mother, from a dying stranger, it leads him into a dark, deceitful, double-crossing, and dangerous path, Even if this means Jason risking his own life he is willing to do anything to free his mother.<br /> One thing I liked about this book is that it constantly keeps you in suspense. It makes you wonder in the beginning, if Jasons mother is gonna come out alive at the end. The problems that Jason has through out the whole book makes you wonder if Jason was even gonna survive himself. Like when this one scary guy wanted a ride from Jasonhe pulled out a gun and told Jason to fallow a big gray van that made me wonder if Jason was gonna live from this guy, I thought that the guys was gonna kill Jason. Another thing I liked about this book was the characters. Jay Bennett makes some of the people seem so real on how he described some of them and how you could relate to them. Like Jasons aunt Lydia. She is the type of person that you would want to get to knowthe kind of person that you could really relate to well. And the third thing I liked about this book was how the author described the chapters to make it seem so real. He really described the people and places really well he makes me want to be at some of the places like the beach. When Jasons mom and aunt took Jason to the beach when he was little makes me feel like I want to be there. He was able to make me connect with the story really well cause he puts Jason in situations that you could possible find yourself in. Like when he was driving to Florida he had ran into people that wanted to get rides from him and he was afraid to go into some places by himself. I just like this book overall and how this book is a lot like reality.<br /> I would recommend this book to anybody that like suspense. This book would be good for anybody that likes kind of mystery books. I would also recommend this book to anybody that likes fast reading books that dont have a lot of hard words to pronounce. This book had really short chapters but it had a lotbut in the long run I think you would enjoy this book as much as I did.	2003-04-04
1170253:US	51744771	R1DJUBDU8FW33X	0743412273	639916239	Pet Sematary	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Scary book, good results	A Reviewe by Lindsay<br />Pet Sematary is set in a little town in Maine where the main character, a young doctor named Louis Creed, moved with his family from Chicago. The story starts foo when Louis and his family follow their newly met elderly neighbor into the woods and are introduced to a pet cemetery. The pet cemetery is a cemetery where generations of children have buried their adored pets. As the story unfurls, Louis discovers a burial ground beyond the cemetery has just found out about. This other burial ground traps peoples' minds with its persuading, unexplainable powers. Deeper and deeper into the story you find out the scary secrets it holds and why it is so forbidden and why only one person knows about it.<br />One thing I liked about this book is the realism. Stephen King did an excellent job with his details. An example of this is in this excerpt: \\"He turned to her and hugged her, and Rachel gripped him with the panicky strength of a poor swimmer whose boat has suddenly overturned in the middle of a large lake.\\" Precise details like that make you think that you are the one being hugged my his wife. The details really show you where you are, what you smell, what you see, what you taste and what you think. Another thing I liked about Stephen King's writing is how de describes the characters. An example: \\" He turned and saw an old man of perhaps seventy -a hale and healthy seventy- standing there on the grass. He wore biballs over a blue chambray shirt that showed his thickly folded and wrinkled neck. His face was sunburned and he was smoking an unfiltered cigarette.\\" The characterizations that Stephen King described were very well-written and let you see the character and their personality as well.<br />My final recommendation is to anyone who likes scary, steady paced, and VERY suspenseful books that are realistic. Horror-lovers and readers who like suspense should definitely read this book. People who shouldn't read this book are the kind of people who don't like scary descriptions and realistic illustrations. I personally enjoyed this book very much and recommend it to anyone who likes Stephen King.	2003-04-04
1170306:US	51744771	R2K3FZSD8I183L	0807574589	636560023	Small Steps: The Year I Got Polio	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Overcoming	A Review by Katrina<br />One day when Peg was a 7th grader she went to school excited because that was the day of her homecoming parade She was walking down the hallway when all of a sudden her legs gave out.  Peg didn't go to the parade that day instead she laid in her bed awaiting a doctors visit.   Peg was diagnosed with three different types of polio. Peg struggled with many battles breathing, sitting, eating, and walking, but through it all she was a very strong little girl.  The author (Peg) tells just how she fought the long hard disease <br />I liked how this book was a true story.  Since polio is such a hard disease to get over you become to respect Peg (the author) for what she went through.  The writer truly knows how to write.  With every ending of a chapter she would leave unanswered questions that you would only be able to answer if you went to the next chapter. Peg would end chapters like ` I fell asleep when I woke up, I was paralyzed.\\" Her writing style is very easy to follow, and her vocabulary is easy to understand. She explains things so well, that you can simply build a picture in your mind things like \\"I tried again. Nothing happened. I tried with my left arm. Nothing. I tried to bend my knees so I could roll on my side, but my legs were two logs\\"...  This book was very thought out when writing it. <br />I would recommend this book to all people who like true stories. Unlike nonfiction books this story is how life truly is one day you can fell fine, and the next you're diagnosed with three types of polio.  I really think this is a great book.  It's well thought out, and well written. Peg wrote in a matter that is easy to read and follow.  I don't like reading, but this was the first book I couldn't put down!	2003-04-04
1170312:US	51744771	R1TOJ032UB7VG4	0440237688	55490378	The Giver (Giver Quartet)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Community with too much Control	A Review by Jason<br />The Giver is about a young boy named Jonas who lives in a \\"community\\" with his mother, father and little sister Lilly. Jonas is eleven and turns twelve during the course of the book. Every year the community has a ceremony of 12 where the children who will be turning 12 for that year will get the assignment for the job they will do for the rest of their lives in the community. Jonas is assigned as the giver, and finds out that his assignment is the most important in the community.<br />This book is an easy read for most people who in 6th grade or above but it is a book that I enjoyed from front to back. This book seems to be very well written and flows very naturally with very few unnecessary words or information, everything seems to tie into something that previously happened so you are always gathering new information about something you may not have gotten earlier in the book.  The only thing I did not lie about this book was the ending, I think Jonas could have handled the situation that was eventually the end of the book better than what he did. I like how Lois Lowry describes how important the ceremony of twelve is and how Jonas and the rest of his peers have many apprehensions just before the ceremony, \\"the entire community attended the ceremony each year. For the parents, it meant two days holiday from work; they sat together in the huge hall. Children sat with their groups until the went, one by one, to the stage.\\"<br />I would recommend this book for any person that likes a science fiction book about what the future might be like for us. This book is about a 6th grade reading level but it can be read by 4th and 5th graders without much trouble. This is a great book and an interesting one about what our future might be like.	2003-04-04
1170315:US	51744771	RGCI4TXXP7NV	0440228387	715923951	Soldier's Heart: Being the Story of the Enlistment and Due Service of the Boy Charley Goddard in the First Minnesota Volunteers	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Boy in Battles	A Review by Seth<br />The book Soldiers Heart is about a boy named Charley who goes to fight in the Civil War. He is a 15 yr old boy that lives with his family and leaves to go fight. Through out the war he writes letters and sends money back home to his family for food and supplies. He was interested in what was going on but realizes that the war was not something that was fun or interesting. He fights in Battle of The Bull Run and many other battles on the east and southern part of the United States.  <br />Three things I liked about the book were the descriptions, characters, and the fact that it was about the Civil War. The descriptions that they have were really good. It talks about how the people die and all the fighting and shooting. As an example: Charley helps out a dying soldier by giving him a gun to shoot and Rebels that come in. The description was of his wounds and the blood. The characters were pretty good. You get a sense of reality when they talk and do things like the battles. It tells you what the people look like and how they act. Like during one of the battles he says how the Rebels are charging and screaming. The last thing I liked about it was the fact that it was about the Civil War. It to me is a really good book about the Civil War because not many other books will go into detail about the hospitals and patients. It seems like the book comes alive.<br />I would recommend this book to people that love descriptive books or just books that are easy to read. This book has everything I like in it description, war, blood and gore, and lastly a real story.	2003-04-04
1170338:US	51744771	R2VRJXDSUWSK6T	0064403475	697288733	Is Anybody There?	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Boo!	A Review by Ruji<br />The book is about a boy whose name is Marcus and he lives with his mom.  Then there is Nick the guy who rents the apartment that Marcuss mom rents out next door.  Things get kind of weird when Marcus leaves for school and he comes back and his key that he hid is gone.  Thats when he starts wondering about Nick.  He doesnt like him.  So anyway throughtout the whole book Marcus blames Nick for the things that are getting stolen.  But is Marcus right or wrong find out<br />Well, I liked the book because it was really suspenseful but it was kind of boring.  Like at some times when he was in the house by himself he always is freaked out and stuff.  Also when he finally figures out who is stealing his stuff that is kind of suspenseful.  Also the character was kind of dull and he didnt do much and I didnt think he was that great.  He makes a big deal over nothing at all.  Also I thought the book really boring and the character I liked was Robbie because he joked around a lot and was funny. Robbie gave life to the book because he made fun of Marcus and also it was funny when he made fun of him about Angelica.<br />I would recommend this book to people who dont like to read a lot but who like short suspenseful books.  Also I dont think this is a very good book and I dont think that you should read it.	2003-04-04
1170348:US	51744771	R11XDKXK3X8BEA	0152928804	353840762	The Rifle	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A man who makes the perfect rifle	A Review by Nick<br />The Rifle is a very well written book about a man who makes the perfect rifle. This rifle makes it through both world wars, and tracks up to present day. This book is basically saying that that if we didn't have any guns that we would be better off. I did enjoy reading this book but I do not agree with its contents.  It has a very right wing consecutive view on guns<br />I really liked reading this book, it was easy to follow and well written. I like the way the author <br />followed the rifle through time as it was passed down from generation to generation Another thing I liked about this book is how easy it is to understand and follow. You can tell the author new what he was doing when he wrote this book. . I did not like the books view on guns, it basically says gun are the devil they should be destroyed.<br />I think anybody would like this book especially people who hate guns.	2003-04-04
1170401:US	51744771	R2N9JU6LBBV66K	0613034813	613858872	The Lottery Winner (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	4 Millions dollars!	A Review by Holli<br />Alvirah and her husband Will never really had the best life they didn't have very much money but they always seemed to manage. Alvirah always had high spirits she even got excited when they got one number on their lottery tickets to match. But the one that would change their life was they winning ticket they won four million dollars. So their life style changed to a very ritzy life in a hurry but they always kept their poorer roots with them. They moved near high powered people and celebrities. Alvirah also was on the Donahue show she works her dream job and her dream life. <br />Three things that I liked and didn't like about this book was the beginning it really doesn't grab you like most of her books do. It seems to drag on for a while just describing their life style what they look like and what they do and have done.  I think that she would have put it in the middle to so you find out more and more as you go along. Then in the middle when it finally gets going it almost seems to go really fast and just zoom by you before you realized what happened. I liked how descriptive it was though Mary Higgins Clark always seems to have very descriptive books and they seemed to always just grab you from the beginning but this one was lacking that aspect. <br />This book was a great book overall! I recommend it to people that enjoy mysteries and have just a little patience for slow starting books but also can keep up when it starts moving along fast.	2003-04-04
1170506:US	51744771	R325HHJFJ413GL	0689814321	852204189	Gemini7 (DANGERCOM)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Online Killer Mistress	A Review by John<br />Jonah and Jen are in love but secretly Jonah has an online life were he talks to women and gets to know them. Nicole the one Jonah is most fond of shows up at his house one-day and they hit it off even more. While she is there strange coincidences happen that are unexplainable. Nicole acts very innocent and it is very difficult to think that Nicole is doing all of this. Jonah will go hunting for clues to try to get Nicole off the hook.<br />This book starts out slow and introduces the characters. I dont like that very much because it is not very interesting. But about ¼ of the way through the book it becomes more interesting. Strange things start to happen like the cottage blows up or Jonahs gets in a hit and run car accident. The author knows how to put you in suspense. The characters in the book are not told about very much. So you dont really know much about them. The only main character Jonah is told about a lot. Most of the words in this book you know what they mean. Hardly any of the words I had to guess on what they meant. This book was not difficult to follow or read. Many of the things they were doing or going to do you already knew what was going to happen. It was pretty obvious. I really liked this book it was very suspenseful and great.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a good book, especially to people who like suspenseful and twisted books. Again this is a really good book. If you want to read a not so hard but suspenseful book read this one.	2003-04-04
1170510:US	51744771	R2G4FYWYWQVNZJ	158837016X	94404301	Players	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Basketball Criminal	A Review by Remo<br />Corey is the star basketball player for his school averaging just about twenty seven points per game. He is the team captain and everything is going his way. That is until the new player, Noah Travers makes the team. Lately there are suspicious things happening with the team and the members. Most of the team is blaming it on Noah. Corey doesn't want to jump to conclusions because he believes that Noah should have a fair chance. Who is right, Corey, or the rest of the team?<br />I really liked how this book kept me on the edge of my seat. It's the first book in quite a while that I couldn't put down. It sort of all fit together to make an exciting story that really could happen which made it very fun to read. I also like the book because I can relate to it in a number of ways so it gave me a lot of interest. I knew what they were talking about when they discussed plays and read stats. A lot of the players on the team in this book reminded me of the players in my team. The only thing that I didn't like in this book was the ending. It was very vague and not a very exciting climax. The climax was quite strong but the ending was pretty boring. I really wanted it to sort out so you could see what happens after all the excitement.<br />I would recommend this book to someone who likes sports and who is excited with mystery. I thought it was very fun and enjoyable to read. It was long but I never wanted to put it down.	2003-04-04
1170596:US	51744771	R2MSHA4SEWNXGF	0553212257	321315584	The Sea Wolf (Classics)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	The Wolf	A Review by Brian<br />This book is about The Ghost, a ship, whose captains name is Wolf Larson and another man named Humphrey Van Wyden.  They are the captain and first mate of the Ghost.  They were traveling to San Francisco from somewhere in Europe.  On the way lots of things happen to them.  Maud, a lady on the ship with Wolf and Humphrey, was a cook and was always kept warm by two thick blankets at night.<br />I didnt like the action because there isnt a lot of it in this book.  If there was more action it would be a lot better of book.  Without a lot of action books arent as good as they could be.<br />Something I really liked about this book was the dialogue.  It was like old English.  It made the book seem more of a  medieval type of book.  Another thing I really liked was that I was real easy for me to read.  I thought that the old English made the book a lot better and made it easier to read.<br />I would recommend this book anyone who likes books about people traveling on boats across oceans and seas to another place.	2003-04-04
1170641:US	51744771	R2BGZK9QB500SU	0807205982	165886198	Troy	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Deadly wounded humans	A Review by Glen<br />The book Troy is a very great story one of a gruesome war and the courage of a young girl to save these deadly wounded humans. The main character of the book is Xanthe she is an assistant in the blood room well her title is assistant but she actually does most the work. The other main character is a boy they call solider because they really dont know his name. He is contacted by the god of war ares and Xanthe is contacted by zuess during the story line of the book the to become very close soldier and Xanthe. Soldier gets very badly injured and Xanthe ends up saving him. Its a great story which has all the things that a good book needs including love.<br />Something about the book that I didnt much care for were, the really slow parts they were just very dull and boring a slow part can be very colorful  but when this book gets slow its like the writer was just wasting time for the next battle scene. There were also some very good aspects to the book such as the book had great war scenes  very exciting ones sometimes you thought that the main character were to be caught in the middle and even die. The war scenes were very detailed and how every character was the described from each point of view.<br />The book is good so just read it youll like it im sure of it trust me!	2003-04-04
1170645:US	51744771	RWGEXVU92CYKD	0786808551	857095333	Artemis Fowl: The Arctic Incident (Artemis Fowl, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An Exciting Adventure	A Review by Chris<br />Artemis Fowl is a 13 year old genius. He comes from a very wealthy family, that has a large criminal record. A while back Artemis lost his father in a boating accident. Ever since the accident he has been desperately searching for him, until one day when he received a mysterious e mail. It was a ransom note. A Russian mob had found his father and was holding him for a very high ransom. It is now up to Artemis and his Butler to rescue him.<br />One thing I enjoyed about this book was the unique characters. There was a younge genius (Artemis), a combat specialist (Butler), and a kleptomaniac dwarf (Mulch). The large array of characters makes the story both interesting and funny. Another thing I liked about this book was the fat that it was a fast reading book and that it contained a lot of humor. I read this novel in only two days. The plot of the story really makes you want to keep on reading. Its hard to put down. The last thing that I really liked about The Arctic Incident was the fact that they were able to continue right were that last book ended. I though it was pretty neat when they brought back all of the old characters like Mulch Diggums and Foaly.<br /> I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys adventure books. Its a very fun book and it reads very fast. It has a lot of action in it so youll never get bored.	2003-04-04
1170649:US	51744771	RBU1GFMZPS5HH	0613108086	746714067	Gallows Hill (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Witches of Salem	A Review by Tiffany<br />This story is based on a girl named Sarah who is asked to be a Fortune Teller at the up and coming Halloween Carnival by Eric, she tells him no but he keeps on persisting. Later on Charlie her soon to be step brother informs Sarah that he lived during the Salem Witch Trials and said \\"You were there too Sarah.\\" She asks why and he says \\"You'll find out.\\" Close to the end Eric takes Sarah to a \\"party\\" when their actually going to \\"Gallows Hill.\\"<br />I liked the part where they're about to hang her when Charlie interrupts her peers from hanging her. Also I liked it when she was reading a book about the Salem witch Trials and saw her name as the people who were hung. I just liked the whole book. This can relate in today's world because they judged Sarah for what she looked like and not who she was.<br />I recommend this book for young adults because there is some swearing and some hijinx that parents wouldn't want their children to read it. I give this book 5 stars because of its intensity and it's insight on the witch trials during the 18th century. I would want to read this book again because it's the best book I've ever read.	2003-04-04
1170664:US	51744771	R2EOQLLR84Q16T	0451155750	497098217	The Dead Zone (Signet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Johnny Smiths Extra Sight	A Review by Kyle<br />As a young boy Johnny liked to ice skate, he wished he could play hockey with the big kids but he wasn't old enough, even though he was still going to get a taste of what it would be like. Johnny was just learning how to skate backwards when he got laid out by a huge hockey player everyone was afraid he would be dead, but he was alive and he woke up with a slight power to see into the future but it was not fully developed until he got older. An older Johnny now teaching high school was going to the fair with his girlfriend, she got sick so he took her home but he didn't know that he would not see her for the next four and a half years.    <br />This book was a great descriptive book such as this \\"Between these two was a picture of the almost totally demolished taxi, lying on its side like a dead dog.\\" Mr. King also lets you get to know the characters even before the enter the storyline, he tells the story of a door to door salesman named Greg Stillson and shows him as an evil man as he beats a dog to death. The only thing I didn't like was that it was hard to understand where he was going when he would jump off topic and talk about someone or something different such as when out of nowhere he started talking about how Sarah was dealing with Johnny being in a coma and how she started dating again. <br />I think that this is a great book and it is a must read for adults but I would not let any children read it because it dose get sexual and there are many bad words.	2003-04-04
1170750:US	51744771	RRVN4ZTNY38D7	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Fatal Secrets	A Review by Gina<br />Harry after being held up at the Dursley's eventually gets to stay at Ron's house.  When they go to King's Cross Station, something happens when they are getting on the platform.  When they get to school, a series of weird events happens.  Harry, Ron, and Hermionie think that what's happening at Hogwarts is all Malfoy's fault. But when they find a spell to help them prove it, something went wrong with Hermionie.  The new teacher has a big secret, and when Harry and Ron find out, he tries to stop them from telling anyone.  Harry finally finds out who is behind everything that is going wrong at school.<br />I liked the creativity the author had when she was writing this book.  She made sound like she had a lot of fun when she was writing it and that usually makes the book more fun to read.  There is a lot of suspense in this book.  It always keeps you on your toes.  It was hard for me to put the book down.  The plot is well thought out and the whole story, though sometimes misleading, leads you right to the climax.  Like any good book, this book has a conflict between two of the main characters.  That conflict leads a few of the characters astray.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes mystery and fantasy.  Someone who liked the first book in the series, would probably like to read this book.	2003-04-04
1170755:US	51744771	R27FZ6RQ41I8YC	0385729332	122662979	Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Book	A Review by Aly<br />Four friends, Carmen, Lena, Bee, and Tibby embark on their own adventures this summer. As they separate for the first time, for such a long period of time, they look to a pair of second hand pants, that magically fit each one of them, to hold them together for the summer. Lena who gets the pants first, is in Greece. She must learn to overcome her shyness and learn to love. Will the Pants help her? Tibby gets the Pants next. Shes hesitant to engage in a new friendship with a twelve year old that is quickly dying of leukemia. Will the Pants help her with acceptance and kindness? After Tibbys adventure, the Pants are shipped off to Carmen in South Carolina. Carmens father is getting remarried and shes very uncomfortable with her soon- to- be step family. Will the pants give her the confidence to fit in? Lastly, the Pants are mailed off to Bee in Baja at a summer soccer camp. Her new love fetish is a camp coach who is off limits. Will the pants help her with self- control? Will the pants enhance the girls friendship?<br />I thought that this book honestly portrayed what a truer friendship between a group of girls is like. They are best friends who have obviously never been separated for such a long time. They looked to the pants as a pact as many other friends do with other items of significance.  I liked this book also for fact that I could relate to each one of the girls situations somehow. This book is a definite page turner. It left me wanting to know more the whole way through. It gave just enough information in each section and stopped at just the right time to capture your suspense.<br />I really recommend this book to girls who like heartwarming stories.  Once youve read it, pass The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants onto your girlfriends!	2003-04-04
1170760:US	51744771	R1UZM7MAI3114Q	0441068804	887280747	The Blue Sword	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Review of a Great Book	A Review by Tara<br />The book follows the adventures and awakening of Harry Crewe, a girl with past even stranger than her name.  Taken from her boring life in a desert manor by the wild Hillfolk, she awakens to her past and a strange gift only found in native Hillfolk. Upon visions of a great battle, she is taken into the desert for training for an epic battle to come  <br />This was an excellent book.  Ive no complaints, save that it got a bit slow in the middle as the party was journeying towards the battle. The male characters were definitely well developed.  For example, the writer delves into a bit of Corlaths (a supporting character) history and his struggles with his gift.  The way that it was written virtually painted a whole new world in front of the readers eyes, yet leaving just enough familiarity as to not leave one feeling alienated.  For example, they live on a completely different world, but still have trains, radios, and etcetera.  The writer did a very good job with this.<br />I recommend this book to a slightly older audience because of large words and perhaps concepts the younger readers might not understand.  I think generally around the high school level would be a age range.  People who like epics, such as Lord of the rings or Dune would most likely enjoy this book as well as those simply looking for an involved adventure.  Having both male and female main characters makes this book desirable to both genders.  Over all a great book. Read it.	2003-04-04
1170764:US	51744771	R250FVA8GUEVMY	0671027344	888030084	The Perks of Being a Wallflower	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The teenage life we all don't want to see	A Review by Amy<br />Charlie writes to an anonymous reader about his daily life of how his life is and becomes. Charlie goes through a lot of different events of is first year at high school. Charlie runs into drugs, alcohol, smoking, sex , teen pregnancy, aloneness, abuse and a lot more. But then Charlie also runs into great things as well friendship, first dates and being apart of something instead of just watching. Charlie shares is good times and bad times and his most deepest thoughts in this letters to someone he doesn't know. <BR>I really enjoyed this book a lot! What I liked about it was that the author created real teen scenarios. For an example peer pressure caused Charlie to start smoking. I found a lot of these scenarios I could see happening to a lot of people. Another part of this book I loved was the author wrote it really well so that reader would get involved with the story. For an example when he had feelings towards Sam and didn't tell her I just wanted to tell him that he should tell her! Another really good part about this book was that the author made you always guessing what is going to happen next? Like when Charlie came home one night after a party and was writing all weird I just wonder what was going on then later I found out that he took LSD. There were a lot of surprises in this book that was one of the many reasons why I loved this book.<BR>I recommend this book to people that want to see what some teenagers have to deal with and that life isn't so \\"peachy\\" all the time. I would also recommend this book to people that have a lot of problems to deal with so that they can see that they are not all alone that there are people out there like them.	2003-04-04
1170780:US	51744771	R23KIIEJCH29E2	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A story about a hobbit	A Review by Dillon<br />This is a fantasy book with many adventures.  It is about the beginning of the War of the Ring.  The story has 9 main characters.  They are Elves, Men, Hobbits, Dwarves, and a Wizard.  The book varies from the movie in a lot of ways.  Most of the ways are that it introduces more characters and has more exciting events.  \\"The Fellowship\\" is about a hobbit and a gang of people loyal to him, setting out to Mordor to destroy the ring of power.  The story ends about a third of the way through and there are many adventures throughout the book.<br />One of the main things that I liked about this book was the cool story.  By reading the book, I could tell that the author put a lot of thought into it.  Since this is the first book in a series of three, it was very well written. I also liked the exciting adventures and battles in it.  There were many times when the battles in the book were very different from the ones in the movie.  It is very exciting the way the author describes the events in the book and it is fun trying to imagine what he is talking about.  The creating of characters was also very excellently done.  Tolkien does a very good job of describing the different races<br />I think this was a very good book.  I think that people who like fantasy books with lots of adventure and battles would enjoy this.	2003-04-04
1170795:US	51744771	R3SE521QBG0TCI	0449704092	630375358	Coverup (Fawcett Juniper)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Hangover	A Review by Nick<br />Brad rode home with his best friend Alden Whitlock, who was the son of a judge and one fo the richest families in the entire town. Even though Brad doesn't remember it, he has a feeling that something happened on the car ride home. There is no proof on the car, but Brad thinks that Alden hit something on the way home. And he knows that it was something living, but now its not anymore. Brad uses some detective clues to find out but when he comes up with nothing, a woman comes into town and is looking for her lost father. Her father is homeless and left her and her mother when she was a little child. Brad and Ellen find out evidence and convict Alden.<br />I liked a few things about this book, and yet there were a few things that I didn't like about this book. I liked how this book started out and how Brad had a strange feeling in his gut about the previous night. Also, I liked How Brad was a well known guy and his parents were out of town. And, His Best friend was Alden Whitlock, the son of a judge and in one of the richest families in the town. But, I didn't like how the ending was predictable and sort of boring. There were ups and downs in the book, but I liked more things then I disliked. This book was pretty realistic and seemed like it could happen to some people I know.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a good mystery, but doesn't make you think too much about what next is going to happen. It has a really good beginning but a satisfactory ending. Overall, I think this book is a fairly good read but isn't the best it could've been.	2003-04-04
1170797:US	51744771	R1C42C7M33ZYBY	0807574589	636560023	Small Steps: The Year I Got Polio	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Steps	A Review by Erika<br />Can you imagine being a young child in the hospital unable to move any part of your body? This happened to Peg after she got a disease called Polio. Peg was put in an intensive care unit at the nearest hospital and soon moved to another hospital for more intensive treatment. Peg was trapped inside a machine they refer to as the Iron Lung. After a few months she was released from that hospital only to go back to the one she was at before. But before she left she promised the doctor that she would come back and be able to walk for him. Will peg ever get to walk for him?<br />I really liked this book because you want to keep reading and its full of excitement and disappointment like when Peg takes her first steps with her new walking sticks. As the story is being told Peg, the patient and the writer, is always telling her feelings and giving you insight to how she felt during that time. The feelings that you have for Peg go from happy to sad and excitement and anticipation, like when Peg first learned that she had Polio. I really like how Peg uses descriptive words and phrases to describe times like her Physical Therapy sessions, she called them Torture Time because the stretching was so stressful and hurt her very week and unused muscles. I personally don't have any complaints about this book, it was great!<br /> I would definitely recommend this book, \\"Small Steps, The year I got Polio,\\" to teens and older. It's a great easy read and awesome if you like to read reality books. If you like how this book sounds then go check it out!	2003-04-04
1170806:US	51744771	R12RVF7XGR55NC	0064403823	968448497	Old Yeller (HarperClassics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A big ugly slick-haired dog	A Review by Sabrina<br />       Old Yeller is about a  sixteen-year-old boy named Travis, and his little brother Arliss, his Ma and his Pa settling out in Texas in the 1800's. Money was running a bit shaort and the only way to make money would be to sell some of their cattle for what they call \\"Cash Money\\", and so Pa gathered up some of his cattle for a long trip to Kansas. Since he wasn't going to be around to do all the men's work around the farm, he made Travis the man of the house, which is a BIG responsibility back then, and Pa suggested that to make things easier around the farm was to get a good dog. But Travis didn't think about wanting a dog, he wanted a horse. So a few days pass, since Pa left and that's when Old yeller came, he was caught eating some met that was left outside to dry. Arliss immediately fell in love with the dog, but Travis couldn't stand the dog. But more in the book Travis and Old yeller work together as a great team, keeping up on the farm, watching out for raccoons in the corn patch, and helping with many other projects that must be done on the farm. <br />     What I liked about this book was how the writer made Travis describe Old Yeller when he first came, \\"He was a big ugly slick-haired yeller dog. One short ear had been chewed off and his tail had been bobbed so close to his rump that there was hardly stub enough to wag.\\"  What I also liked was how Arliss kept going in the drinking water, and Travis would always get mad at him and scare him to where Arliss would run screaming to the house. There is also a bunch of action-packed scenes that make you actually want to be there when it was happening, a bull fight for example. The author describes the scene so well that you could actually see the fight going on!	2003-04-04
1170883:US	51744771	RN8GZNW4584SA	0440219329	654972101	Both Sides of Time (Scholastic Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Time Travelers Delight	A Review by Cassie<br />This book starts out with a girl named Annie, who is a freshman in high school. She is very smart and she has a boyfriend who doesnt pay any attention to her except when he wants something from his tool box. She has a brother and a mother and a father, the father is cheating on her mother. Her boyfriend Sean, used to live at the old Stratton Mansion, until they decided that it wasnt worth the keeping preserved. There is obviously a story behind the mansion, and Annie is just dying to find out, but she finds out many secrets hidden behind the walls of the old mansion. <br />This book was very exciting, I couldnt put it down. Annie is very forward in the 1890s because that is how people act in the 1990s, but it isnt looked upon very kindly in those times. She is always on the go and people cant quite understand. This book was many genres pact into one. It was a fantasy book, it was a mystery, it was a science fiction, it was a romance novel. Personally I love all those types of books and to have them all crammed into one is awesome. The one thing that I didnt like was the fact that I constantly had to have a dictionary by my side because it had many big words, but it challenged my brain which was ok and pretty cool. I couldnt put the book down, I would devour it. Annie switches back and forth from time, and you can feel the pain she is feeling, not from the switching times, but from her heartache. She belongs back in the 1890s but just cant fit in, and if she cant fit in her own time, or there where is she supposed to fit in?<br />I would recommend this book to everyone. It is challenging because it is a higher reading level, and it has things that teenagers can comprehend with and so can adults. Anyone that likes science fiction, mysteries, intense romance novels, or murder mysteries would love it.	2003-04-04
1170885:US	51744771	R1DJSBIZOGXYKM	0439076668	396904734	The Royal Diaries: Marie Antoinette, Princess of Versailles, Austria-France, 1769 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Princess of Versailles	A Review by Michelle<br />Marie Antonia is given a diary by her teacher so she may learn to be a better writer and speller. For years she writes in this diary. When she was 7 she's told that when she's older she is to marry the Dauphine of France (prince). At the age of 13 the official marriage proposal comes from the king. There is much preparation to be done before she is married.  When she meets her husband for the first time she is repulsed by him, but later grows to love him.<br />One of the things that I didn't like about Marie and all the royal characters in general was the way they thought of the \\"common\\" people. The rule that they have that common people can not talk to a royal or noble unless spoken to first is ridiculous. though I do know that was just the way it was in the past, I'm glad people don't act like that anymore. I did like how the author made the Dauphin though. How she made Louis \\"repulsive\\" looking but a little more lovable in the end. <br />I would not recommend this book for everyone. I think you would have to be interested in history and the lifestyles of the royals long ago, or how people then dealt with things. Though otherwise I would have to say it's a good book and I would recommend it to quite a few people.	2003-04-04
1170917:US	51744771	RCZ7SHBUP5UX1	0064472531	249090897	Violet & Claire	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Two Best Friends	A Review by Kristin<br />Violet and Claire are two totally different kinds of people. Violet is very dark and gothic. Claire is very light, and believes in faeries. Violet dreams of someday making her own movie, and Claire enjoys writing and reading poetry. The one thing that they do have in common is the fact that neither of them have friends, and they are all considered to be strange. The one thing that ties them together as friends is the fact that Violet needs to get an actress to act in the movie that she is making. The rest of the book goes from there. Claire and Violet go on many adventures to find actors and actresses, slowly learning what life on there own is really like, and that no matter what, your friends will always be there. <br />One thing that I liked about this book was the way that the writer switched from character. The switching want confusing at all. One section from Violets point of view, one from Claires point of view, and the last from the writers. Another thing that I liked was the realism. The writer really made this book come to life. It is easy to imagine the different scenes, like when the girls run away. Also, there are good descriptions, which make the book seem more exciting. One last thing that I liked was the differences between the characters. This showed that just because one person looks one way, and another looks different form you, that you can still find a best friend in them, and it doesnt really matter how they look.<br />All in all, I felt that this was a great book. It had great descriptions, which made for easier reading. It also had a fast pace, which made you want to keep reading it. This would be a great book for 7th to 10th grade readers.	2003-04-04
1170920:US	51744771	R1E84B8OLP1A68	0833546279	925672149	Don't Look Behind You	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Suspenseful non average teenage life	A Review by Amy<br />April Corrigan didnt know that this was her last normal day in Norwood, Virginia when she woke up. April was stripped from everything she knew and loved. April was taking from her normal teenage life because of her father was almost killed for testifying for a drug bust undercover for the FBI. April and her familys life were forever altered by being put under a Federal Witness Security Program. Will April ever survive this new life?<br /> I enjoyed reading this book a lot. What I liked about this but was how the author would create suspenseful moments, like for an example while Aprils family was in the hotel and April noticed something strange about the Cleaning lady. That moment I could not put the book down I wanted to know what would happen next. I would read chapter to chapter because Lois Duncan would leave you hanging off the cliff craving more and wanting to see that happens the main character. Another thing I liked about this book was the fact you could follow it so easy that it create a sense that you were along with April. For an example at the end of the book I would feel scared for April when she meets the Vamp and Happy for her that she and her family was safe. What else I liked about this story was that at the end after the climax Lois Duncan would just stop there she would start up another scenario and the reader would want the book to continue. <br />I loved this book so much I recommend it to people that love suspenseful, edge of your seat books. This story was very eventful and active book so I recommend this to active readers as well.	2003-04-04
1170921:US	51744771	R2CMHAO71BB1NF	0833590960	434299507	Witch Baby	Books	4	2	9	N	N	Animals	A Review by Brittany<br />This book is about a baby that a family took and called her Witch Baby and raised her as their own. She grew up in Shangri, Los Angeles. She had purple eyes, wild, dark hair and looked at the world in a very special way. Even though Witch Baby tried to fit in, she never felt as if she truly belonged. One day she packed her bat-shaped backpack and put on her black cowboy-boot roller skates and went into the world to find out who she really was.<br />The realism of this book is that there are some real character names like Rachel and Dirk and two other names, there are such things as surf boards and surfing and water and cars and roads, and a few other things, but other than that there is not a lot. The conflicts in this book there are a few  like in the beginning Witch Baby wants to go with Dirk and Duck on their little adventure to one of their moms house. Then there was the conflict when Dirk and Duck found out that Witch Baby snuck into their car and ate all of the fig-newtons. The relevance of this book to todays world is that it almost has a lot of the same things we do as in cars, roads, people, water, surfing, surfboards, etc;. This book is pretty boring. So basically I did not like this book.<br />The kind of person that might enjoy this book is a person that enjoys mystery.	2003-04-04
1170948:US	51744771	R28I3VHH6UU8US	0671882066	458319956	Illegal Procedure (Hardy Boys Casefiles, Case 95)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Big Game	A Review by Brandon<br />This book is about two boys named Joe and Frank Hardy that are on vacation. The local football team had a recent death on the team and nobody knows what happened. The owner talked to Joe and Frank and they decided the help crack the mystery. So the owner hired Frank as the back up punt returner and Joe as a guy up in an office that watches the game. Together they worked and found out who the killer was.  <br />Three things I didnt like about this book are the realism, the lack of action, and the pace of the book. Lets start out with realism, it was lame, like they would really hire a kid on a professional football team and actually play him. Also like they would really have a couple of kids trying to solve a murder mystery. The pace of the book was really slow; it took forever for anything to ever happen. This book really lacked action; it had one good part in the beginning with the kids playing football. Then one in the end with a football game, they let the middle wide open.<br />I recommend this book to young teenagers that like sports/mystery books. If you dont like sports then this book isnt for you. Overall I thought this book was an ok book.	2003-04-04
1170994:US	51744771	R1FNYYH99L89PF	0440979757	868368952	Sing Down the Moon	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Review	A Review by Erik<br />One Spring Day two Indians from the Canyon de Chelly named Bright Morning, her<br />Black Dog, and friend Running Bird that finally turned fourteen. They decide to take their sheep to a mesa to feed.  When the sheep were grazing Bright Morning's black dog barked and they turned around and saw two riders with twoextra horses that asked for directions but were really Spanish Slavers that<br />captured them.... Will they get away?<br /> I like this book because of how it doesn't bore you with too much detail but get a good description of how everything looks.  In the beginning you find out<br />that it's a spring day and gives a small amount of detail about the surroundings.  Something I didn't like was how you don't really get a good character description.  You barely know if they are a man or woman and their names are like Running Bird or Bright Morning.  I also like that it lets you learn about the time period when the Spaniard's are taking slaves for there<br />cities. You get to see how they felt about this and how the people treated the Navaho's and what the Spaniard's were like.<br /> The people I would recommend this book to would have to like historicalfiction.  I think that it was a good story on how to learn about how the Spaniard's take the Navaho Indian's to be their Slaves as well as what their<br />lives were similar to.	2003-04-04
1171069:US	51744771	R1Z5TAUOUWGAFT	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Curious Girl	A Review by Mandy<br />My book that I read Is basically about a girl named Ella. Ever since she was little girl  she got cursed by this fairy tale that was once told to her when she was just a baby. And now she believes that she has to do anything that someone says to her .What ever they say she has to obey them. Ever since her mother died when she was very young she had a hard time adjusting to it. Even though she don't quite remember her that well she does her best to remember. But her new step mother Hattie is a very mean lady. She is very picky about everything that goes on. Like when ever they eat supper, or breakfast if its not the way that she likes it or wants it then she has her maid take it back. Also, she will never let Ella eat the food either unless she approves also. But she is trying to find a way to brake the spell so that she could be free of it. She talks to a girl named mandy and she gives Ella advise on what to do. Mandy is her very best friend she is helping Ella to brake the curse also. But she is trying to find a fairy named Lucinda she believes that she is the one who put the curse on her. But she is having a hard time finding her she looks through books, and goes out side and trys to find her but she is no where in sight. That's basically what the book is about a girl who is trying to brake a curse in order to set herself free.  <br />What I liked about this book is that it seemed so real. Like it talks about hattie her step mother and how she is so picky about everything that involves Ella or herself. I think that is really funny because I could relate to that some of my family is like the same way. And the fairy that she is trying to find Lucinda that's cool because I think that fairy's are really neat and magical. But she also has a good friend to talk to and that's Mandy and that's my name but I could also relate to that because I have friends that I could relate to like that for advise when I need it or just give it out. So this book isabout the girl who tries to break a curse and people could relate to her because like sometimes I sure feel the same way as her trying to break the curse of my family. This book was fun reading because even though it's a fairy tale book its also real because she living her life as a teen and trying to get away with life.<br />I think that people could relate to this book because it deals with teens getting through life even though the girl has a curse on her so does every other person in there family. Kids these days are trying to get away with things that they know that they can't. I recommend this book to all ages but probably to most teens though like 10-18 that's the average of the reading level for me. But this book has mystery in it that's keeps you in suspicion all through the book. Even though some parts of the book is boring it really good through out the book.	2003-04-04
1171074:US	51744771	R1Y284RWQ3PA0M	0440407532	14133693	The River	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Rivers Rage	The book The River by Gary Paulsen is about a boy named Brian Robensen. He is about 15 years old, and is just getting used to being home after being stranded in the Canadian Wilderness Area. Three men come to his home and ask him to do it again. He decides he will do it to save peoples lives. One man, Derrick, who is with the wilderness survival center, goes with him to the wilderness. The plane leaves and the two only have a radio to call if there is trouble. Trouble comes in the form of lightning, and strands Brian with Derrick in a coma, and the radio is dead. He decides the river is his only hope to civilization... <br /> The book overall was good, but There were one or two things I didn't like, such as Gary Paulsen doesn't explain the camping site very well. He just says that it has a fort, and a fire pit, and the usual camping site stuff. He should have described into detail the fort, and the fire pit, and all the rest of it. Another thing I didn't like was the fact that he introduced the two problems at once. It isn't very realistic that Derrick was holding the radio during his sleep, and the lightning bolt just happened to hit right as the two were sleeping. One thing I did like was the non stop action the whole time after the introduction of the problem. Brian is constantly chasing a raft, or pulling on the raft. I really liked the action of this book.<BR> <BR>I would recommend this book to anyone who likes wilderness survival, or action books, or who just like to try to figure out how to overcome a problem. You are constantly guessing how he will get out of a problem or if he will get out of problems.	2003-04-04
1171078:US	51744771	R1CJF22JGMAXNB	0689800053	770079086	Ice	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Life of Chrissa	A Review by Rachel<br />Chrissa Jennings is a thirteen year old confused teenager. Why her father left her three years ago is still a question to her. She has failed to talk to her mother because she just wouldnt understand, so she is sent to her grandmothers out in the country. Maybe this will be where Chrissa can find the answers to her questions, instead she finds out a whole lot more than she bargained for. Will she be able to find out the real truth while trying to help someone close to her?<br />This book was definitely by far one of the best books I have ever read. The characters were so real and fun filled that it was hard for me to ever put the book down. Every page had something new and exciting in it. For example when Chrissa was walking home from school down the dirt road to her grandmothers a white Buick came at her at almost fifty miles an hour as if they were trying to kill her. When she told her grandmother she thought it was Sister Harmonys nephew she was thought to be a liar. Also this book has so many twists and turns that you never know what is actually the truth until the end. For example when Chrissa is talking to Sister Harmonys nephew she almost thought that it was her father, but since her grandmother is holding something back you never find out who and where her father is until the very end. This book is very interesting and well written and very realistic because all the events that take place could actually happen.<br />This book was a awesome book! Its not one of the books that you have to read for a little bit and then get into it the excitement starts in the first chapter and ends in the last line of the book! Ice is on of those books that when reading it, it actually feels like you are with the characters in the book while everything is happening. I would recommend this book to anyone who loves to read a fun filled book, cant put down, exciting book. This book is such a fantastic book and anyone who reads it will enjoy it!	2003-04-04
1171109:US	51744771	R22D8HN0EO2J9G	078878983X	276015944	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hobbits, Wizards and Orcs...Oh My	A Review by Charlie<br />Marie Antonia is given a diary by her teacher so she may learn to be a better writer and speller. For years she writes in this diary. When she was 7 she's told that when she's older she is to marry the Dauphine of France (prince). At the age of 13 the official marriage proposal comes from the king. There is much preparation to be done before she is married.  When she meets her husband for the first time she is repulsed by him, but later grows to love him.<br />One of the things that I didn't like about Marie and all the royal characters in general was the way they thought of the \\"common\\" people. The rule that they have that common people can not talk to a royal or noble unless spoken to first is ridiculous. though I do know that was just the way it was in the past, I'm glad people don't act like that anymore. I did like how the author made the Dauphin though. How she made Louis \\"repulsive\\" looking but a little more lovable in the end. <br />I would not recommend this book for everyone. I think you would have to be interested in history and the lifestyles of the royals long ago, or how people then dealt with things. Though otherwise I would have to say it's a good book and I would recommend it to quite a few people.	2003-04-04
1171148:US	51744771	REZCA8A0L34EY	0440228387	715923951	Soldier's Heart: Being the Story of the Enlistment and Due Service of the Boy Charley Goddard in the First Minnesota Volunteers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Only 15!	A Review by Nic<br />A 15-year-old Charley Goddard herd the army needed more soldiers and decided he was going to lie about his age and sign for the army. He left his home and be came a soldier. Charley went to war and had second thoughts about the army. He saw things he never thought he would. From the first war to the last Charley never gave up. He saw soldier after soldier die right next to him, their blood splattering on his face. Charley got sick every now and then but who wouldnt when you see the faces of your friend dieing.    <br />I liked this book because it had great description. It sucks you into the book you cant set it down. I my self, not much of a reader but this book made me read and have fun. The detail of soldiers being shot or blown to bits is amazing. Brought the setting and sounds to life. This book relates to every teenager is one way or another. The only thing I didnt like is that the writer doesnt tell you what the characters look like very much; I think the writer just wants you to use your imagination. <br />I strongly recommend this book to teenagers that like gore and can handle it. Or teenagers that are thinking about going in the army or wanting to be a soldier. If youre not the greatest reader this book is easy to read and to follow.	2003-04-04
1171161:US	51744771	RAKXLZO4T8JPF	0440227194	944115185	Brian's Winter	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Outdoor Adventures	...Brian is stranded on a lake in the Canadian Wilderness after the prop plane he is in crashed landed into a lake.  Brian had only a few things that he salvages from the plane to survive.  Brian has to learn to hunt, fish, and live off the land so he can survive in the dangerous wilderness that he is stuck in until someone finds him and brings him to safety.<br /> Brian's Winter had a very interesting way of keeping me into the book.  I really liked how Gary Paulsen made suspenseful situations for Brian to struggle through.  I also liked how Gary kept all the scenes realistic.  If the scenes weren't realistic the book wouldn't have turned out as good as it did.  Another thing that appealed to me were the encounters that Brian has to deal with, some of the animals that he encounters are skunks, bears, moose, and deer.  Those scenes were very suspenseful and it kept me wanting to keep on reading.  Overall this book is one of the best books I have ever read and I assure you that you'll like this book too.<br /> I would recommend this book to people who like action adventure books.  Anybody who likes being in the outdoors Brian's Winter is the perfect books for people who like that.  On the other hand I think anyone can relate to this book in some way and would enjoy reading it.	2003-04-04
1171186:US	51744771	R2BTPHDFC0IRSB	078878983X	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hobbits, Wizards and Orcs...Oh My	A Review by Charlie<br />Frodo and Sam continue their journey to Mordor while Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli are off chasing the orcs that stole Merry and Pippen, (little did they know Merry and Pippen were on their own adventure as well!) Frodo and Sam capture the creature Gollum and make him their guide who is to take them to the black gate of Mordor, or will he? Meanwhile saruman the white plans to kill all the men of middle earth and acts on that plan! Will the story end happily? Only you can find out.<br />I love how this book can creep you out! It's crazy, I mean you'll be reading and cold shiver will go down your spine or you'll jump mid sentence. This is a creepy line near the end of the book: \\"For long now she has been hungry...but nothing of this evil which they had stirred up against them did poor Sam know!\\" I also love the action in this story here's an excerpt from my favorite chapter Helms Deep: An axe swung and swept back, two orcs fell headless, the others fled. The final strongpoint in this novel is in the descriptions of the landscapes, characters, and other things. Here is a description of and Ent's hand: \\"A large knob-knuckled hand was laid on each of their shoulders.\\"<br /> I recommend this book to lovers of fantasy and imaginative stories. I think men may prefer it but women like it too. You should have some free time though, it's kind of long.	2003-04-04
1171218:US	51744771	R7AKEZ4PUEGDH	0613025598	675519361	Wrestling Sturbridge (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Being the Best	A Review by Daniel<br />The main characters you will read about are Ben and Al. Ben and Al have been rivalries in the sport of wrestling. Both of them were a natural 135 pounds in weight. Ben is now a senior and knows that this is the year he is going to go all of the way to the state championship. But what does Ben have to do to achieve this goal? Will he actually beat the number one contender in high school wrestling? Everyone in the small town of Sturbridge thinks that Ben has a slim chance with Al. The only person thinks he is going to win is himself.<br /> This book is actually one of the best books I have ever read. It was full of action and it always kept me on my toes. For an example, the author made it seem like you were actually watching the intense action of the crowd when a Sturbridge wrestler pinned a guy. Another thing I liked about the book is that it was very easy to follow. It wasn't a confusing book at all. You can always tell when Ben is either talking to his friends or just to himself. If you are a wrestler, you can kind of relate to the book because being out there on the mats is very intense and also can be devastating when you lose. It also talks about how many points takedowns are and all of the other rules of wrestling. One thing I didn't like about the book was the ending. Maybe to some people they might like the ending, but I kind of wanted to know what happened after Ben was done with high school. It just left me hanging there at the end.<br /> I would definitely recommend this book to young adults. This book is very energetic, exciting, and suspenseful. The only reason why I wouldn't want you to read this book is because it has some language that some parents might not be to fond of it. In the other hand, if you do get the chance to read it, I would highly recommend it.	2003-04-04
1171380:US	51744771	R29KZ9PJQ965V9	0446608955	721431789	A Walk to Remember	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Story to Remember	A Review by Cori<br />This book is about a place in the town of Beaufort, North Carolina. That a teenager named Landon   Carter remembers his last year of high school in 1958.  Where he meets a girl named Jamie who he expects to be just the minister's daughter. When he is with Jamie he starts to feel things he hasn't felt before and never thought he would feel. She also shows him kindness of the human heart. When she tells him a secret it changes what he thinks of her and life. <br />Three things I like about this book is it is a heartwarming story that shows the innocence of teenage love, the kindness of the heart, and that people can surprise you. It is a heartwarming story because it shows you happiness of love and the pain of the human soul to love a person so much it hurts. It shows the innocence of teenage love because it shows you can love someone with all your heart, but still have the experiences and pressures of adolescents. It shows the kindness of the heart because it shows how people in the world can be good at heart where good deeds can mean the world to people. Also it can show the kindness of the heart by how kind people are in their hearts even if they don't show it. This show how people can surprise you because it is also about how what you see is not always what you get. For example Landon is surprised by Jamie when he gets to know her. <br />I would recommend this book to people who enjoy love stories that are tragic but capture your heart. The type of readers who enjoy it would be people who like sweet love stories of teenage love. People who hate love stories and romance novel would hate it.	2003-04-03
1171439:US	51744771	R3RP31D8TQPH2U	0439064872	398109329	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Fatal Secrets	A Review by Gina<br />Harry after being held up at the Dursley's eventually gets to stay at Ron's house.  When they go to King's Cross Station, something happens when they are getting on the platform.  When they get to school, a series of weird events happens.  Harry, Ron, and Hermionie think that what's happening at Hogwarts is all Malfoy's fault. But when they find a spell to help them prove it, something went wrong with Hermionie.  The new teacher has a big secret, and when Harry and Ron find out, he tries to stop them from telling anyone.  Harry finally finds out who is behind everything that is going wrong at school.<br />I liked the creativity the author had when she was writing this book.  She made sound like she had a lot of fun when she was writing it and that usually makes the book more fun to read.  There is a lot of suspense in this book.  It always keeps you on your toes.  It was hard for me to put the book down.  The plot is well thought out and the whole story, though sometimes misleading, leads you right to the climax.  Like any good book, this book has a conflict between two of the main characters.  That conflict leads a few of the characters astray.<BR>I would recommend this book to anyone who likes mystery and fantasy.  Someone who liked the first book in the series, would probably like to read this book.	2003-04-03
1171812:US	51744771	R29UH0IABK4FNX	0345356365	722626928	3: The Wishsong of Shannara (The Shannara Chronicles)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wishes of Songs	A Review by Bill<br />This book entitled The Wishsong of Shannara is basically the same plot as the other two books. The same plot as in there is a old evil that is making an appearance in the land. Though in this book the evil is rising in the East Land the home of the dwarfs. At the start of this book, unlike the previous two, it tells you of the history of the magic in play the wishsong. When our Allanon appears and tells Brin about the evil and takes her to defeat it. Jair also follows the party led by Allanon after being confronted by a gnome.   <BR>.<BR> I would have given this book a 5 star rating, though it did have some minor flaws. These include the similar plot to the other two books. So far in the book that I have read by Brooks all of them have an evil rising in some part of the land. In the Sword it was the Warlock lord, in the Elvestones it was the demons in the West and now it is the Mord Wraiths. One other thing that I did not like was the way Allanon acted. Throughout three books his character has not changed at all. In the other Two he was dark and secretive, such as he did not tell the Whole truth about any thins. Examples of this are as in the Sword of Shannara he did not tell how the sword would effect the warlock lord, and in the Elvestones of Shannara he did not tell Wil what the elvestones would do to him. Otherwise this book is an extent piece of reading with wonder verbal descriptions and vocabulary. <br />I would recommend this book to all those who like fantasy adventures and magical creatures.	2003-04-03
1171893:US	51744771	R31JKHTNPEBW3D	0553287796	35628509	Heartbeat	Books	3	2	2	N	N	The Promise	A Review by Michelle<br />Tod Ellerbee, living with no mom and living with his dad has moved at a new house and neighborhood and made a new friend named Amos. He saved his life and Tod told Amos that he would pay him back whenever he needed him. Four years later Amos wants Tod to introduce this girl names Hilary Goodman to him from Tod's school. Now the problem is that will Tod Fall in love with her not accomplishing his promise? Will Hilary fall in love with both Tod and Amos?   <br />Something I likes and didn't like was that the vocabulary was some what a little difficult. I had to look a couple words up on the dictionary like for example Tod had said dismissively Or Tod's mind wasn't very Consummated. I would say this book is about a 10th grade reading level. What I liked this book because it kept you in wondering what would happen and make you continue reading like when Hilary and Tod are going to tell Amos about their feelings. Then it becomes to late and some tragedy happens. Something else that I didn't like was that at the end for like 5 pages it kept talking about Amos dying and its too focused on him and leads to questions like how would it feel and what would happen to him and where He's at right now. It would just get off the point a bit instead of just going on the next scene.<br />I would recommend this book to a teenage person who is into romance/sad ending stories. I thought this book wasn't my type because it had a negative ending to it and I didn't like that but I liked the starting of it.	2003-04-03
1171950:US	51744771	R3N8EKPP3L0C55	0141306386	86353200	In a Dark Wood	Books	3	1	2	N	N	An Intriguing Adaptation of Robin Hood	A Review by Steffi<br />In a Dark Wood is a version of the story of Robin Hood. Only this interpretation has a twist; it¹s in the Sheriff of Nottingham¹s perspective. In this book you get to know more about the sheriff's (known as Geoffrey) story and what conflicts he faces. He is portrayed as a cold man not wanting to feel emotion, but the reader learns that he has a hidden heart, rarely exposed. A particular example of this is he can¹t express how he looks upon his squire, Hugh, as a son. Also in this book you see the impossible attempts Geoffrey makes to catch Robin Hood, who never fails to outwit the sheriff. It is the classic chase of Robin Hood, only through the sheriff's eyes.<br />One thing I liked about this book is its interesting approach to the tale of Robin Hood. Who would have thought to take a look in the ³bad guy¹s² point of view. It makes you realize that just because someone is cold doesn¹t mean they don¹t have feelings. In Geoffrey¹s case, his job forces him to do cruel things, such as punishing people who can¹t pay their taxes. Another thing I liked about this book is the poetic words and phrasing Cadnum used. Similes such as ³like a petal floating on dark water² were used throughout the whole book, which made it a really beautiful thing to read. One thing I didn¹t like, however, was the lack of Robin Hood. He obviously played a big part in the plot, but it wasn¹t enough for me, being a Robin Hood fan. Maybe if Cadnum would have done both perspectives of Geoffrey and Robin I would have enjoyed it more. I would have also loved to know more about Robin and Maid Marian¹s romance because that is an aspect of the Robin Hood story that really appeals to me. There was no mentioning this love in this book.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the tale of Robin Hood. It really is an interesting story to read, like a hidden background to the original story. This interesting and poetic adaptation is surely worthwhile for anyone to read.	2003-04-03
1172086:US	51744771	R2WHUD9EFH3G02	0380708795	159564301	On the Devil's Court (Pendragon Cycle)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Beelzebub, Basketball, and Bad Endings	A Review by Brian<br />Joe an eighteen year old on his last year of high school moves to Seattle. Joe has lots of problems with his dad because Joes not the brainy straight a student that his dad wants him to be. The one thing though that Joe cares about, and is really good at is basketball.  Joe wants to make varsity, and he does but that's not good enough for him, so he sells his soul to the devil for one full season of power. Throughout the book Joe doesn't know if his soul is really gone, but he'd do anything to take back those words <br />I like how the book doesn't tell you right away if Joe's soul belongs to the devil. It makes the book interesting and keeps you reading to find out. What I don't like is that the book doesn't feel complete. The book never says if Joe's soul belongs to the devil or not, and throughout the whole book Joe talks about repenting and it never tells if he repents either. Another reason I didn't like this book is it was confusing when it talked about his basketball games. The book would talk about his plays and people he passed to and for me it's hard to follow. I feel the book didn't solve Joes problem with his dad either after the season ends the book does to.<br />I would recommend this book to people that know a lot about basketball. If you don't parts of this book will be hard to follow. I would also recommend this book to people that like cliffhangers because I feel the book doesn't really end with all problems solved.	2003-04-03
1172111:US	51744771	ROR39XQ4LX8CX	0590877607	946247160	Realm of the Reaper (Everworld #04)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Way of the Dead	A Review by Jonathan<br />The group Jalil, April, David, and Christopher are still searching for the witch Senna. They stumble upon a village of men. The need for food and rest drove them to an inn. They cannot leave this village unless a dredded \\"She\\" of which people speak, lets them. They learn of Loki's daughter Hel, and that she plans to torture them for the end of eternity. If they can't escape her clutches, they will certainly die. <br />I liked the feel of the environment of this book. It envelopes and immerses the reader. It creates an atmosphere that helps the reader along. It also creates a sense of emotion such as fear. Another point of liking is that it is very easy to get into. The book has a clean, crisp plot that is easily readable, yet enjoyable. One more point of interest is the problems that the characters face. This adds to the intensity of the book. I like the fact that most of their problems are god related. This makes it interesting because they also have to survive. They don't know what will happen to them in the real world if they die in Everworld. Sometimes the concept of their consciousness traveling between universes can be confusing, but I get it. This is a semi- easy book.<br />I recommend this book to people that take a liking to thrills and adventure. Also, there is a lot of action in this book. I think this book is excellent, I think the same about the entire series. This is a semi-easy book to read.	2003-04-03
1172145:US	51744771	R34TOC2HYF81GL	0440409942	83736470	Harris and Me	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Summer at Uncle's Farm	A Review by Beau<br />My book was about a kid with a very dysfunctional family that where drunks. He goes to move in with his uncle but he is crazy. Later on he moves in with his second uncle's family the Larsons. That is where he meets the family, Knut (the father), Clair (his wife), glen's the daughter and Harris the youngest. Harris and the main character work hard on the farm but they play hard also. The main character always gets pressured into harrises ideas that always get them into trouble. Thought the summer the boys get into lots of trouble and have many adventures.  <br />I liked this book a lot. It was fun to read about the boys and all the crazy things they did. The way this book was written made it easy to read and it flowed very well. This book was very exciting and made me want to read more and more. Almost all of the ideas Harris had turned out with somebody getting hurt or getting into trouble. The author of this book described the situations very good and made the funny parts have a picture in your head. This book was very funny and made me laugh wile reading it. The vocabulary in this book was easy and there were no words that I didn't understand. The characters came to life in you're head. The more you read this book the more you learned about the characters.<br />I would recommend this book to anybody. This book was very funny and made me laugh out loud. I liked reading this book and I think most other people would like it as well.	2003-04-03
1172216:US	51744771	RMCZU09INET3X	0395857546	225656371	Checkers	Books	5	5	5	N	N	My Dog, Checkers	A Review by Robin<br />An Australian teenage girl lived with her mom, dad and brother in a beautiful home in the suburbs; and she had a dog named Checkers. She suffers from depression and she now lives in a mental hospital. She never had many friends, at school or at the hospital. She and several other teenagers attend a daily meeting called group. She has never said anything in group because she is afraid of what people will think of her. One day, she just couldn't handle it anymore. She had to tell somebody. This is her story of how she got there.<br />I like how this book tells a story about a teenager's life experiences. I can relate to them, such as depression and social issues. This story is suspenseful. Once I picked it up, I didn't want to put it down. Every chapter ends with a cliffhanger. You just want to keep reading. The author doesn't give away the story of how she got in the hospital until the very end. You can easily follow the book with big font and easy to read words. And if you have any troubles with some \\"aussie\\" words, there's a glossary in the front of the book to tell you what they are and what they mean. But the characters were realistic, and seemed alive. They're just like people you would meet in an everyday encounter acquaintance. They were believable.<br />I would recommend this book to people who like stories about real life conflicts and experiences. It would satisfy your needs if you are the type of person who likes to read other people's diaries or journals. I would especially recommend it to any teenagers who think they have it rough or bad. You think you know, but you have no idea.	2003-04-03
1172376:US	51744771	RN2SVM9LHM9Z7	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Quantum Foam Makes Me Roam	A Review by Adam<br />A couple driving through the desert in New Mexico stumble upon a man that appears to be crazy.  He is wearing a felt robe that is still cool and has a white ceramic cube with ITC on it.  The man seems crazy and is mumbling something about how \\"Quantum foam makes me roam.\\"  The man is then taken to the hospital and later dies.  The hospital finds a map of a monastery in France which is currently being excavated by a team of archeologist that is being sponsored by ITC.<br />I read Michael Crichton's Jurassic Park and I would have to say the beginnings of both books are relatively the same by introducing characters that never make a second appearance.  However, the book starts off well and will get anyone hooked to the book.  The action was great and several good questions make you enjoy the book even more and want to keep reading.  Also, the book has some humor, for example, Chris gets separated from Kate and Marek.  Chris follows a boy and he asks if Chris is \\"gentle\\" and Chris says yes.  He finds out that \\"gentle\\" means a noble, which is a rather bad spot to be in, especially in Medieval France.  The only bad thing about the book is (in my opinion) the quantum theory was gone over for a chapter but it seemed longer.  This was boring but it was good nonetheless since it sets up some of the story.<BR>Overall, I would have to say this book was great and I would suggest it to anyone.  I suggested it to my friend who reads only fantasy books, and he enjoyed it.  The book took a little while to get into the Medieval France part but it wasn't boring getting to that point.  So if you like science-fiction or fantasy, this book is for you, but I believe everyone can enjoy it.	2003-04-03
1172397:US	51744771	R1161E4HZ5BHDN	0590877437	28275338	Search for Senna (Everworld #1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Lost	A Review by Vanessa<br />The Search for Senna has a slow beginning, but the action and dialogue start after the first couple of chapters. Chris's girlfriend Sienna has disappeared. Her sister, April, and a couple of their friends all end up finding a portal that someone has set for them there. That's where the action begins. Soon they find themselves in a world were everything isn't like it should be. They run from the ruthless gods of this place, runoff a cliff and die. Just kidding. It turns out that all the rules are different, like gravity. They drop into a freezing cold lake, but luckily for them a boat just magically floats their way. They stumble upon a Viking camp, and pose as musicians for their entertainment. They meet some really cool people, who take them on an unbelievable journey. But someone is after them. They just have to find out who.<br /> I really liked a lot of things about this book. One thing I liked was the dialogue. It kept you on your toes, and it was like you were really there. Everything they said had relevance to the story, it wasn't just filler. I think that must've been very hard for the writer but it was worth it. Another thing I thought was cool was the level of difficulty. It wasn't a long book, but it was a good one. I think it was a very easy read, and that could be a good or a bad thing. If you are looking for a good, fast read this would be a good book for you. I also liked it because it was a fantasy/science fiction book. I like those kind of books, as do many other people, too.<br /> I would recommend this book to people that enjoy fantasy/science fiction books, or even action books. It was a good read and I'd read it again. And again. It was that good, I think.	2003-04-03
1520413:US	51744771	R1270GO3K43500	0440227690	176900385	Heroes	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hero or Enemy	A review by Jill<br />Heroes was a very interesting book. At first I thought it was going to be about a man in the war, but this takes place after the war. Francis Cassavant lost his face in the war. When he arrived in his home town, nobody recognized him. He decided to return to his home town so he could see someone that he wanted revenge on. As a child, Francis wasn't very popular, until Larry LaSalle came along. Larry helped Francis learn how to play table tennis, which made him meet Nicole. One day, Larry did something terrible to Nicole, and Francis didn't do anything to stop it. This is why Francis joined the army, he thought maybe if he got lucky, he would get killed in the war, but no luck. <br />Heroes had points where it wasn't very interesting and kept leading on to nothing. Although, it was easy to read, and hard to put down. It didn't take me long to finish, because everything lead to another, making me want to keep reading it. If you are into war or revenge movies, I would suggest Heroes by Robert Cormier.	2002-06-04
1521309:US	51744771	R3C5XN1AZ59E51	0440219078	55490378	The Giver (21st Century Reference)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	State of Emotions	A review by Kaytee<br />The Giver is a novel set in black and white talking about the color of emotions. This book is focused on telling the world how there should be no hate, no crime, no hurt or pain. It also describes everyone being happy and living a cheerful life, as we all know, that's not how it is in this world unfortunately. A young man given the name Jonas was given the chance to become the quote on quote \\"Receiver of memories.\\" As he turns 12 years old he's known as The Giver. He sees everything in a good way but realizes how much of a difference there is in the world. <br />I didn't enjoy reading \\"The Giver\\" at all. The beginning of this book was so boring, and didn't catch my attention one bit. But as a read on and on I would get more into it. But soon enough it would lose my attention again. The beginning was a little bit strange at some parts. Towards the middle I enjoyed a lot! I think it is because that's where all the action is, and the ending, well, let's just say the author really lost me there! I think this book deserves two starts because it's that kind of book that can catch your attention at some points but others you just feel as if you don't want to read it anymore. Hopefully next time we choose a book to read I'll know its one I actually have an interest in. <br />I strongly do not recommend this book to a young adult. I think this book should before mature audiences because he talks about injections as well as his love for a lady. I don't think that should be allowed for a 9 or 10 year old.	2002-06-04
1525140:US	51744771	R1JH0S5EPIG2OL	0439176824	131745674	The Fall (Seventh Tower #1)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A little strange	Review by Zach<br />Tal, young boy from the orange order of the towers, is just trying to make it through life in these hard times. His father has disappeared, his mother is sick, and he has to take care of his younger brother and sister. Tal is also a member of the chosen, a large group of powerful people in the towers. He has to go to the spirit land to get a shadow, but he doesn't have a sunstone. He goes to great lengths to find a sunstone and on his way gets lost.<br />This is a great story. It is very well written and very easy to read. By that I mean it flows very well and it doesn't leave you wondering about things. It is very complete and descriptive. You can really see what the author is writing. It is also a fun book to read and full of all kinds of action; especially when Tal meets up with the Hunting group the Icecarls. It is jam packed with all the adventure and excitement you could ever want in a book. The only part I did not like was that it got a little strange for my liking in some places. All in all it is a great book.<br /> I would recommend this book to anyone who wants a not so hard book to read. Also is you like fantasy. If all of these meet you liking than this book is definitely for you.	2002-05-31
1528404:US	51744771	R2PXLCXCVHVK8F	0395745209	978168385	Run for Your Life	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Track Stars	...A small-town girl named Kisha, wants to do some sport or activity that she can do to pass the time. An old abandoned warehouse was where she and her friend Natonia would hang out. A man named Darren is the coach for a track team back in California. He wants to fix up the warehouse to make it a place for the kids to play sports. Kisha and Natonia meet Darren on their way to the ice cream man. They decided that they should gather up some kids their age and start a track team.<br />Yes. I liked the characters in the story. The characters that I liked the most were Kisha, Natonia and Darren. The reason why I like the character named Kisha is because she is like a usual ordinary girl. She is believable because she does things like try to do things that you can't do or aren't supposed to do. The reason why I like Natonia is because she doesn't take any garbage from anyone. She is a hard person to deal with. Why I like the character Darren is because he gives the girls hope and choices that they can't make when they are at school or at home. They can make them at the center. The subject of this story appeals to me. This type of book hasn't been the type of book that interests me. The book is kind of serious and sad but is funny at times. In this book Darren gets serious when he tells the girls that they have to follow by certain rules to stay in track. The rules are: Don't get pregnant, don't do drugs, stay in school and keep your grades up. The scary parts are when Kisha is at home and her dad hits her mom. The other scary part was when her dad shot her mom. And it's funny when they sweep the track clean with the other team. <br />I would recommend this book to other readers. The reason why is because it can teach you some thing that you don't know and a picture on how other people are living in their lives. The kind of reader that would mostly enjoy this book is a person who likes sports and a happy ending.	2002-05-28
1528437:US	51744771	R3163DR1V6GWYZ	053105893X	795553485	The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle	Books	4	1	4	N	N	One Brave Soul	...A young thirteen-year-old girl named Charlotte Doyle going to school in liver pool is leaving to go back home to Providence Road Island aboard the mighty Seahawk. Once aboard she finds her self-being the only passenger, and very lonely, until she is befriended by the cook Zechariah. When he dies Charlotte is alone and is faced with a lot of sacrifices and adventures.<br />This Story was great. I loved the characters in it expressly Charlotte she was brave and Zechariah he was loyal and Captain Jiggery he was the person that put the chill down my spine. A lot was going on and so many things happened before the climax of the book. The author gave a lot of detail but not too much. The conflicts between everyone are existing never would have expected some of the stuff that happened it was all good. When the book was over I kind of wanted the book to keep going but I was kind of glad because in some parts it dragged on. <br />I would recommend this book to all readers who are looking for a good book with adventure and mystery. It's a great plot and the characters are lots of fun	2002-05-28
1528741:US	51744771	R2F9WBNJDNFINO	0842329218	726324360	Tribulation Force: The Continuing Drama of Those Left Behind (Left Behind No. 2)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Suspenseful Adventure	...Four friends that have come together as the world is falling apart because of the \\"Tribulation Force\\" and form unity despite all the chaos in the world. The Antichrist is deceiving the world by making world peace that isn't real. He thinks that he has deceived everyone, but the true Christians, Buck, Chloe, Rayford, and Bruce, know what's really going on because the spirit of Jesus Christ in living in them. <br />This story works very suspense fully, you never know when something is about to happen. I really enjoy how everything is kind of a mystery and it unwraps in a slow, but good way. I also enjoyed when all the action happened at the very end, leaving you hanging there, so that you can read the next book. For example, when Rayford and Amanda get married along with Buck and Chloe and also when Hattie is pregnant with Carpathia's baby. I also like how the authors backed up what they with facts, so you could almost tell what was going on but not quite. I think that Carpathia's true personality is revealed when he sees the doctor on the television when he says\\" The Messiah is Jesus Christ.\\" Carpathia was pretty disappointed in him. <br />I highly recommend this book to Christians or people questioning the power of God or for people that like suspense. I really enjoyed it, it was kind of lengthy but it goes by fast.	2002-05-28
1528869:US	51744771	R26ZUCE2XTN3C7	0618002227	276015944	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Strong Fellowship	A Review by Jordan<BR>A young hobbit embarks on a journey to destroy the ultimate ring that will release destruction upon Middle Earth if the true owner gets hold of it. The fellowship meets a raider name Strider and he save them from these dark riders who are after the ring. They join up with a dwarf and an elf to make the fellowship of nine.<br />This was a great book with a lot of details and a lot of imagination. It is a book of might and magic, also friendship and the battles against an evil warrior. I enjoyed this book but I didnt like some of the parts where they got into a lot of detail and little actions. I also couldnt fallow all of the different names sometimes, I found myself flipping back and forth though the book asking my self, what was that again, or who is that, but you get a better understanding of the beginning if you have read Tolkiens first book The Hobbit which is kind of the prequel to the Lord of the Rings series.<br />I would recommend this book for those with patience and imagination. If you enjoyed The Hobbit or you like books with wizards, elves, and goblins then you will love this book.	2002-05-28
1528883:US	51744771	R2HC6ZXLHBJ6I9	0064406490	282315681	Drive-By (Harper Trophy Books (Paperback))	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Small book--Great Story	A Review by Teenager from North Bend, WA.<br />It begins with Jimmy (the oldest), Tito (the middle child), and Mina (the only daughter) walking home from a birthday party down the block from their house. Jimmy was a real jokester and always played the Claw joke, which was when he acted like he couldn't control his hand and it would go after Mina. Mina ran behind an abandoned library and Tito chased after her. It was dark out and Tito was having a little trouble finding Mina but she was hiding in the small shrub behind the old fire exit. Tito calmed Mina down and they started walking back to where Jimmy was when they heard loud music coming from a car, but it started to get louder until they saw a dark colored Chevy come around the corner. The car came at a high rate of speed before it came to a stop in front of Jimmy. There was a brief second of silence before a man in the back seat of the car leaned out the window with a gun and started to shoot at Jimmy. Jimmy fell to the ground as Tito and Mina watched in horror. The car sped off and Tito ran to Jimmy's side and checked his pulse... he was dead.<br />This book is a great if you like suspense and action and it has a lot of mystery. I would recommend this book to anyone and from grade 2 to 12 and if you like to read small books containing greats stories.	2002-05-28
1528904:US	51744771	RZ3SI7UGTA8MY	0679885501	694914807	Crash	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Crasher Report	A Review by Cody<br />The book I read was Crash by Jerry Spinelli. It is about a kid named John Coogan. He is called Crash by all his friends. The book is about his relationship with a kid named Penn Webb. At first he made fun of Penn. He met a kid named Mike Deluca and they both made fun of him. Crash found out that Penn was a vegetarian and was poor. Eventually Crash felt bad for Penn. They both started to play sports. They both ended up on the track team. In the end Crash let Penn win a big race and they were friends.<br />The book turned out to be very predictable and sometimes boring. The plot was set very dry. It seems that the main character was always at conflict and the author never really explained why. That was about the only mystery in the story. It also had small plotlines that never had an ending. Like why there were lawnmower parts missing. They never continued Abby's wildlife preserve fiasco. I didn't understand what happened with Mike either. It was very boring when Crash was explaining what he thought all the time. He always was at conflict like I said earlier. I did however like his thoughts on sports. He always explained it very well and it was like I was there.<br />I would recommend this book to younger readers. It is not great but at times amusing. It is easy reading but hard to find interesting.	2002-05-28
1528980:US	51744771	RLMF8OUQQSG2B	0440227100	574920372	Don't Scream	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Freaky Neighbor	A Review by Erika<br />A teenage girl, Jessica, had just gotten new neighbors across the street. She was so excited about her new neighbors and there was a guy her age who she thought was cute. She had no idea what he had done in his previous town.  She soon found out that he had done some bad things and another new guy was following him. Jess soon found out about everything and didn't like it.  <br />This was a good book overall. It had some weird parts and some stupid parts, but I still liked it. I really liked the interaction between the teenagers in this book. It was like they were going through the same issues as regular teenagers. I didn't really like what the author made mark do to the cats. It was so cruel and I don't know anyone who would do it. It also had nothing to do with the main point in the story.  I thought the characters were very realistic and really focused on the same issues as teenagers today. I think the author did a great job describing the characters and their situations. I didn't really like how Jess didn't deal with her problems and they just kept piling up. I really liked how the author built up the suspense when Jess got suspicious of Mark. It was like she didn't know what would happen next and it made the story much more interesting. I liked the language the author used because it was all familiar and easy for me. The plot did indeed lead up to the climax and it was a good part in the book. The ending wasn't as good as I expected it to be. It was good enough but wasn't the best. I thought the story kept going on and on about the same issues and it would have been better if it was shorter and had gotten to the point quicker. <br />I would recommend this book to everyone who likes scary, horror books. I would also recommend it to people that have patience when they read. I gave this book 2.5 star because it wasn't the best book I've ever read but it wasn't the worst. I thought this book was a good read in all, and I hope you agree with me.	2002-05-28
1529105:US	51744771	RUYCPBGAE8JWF	0689839693	411121500	Downsiders	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another world	A review by Meghan<br />The book Downsiders is about living in two different worlds. One of the worlds is the Topside, which is where we live, with the sky, tall buildings, lights and cars. The other world is the Downside, which is where the old subway stations and tunnels that no one uses anymore are. The people in the Downside live in the dark mostly and make all they're belongings, even clothes, out of things that have fallen from the Topside. Lindsey Matthias met Talon when he same into her room looking for medicine. He did one of the worst things he could; he brought her into the Downside. This book deals with their relationship and the trouble he gets into.<br />The characters in this book are believable because it takes place in modern time and they deal with the same stuff we do. The only difference is that some of them live under ground in abandoned subways, the Downside. The people in the Downside live a lot differently than we, on the Topside, do. The author of this book gives just enough detail to stay with the story. It deals with the consequences for actions taken.<br />I would recommend this book to other reader because it deals with real conflicts and real consequences. If you like a book with some action and books about different worlds then you should like this book	2002-05-28
1529133:US	51744771	R2WDF09COWOH83	0440226872	236911263	Burning Up	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Did it ever stop burning?	A review by Danielle <br />Macey Clare and Austin (the main characters) were both in a church fire; after the fire that she was in Macey started to get an obsession with fires and her town.  One day at school when Macey was on the internet she found out that there was a fire on Shell Road.  Which was where she lived, Macey read about the fire in 1959.  She couldn't believe that there was a fire that burned down around a man though no one had ever taken the time to tell her.  This fire had to do with her road and being racist. Everyone believed that Macey was getting obsessed about the whole fire.  Austin began to look it up too and both pushed their grandparents away all the while.<br />I really liked Macey as the main character in this book; only because her teenage problems seemed so real.  The main plot in this book was very interesting and made me want to keep reading it; never put it down.  Despite the fact that some of the sentences were short and kind of a child's book, it was very interesting.  During this book the main view switches from Macey to Austin.  It gets kind of confusing, though changing the view was a good way to show both Austin's and Macey's opinions.   This story probably would have been better if it was longer, and if it said what happened in the future.  <br />Burning Up was a very good book, however I thought that it was going to be a thriller and it wasn't.  The author stays on the topic and he doesn't talk about other things.  I would definitely recommend this book to others who are interested in Caroline Cooney's stories.  It was actually a great book and was very moving in some parts.	2002-05-28
1529140:US	51744771	R3Q6NMKKN1HZQ6	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	3	0	5	N	N	Life in the Wrong Camp	A Review by Jon<br />A young Jewish boy is alive during the time of the holocaust and is hiding from the Nazis as they are looking for as many Jewish people as they can. They are caught and brought to a death camp. They go through it tougher until one night the boys family is hung and killed, and he had to watch it all happen. He lives in the camp for many years and finally he is let out when thousands of people got out of it.<br />This is a very good story I liked the way it was in first person and you really never discovered the young boys name. It had a lot of surprises in it like when the boy's family died and they got to celebrate the two holidays (Christmas and New Years). It taught me a lot of things I didn't know about the holocaust and I thought I knew a lot because we studied it very much of last year. I liked the climax usage as they made it more exciting through the book. The one thing I didn't like was that it had a lot of things that weren't needed like the part about the homosexuals and what not. That just didn't interest me and I wanted to throw the book away.<br />I would most diffidently would recommend this book. It is a very helpful book if you were trying to understand the life in death camps and if you want a great read too, I gave it 3 out of 4 stars.	2002-05-28
1529187:US	51744771	R39YUA3277IV9F	006440627X	271867969	X Files #05 Humbug (X Files Middle Grade) (Vol 5)	Books	1	0	3	N	N	Weird Things	...FBI agents Moulder and Sculley investigate strange murders in Gibson, Florida.  This isn't just a normal town it is a freak town or if you must Circus town.  It attacks without warning.  Now the agents are getting very weirded out, they have to solve this A.S.A.P.<br />The characters are weak except one Moulder he's so cool.  ....  They aren't believable.  The setting is especially unbelievable.  How could there be a whole town of freaks it's just not possible.  My book was really easy to read it was like a fourth grade book.  My book was pretty short so it went to the climax pretty fast.  The conflict isn't real at all how could a blob cause so much carnage it doesn't make sense.  This book doesn't seem to drag at all, this book is good like that.  ....  <BR> <BR>I wouldn't recommend this book it is not that good.  The best part was when they talked and introduced all the different freaks.  That was cool to see what special trick they could do.	2002-05-28
1529379:US	51744771	R3K753EN0LVHNS	006441034X	458436371	Howl's Moving Castle (World of Howl)	Books	2	4	52	N	N	Hidden Mysteries	A review by Chris<br />Sophie's dad was not able to support all the kids in his family so he found some people to take Sophie's sisters. They keep Sophie because she was the oldest and when they die they needed to have some one to take over the hat shop. One day the witch of the waste came and put a spell on Sophie and the only person the could take the spell off is Howl. She goes to Howl and she stays. They go through many hardships. She finds it hard to leave the castle.<br />I only gave this book  2 Stars because the author tells the story in way too many words. I think that the story could have been told in 100 words or less. The plot of the story didn't go anywhere. The story just went on and on.  If you took out all but the last 3 chapters you would get most of the story. The story doesn't progress rapidly toward the climax. The author tell way more details that I think was needed. The conflict do not seem realistic because you can not have a witch come into the store and have her turn you old. The ending of the story has a fairy tail ending because everyone is happy and the bad guys are dead, which is disappointing, I think, in a horror story.<br />I don't recommend this book to anyone because it just goes on and on about everything. If you like reading books the describe every single detail about everything then I recommend this book to you, but If you don't then this book is just a waste of time.	2002-05-28
1529449:US	51744771	R24WD73GNSTVV	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Harry is Gullible	A review by Chris<br />The story Harry Potter and the goblet of fire is about a forth year student of Hogwarts School of wizards and witches. Where Harry learns to protect him self and perform several curses, and he also plays several games, like quiditch and is in the triwizard games.<br />I liked this story but I didn't like how Harry didn't know that anyone was after him. But I liked the constant excitement and how Sirius was always talking to Harry. And I enjoyed the ways Harry did his challenges, but I liked that defense against the dark teacher Im mad how they got rid of him at the end.<br />It a good book for anybody that likes to read.	2002-05-28
1529535:US	51744771	R3RO82R6MI414B	006205161X	39806637	Beauty Queen	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Deadly Addiction	A Review by Kelsey<br />A nineteen year old girl, Sam, was told by her counselor, Dr. K, to keep a journal and write in it what is going on in her life at that time. Sam had just recently moved out of her mother's apartment. Her mother lives with her boyfriend and she is a huge alcoholic. Sam is sick of a go now where job at Chicken and Ribs. Her best friend Nicole and she decide to start a cleaning business. It goes well for a few weeks until they clean a very rich lady's house before she has a party.  Sam curiously asks her how she made her fortune and the lady said that she was a topless dancer at The Web for almost 20 years. She gave Sam and Nicole the Web's number if they were interested in getting a job. At first Nicole and Sam are hesitating, but once they tried out they decided that this was what they wanted to do. Nicole became a bartender and Sam took the open dancer job. This decision of Sam's leads her down a path that is deadly.<br />Beauty Queen is a dramatic and true story. The story is written in the form of Sam's journal. I like how the \\"author\\" didn't change any of Sam's true stories. Linda may have revised grammar, but besides that everything that Sam writes is true. This book easily someone leading a good life can suddenly go down the wrong path. The language in this book is easy to follow. At times you seem as if you really know Sam and completely understand her pain. As you read along you can tell that Sam's addiction with heroin is ruining her relationships with other people. Nicole finds out and stops talking to her. Everyone else who knows and still associates with her doesn't realize how much heroin is ruining her physically and emotionally. I would give this book a 4 out of five. This is because I like the idea of the author trying to keep Sam's diary, but at times you want to wonder what's going on in the other character's lives. The length of this book was perfect but at times I wanted it to go on. I think this is because in a way I wanted to know more about the problem or event. The ending is realistic and a little alarming.<br />I strongly recommended this book to teenage readers who enjoy real life situation stories. It is pretty easy to read and is an all around good book.	2002-05-28
1548260:US	51744771	RB29RD32SZK2F	0140375376	399432089	Escape from Egypt	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Love and Danger	A Review by Nena<BR>This book takes place when Hebrew's were in slavery. Jesse, a young Hebrew, is in love with an Egyptian girl, named Jennat. He is to be married to his cousin, Talia. He does what he can to see Jennat. Yet Jennat doesn't want to see him. He goes through a lot of danger just to see her. While he tries to see Jennat his is reminded about marring Talia. Wonder what he is going to do?<br />The beginning was confusing because the point of view is changed from Jesse to Jennat. I had to stop and read it a couple times to get who was talking. Besides that, I loved the book. I was hooked after the first chapter. I couldn't put it down. Sonia is a great writer. I saw the word Egypt on the cover and I just had to read it. I am very interested in Egypt. I would love to go there some day: to see the pyramids, the Nile, and the people. I think that would be so much fun. I wonder how Sonia comes up with the story line. It is a great book I highly recommend it to any one interested in romance and Egypt.	2002-05-10
1548316:US	51744771	R1RIM2Q5LE64XG	0671692771	374452368	Fear on Wheels (The Hardy Boys #108)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	One Messed Up Mystery	...A young duo of gumshoes, Frank and Joe Hardy are called upon by Grant Tucker, a hot rod show's promoter, to crack a case of extortion and on-purpose accidents caused by a mysterious man in black. There is just one problem with this case, there are to many suspects who all have motives for causing the accidents and for needing the extortion money, a cool quarter million. Frank and Joe have to crack the case because the accidents are getting more and more dangerous.<br />The characters in the story are like all Hardy Boys characters. They are all fairly weird but fairly believable, which gives the stories a human property. All the hot rodders are full of them selves, the truckers act like truckers, and all of them baby their vehicles like they would their own children. The chief mechanic was a hot rodder until he crashed and hurt his leg, and now he's a bitter man. Another thing about the Hardy Boys books is the language that everyone can understand. There aren't a lot of big words. This book was just perfect in how long it was. It had enough details to give the reader a clear picture of what was going on, without doing so much that they described every little thing.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes mysteries. It was a very elusive book, in that I didn't have a clue who the extortionist or the person causing the accidents were. That made the book very easy to read, because I was waiting for the Hardys to crack the case, which never happened until the very end.	2002-05-10
1548342:US	51744771	R3W1RE1BRFLT57	0613108086	746714067	Gallows Hill (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Witch, or not?	A Review by Cody<BR>A young girl, Sarah Zoltanne just moved to the small town of Pine Crest. One of the most popular boy at the High-School thought she would be the right person to play a fortune-teller. At first Sarah didn't feel that she wanted to be the fortune-teller because she didn't know anything about anyone. Until Sarah found out that she would wear a headphone underneath her clothes, to give the effect of supernatural powers. Sarah looks into the crystal ball and starts to see things that she couldn't know. Everything is fine until it starts to come true.<br />This story really appealed to me, because not to long before I started this book I watched The Blair Witch. I have always been interested in witch craft, not doing it but hearing about all of the stories and tales about it. It is a very serious, scary, but at times funny. For example when they were about to hang Sarah it was scary and serious. This book was easy, and enjoyable to read. It wasn't hard to follow, but at times it got confusing. It was just the right length, and not to short. The words weren't too big but some of the words were too elementary.<br />I would recommend this book to kids from the age group of 6th grade to 9th grade, and to people who are interested in witches. Its easy, and fun to read, but has several hard parts to follow.	2002-05-10
1548348:US	51744771	R3O9ECJ76KMX2I	0425109720	32944133	Patriot Games (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Action Extravganza	A Review by Sean<BR>Patriot Games is a techno thriller in the classic Clancy style, starring his recurring character Jack Ryan. This time around, Ryan encounters extremist Irish terrorists, members of the ULA, while on vacation in London. He manages to foil their attack on the Prince of Wales' family and capture one of the attackers, but is injured in the process. While recovering from his injuries in England, the man he captures escapes while being transported to the Isle of Wight, and is not happy with Jack.<br />The plot clicks, and the book is alive with action. Clancy manages to keep the suspense alive throughout the book, and delivers every detail without skipping a beat, making Ryan's world come alive. The action sequences are jammed with, well, action, and the author keeps it alive right up to the end.<br />If you've read Tom Clancy before, you'll love this book as much as all the others. If not, you're in for a treat. Patriot Games is the book equivalent of an action movie.	2002-05-10
1548369:US	51744771	RJNJGTRBR8FFI	0802776078	940200207	Graveyard Girl	Books	2	4	7	N	N	The Plague of the 1800's	...There is a plaque going though the town that Eli, Addie, and the graveyard girl live in. They all lost their families to it so they live together. Eli and the graveyard girl teach Addie a lot. Then the graveyard girl dies and Eli tries to bring Addie to an asylum and she runs off. In the end Addie saves Eli's life and they live happily ever after.<BR>   <BR>I didn't like the characters in the story because they seemed fake. They are left behind by their parents and they just turn from children to adults. Before they had no idea how to cook but as soon as they are on their own they know how to cook like master chefs. Eli was stupid because he wouldn't know one thing but the next moment he would know it. All the other characters were pretty believable. The length was perfect and it was gust enough pages. Even with so little pages it seemed to drag on, if it was about twenty pages shorter it would have been better. I was relieved when it was over because it dragged on.<br />I wouldn't recommend this book unless you like reading old stories about the beginning of the United States and its history. If you don't like reading these kinds of stories then don't read this book!	2002-05-10
1548415:US	51744771	R3FZQ1DNWC08EL	0689818513	962009302	Forged by Fire	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Sad Childhood	A Review by Bethany<BR>Forged by fire is about a young boy named Gerald who was fascinated by fire, but when he is in a life threatening accident his fascination turns into fear.  Gerald was only three when he had to go live with his aunt Queen, because of his mother's drug addictions.  Gerald lived with his aunt for most of his childhood. But when his mother showed up with a new husband and a new daughter Gerald's life goes from okay to terrible. Gerald has to deal with a drug abusing mother and a physical abusing step father. But even that is not the worst part of his home life.    <br />The subject in this story was very sad but it kept you reading and wondering how it would turn out, it dealt with real issues that aren't talked about much.  And it gives help to people who do deal with the issues talked about in this book.  The characters in the book seemed like real people, a lot of their emotions were shown, such as the fear Gerald felt so much throughout his life.  The book was very good and very realistic.  The author told the story very well, she used words that were easy to understand and the book wasn't too long so it was quick and easy to get through.<br />I would recommend this book to teens or adults who want a good book to read.  This book keeps you guessing, and deals with very realistic matters.  It's an easy book to read but some of the subjects may be hard to understand or deal with. This book is very good but also very sad.	2002-05-10
1548494:US	51744771	R1E4CGS9EUKUSA	0671550551	274452831	Execution of Innocence	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Exciting in the Middle	A review by Sherri<BR>    My book was about four mysterious people Charlie, Dick, Hannah, and Mary. Hannah was the jealous one out of the bunch, she didn't like that Mary and Charlie where going out, and having a good relationship. Dick didn't like Charlie for some reason either, so Hannah   had a plan, and acted all innocent through the whole thing. At one point in the book Charlie thought that Mary was cheating on him with Dick, because he fixed her car, and brought it to her house, and she invited him into her house.<BR>    <BR>  This book had many good and bad scenes throughout it, the beginning of the book; I thought was very boring, but then when I got into the middle it got exciting, and turned into a mystery. Charlie was missing from home, for a long time, and Mary got questioned by the police, if she knew where he was at the moment, or the night before, but she didn't know, and was all worried about him. Hannah didn't really have anything to say about it, because she was just a fool, she told Mary that they where best friends, probably so when she did something to Charlie, Mary would probably believe that Hannah really didn't do it. <BR>   <BR> I think that anybody that likes to read mystery books, should read\\" Execution of Innocence\\", because it's a good and interesting book, I would give this book 4 stars.	2002-05-10
1548647:US	51744771	R268DHB4H9V7J4	067976402X	877433184	Snow Falling On Cedars	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A Look at the Past and Present	...Snow falling on cedars is a great book. The story takes place on San Peidro Island, a San Juan island located off the coast of Seattle. It is right before the bombing of Pearl Harbor and the Japanese immigrants are just beginning to live together in a small dose of harmony when the bombs hit. At first all the Americans say that they will stand by their Japanese neighbors and not discriminate against them. This only lasts so long and not much later all the Japanese inhabitants of the island are shipped to temporary internment camps in Seattle. A few days later, the Japanese are sent to permanent internment camps in the southwestern desert. When the Japanese return and most everybody has gotten over their discrimination phase, one of the well-respected fishermen is found dead on his boat. After an investigation, the island's sheriff and deputy arrest Kabuo Miyamoto. He is an honest and hardworking man who just so happens to be Japanese. His arrest sends many people on the island in an outrage because they believe that the sheriff and deputy are prejudice and arresting him only because he is Japanese. The story then begins with Kabuo on trial for murder of Carl Heine, the dead fisherman.<br /> The writer did a great job of going from past to present in the chapters.  At times though, it is difficult to follow because of the continuous switching of outlooks. This tactic was a wonderful way to get to know the character's pasts and to learn why they act and why they do the things they do in the present state. For example, there are weird feelings between Hatsue, Kabuo's wife, and Ishmael, the town's newspaper journalist. The next chapter then takes back into the past, explaining why there is these weird feelings between the two. At times, the story can feel like its barely moving, but the writer soon makes up for it by filling the next chapter with secrets, lies, and drama. This is a book giving readers a good look on racism, love, and the burying of the past. It showswhat can happen when one, mainly Ishmael, can't get over their pasts. The story had a great ending that would perfectly explain any of the confusion of readers. <br />I would highly recommend this book to anybody who loves a long read. I also recommend this book to someone who enjoys reading about relationships and unconditional love. It is also a great book to use when trying to point out the extremities of racism and being prejudice.	2002-05-10
1548653:US	51744771	R2C671LA55Q8Y6	0385322542	150086152	The White Fox Chronicles: Escape, Return, Breakout	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Fight for Freedom	...<br />A fourteen-year-old boy, Cody Pierce, is living in 2057 with nothing to lose.  In his time the United States has been almost completely taken over by a faction group called the CCR (Confederation of Consolidated Republics).  He is had been living in an internment camp for children for 18 months and was very well trusted by his superiors.  Little did the adults know that Cody was really planning to make an escape with another prisoner, which was part of the remaining American Rebels.  So Cody and the other prisoner, Toni, make there way across the wasteland left of US soil toward the American Rebels base.  When they arrive the leader of the Americans doesn't think Cody is ready for combat, big mistake.  Cody then is captured once again only this time by a sub group of the rebels.  The sub group is headed by one of Cody's old friends before the takeover, Franklin.  Does Cody stop the CCR?  You'll have to read it to find out!<br />This book had a very well constructed plot personally.  The way that Paulsen lets the reader get such a realistic sense is just to me well thought out.  Also I think that the personality that Paulsen has created for Cody is just ingenious for this scenario.  The fact that Cody is a fast learner, quick at making decisions, and someone who just wouldn't give up in any situation.  For example when Toni teaches Cody how to fly the plane she says (pg. 81) \\" I'm impressed, Cody.  You're a quick learner\\".  This kind of personality helps the reader also to guessing what would happen if the book were to continue.  I also enjoyed the suspense of Cody always mentioning that he had a serious score to settle with the CCR.  The whole time I just couldn't put it down because I always wanted to know what happens next with Cody and regaining back the United States.	2002-05-10
1548681:US	51744771	R16ZG4JWR83XBQ	0316142034	166913231	Snowboard Maverick	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Skate or Snowboard?	A Review by Shannon<BR>Dennis O'Malley is a thirteen year-old boy that loves to skateboard. He was always very disappointed when winter came around the streets were covered with snow and he could not skateboard. He always waited for the streets to be cleared so he could skateboard again. Unfortunally, he had a big accident that sent him to the hospital and was unable to skateboard for a year. He saw his two best friends, Robbie and Tasha that had got into the sport snowboarding. He was very tempted to try but had many fears of his last accident. He wanted to try so bad, but he wanted his own board.. He had gotten one for a Christmas gift and he loved it. He had improved a lot and was now one of the best snow boarders around, besides Dale Morgan. Everyone knew him as the \\"best snowboarder and athletes\\". Dale was never challenged because all the kids had lost to him, but Dennis and his go at it in a race. Who will win?<BR>This book deserves 3 stars because it caught you off guard half the time. It was very exciting and got you motivated to get out and snow board. I would recommend it to any age that is looking for a good sports novel!	2002-05-10
1548705:US	51744771	R94LOODAEFUN3	0613177959	943666531	The Fat Man	Books	1	1	3	N	N	The Story of a Man who was Fat	A review by Kayvan<br />Herbert Muskie is fat, he's strong and he is very, very mad at the people of Loomis. You see Herbert used to live in Loomis until one day thirteen years ago the town people chased Herbert out of town. Now Herbert is back, and with a vengeance, and more than willing to return the favor to all the towns' people!<br />  This story is somewhat suspenseful but not very much, the characterswere very dumb and had very poor judgment. The one character I liked to most was probably the one that I didn't like, Herbert, I like him because he wasn't afraid to take chances. And although there is nothing that could justify his killing the towns people I liked him because he was just plain he had more color to him, he wasn't average Herbert he was fat Herbert. That's what I think gave him the edge because people probably underestimated him because he was fat. The book was kinda like a old town folk tale, like a story that is told to the children so they do not misbehave. The story pretty much just revolved around Herbert's hate or the town's people. The book is moderately long and the story is very dull.<br />This book is very dull and somewhat suspenseful, that why I would not recommend this book to anyone no matter how bored you are. This book is just a story about a fat man trying to pay back the people who made fun of him when he was like 13. DON'T READ THIS BOOK!!	2002-05-10
1548815:US	51744771	R2NL2PJ96XIORW	0152009612	861267771	Emily in Love	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Blind with the wrong love	A review by Erika<br />Emily is now a teenager and is able to go to a normal high school. She has never gone to a normal school because she had a disability and had to go to a special school. Emily is now going to experience the life she has always wanted, thats if her parents will let her. In this story Emily has to try to live the life of a teen without the help from her parents. She will also realize who her true friends are.  <br />I liked this story because of the little romance that goes on in it. The author doesnt put it out there until the end but I liked it that way. In the story I like the way Donny becomes her true friend. The sad part is she had to find out the hard way. The only thing I didnt like was the characters Amanda and Molly. Amanda plays the bad guy in this story. She was really mean to Emily. She called her bad names all the time. For example, Emily held a boy/girl party, and Amanda called it a retard party and left. The reason I didnt like Molly was because she was supposedly her best friend but she treated her like she was some hopeless little girl who didnt know how to dress or act around boys. Molly would tell her things that she didnt need to know or she didnt need help with. The character I like was Donny. He noticed every thing she did. Like when she changed her clothes and started to ware makeup, he said she looked pretty. When it comes to the part of her meeting Hunt I thought it was cute. I thought it was cute because she thought he was the cutest thing in the world, but when she gets a job at the Farm Store. She doesnt want him to know she works there because there are other special kids there.<br />I would recommend this book because of how cute the story line is. The reason I like this book so much is that I like Emilys character. I liked how she looked at things. I would recommend this book to some one between the ages of 11-14. It was a simple book. It was easy to read.	2002-05-10
1548818:US	51744771	R1K9GNQMSLMM17	0030051827	603687085	The last goodie	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Mystery to Die For	...Marty was four when Stacy was kidnapped and thought to be killed and ever since then he had nightmares and felt guilty that if he would have done something it wouldn't have happen. Now that he is older and a track star at Southwestern High he wants to find out what Stacy meant when she screamed, \\"No!! No, Jesus!!! No!..Tsee!...Hurt!\\" He wants to find out who took Stacy away from him and why.<br />The characters in this story were all realistic, stupid, and funny. Marty was a normal teenager who was a great track runner. Stacy, later in the story you find out that she had gotten into drugs and sex. People thought of Stacy as little miss perfect but no one really knew her. Harper was one of Marty's friends and he was also a great track runner and showed some jealousies toward Marty because he always took first. <BR>The author used daily language that made it sound like teenager were the ones talking. He used some bad words and big words which made the story flow and easy to read. The length of the story is about right not to short and not to long.<BR>The story gives a lot key points to make you finish the story and find out what had happen what was going on with Stacy. The conflict seemed real.<br />This book was pretty good book. Its one of those books that you have to finish because you have to know what happen to Stacy. It was realistic and talked about real life situation and what can happen to in those situations. I recommend this book for teenagers that enjoy reading and like sports and mystery.	2002-05-10
1548831:US	51744771	R2MWGEVICX3MOF	0833588907	881717480	Fatal Secrets	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Strange Coincidences	A Review by Darcy<br />Her sister was murdered. Now Ryan will learn why some secrets should be carried to the grave.....<br />Stunned by the loss of her sister, Ryan determines to keep the secret they shared right before Marissa died. But Ryan soon finds that she is caught in a web of growing terror as a series of \\"coincidences\\" make Ryan doubt her own sanity. Can she discover the truth before she shares her sister's fate?<BR>I thought this book was really great! It kept me riveted to the pages the whole time. I finished it in two days. I enjoyed the way the book made you feel as though you had lived in the town as long as Ryan had, and knew all the characters such as Jinx and Phoebe. You could also really feel her pain at losing her older sister, and her fear as someone began trying to convince her she was insane. I recommend this book to anyone who likes suspense, and a well-written novel	2002-05-10
1548903:US	51744771	R19CM4X4KUBJJ	0671690590	992126135	Master of Murder	Books	4	0	2	N	N	What Happened to harry?	A review by Ellie<BR>This book was about a teenage boy named Marvin.  He was a famous author of Murder mystery type books.  Nobody knew his real identity and he didn't want them to.  He kept it a secret from everyone, except his little sister.  Then one day he was reading his fan mail and someone sent him a typed message saying \\"I know who you are\\" and he didn't know who it could be.  It was sent from the town he was living in too so it wasn't just a joke.  He started going out with this girl and she wanted him to find out who killed her brother Harry and how it happened.  He's trying to figure out an ending to the series he is writing and he has to finish it up in the next book<br />This story was good and it had a lot of suspense and mystery in it.  There were lots of things going on when you get like half way into the book.  But, the book started out a little boring and didn't really get into the plot until you were done with about a third of the book and then the whole mystery part of it starts to come in.  There were a lot of descriptive paragraphs in the book that made you feel like you were there with the characters in the story.  But, there were parts in the story where the author got a little too descriptive about unimportant things and that's when it would get a little boring, but that was only a few times.  <br />I would recommend this book to other high school students, mainly because it is about a high school student and there is a lot about his personal life and not just the mystery they are trying to solve in the story.  There's a lot of stuff to understand in the story but it all comes together in the end and it's pretty suspenseful.	2002-05-10
1548920:US	51744771	R3MNECNUN4QOBB	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	My Fairy Tale Curse	A Review by Anastasia<BR>A girl named Ella is living her cursed fairy tale life. She was given the gift of obedience when she was a child. Her life was turned around with the death of her mother. After this she has to deal with a step mother and sisters, a prince, ogres, her father, finishing school, trying to find a fairy, and the fact that she has to do whatever she's told doesn't help. Ella goes through a lot trying to overcome her \\"gift\\".<br />I thought this book was very good. It was like a mix of a million different fairy tales; ogres, fairy godmothers, princes, etc. The author makes you feel like your going through the characters pain so you just have to keep reading to see if you get the happy ending you've been seeking. You want to see this story in an older looking setting in your head, but every now and then you see it as a modern day scene. This book kept me hanging on every word. And the unexpectedness of everything makes you want to dye sometimes. <br />If you're a person who can't deal with the hardships that this character goes through and likes to have closure all throughout the book, you probably wouldn't like this book that much. But if you like that fairy tale fantasy type of story that leaves you hanging, you'll love it a  much as I did.	2002-05-10
1548933:US	51744771	R2YYSASSJE42VY	0140379940	524334616	The Boys from St. Petri	Books	3	2	5	N	N	True Menaces	...Six troublesome boys that formed a group called the St. Petri boys. This book took place during the war of involving the Germans. These boys formed this group to get back and their enemies, the German's, who they hated. These boys would do whatever they could to rebel and show the German soldiers that they are better then they would ever be.  These boys showed great strength and pride for what they believed in and even though what they did was bad, they are still good kids. <br />This story, to me, represents six boys who are just trying to prove to the German's that they are just as strong as them. I really liked the way he boys never gave up and how they were serious about what they do. The characters are very persistent and are strong boys. Each character has their own personality and not one of them is alike. Even though they are very different it was hard for me to tell them apart. I especially enjoyed Gunnar because he was very strong and basically held up the group. Lars was the younger and newest group member and he obeyed every order given to him. I think Lars should have taken his own thoughts and did what he thought was the best thing. I picked this book because I enjoy war books but this book wasn't really about war. I have always been interested in war books but not like this one. This book is not very funny it's sad, serious all at once. The book is very hard to follow and moves very slow. The other uses older language which was hard to comprehend. The sentences were very long and hard to understand. The words were too large and hard to get the true meaning. Along with long sentences he used short ones too that didn't seem to be complete. For example, \\"Go get him,\\" Lars said.  The book worked around the climax and led up to it slowly. The author didn't seem to care about catches the reader's attention.<br />I would NOT recommend this book to anyone seeking an exciting book. There are about 20 pages in the whole book that's exciting. This book wouldbe enjoyed by people that enjoy the younger boys and their silly games. I hope my review helps everyone who reads this and will understand the kind of book they are getting into. Enjoy!!	2002-05-10
1548987:US	51744771	RAZX15ZND5SKA	006447108X	671298565	The Last Battle	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Beginning of the End	...<br />A monkey named Shift has an evil plot to trick everyone into thinking the donkey, Puzzle, is the lion Aslan by making Puzzle wear a lion's skin. Shift fooled them and everyone started doing what Shift said because he said Aslan told him to order it to be done. Shift did horrible things and a lot of the animals were forced to do things they didn't want to do.  King Tirian and the children Jill and Scrubb, who were from England, figured out the donkey was pretending to be Aslan, and forgave him because he didn't know what he was doing was wrong. The children helped the king in planning how to inform the other people and animals that Sift was a fake. They go through all sorts of obstacles and in the end... well, you have to read the book to find out the ending.<br />This book was wonderful and made me sad that it was the last book in the series, but the way it ended was satisfying. The story progressed fairly rapidly toward the climax, but I sometimes wished the author would give more details in some scenes, but it was still delightful to read anyway. The sequence and flow of this book was also fairly good. The subject of this series of stories has always appealed to me. This story had a range of many feelings. Sometimes it was sad, exciting and sometimes it was happy. It was sad when the animals were being forced to work long hours like slaves and when some creatures died. On the other hand it was comforting when Jill and Scrubb came to help the king battle the evil in Narnia. Through the whole book I couldn't ever be sure what the ending would be so that was exciting too.<br />I would strongly recommend this book to children or anyone who loves fantasies. It's easy to read, but to enjoy this book fully you have to read all the books in the series because this is the last book and you won't fully understand all the good parts.	2002-05-10
1549240:US	51744771	R1L9ZQPOCDWU6J	0152018263	40028029	Pharaoh's Daughter: A Novel of Ancient Egypt	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Ancient Egypt	...<BR>My book is about a twelve year old girl named Almah who strives to save her young brother who is only barley three months old, named Yekutiel from getting killed by the Pharaohs soldiers. Almah throughout the book keeps her head up and thinks only of the best. Although she sometimes thinks of the worst.<br />This book had many high and exciting parts in it. I liked how one bad thing would happen but it led to something grateful. I like how the author made each character different form each other but at the same time a little a like. I like how he put a lot of excitement in the book. Like when the soldiers were killing the baby boys I got a rush and was wondering what was going to the babies. I wondered if they were going to actually kill Almahs little brother. I love how it showed the different religions people had back in ancient Egypt and in what kinds of gods they believed in and how the worked Overall this book was great.<br />I would really strongly recommend this book to people that liked to be kept on there toes, and who like to read historical fiction books. Its easy to read but it has some difficult names.	2002-05-10
1549294:US	51744771	R107CHQ19AG14S	0439176840	907027988	Aenir (The Seventh Tower #3)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Some Pretty Boring Points	A Review by Colin<BR>Tal and Milla are two young teenagers who are in a world called Aenir.  They were sent to this world to search for the Codex, which is a strange, magical object that will decide the fate of Tal and Millas world, and Aenir.  Trying to find the Codex on Aenir wasnt going to be very easy for Tal and Milla.  Because, on the world Aenir there are many magical creatures tat will prevent them from finding the Codex.  The most powerful, and horrifying creature that gave them a lot of trouble was the creature Hazror. <br />To me this story was, at some points pretty boring, but most of the time the author really keeps you into it.  The author might some times leave you with a few cliff hangers, which makes you want to find out what happens next.  I also feel that the story could have been shortened out, and he could have left out a few things that really made the story boring or unexciting.  But if he would have made the story even longer I might have thought about just putting the book down and not read it anymore.  One last thing was the language that the author used was quite interesting.  I really liked a lot of the names that the author made up in his book; I thought that was what really kept it interesting.<br />I would strongly recommend this book to people who really like fantasy, but I thought overall was a pretty good book.	2002-05-10
1549305:US	51744771	R3T40T8W3B8LHZ	0439064872	398109329	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Secret of Tom Riddle	A review by Andrew<BR>Harry, Hermione and Ron were trying to find out about the chamber of secrets all book and then they find that it has been opened. And the monster was out and petrifying all the muggle-born kids. Harry finds that he can sort of scar the snake away by yelling at it in passel mouth. Then all the kids think that he is the heir to Slytherin. This makes a lot of kids scared and mad.<br />Harry Potter & the Chamber of Secrets is an exciting and fitting sequel to Book I. I think that J.K. did a great job of developing the plot and characters. If in Book 1 I felt Harry's emotions, here in Book 2 I ended up caring for Harry and his friends. I found some of the characters annoying and ridiculous (Lockhart & Dobby), they nevertheless paved the way to bring out Harry's best qualities. While Lockhart prided himself with his fame, charm and good looks, Harry has proven himself humble and not at all hungry for fame and publicity. Dobby, the house-elf who tried to keep Harry away from Hogwarts failed because of Harry's determination to go back, and was even more determined to stay upon learning of the threat against the lives of the Muggle-borns. The events that happened to Harry and his friends has proven once again that Harry is not just a wizard, but also a compassionate and self-sacrificing individual who will go to great lengths in saving another person's life. And although he was suspected to be the Heir of Slytherin because he is a 'passel tongue', it nevertheless showed that his inherent goodness has the power to outweigh whatever qualities Voldemort passed on to him on their first encounter where he ended up with the lightning scar.<br />I recommend this book for all. I thought that this book was great, I enjoyed it greatly. I plan to read the rest, and others should too.	2002-05-10
1549704:US	51744771	RLVD5P1ZR2ZNS	0671690590	992126135	Master of Murder	Books	4	1	2	N	N	What Happened to harry	A review by Ellie<BR>This book was about a teenage boy named Marvin.  He was a famous author of Murder mystery type books.  Nobody knew his real identity and he didn't want them to.  He kept it a secret from everyone, except his little sister.  Then one day he was reading his fan mail and someone sent him a typed message saying \\"I know who you are\\" and he didn't know who it could be.  It was sent from the town he was living in too so it wasn't just a joke.  He started going out with this girl and she wanted him to find out who killed her brother Harry and how it happened.  He's trying to figure out an ending to the series he is writing and he has to finish it up in the next book<br />This story was good and it had a lot of suspense and mystery in it.  There were lots of things going on when you get like half way into the book.  But, the book started out a little boring and didn't really get into the plot until you were done with about a third of the book and then the whole mystery part of it starts to come in.  There were a lot of descriptive paragraphs in the book that made you feel like you were there with the characters in the story.  But, there were parts in the story where the author got a little too descriptive about unimportant things and that's when it would get a little boring, but that was only a few times.  <br />I would recommend this book to other high school students, mainly because it is about a high school student and there is a lot about his personal life and not just the mystery they are trying to solve in the story.  There's a lot of stuff to understand in the story but it all comes together in the end and it's pretty suspenseful.	2002-05-09
1550536:US	51744771	R3A781NOCYT1FH	0618070397	813338377	The Boy and the Samurai	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Set in Feudal Japan	A Review by Brock<BR>This was story of a boy name Saru, who was an orphan of war. His father was killed in battle and mother died when he was born. He lived alone, under a small shrine, after his foster mother died in a fire. He later lived with a Priest at the temple in his town. When he was there, he met a samurai who told him about his wife, who was being held hostage at the kings castle. Saru then devises a plan to get her out and escape that town to the ocean.<br />The story overall was really good. It's basically a fictional auto-biography. The main character is telling the story as if it were from his past. The plot was really good because there wasn't a main plot; it was just what happened to Saru during his life. For example, Saru was sleeping under a small shrine one day, and the next day he ends up meeting someone who will pay him to run an errand, then it tells about that he stopped an inn from being robbed. When you're reading it, you want to find out what's going to happen to him. Also, the main character is very realistic for that period of time. The book was set in feudal Japan, so Saru, a orphan who is very poor, is a very believable character. To illustrate, Saru must bow and stop every time he sees a Samurai, because if he doesn't than he mad e be kicked or even killed. So, overall, it was a really good book.<br />I would recommend this to most readers, however it needs to be someone who actually likes to read, otherwise they would probably get really bored. It's also good for people who are either interested in medieval times, or Japan in general.	2002-05-09
1550720:US	51744771	R29492AXQOWRI1	0671020250	781078652	See You Later	Books	2	4	9	N	N	A Bit Confusing	A review by Amy<BR>The book starts off in a love story sort of thing. Mark is crazy about this one girl, Becky. However Becky already has a boyfriend. Mark wants to do anything he can do to get her. Becky works at a computer store, which Mark visits often because his games he makes are for sale there. One day a strange person approaches Mark about his games. His name was Vincent, who also works computer games. He wanted help from Mark on his computer games. Vincent's girlfriend, Kara is interested in helping mark get Becky. She comes up with a plan about doing that. From that point on, the problems start to occur.<br />The characters that Christopher Pike created were very interesting. He had the shy boy who wanted the girl. Then the more suspicious guy, who wanted help. Then the nice, sweet girl, who didn't want trouble. Then of course, the suspicious girl, who always wanted to cause trouble. The author uses language, which is a bit confusing. He firsts starts off with the characters, and then quickly starts talking about the other characters. You have to be very involved to understand the story and to know what it is about. The author jumps from one thing to another.<br />I would only recommend this book to someone that gets very involved in books and can focus and understand confusing books. However if it is not that easy for you to understand a confusing book, that jumps from on thing to another; you shouldn't read it. I rate this book with 2 stars because it was good at the beginning then towards the middle it became unclear what was going on.	2002-05-09
1602194:US	51744771	R3HODZ87F7OBW2	0449223442	844406801	Daughter of the Stars	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Mysterious Past	A Review by Liz<br />Lacey Elliot has lived in Charlottesville, Virginia all her life. Her mother is recovering from breast cancer surgery and has never told Lacey anything about her Father. Lacey becomes curious about her family, which had only been, to her knowledge, her mother. Her mother receives and urgent letter that she can't handle so she asks Lacey to read it to her. To help out a mystery her mother isn't strong enough to solve, Lacey goes on a journey to her hometown she never knew of and starts finding interesting surprises about her family. Lacey has to deal throughout the story with being accused, protecting her mom and finding out the truth about what happened to her father.<br />This story is very hard to keep up with. I really liked the way the author ties in the history of Virginia(the civil war), her relatives of that time, with the present. When Lacey meets her Great-Great-Grandmother,  she tells her about all her past relatives that had lived in the house is lives in now. She tells their stories and as the book progresses, their pasts tie into her present. Her great-great-grandmother is very controlling and always seems to only tell Lacey what she wants to and sometimes chooses to leave important information out. Lacey's relationship with her mother also makes it seem like no one wants to let her in on her family's past and history. Her mother says, \\"I'm only trying to protect you\\" but doesn't realize how important it is to lacey to know about her family. When Lacey leaves Charlottesville to seek for answers, she learns many things about her mother that she didn't know which made Lacey feel more alone, thinking she doesn't even know her own mother. This story has bits and pieces of the Civil War and provides you with a bit of history along the way with a wonderful mystery. You never want to put the book down because surprising things just keep happening to keep the story alive.<br />I would strongly recommend this book to anyone who would enjoy agood mystery and who would like to know a little about the history of Virginia. It reads pretty easy but it really makes you think.	2002-03-28
1603741:US	51744771	RXNRE1TQE0WZN	0590228544	83801078	The Terrorist (Point)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	You Never Know Who You Can Trust	A review by Jill<br />The American Williams family was shocked to hear the news that a terrorist pointlessly murdered their eleven-year-old boy, Billy. His sister Laura is determined in every ways to find out who his killer is. Every day, Laura looks at anybody as a suspect, including her close friends. Being located in a school in London, where there are many different races of students, there could just be American haters, trying to state their opinion. Throughout the story, without the support of her family or friends, she tries to find the killer all on her own.<br />Although the story can drag on at times, it was well written, and really makes you wonder about terrorism. Especially at this time in the world, this book interested me. I have been wondering about terrorism, and what is was all about, this answered some questions I had about it. It is very unusual to see Laura try to find the killer, and even look at her friends in that way. Her friends don't give her much support in the book, either. They all tell her to get over it, when all she needs is to be comforted. The language is moderately easy to understand, and there were few words that I came across not understanding. <br />I recommend this book, particularly if you are having questions about terrorism. There are parts that are longer than they need to be, but other than that, this book is great. If you like to read about mystery, than this book is for you.	2002-03-27
1606809:US	51744771	R1IKP4HRKRXC34	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Torture at Camp Green Lake	A review by Benjamin<br />There is no lake at Camp Green Lake. This is what Stanley Yelnats finds out when he is accused of stealing some used shoes. You see, he didn't actually take them; they just fell from the sky! Well, at Camp Green Lake the warden makes every kid dig one five by five foot hole each day. Sounds crazy! Well, she is looking for a treasure that's buried under the surface, somewhere. Stanley and his friend run away, toward the big thumb (a mountain that is in the shape of a \\"thumbs-up\\" sign). The only problem is, the camp has the only water for a long ways. <br />This book was superbly written. It had a plot that never stopped. The beginning hooked my attention and didn't let go until I put the book down. Sachar's creative edge was seen in every word of the story. It kind of showed two stories, it kept going back and forth.<BR>One story told the tale of Stanley's adventure, the other of Camp Green Lake 100 years ago, before the drought. The characters were well described, to every last detail. Zero, Stanley's friend, was his only companion beside his family. They hiked up the mountain together. Stanley carried zero up the rest of the way when he passed out because of the heat. X-ray, the leader of Stanley's bunkmates, was also well described; Along with all of the other characters.<br />I would stalwartly recommend this book to anyone who wants a good laugh, or anyone who just wants a fun read. It is fairly easy, but very creative and downright entertaining.	2002-03-25
1623547:US	51744771	R1E7E2CQ6EI6UC	0380730227	904184666	The Man Who Was Poe	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Best ending ever	A review by Marc<br />  It's a cold, cloudy night in Providence, Maine and young Edmund is in search of he lost sis and aunty when he crashes in to a mysterious man. When the man picked himself up off the ground he reached back down to retrieve his letter he dropped. He then turned to a very apologetic Edmund and Edmund repeatedly said,\\" I'm terribly sorry sir.\\" The man looked right into Edmunds eyes and said, \\" Well you should be bumping into an old man like me.\\" The man then asked Edmund why he is out at such late hours. Edmund then explains himself to the man and the man became curious. The man questioned about the disappearance of Edmunds sis when Edmund asked him to help in the search of her. The man contemplated foe a few seconds and agreed but, under one condition, he deliver the man's letter to the address.<br />    Throughout the book Edmund and Mr. Dupin (the mysterious man in the beginning) encounter many mysteries including finding Edmund's auntie dead. The search for his sis turns into the search for a killer. <br />    I really enjoyed this book but their were a few boring parts that I really think did not belong in the book. I also like how suspenseful the book was and ending which is one of the best I have ever read. As my conclusion I rated the book 4 out of 5 stars and I recommend this book to just about everyone especially if you like any other of books containing or by Edgar Allen Poe.	2002-03-11
1627006:US	51744771	R1ELU7Q94EYQK0	9992730943	213879946	Kenge e dhimbjes se heshtur: Poezi	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Game of Deceit	A review by Ian<br />Joe hardy and a couple of his friends are in New York for a video game tournament. They hope that this trip will be vacation from detective work. Unfortunately they find themselves in the middle of a video game theft spree. After their friends game cartridges are stolen they set out on a mission to catch the cartridge thief who always seems to slip away at the last second.<br /> I really liked this book because of all of the twists and turns that the plot takes during the duration of the book. One second you think its this person then they're cleared by some new evidence. I especially liked how at the end the bad guy turns out to be the person you least expected. After the thief finds out that the Hardys and their friend have the cartridge he wants he doesn't give up until he's caught. My favorite part is when the thief kidnaps the Hardys friend just so he can get the cartridge. Unfortunately after he is caught he pays bail and gets out and comes after them again. The Hardys wanted a case free vacation but they found themselves in a game of deceit. <br />I really liked this book and I would recommend it to any one who likes a mystery.	2002-03-08
1627091:US	51744771	R24NAO3FE43XM6	006440627X	271867969	X Files #05 Humbug (X Files Middle Grade) (Vol 5)	Books	1	0	3	N	N	Weird things	A review from Cody<br />FBI agents Moulder and Sculley investigate strange murders in Gibson, Florida.  This isn't just a normal town it is a freak town or if you must Circus town.  It attacks without warning.  Now the agents are getting very weirded out, they have to solve this A.S.A.P.<br />The characters are weak except one Moulder he's so cool.  The others are lame.  They aren't believable.  The setting is especially unbelievable.  How could there be a whole town of freaks it's just not possible.  My book was really easy to read it was like a fourth grade book.  My book was pretty short so it went to the climax pretty fast.  The conflict isn't real at all how could a blob cause so much carnage it doesn't make sense.  This book doesn't seem to drag at all, this book is good like that.  I was relieved because this book was kind of dorky.  <BR> <BR>I wouldn't recommend this book it is not that good.  The best part was when they talked and introduced all the different freaks.  That was cool to see what special trick they could do.	2002-03-08
1627187:US	51744771	RCG4KHGTT8DG7	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Didn't want it to end	A review by Brian <BR>This book is about the fictional story of international terrorism, by Tom Clancy. This book is about the quiet CIA legend, John Terrence, Kelly, or otherwise known as the famous Mr. Clark, who founded Rainbow, an elite group of counter-terrorist specialists selected from the best organizations from around the world, and put into one unit serving as a secret Counter-Terrorist unit. The team undergoes many vigorous missions, including an Amusement Park takeover, and massive scheme involving a nerve gas agent distributed during the Sydney Olympic Summer Games, resulting in the death of over half the population on the planet...<br /> The plot of this story is amazing, and is far-stretched, and this book is has so many characters, and tells about this character from his or her point of view. In the beginning of the book, it starts off with a bang of excitement and an adrenaline rush-but then settles down in the middle of the book, but is very interesting anyway, of the different things happening, that will soon all come together in the very end of the book, where all the character's situations will wrap up in one huge explosion, it seems the end of all books by Tom Clancy are very exciting. Tom Clancy seems to tell this story rather fast paced, moving from character to character, which all speeds up in the very end of the book. Personally, I didn't want the book  to end, and would have liked it if the book was a little bit longer. It was somewhere around 800 pages long, but I went through it real fast. I was very surprised when and how the story ended, and was surprised that John Brightling didn't go to court or had a trial. I somewhat liked the way the story ended, it was creative, and a little funny, when John Clark left Mr. Brightling and his men in the jungle, alone. Overall,  I think it is a good story that is well put together and well thought out.	2002-03-08
1627328:US	51744771	R2YQOS9ABI22A6	0804106304	31287929	The Joy Luck Club	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Intricate detail about chinese women	A review by Caleb<br />This powerful story is about a club started in China many years ago during the Sino - Japanese War. It was formed by a group of four women who came together in a time of need, when people and families were being torn apart. The book follows sixteen stories of themselves, their daughters and future generations all molded together. The club was like a social event were they would play games, socialize or just eat; anything to bring hope and joy. The book jumps from one woman to the next, detailing very intricately the amazing stories on each Chinese woman and Chinese American women. This book deals with controversies about how the Native Chinese mothers want to raise the daughters in the Chinese customs and cultures. The only problem is the daughters were born American and they are stuck in the ways of the American culture. This story has many stories filled with drama and adventure that take place in past China to present day America.<br />The thing I really enjoyed about this work of art was the great amount of detail Amy Tan designed in my mind. The form of sentences and types of vocabulary she used was amazing. It's like Amy Tan created a blanket full of detail and wonder. Each story is woven into the next, a panorama of distinctive voices that all have a similar goal. There were a lot of different stories, and sometimes I was confused with all of the different names, but it wasn't to bad. This book really shows the constant struggles of cultures dying in America, the sadness of a mother not returning, the hope in friends and the love of family.<br />Overall, this book was excellent. What more can I say, it was on the New York Times best selling list for nine months in a row. I recommend this book for anyone who wants more wisdom and more knowledge on Asian or Chinese American cultures.	2002-03-08
1627383:US	51744771	R6BNRB3KSR9LI	0439136369	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Harry is Cool	A review by: Chris<br />Harry Potter a famous wizard is going to hogwarts, a wizard school, for his third year.<BR>He would be joining he best friends Ron and Hermonie. Hermonie was taking on a double schedule, Harry had a lot of new things to learn about defense, because the dementors always made him freak out like seizures. Ron was basically just trying to keep scabers his pet rat alive.<br /> This story was suspenseful, exciting and grabbing. I  didnt find much wrong with this book but in some places you get a little angry, but its all part of the story, the descriptions on the animals were terrific. One of the things that irrated me was I wanted to know what happened to Sirius Black.       <br />I recommend this book to anyone that enjoys to read.	2002-03-08
1627682:US	51744771	R2GNZPOC5841PB	0345375599	557985230	The Druid of Shannara (The Heritage of Shannara)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Impact of Nature	A review by: Jackie<br /> Quickening, the daughter of the ancient King of the Silver River, finds walker Boh dying after an attack by the shadowen Rimmer Dall. She heals Walker Boh and tells him that the Elfstone is in the hands of the Stone King, who seeks to turn the entire world to stone. They have to travel through the Charnal Mountains into the perilous, unknown land beyond. By doing so the face horrible creatures and magic which the Stone King has set to guard his citadel.<br /> This story was rather fascinating. Quickening is an elemental. \\" He used the tree as her body. The unicorn's fur as her hair. A dove for her heart...\\" She was the Kings own creation.<BR>I found it somewhat slow to read and had some old English I was not familiar with. But I was rather fond of the exciting danger.\\" He fell forward, gasping for breath, and the axe-blade rock dropped from his nerveless fingers.\\" <br /> I would recommend this book to all readers who enjoy fantasy filled with action and danger.	2002-03-08
1628061:US	51744771	R3JS2IBUAX6JFW	0531057097	178929434	Crossing	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Easy to Read and Interesting	A Review by Erik<br />This story is about a boy named Manny Bustos, trying to survive in the streets of Juarez, Mexico.   He sleeps in a cardboard box at night, fights to get money, and tries to cross the border to the United States.  On the way he meets a soldier and they develop a weird friendship. <br />I liked the characters Manny and Sergeant Robert S. Locke.  Manny was smart, clever enough to survive the streets.  Because he was smaller than the rest of the boys, it was harder for him to survive, but he still managed to do it.  Manny watched the dogs at the butcher shop and noticed how the smaller dog survived by stealing food when the bigger dogs were fighting over it.  It made him change his approach to getting food.  The new approach worked out for him.  Even though I've never met anyone who lives on the streets, it made me think about how much harder it is for people who live on the streets.  Sergeant Locke had two different personalities:  one that was in the mirror and the other was hidden inside.  The face that he saw in the mirror was like a true sergeant:  strict, military, perfectly groomed.  The other personality was kind and caring and warmer.  One example of his caring was when he felt sorry for the bull at the bullfight when everyone else was excited when the bull was killed.   The story is a perfect length.  It doesn't drag on and bore the reader, and it keeps him tuned in because it is interesting.   I was interested until the end, but I don't think it needed to be any longer.<br />I would recommend this book to readers who are eighth grade or below.  It's a pretty easy book to read.  It is easy-to-read, interesting, and shows how other people live and how people from other countries might want to come to the United States.	2002-03-08
1634649:US	51744771	R34F3PJH1WA4JE	0590416413	254490586	Fire (Losing Christina, No.3)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Little Danger and Mystery	A Review by Laura<BR>A girl named Christina who lives in Maine and is staying with Mr. And Mrs. Shevvington at Schooner Inn for the school year. The Shevvingtons seem really nice but Christina soon finds out that they aren't nice at all. They try to destroy the lives of teenagers that stay at schooner inn. <br />This book is very interesting; it had a good story line and way of hiding certain characters real identity. I like the way they expressed Christina's feelings toward other characters. I like that Christina is really strong and doesn't let the shevvingtons get her down or anyone else. Christina didn't really have anyone to turn to when the shevvingtons were trying to \\"take her down\\" because all the adults were on the shevvingtons side and some of the kids also. I thought this book was kind of inspiring, because Christina didn't care about what the other kids or adults thought about her. For a while Christina  did fall into the shevvingtons plot against her, but she was really strong and didn't let them get to her.<br />I would recommend this book to people who like to read books with a little danger and mystery. It is easy to fallow and very interesting.	2002-03-02
1634650:US	51744771	R2R5DBEFXRWSYX	0152928774	83736470	Harris and Me: A Summer Remembered	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Great Adventure	A Great Adventure<br />A Review by Cody<BR>A young boy, who's name is never mentioned in the story, is sent to spend a summer on his aunt and uncle's farm. Although he was raised in the city, living on the farm gave him an all kinds of adventures, stomach bulging meal, and hard chores with his cousin Harris. Harris was a wild, out of control, daredevil of a boy who always seems to get into some kind of trouble.<br />This story's subject really appeals to me because it takes place on a farm and is about two kids my age going on adventures and always getting in trouble, although they wouldn't always try to. It was a really funny book at times, but got serious at times. For example, when Harris broke the shotgun, and he made the boy take the blame, it was really serious because you never knew what was going to happen. The author chose the perfect length for this story. It was not to short, but it did not seem to drag. It might have been better if he would of extended it a little more, only because the ending was horrible and it just stopped.<br />I would strongly recommend this book to anyone who likes to read funny, adventurous, and exciting books. It is also easy, and fun to read.	2002-03-02
1634693:US	51744771	R16FEYIKRICVX3	053105893X	795553485	The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle	Books	4	1	1	N	N	One Brave Soul	A review by Katie <BR>A young thirteen-year-old girl named Charlotte Doyle going to school in liver pool is leaving to go back home to Providence Road Island aboard the mighty Seahawk. Once aboard she finds her self-being the only passenger, and very lonely, until she is befriended by the cook Zechariah. When he dies Charlotte is alone and is faced with a lot of sacrifices and adventures.<br />This Story was great. I loved the characters in it expressly Charlotte she was brave and Zechariah he was loyal and Captain Jiggery he was the person that put the chill down my spine. A lot was going on and so many things happened before the climax of the book. The author gave a lot of detail but not too much. The conflicts between everyone are existing never would have expected some of the stuff that happened it was all good. When the book was over I kind of wanted the book to keep going but I was kind of glad because in some parts it dragged on.	2002-03-02
1634717:US	51744771	R1B86DFFG376OB	0553287893	458314472	Rendezvous with Rama	Books	5	2	3	N	N	We Are Not Alone	A review by Steve<BR>The aftermath of the meteor impact in the near future results in the creation of Spaceguard, an advanced search-and-destroy system to prevent any further meteors and asteroids to hit Earth. In the 23rd century, Spaceguard finds a large, cylindrical object flying towards the sun at a thousand kilometers a second. This object, dubbed \\"Rama,\\" becomes a possible threat to the human race. As it closes in on an orbit around the Sun near Mercury, Earth sends the Endeavor to investigate its origins and purpose.<br />The characters are well developed in this story. I especially like Norton, the commander of the expedition. His character, as a commander, is pretty realistic, and often \\"refers\\" to the old James Cook for advice. The subject of this story very well appeals to me. It's science fiction, and about finding out origins and solving mysteries about unknown beings; these kinds of stories I enjoy. The story's language is understandable to me, but sometimes it's difficult to understand the \\"flashbacks\\" that appear here and there, such as Spaceguard's creation. The plot tends to accelerate strongly in the end, with plenty of details to tell what is going on. The conflict never changes, always trying to figure out how the Rama works. The story's ending is satisfying though. The ending, though, goes from a final search of New York, running away, then leaving Rama within a few pages, which is kind of dull, but still exciting in some way. Even so, the story is too long. It could have been shorter, because there was so much detail to read through that were just excess. I was relieved, though, when the story ended, because Rama had made its last, climatic move, and Dr. Rebera's realization of Raman's tendency to do everything in threes.<br />I would recommend this book to other readers. It's an easy read, and the details about Rama are astounding. I'm pretty sure only Science Fiction readers will appeal to this, because of the book's details about spaceships, Spaceguard, the Ramans, and the \\"biots.\\" Overall, please read this book. You'll probably like it.	2002-03-02
1634749:US	51744771	R139GOTE0VNKFL	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Not Worth All the Excitement	A Review by Pete<br />There is a young outcast in a family of jerks and lots of magical and things that are just [messed] up. He lives with his aunt, uncle, and cousin  and they are all mean to him. He finds out that some guy killed his parents and then he ends up going to a school of wizardry. He also has a weird scar that tells a story. No one ever liked him before he went to the school but a lot changes.<br />The characters were really unbelievable but imaginable. I don't really think that it is all as good as it is supposed to be. One thing is that this really bad guy they cant even say his name its like a sin or something. For example \\" It is just forbidden to speak of Voldemort!\\" I don't know. The subject was just odd is all I can say. Well, not really the subject just the sort of imaginary thing of it.<br />I would really not recommend it, but I hope that the movie is a lot better. I'm sure that a lot of people disagree with me but that's the way that I see it!	2002-03-02
1634750:US	51744771	R29YCOAL6RUGCQ	0449220710	129161607	Woman Without a Past	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Mysterious Adoption	A review by Heather<br />This story is about a woman named Molly who writes woman's mysteries. Her parents told her when she was young that she was adopted, and that they didn't know who her parents were. So Molly always accepted this and went on with life, when one day a man named Charles shows up at her work and says that she is identical to the woman that he was engaged to who lives down in Charleston, south Carolina on a huge plantation. So Molly goes with him and meets her twin sister Amelia and some other interesting characters who seem to not want her their. Then Molly finds out about a family murder, and about her dad that had a heart attack, and about her being stolen as a baby, and she is intrigued to figure out all of it.<br />Molly in this story is very curios, and very trusting. Molly would always believe what everyone else would say. When her crazy mother took her in the middle of the night Molly believed that she was going to take her somewhere nice, but she didn't. And even after that Molly trusted her when she took her backstage of an old theatre. This book is a good mystery, but Molly didn't really know what was going on so the reader doesn't know either. Most of the excitement happened when she was in the theatre at the end of the book. But the book isn't very exciting in the middle and beginning. The author doesn't give you that much information about the deaths, so it can be boring.<br />I would recommend this book for people who like mysteries without a lot of action. This is mostly a mystery book that makes you think about what happened and you have to examine the events in the book carefully to completely understand it.	2002-03-02
1634822:US	51744771	RQEXN10GHO7N4	0553273310	380161256	The Tombs of Atuan (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A magical Prisoner	A Review by Brandon<BR>At five Tenar a young girl was taken from her home, striped of her name, and deprived of a family all to be a high priestess. This priestess job was to guard and protect the Tombs of Atuan. One day she found a man wandering around in the Tombs of Atuan. She trapped her unwanted guest only to find that he is a wizard. Very weak, the wizard called Sparrowhawk with his powers useless had no way of escaping.<br />This is a very interesting story if you like new worlds and magic. This book is very climactic in making you want to read and not put it down. There are a few reasons I don't like this book though, some of them would be that I had trouble following who was speaking, and that there wasn't much magic involved. The author was very creative though in the aspect of names and the world, she made me believe that the world really existed. The plot was original and is a good expansion of the first book, and i'm sure that the third book will be just as great.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes new worlds, and is decently easy to follow, but has many challenging words to pronounce.	2002-03-02
1634825:US	51744771	R363I8D6BP68UT	0385729480	654972101	Both Sides of Time	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Torn Between Centuries	A review by Julia<BR>A teenage girl named Annie thinks only of love and romance and longs for it. She has a boy in mind that she is planning on turning into a romantic man this summer. It was that last day of school and Annie was so excited that she rode her bike strait to her boyfriend Sean's house. Although she liked him a lot he did not pay much attention to her so as he was working on his car, like usual, Annie took stroll to a nearby mansion that had been turned into apartments, but was destine to be torn down within the next few days. While she was there, thinking she must have drifted off to sleep, she dreamed of dancing in the Great ballroom. Annie felt like she was falling, but when she opened her eyes she had not fallen down, she fell back... back in time. <br />This book makes you want to just keep on turning the pages and savor every moment of it. I certainly enjoyed the way that the author explicitly described the courtyard and the gardens to make you feel as if you were actually there with the sun beaming down upon your face. Annie's relationship with her Boyfriend shows how much she is longing for love and affection that she is lacking from her always-working family. Reading this story gives you small yet surreal glimpses of what true love is all about, also what heartache is when you loose your true love. <br />I would strongly recommend this book to any one that is looking for a good read and wants to learn what people would do or sacrifice to get back to their true love after they have been lost.	2002-03-02
1634917:US	51744771	R1WLLM48DHTL51	0553562657	752442503	A Season for Goodbye (One Last Wish)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Total Tear Jerker	...<BR>The book begins with three best friends reuniting at a summer camp that they all formally attended together. The summer camp is a camp for terminally ill children, but Chelsea, Katie, and Lacey are returning to be counselors. The story is mainly told from Katie's point of view so it makes it easier to understand. At first she is struggling with making a decision to either go to a college to run track and make her dream come true, or to stay at home with her boyfriend to settle down and get married. She wants to run, but her boyfriend is pressuring her to stay. It's a tough decision but what makes it even harder is the fact that her boyfriend's, brother's heart is beating in her chest. She goes to the camp to get away from him so she can do some thinking, but when he shows up and surprises her at the summer camp, she wasn't too happy. The three friends run into their problems and they all get solved. The book ends happily and everything is all good. <BR> <BR>The reason that I said that this book was a tear jerker because it has really deep scenes that make you want to cry from sadness and joy. I liked this book, it made me think about terminally ill children and influenced me to donate money to them. The book went by faurly fast and I loved it.<br />I would recommend this book to anybody who likes to read teen books that make you cry...because it will!!	2002-03-02
1634935:US	51744771	R11TQI44PFPA72	0833546279	925672149	Don't Look Behind You	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Change in Life	A review by Erika Evans<BR>A teenage girl, April Carrigan, lived in Norwood, Virginia. She lived with her mom, her brother Bram, and her father. She had a boyfriend; Steve Chandler and she couldn't wait for the junior-senior prom coming up. Her dad was always away on business and he was in Washington D.C. for a trial. He mysteriously was shot at in the courtroom and it put the whole family in danger. April and her family had to move from hotel to hotel every night. They got into the Witness Protection Program and had gotten new identities. They had to move to Florida and fear for their life that no one will shoot them. <br />I liked this story a lot. It had some parts that were really dumb but overall it was good. I especially liked the way the author made the characters act so scared and full of fear. It was like you were there running from the murderer. I also liked the way that the author made Aprils character so emotional. She had to go through so much and as a teenager its frustrating. She had to deal with leaving her boyfriend, changing her whole life because she was in danger. She had to go through a lot and deal with so much. It's actually very admiring. She just handled everything with much emotion. I just thought this book was really good. (...)<br />Overall I would recommend this book to anyone who likes scary and or horror books. It is truly a good book and if you like this kind of book you'll truly agree. So go out and read this book.	2002-03-02
1635178:US	51744771	R31HLP2VUOOVSO	0440407532	14133693	The River	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very realistic Characters	A Review by Mike<BR> In the River it is the sequel to Hatchet and it is about this kid Brain who survived in the wilderness with nothing but a hatchet and he had to build his shelter and hunt his food this isn't a very easy task for a 14 year old who only has a hatchet and normally relies on his every day things like food and clean clothes. Well in The River Brain is asked to go back to the wilderness and face the horrible experience that he has faced in the past. The government comes and asks Brain to go in the wilderness with one of there doctors to see his thoughts and emotions. They want to make a survival book about him because he is the only person that knows the real thing. He eventually accepts the invitation because they have the whole thing planed and mapped out so Brain feels safe. He finds out that it was a very bad decision.<br /> I liked the book a lot it was good in describing the situation and the characters were very realistic and they weren't stupid characters. I think that Gary Paulsen could have thought about a better way to put these two books together. The story was put together well but could have been better and the length of the book was a good length I didn't feel like falling asleep when I was reading this story. The plot was good it was something that could be a real situation. The ending in the book also could have been better. Most people would be able to understand the stories language it was very easily to understand and there were no words that I didn't understand. The story is some types of book I like. <br /> I definitely recommend this book to a lot of people because the book was good and it kind of makes you feel like you are with the characters in this story. I    would recommended this book to almost every age group.	2002-03-02
1635182:US	51744771	R3UAWHTGZOENNK	0553274295	375745868	Where the Red Fern Grows	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Determination can Overcome Anything	A Review By: Adam<BR>The story is about a young boy that really wants to hunt. One day when he is out in the woods exploring like he always like to do he came across an area were some fisherman where fishing. There is were he found a magazine with an for sale advertisement for two young hunting dogs. After that the story is about him getting his dogs and the fun and tragedy and comes with it.<br />The story Is a good book. It is very detail and makes you want to read it over and over. You are able to feel their pain that they feel and your hurt when their hurt. The book is a very emotional book. Many others that have read the book have cried at or about the ending. At times the book can be slow but that's ok. You still want to keep reading. The ending is sad but suitable for the story. It shows that not all stories can end on a good note.<br />I would recommend this book to about everyone. Even if you don't like to read or if your not into the whole emotional stuff. The book is long but it does go by fast. You don't feel like your reading much but then the book is done. I think that all people will enjoy this book, I know that I did.	2002-03-02
1635186:US	51744771	RM6IZLQDKR8DB	0385322542	150086152	The White Fox Chronicles: Escape, Return, Breakout	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Cody, Rebel Leader	...<BR>In the year 2057 a boy stands against the evil CCR, The Confederation of Consolidated Republics.  His name?  Cody Pierce, or known to the CCR as White Fox.  The CCR thinks that he is one of the best pupils in their \\"brainwashing\\" classes, but he is really planning to save his fellow political prisoners and escape.  Will Cody liberate the camp and defeat the CCR? There's only one-way to find out. Read the Book!!!<br />This was another one of Gary Paulsen's classic adventure/survival books.  He has made Cody able to survive on his own.  Its adventure because one time when Cody was bruised and sore he helped a fellow escape-e not become dehydrated by putting a rock in each of there mouths.  He also, when they were thirsty, cut open a cactus to drink the liquid inside.  This is an example of an adventure book because Cody blows up an entire army base!!! (Not the one he is trapped in)<br />I would strongly recommend this book to anybody that is a Gary Paulsen fan, or anybody that likes adventure/survival books.	2002-03-02
1635199:US	51744771	R2X5PXUUFK1MDB	0679892648	838154049	Sammy Keyes and the Hotel Thief	Books	3	0	1	N	N	The clues	A Review by Lisa<BR>A young girl named Sammy Keyes lives with her grandmother in her retirement home. Sammy is not allowed to live there because of the law. She has a friend named Marisa who lives in Lakewood Springs. Sammy's mother, Lana is trying to become a movie star in Hollywood. But Sammy does not like her mother so she calls her Lady Lana instead of mom.<br />I liked the characters in this story. The characters that I liked most are: Sammy, Mr. Hudson, Marisa's little brother and the girl with the red hair. The reason why I liked these characters was because of how they play their roles in the story. These characters are believable. Sammy is believable because she is a curious girl who gets into trouble. Like when she is at her grandmother's apartment for a while she takes the binoculars and looks at other people and watching what they were doing. Mr. Hudson is believable and he is funny. Like if Sammy went over to his house for a question Mr. Hudson would be talking to his stuffed dog like it was alive. Then when Sammy would be talking to him he would face a pole or a coat rack and be searching for her hand. Then he would scratch his head and ask what happened to his hand. Marisa's brother is believable because he is like a normal annoying little brother. Like when he left his sister's sight and bought $10 worth of candy bars to eat while he watched the fish in the pet store. The girl with the red hair is believable because she is your average selfish brat. For example when she asked for money from Marisa but didn't get it, she stuck a pin in Sammy's butt. The subject of the book appealed to me. The type of the subject in this book is something that I have been interested in. The book is funny. For example like when a girl gets stuck in the butt with a pin and when Mr. Hudson kept talking to a coat rack instead of a girl. Or when there was a mean old lady always sitting outside of her apartment so she could find a peep of evidence to get someone in trouble.<br />I recommended this book to other readers. The reason why I recommend this book to other readers is because it is a funny book that would mostly interest people. The kind of reader that would like this book is a person who likes mystery and a person who likes funny books.	2002-03-02
1635251:US	51744771	RQ689R5RNIX4W	0375803564	971240856	Dear Austin: Letters from the Underground Railroad	Books	1	1	6	N	N	Very Slow Paced	A review by Lacy<br />This book was about a group of boys named Levi, Jupiter and Possum. This story takes place back when slavery was a big issue, when the North and South were battling against one another. They were living in the north with Miss Amelia because they didn't want to have any part of the slavery. Levi always writes to his brother Austin who he doesn't see that often. <br />In this book there isn't just one plot there is a series of things going on in a lot of the letter there is a different topic and new things going on. Like when they were scared the bully was going to throw his dog into the river from the cliff and then the author starting talking about Levi having to take dance classes. I think that the author could have explained some areas better and put more detail in to what he was explaining.  Some of the conflicts are expressed pretty well but some others really need some work on. I couldn't really follow a lot of the book because it was a hard book to get into. The length of this book was pretty fair. It probably should have been longer and add some more detail in it. I was happy when I finished the book; I thought it would never end. It was just so boring. The vocabulary of this book was easy to understand. I didn't have any trouble reading words but some of the sentence was confusing.<br />I would highly recommend you not to read this book. It is really hard to get into. This book was a very slow pace book. If you like being confused then I recommend this book to you but for the people like me who don't  like being confused don't read the book.	2002-03-02
1635252:US	51744771	R2UQP6OD2XX3IP	0440226791	573905427	Forbidden City: A Novel of Modern China	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Tien An Men Square Rebellion	....<br />This story is really well written because it is from the view point of Alex so you get a lot of additional input, which puts it into better words because he too is a high school student. The only thing I had a problem with was because a great deal of the names people and places are Chinese, name get confusing and you start to mix them up. The relationship between Alex and Lau Xu is really unique because he finds out Lau Xu is a spy but still he really looks up to him and thinks of him of a friend. When he died Alex was just so hysterical he fell face first on the street a few times. This is a really good story to read for some good information on the infamous student rebellion and it is a lot of fun to read as well.<br />I would really recommend this book to others because it is a really good story that gives you a first-rate point of view from some one who was there and lived through it.	2002-03-02
1635256:US	51744771	R1UJEUGI324AJX	015284077X	498981922	Taking Sides	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Nothing surprising happens	A Review by Elizabeth<BR>The story \\"Taking Sides\\", the main characters are Lincoln and his 2 new friends, (James and Monica). This story is about a young boy who moves from an old run down town to a nice town. Lincoln is Mexican, an everyone at his new school are white. Everyone looks at him differently because of that. He his having a hard time getting to know people since he played from one of the schools that the kids there don't like.  His new coach is always giving him a hard time. <br />This story I thought was good, but it was a little too short. The could have had a little twist to it to surprise people. In this story a man breaks into Lincolns house (in chapter 5) an trys to taking things, but the man was caught but runs out the door. Right after I read that I put the book down and thought why didn't he go after the man. Why did he just stand there. That part of the book I didn't like.<br />The plot of this story is very simple, nothing surprising really happens. I thought something could have happened with the coach, but nothing interesting happened. The climax of this story never really happens. You get into the book and for get about the climax. An I never once thought about the climax while reading the book. Over all I liked the book, and I think it was good.	2002-03-02
1635305:US	51744771	R19DXQFBLAQN31	0689811829	943666531	The Fat Man	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Murder's Plot	... Loomis is a small, simple town where Colin and his family have lived their whole lives. Everything is like it always has been and everyone knows everyone else. This all changed the day Colin met Herbert Muskie or the fat man. The fat man coming to Loomis changes everything. It all started when Colin went for a walk to their grandparents for a little food. It takes place during the war so Colin's family does not have very much food or money. This is where he met Herbert. To everyone else Herbert is kind and funny but Colin sees him for what he really is; a liar, cheater and a murder. Herbert manipulates Colin's father and mother into believing that they can trust him. Colin and Verna (the fat man's step-daughter) are determined to prove to them that he is not trustworthy.<br />   My book was not at all what I thought it would be. I didn't know what to think when I saw the title. I didn't really like the subject that much. When I read the back it was talking about the war, so I assumed it would be about the troubles of warfare to Colin. Instead it only briefly mentioned that the only work Colin's dad could get was working in Herbert's yard. It is mostly a suspense story. This is because you never really know to what measure Herbert will take a situation to get what he wants. Throughout the story he is obviously sneaking behind everyone's backs with something; the problem is nobody can figure out what until one night Colin's dad went with Herbert to Aukland.  At first I didn't really like the way the author wrote the book. It seemed to wander and get ahead of it and then go back to what it was originally talking about. The sentences were all right but it just got confusing at times. The story seemed to be just right. That is except for the end. It seemed to drag on and on and then it just ended. I wanted it to go one a little more about what happened after, but it just ended suddenly. It told a little bit about after what happened, but I wanted to know so much more. <br />I would recommend this book for people who like a little suspense. It was overall a very well written book and I enjoyed it. It is fairly smooth reading but a little hard to follow at other times. I give it a 3.	2002-03-02
1635368:US	51744771	R2YXV9WD8T1KOK	0385322984	210475655	Thin Ice	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Her Faith Was Never Lost	A review by Bree<BR>Scott and Arden are brother and sister, their parents died in a plane crash when they were little. Scott has been raising Arden ever since he can remember. Arden and Scott have learned over time not or intrude or become too nosey about each other's lives.<br />This book was perfect for me. It was written in a language that I could easily understand. However, it was not so easy that I felt that I was reading in an elementary school level. The author explains things clearly and doesn't move the pace of the book too fast. There were a few unfamiliar words but it pushed me to read beyond my level. The subject of this book also made it perfect for me. I enjoy reading books and \\"real situations.\\" Thin Ice is a serious book that really puts the reader into the characters shoes. <br />I would strongly recommend this cook to young readers who enjoy reading stories about real situations. I would recommend it for 6th grade and above because of the content and concepts of the book.	2002-03-02
1635386:US	51744771	R644TXOV9NOAC	0439136369	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	Books	3	0	1	N	N	An Exciting Adventure	...Harry Potter is the one series of books that I really got into. I didn't really like reading until I picked up this up from a friend. After reading the first and second book, I couldn't stop. Harry Potter has finished his second year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and can't weight to start his third year. It starts out with Harry inflating Aunt Marge, a visitor of the Dursley's. Fearing that he would get punished from the Dursley's and the people who work at the Ministry of Magic, he packed his belongings, grabbed Hedwig, and headed out to the streets. While thinking where he was going to go in the pitch-black street, a triple-decker bus appeared out of nowhere and picked him up. I was brought to a place called \\"The Leaky Cauldron\\" and decided to stay at the hotel on top of the bar. Since he was worried about getting in trouble from the Ministry of Magic, he didn't really do anything until Ron and Hermione showed up to stay at the inn also. Ron Weasley's dad told him about Serious Black, an escaped prisoner from Azkaban, and how he was after him.	2002-03-02
1635424:US	51744771	R3GSSWQ85HQ3A0	0345370740	596230492	The Scions of Shannara (Heritage of Shannara, Book One) (The Heritage of Shannara)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Missions of a Dead Druid	A Review by Ashley<BR>The federation is starting to take over the four lands out ruling magic but Par and his brother Coll still use it trying not to let the people forget the stories. With the federation chasing them they journey throughout the lands and find themselves sent on a mission to find the Sword of Shannara. If they don't find it the Shadowen, creatures made entirely of magic will rule the lands and humans will be their slaves.<br />I really like the way Terry Brooks described Par and Coll as people just like everyone today. They have a very good bond ad brothers and what Par does Coll will do even if he doesn't agree. He does it to protect and be with his brother. Coll is completely against going after the Sword because it's been lost for three hundred years but when Par insists he goes along with it. I also like the subject. It is a fantasy book and it talks about creatures completely made of magic and they only way to destroy them is by using magic against them. It also talks about the federation rule and how the Shadowen and federation are connected in some way but nobody knows how. Throughout the hardships the three that were sent on a mission must over come all difficulties and complete the mission or horrid things will start to happen.<br />I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who enjoys fantasy because it is really good and Terry Brooks has the ability to hook the reader in and you want to finish the book and read the others.	2002-03-02
1635426:US	51744771	RDCMNCTP55OND	0425133516	853466247	The Hunt for Red October	Books	3	0	6	N	N	Clancy, this is a little Confusing...	A review by Philippe <BR> This story is about a submarine called the Red October where the crew and their captain were assigned a mission to escort it to East Side Bay. It uses the technology of a silent propulsion system that's so quiet that the Soviet Fleet or the United States wouldn't be able to detect Red October. Captain Jones wanted to have a certain assistant chief who thinks he knows the nature of the Red Fleet operation. So, recruit one of the best C.I.A agents and end up with a veteran name Jack Ryan, who has is known for his performance in other Tom Clancy novels like Patriot Games. After Ryan's training, he's finally ready to embark on a dangerous mission, which you must figure out yourself.<br />I can't believe how confusing this book was to me. There were characters that enter the story from left to right. But of course, there are always the main characters that are known best. Personally, I liked Jack Ryan because of his commanding skills that showed how intelligent he was. For example, during a battle he already knew the enemy's tactics already that's explained in good detail. \\"We cannot run from him- he is faster. We hide- his sonar is better. He will move east, use his speed to contain us and his sonar to contain us and his sonar to locate us. By moving west, we have the best chance to escape. This he will not expect.\\" I liked the way he could tell what to do before the enemy attempts their strike. But the language in this story is a little complicated, using unfamiliar words or names like pessimistic, Shabilikov or interdiction. The language also had a little bit of profanity, which is usually Tom Clancy's style that he uses in other books that he writes. Some of it was easy to follow and some sentences felt long to read. I felt this book dragged its story a little too long. It had some information that was quite confusing to me and almost threw me off. This book should have cut to the action and the important parts instead of a long briefing orhow the story changes from one place to another. But I felt the story should have continued because the end felt dull when they said that Jack Ryan fell asleep on an airplane for the first time. SO WHAT! At least they could say more on what Jack will do next.<br /> I would recommend this story to either adults or advanced readers who can understand concepts of submarine battles. It's a good book in all but should be carefully read to understand the story.	2002-03-02
1635437:US	51744771	R397LS33ARG3J	0375801928	4129691	Gone from Home: Short Takes	Books	2	1	6	N	N	Jumping all over the Place!	A Review by Jake<BR>This book's main characters are \\" Sweetness \\" , a girl in the book that is the main character , and a boy and also her mentor Walter. Her and Walter meet in school one day in the lunchroom of their school. Walter was eating his lunch all by himself , like he always does , while Sweetness approached him. They were a little scared of eachother at first but then they became best of friends. <br /> Walter had a rough childhood which included his mother and father excluding him from them in a way that it really brought him down. His brother died at a young age in a drive-by shooting while Walter was at a young age also. He is emotionally scared from his death but over time he has become a better person because of it. He now spends his time continuing school while he is a underground artist on the side. The pictures that he draws are different than others artists work-he draws pictures of barns. Whenever he sees a barn that is obscure to him , he draws it. He had a reputation of drawing alot in his early years  of school. He would draw pictures on the walls of the school in alot of places that he went. Because of this he obviously got in trouble. This is what attracted Sweetness to Walter. She knew that he was different than everone else so she made an effort to become friends with him. Throughout there years of friendship , Sweetness would meet Walter at the neighborhood park in which he would pick her up in his truck and they would go to a secluded area so they could spend time together and have picnics. Overtime , Sweetness and Walter friendship transformed into a relationship.<br /> If I were to rate this book , I would probably rate it a 2. Why would I rate this book a 2? Because it is a very complicated book to understand and it never really hes a rising action. It never really stuck to one plot , it was always jumping all over the place which is very confusing. Because of this it was a very boring book and I would not recommend this book to anyone.	2002-03-02
1635439:US	51744771	R2NR04IIKKSEN1	0531087425	836007487	The Eagle Kite: A Novel	Books	1	0	12	N	N	Bad Times	A Review by Jon Clegg<BR>The story begins with a young boy named Liam. He is currently in school and is living with his mother in a small apartment near a burned down church. One day he looks out his window to notice there is a bum outside with a sign saying he needs money he's got AIDS. The story goes into his father and how he's fighting Aids. <br />I didn't enjoy reading this story at all and its not common for me to say that because I am very picky when it comes to books I can not enjoy almost any of the books because they aren't on a topic I enjoy. It wasn't at anyway adventurous or outgoing it was extremely boring I caught myself sleeping while reading it at many points. The main character has some pretty dumb problems that everyone has but he can't deal with them. I think it was a waste of ink and paper! The first part of the book wasn't even necessary when he meets the homeless person with aids. It didn't really blend into the story that well.<br />I would not recommend this book to anyone it wasn't even fun to note read I should have never picked it up off the shelve it is a big waste of everything in the world that was put into it!	2002-03-02
1635488:US	51744771	R1CONI7925RNPL	0064403475	697288733	Is Anybody There?	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Strange Book	...This story is about a kid (Marcus) and his mom. His mom rented the apartment on top of the garage out to a guy named Nick. Marcus's dad died awhile back, so it was just him and his mom. Nick and Marcus's mom were getting close, and Marcus didn't want another dad. Marcus found out that Nick had a son (Blake), but Nick hadn't seen Blake for years. Nick's x-wife got custody and disappeared with him. It is a surprising end and I didn't think that the book would end the way it did.<br />The language in this story was pretty descriptive (Robbie plunked back down). The story is not very efficient and it drags on and on, it keeps talking about one matter and keeps going on about it.<br />I would recommend this book to kid's that like short fast stories, but if you like long and very involved books don't pick this one.	2002-03-02
1635490:US	51744771	R2LE978QR7DWM4	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	1	1	N	N	War of Assassins	...<BR>The Duke Atreides is given control of the planet Arrakis by the Emperor.  Arrakis, also known as \\"Dune\\", is the only known planet to locate the most precious substance in the universe, the spice.  The spice controls everything.  It prolongs life, permits space travel, and is also an extremely addictive drug.  The Duke's son, Paul, and his wife, Jessica, must secure the planet Arrakis and restore control as orders by the Emperor.  Their greatest enemy, the Harkonnen, threaten to retake control of the planet after holding it for 80 years.  The Harkonnen try everything from assassination to invasion secretly backed up by two legions of the emperor's own elite troops, the Sadukar.  Paul and his mother are forced to flee their home and their only hope lies in the Fremen, an extremely rugged desert people. <br />The characters in this story were absolutely amazing.  Each one had is own personality, habits, and ways of doing things.  They sounded like they didn't even come from the same author.  They were very believable and make this futuristic sci fi story even more fascinating.  Throughout the book you really see the main character evolve and change as the story progresses.  He changes from an intelligent young boy nervous on a new planet to an extremely disciplined brilliant man.  All the characters are extraordinarily well woven into this complex sometimes confusing story.  Even the Mentats, human computer like minds, have a whole different view on things.  Everyone seems like a real possible person put into those circumstances.<br />I strongly recommend this book to anyone who likes long, complicated books.  This book really makes you think about everything.  Most of the concepts in the book were very interesting.  This book almost needs to be read several times.	2002-03-02
1635539:US	51744771	R1J2DUUKJ0RWM4	0440983568	730368666	Stranger with My Face	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Similar Face	...<BR>A seventeen-year-old girl named Laurie Stratton loves on an island. She has a brother named Neal and a sister named Megan. <BR>On the first day of school, Laurie met a girl named Helen. Helen taught her about \\"astral projection.\\"  Astral projection is when you sleep; you can go into this whole other state of being. It is really weird. Laurie tried to do astral projection a couple of times but she failed all the times. She tried it again and succeeded. She met this guy named Jeff. Laurie told him all about \\"astral projection.\\" Jeff's face was burnt because he got in a motorcycle accident. It was really bad. Laurie one night saw this girl that looked exactly like her. She was scared.<BR>I personally liked the characters in the story because all the situations could happen in real life. They all were written well. I liked Helen because she was honest to Laurie and that is what friends do, she was very respectful and she taught Laurie a lot of stuff. I also liked Laurie because she was a good main character. She was also very busy all the time with school, friends and family and I can relate to that.<BR>This story is very, very scary and it keeps you on the edge of your seat. If you are person that likes scary books, this is one to read.<BR>The author used language that teenagers would use and I thought that was very good. It was very easy to follow because I knew all the words and could understand them very well.<BR>The conflicts in the story are very real because when Laurie finds Gordon with another girl, which is very realistic because it happens all the time. I thought the ending was good because I didn't expect it at all. I love books like that.<BR>The length of the book was good because it wasn't too short or too long, it was just right. I sort of wanted the book to go on because it was really well written. I just seemed to stop.<BR>I would definitely recommend this book to people that like scary stories or people that just like to read any type of book.	2002-03-02
1635558:US	51744771	RRR52L37YCJE2	0671020250	781078652	See You Later	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Alright book	A Review by Carol<BR>Mark has just graduated from high school and met a girl named Becky. Mark fell in love with Becky but she was dating Ray. Becky and Mark become pretty good friends. Mark meets a couple, Vincent and Kara. They all become good friends quickly. Kara is obsessed with trying to break up Ray and Becky. Things begin to get weird with everybody, and a strange guy shows up.<br />The ending is totally unexpected. I would say my favorite character is Mark, is role is so realistic and he just seems like an average guy. Some aren't very believable though. This book wasn't really any interest to me. The moods in this story change around a lot. There are lots of lessons of love in the book. There weren't any complicated sentences to read or anything. It was easy to follow the story until the end. The end just confused me. The conflicts in this book are not real at all. The climax occurs about halfway through the book. I think if the book would have been any shorter it wouldn't have given you enough information, it's just the right length to read. Sometimes when the scenes are changed it's confusing and I don't understand them. But, the author does describe things okay. The only thing that sort of disappointed me was the ending and some description settings. <br />I would only recommend this book to people who enjoy mystery and stories that have to do with aliens and space. It's an average book to read but, some settings are confusing. I didn't enjoy this book but, others	2002-03-02
1635586:US	51744771	R28FR2YQO4PVE0	0590484966	262093756	Flash Fire	Books	3	0	1	N	N	You Can't Stop It	A Review by Chris<BR>Danna, Hall, Beau, and Elizabeth didn't think that the fire would trap them in their own neighborhood. No one even thought that the fire could make to Pinch Canyon, but as they soon learned the fire choose where it wanted to go and nothing could stop it. The fire would skip over entire houses and burn the next to the ground. They all get in a car and start driving away when all of the sudden he stops and tells Hall to drive and gets out. He starts back at the fire for something or maybe someone.<br />This book can get confusing because from chapter to chapter the point of view that the story is being told changes. In one chapter the story is talking about Danna's parents in L.A. and in the next it is talking about Pinch Canyon witch is about 40 miles away. The characters are very realistic. They show true friendship by helping each other out of the fire, and to safety. I don't understand why Beau goes back into the fire for the thing he did go back for. This book was fairly easy to understand by the use of language used, but would be a lot easier if the story didn't jump around as much. <br />I would recommend this book to anyone that likes adventure books that can get confusing if you don't pay attention as you are reading.	2002-03-02
1635602:US	51744771	R2G3KYWOZ6CMBS	0064400204	235213966	Sounder	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Dog is Man's Best Friend	A Review by Rickie <BR>This a story about a young boy were love and trust come into play with mans best friend. Sounder has never left the side of the boys father, but because of the difficulties of being a colored his father is faced with a very large problem, he is sent to jail. Not only does the boy try to find his father after being taken away by the white police so does Sounder. This creates many obstacles for the dog, and for the boy.  Throughout the story the boy searches for his father, trying to find him from what he has heard about where they're keeping the slaves.  But he is not the only one looking for his father so is Sounder.  Along the way they will get into trouble and even encounter deadly obstacles, but at the end it is a sigh of relief, feeling that Sounders job has been completed.<br />This is a story for people that really enjoy a book that is not very structured.  It feels as though as you read it, it goes in sequences, almost as though the events weren't planned, and that's what I mean about not being structured. I myself like books that don't really tell you what am about to happen in the next chapter, page, paragraph etc. This book does the exact opposite it tells you and leads you up to what is going to happen so its not really a surprise.  For example, when they took the father away, they just through that part into the book like the readers wouldn't notice. There was no suspense or reason for why they took him and that really made me mad. What I especially like that the author did was; it expressed the saying \\"Dog is Mans best friend.\\" It shows this by Sounder never giving up, and never looking back home. He always was trying to find his master, and that showed determination. This book <BR>expressed that SAYING so well it was unbelievable. It had so much details even though at times it seemed graphic; it still made this book a wonderful read.<br />I would highly recommend this book to any dog lover/owner. It really makes you want to reachdown and give your dog a huge just for being you friend and companion. That's how good of a book I thought it was. It was a fairly easy read; you don't get messed up at all or get loosed in the book even though it had numerous settings. It keeps on track fairly well.	2002-03-02
1635630:US	51744771	R18VAKPIIXMWZW	0440228441	442710231	I Know What You Did Last Summer	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Revenge	A Review by Meghan<BR>One night, while coming home from partying, Barry hit a young boy riding a bicycle. Also in the car were Julie, Ray, and Helen. They all panicked and then called the police anonymously. They made a pact never to tell anyone about the accident. It's been a year now and someone's out for revenge. They all get some sort of sign that someone else knows about it, but who? No one ever told anyone else.<br />I like how this book keeps you in suspense. The story leads up to the climax very well with everyone getting notes or phone calls. The author doesn't give anything away about the person sending the notes' is, until he reveals himself. You can easily follow when the author switches from one point of view to another. The conflict of someone out to get you seems real because you can kind of imagine someone doing that. The characters Lois Duncan has brought \\"alive\\" seem very realistic (especially if you've seen the movie). They were all really believable. I kind of wish the book would extend so you could see what happens after everything has happened.<br />I would recommend this book to people if you like suspense and mystery. I think this is a really good book. It's easy to follow the book.	2002-03-02
1635639:US	51744771	R3RT3915WNQFJW	038532247X	10130980	The Haunting	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Spooky Start	A review by Jessie<BR>Lia is a 15-year-old girl who only wants to fit in with all the women in her family.  She is the only woman who hasn't yet done anything worth honoring.  Her mother and father have a big dream of adopting many children who do not have a home.  At the start of this story Lia and her parent do not see eye to eye on this.  But through the story she matures and sees how much the lonely children need to be apart of her family.  The only thing that is holding them back is Graymoss.  Graymoss is a plantation with a beautiful house and many acres.  Lia's Great Grandmother left this house to Lia's mother, when she died.  There is only one problem with the house.  In the daytime the house is wonderful, but after the sun goes down and darkness sneaks up strange, unexplainable things start to happen.  The ceiling turns into shrieking, terrifying faces and the walls whisper something.  Graymoss has been in the family for a long time.  The last person to sleep a whole peaceful night in it was Charlotte Blevins, an ancestor of Lia's family.  The only clues Lia has to set the evil inside the house free is Charlotte Blevins's diary and an old copy of Favorite Tales of Edgar Allan Poe, both of these play a large part in unlocking the secrets left behind in Graymoss.<br />This story always kept me at the edge of my seat.  I could not put it down once I started reading.  I enjoyed all of the characters in the story every much.  My favorite was the main character Lia, because she was very believable and made you feel like you were apart of the book.  Like the way the author always told her thoughts made me feel like I was right next to her.  On example of this is when Lia is in the car with her parents and is thinking about their dream.  She was very angry because she thought that the other children would replace her.  Another example of the author telling everything that Lia was thinking in her mind was when she was at Graymoss after dark.  \\"Leave this horrible place! a voice in my head kept saying.  Get out of here!  Run!\\"   The language the author used in this book was very easy to follow.  The story was told in the way that every age could enjoy reading it.  The author gave great details to enhance the story.  An example of this is when Lia and Jonathan are in Graymoss and it turned dark.  \\"The wind pushed against me.  The whispers turned to shouts, and invisible fingers pulled through my hair and along my face.\\"  The details make you feel like you are right there next to Lia.  I thought the length of the story was perfect.  The author covered everything.<br />I recommend this book to any one who enjoys suspenseful, spooky stories.  I do not recommend this book to any one who gets nightmares easily or does not like thrilling surprises.  The Haunting was a great book.	2002-03-02
1635652:US	51744771	R3GLEO2DKKAA8M	0440200946	524521759	The Crazy Horse Electric Game (Laurel-Leaf Contemporary Fiction)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	The Crazy Game of Life	A review by Nate<BR>Willy a hometown hero is about to go on the ride of his life. After a water skiing accident he found out that he couldn't play his all time favorite game baseball. He has gimp in his left leg, after months of and months of rehabilitation he can finally walk. First he gets back to school, and then he realizes that the only one thing that is really important to his family is that he plays baseball. So the only real thing that he really wants to do is run away. He runs away to go see his aunt.<BR>When he gets to his aunts house his aunt welcomes him with open arms.  He tells his story to his aunt, and in return his aunt calls and talks to his dad. Then Willy goes home. And I can't tel the rest because it would give up the best part of the story.	2002-03-02
1635700:US	51744771	R2VAU0LE4YQOD6	0679886966	541511551	A Part of the Sky	Books	2	3	13	N	N	An uneventful life story	A review by Kayvan<BR>A boy, Rob Peck, his father, mother, his aunt and their lonely farm out in the middle of no where. Rob has a normal family he goes to school on the weekdays while his father stays home and tends to the farm. His mother and aunt take care of the house. But it all changes in one day when Robs dad dies. Nothing is the same is after that, Rob is left with a huge burden to take care of his mother aunt while still attending school on the week days!<br />This story is very uneventful the characters are plain and simple. I liked the way the book described in detail everything that happened. I liked Robs friend Becky Long, she  was always supportive of Rob and his poetry and always gave him her lunch. Throughout the story Rob and Becky be come better friends he tells her all about the foreclosure  on his home and she gives him advice on how to deal with it. This book has and old back road country kind of take to it. I haven't ever read a book like this most other books I have read have a little bit more excitement than this. The book was very easy to understand though, and if there was a word that I didn't understand the book had and explaination right next to the word. The Plot of the story revolves around Robs dad dying and leaving Rob to fend for himself, and the debt that they have in the bank. The book was pretty long but most of is was useless and had no meaning to the book.<br />I would not recommend this book to anyone unless you want a book that has no purpose and you want to hear a story about 3 years of someone life, and their everyday struggles. I personally did not like this book at all I hated every minute of it and regret ever getting it.	2002-03-01
1635824:US	51744771	RIWM09WOJDOKO	0613105303	228230069	Shots On Goal (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Soccer and Friends	A review By Kayla<BR>Barry, a high school student, struggles between friends and playing soccer. Sturbridge is where he lives and their soccer team has a chance at winning league this year. His best friend Joey, one of the best soccer players on the team, has trouble-staying friends because of their soccer playing. Joey is a ball hog and doesn't pass. Joey thinks that Barry (Bones) and the team aren't playing there hardest. Joey and Bones also have trouble with girls because they both like the same girl and they both get with her. Bones has to deal with pressure from his mom, the soccer team, and Joey.<br />This story is real easy to read. The words aren't hard and the book just flows through the story. The soccer screens are great. They really tell you what is happening and you can picture it in your head. It talks about stuff that real teens would do like have a party the weekend your parents go away and the jealousy between friends. It shows a great struggle between two friends that are trying to stay great friends. It even shows them getting so mad at each other that they start fighting. It shows problems in the soccer team, some wanting it really bad and others out there just to play. The parts I didn't like is after some chapters it had some inside opinions, poem like things, I didn't get them or like them. They confused me. I didn't know who wrote them and why there were writing them.<br />I really enjoyed this book. I would recommend this book to whoever liked soccer and enjoyed reading great soccer screens. Also to people who liked reading about friends and their friendship, it has a good story between Joey and Bones. Shots on Goal is a fun and easy book to read.	2002-03-01
1635834:US	51744771	R28A7ZUB2PDFY7	0440407028	159056506	The Book of Three (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	3	1	5	N	N	A Good Story	A review by Andrew<BR>This was an excellent book I enjoyed it a lot. I think at the begging it was a lot like Zorro due to the fact that, one person does not know the art or the sword and one does. Then the one that knows the art begins to teach the other. There are some parts of this story that were familiar. I am not sure if those parts were so good that they were made in to a different story. It also could have been that they came from another story. <br />I think that somebody that likes fiction should consider reading The Book of Three by Lloyd Alexander. This was more like a fantasy type story, but that doesn't matter it was pretty well written and had parts of suspense and mystery.	2002-03-01
1635902:US	51744771	R2CNN086HCA3PL	0441000312	796283646	Salamandastron: A Novel of Redwall	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Weird Names	A Review by Steven<BR>There were four plots in this book, but the main plot was about an assassin and his hoard of corpsmakers who were trying to take over lord Urthstripes Mountain, the badger lord. The assassin has a son who is always trying to take control of his dads hoard. So we have two conflicts here, the assassin trying to take the Mountain and the assassin and his son. Urthstripe adopted a baby girl badger named Mara who hates her life at the Mountain. She runs away like four times but she always came back, then one time she ran away with her best friend Pikkle and got into a lot of trouble.<br />I loved the characters, they were funny at times but when it came time to be serious they were all for that. The funniest character was Mara's best friend Pikkle, like once they had to go through some rapids and he was all attached to the bottom of the boat screaming,\\" I'm going to die before the next mealtime,\\" and also stuff like, \\"you water logs are crazy.\\"  I also liked the young warrior squirrel named Samkim because of his courage and determination, like his Abbeys sword got jacked and he went through hell to get it back. He went through rapids, villainous foes, dense woods, stinging wasps, a killer fox and his band, and a giant sea monster. In the end his friend got the sword from the monsters skull, which is how he killed it, and when they met up he got the sward back. I could read most all of the words but I am only 14 so some of the wards were weird, the hardest part was trying to decipher the mole and bird langue, like they had there own type of talking.  If you read tow or three of the other books in the series you learn to get it right. <br />I would recommend this book to all readers because it was exciting, like the wars and battles, but it also had its soft side like the conflicts between the families. It was also funny with some warped characters. The beginning was all serious and explaining, and the end was all wars and battles. It hooked me so like I never wanted to put the book down. I think almost anybody would enjoy this book  because it has something for every one.	2002-03-01
1636003:US	51744771	R2O8GWFGZMQ6JY	069811406X	365625379	Fat Chance	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A girl with some Sense	A Review by Randall Hawk<BR>A teenage girl named Judi enters 8th grade and she struggles with friends and fitting in and she struggles with her looks. Judi has to deal with constant criticism from her peers as well as her mother as they try to develop a deeper and closer relationship. Judi is given a diary as an English assignment and this diary becomes a very important part in her life.<br />This book has a wide variety of characters in it whom all of which are realistic but funny in their own way. I liked Judi because she had to deal with a lot of problems that regular teenage kids deal with today with fitting in at school, dealing with the way she looks and developing relationships. Judi for example, she has problems just like any teenage girl. She wants to have a closer relationship with her mother. And she wants to fit in at school, which becomes a big problem for her based on how she looks. Or at least that's the way she sees it. Like for example, Judi tries to do different things to change the way she looks and this becomes a problem for her as well as her friendship with her best friend Monica. I also liked Nancy Pratt as well. She was the typical cheerleading type girl who everybody likes and she was snobby in a way and she used people like Judi. She got Judi to bring her things and do things for her. And Judi did it because she wanted to fit in and she wanted to be liked. So Nancy was very manipulative. I deffinatley liked the subject matter of this story because it was very realistic and it talks about a common problem with many teenage girls have at this point in time. And it is something that is very serious, but the author told it in a way that was interesting. I like that as well.<br />I would strongly recommend this book to anybody, but especially young teen girls. It sends a very strong message and it tells that you don't always have to change your look or be somebody's gofer just to fit in at school and be liked.	2002-03-01
1636005:US	51744771	R3PWAFM3D6QRTJ	0440415454	265209932	The Wreckers (High Seas Trilogy)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Can John Live	A Review by Kelsey<BR>    John Spencer doesn't want to sit at a little desk all day long as his job like his father does.  So his rich father decides to take John on a ship with him, to learn how to become a sailor.  Then, he figures John will realize how good sitting at a desk will be compared to most other jobs.  They go on a ship that John's father owns, named Isle of Skye.  In a huge storm, they see lights ahead and think it is a port, so the go towards the lights.  Instead of getting there safely, they smash into some rocks called The Tombstones, where many other ships have sunk.  Not knowing how to swim, John somehow manages to get to shore safely, where he sees men looking about for survivors.  About to call to them for help, John stops as he sees them drowning one of his sailor friends.  Running as fast as he can, he goes into a town on the coast of Cornwall, but little does he know he is not safe there, either.  <BR>    Searching for his father, which a man named Stumps has chained somewhere, he has his new friend, named Mary, help him.  Once he finds his father, John wants to get back to England as fast as possible for lost of people there are trying to kill him, since he is a survivor.  With the help of Mary, can John save his father, stop more shipwrecks, find out who is lighting the false beacon lights, and get back to England without getting killed?<BR>    I think all of the characters in this book are good, but some are deceiving.  They are mostly believable, except for some parts, such as the reason Simon wants to find the gold that John's father has is just because he has a temper.  But other than that, they are great characters.  The words were pretty easy, and probably anyone from 4th-11th grade would like it.  This story at first seems scary, but then once you figure it all out it's more of an adventure.  The plot was really good, but some spots were alittle bit confusing.  But once you read on, everything will come together.  I think the story would be better if it were longer, like if we knew John ever went back to Cornwall to visit Uncle Simon and Mary.  <BR>    I think you should read this book if you are considering it, for it is very good.  There is lots of suspense, action, and adventure, and you don't know what is going to happen next.  You will be surprised at what some of the characters turn out to be, which makes it even better.	2002-03-01
1636088:US	51744771	R3UVUWUXD6IKSI	0440219566	909727634	Zia	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Finding Your Family	A Review by Nena<BR>This book is the sequel to Island of the Blue Dolphins. Zia, the nice of Karana, wants to find her aunt. She tries many possible ways to get to the island that her aunt is supposable on. Many other people came in to help her. Do you think they will ever find Karana?<br />Zia and, her brother, Mando are the main characters. Mando would be tribally annoying at times. For example, he had to go just about everywhere with Zia. It seemed as if he would never go away. Also, if you did not let him do what he wanted he would cry or make Zia feel like she has to go out of her way to make him happy. Threw out the book you would find Spanish words like; Mira, they would not tell you most of the meanings. That is what I did not like about the book. Mostly the book made it up with action that was taking place. The exciding parts don't last very long in the book. I think they should be longer. Most of the boring parts where long. There were some not very important things in the book but it as still good to read.<br />I would recommend this book to people who have already read Island of the Blue Dolphins. Also, I recommend this to people who like a great adventure. It is easy to read, but the Spanish words would be hard for people who don't know Spanish.	2002-03-01
1636398:US	51744771	R1U1PHEZXKY9B4	0689826990	169528688	Hatchet	Books	3	1	6	N	N	No Regrets	A review by Zach <BR> The book Hatchet is about a 13 year old boy that is trapped in the Canadian wilderness after his plane goes down. In this book the main character Brian has to fight for his life alone. Brian has to defend himself and find food and a city boy doesn't know all of these things. Brian is lost and he only has a hatchet. <BR> The book Hatchet wasn't the best book but it wasn't bad the only part I really didn't like was when he is extremely hungry and he can't remember that he saw a survival pack that could save his life and when he finds it he gets saved after about 3 days but that's only because of the radio transmitter but I don't care because I just didn't like it didn't have enough action. <BR> The hole book wasn't bad so I don't have any regrets for reading this book so in all I am happy for this book.	2002-03-01
1636435:US	51744771	RWCO9DJHUQO08	0064409430	575376127	The Magician's Nephew, Collector's Edition (The Chronicles of Narnia)	Books	2	1	23	N	N	A Whole New world	A Review by Crystal <BR>Two little people meet eachother for the first time in their whole lifes, in the beginning of this story. They become the best of friends because they live right near eachother.they spend the whole summer hanging out and exploring. They start their little exploring too much to the point where it gets them into deep trouble. They get tricked into being sent into another world. They go through many problems they have to take on thierselves to solve.<br />This book hits just about the same thing. It seems lilke it is trying to be a cliffhanger but the author tried a little too hard. For example, throughout the whole story something is happening and it does get a little confusing. There about five or sox different situations going on that you have to fallow. Honestly, I didn't like always trying my hardest to understand what the heck is going on. Also, at the end of the story the parents didn't even ask where their children have been the whole time they were gone. You cant honestly say that if your children had been gone for the amount of time these two children were gone, you wouldn't ask them where they had been. This story is kind of reflecting off of some other books that I have read about magic and magic related books. It is just kind of a worse version of \\"The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe\\". Its defiantly not worth reading. If you like magic stories, I recommend you try something else besides this one.	2002-03-01
1636454:US	51744771	R2Y3UPTF9W7CS7	0441007732	777062090	Legend of Luke (Redwall)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Search of Love and War	A Review by Eric<BR>A young rodent came to the red wall and tells martin that she knew people who knew his father, Luke. So they soon set out for a journey to find Luke. Not even a day into the journey they say young squirrel captive of many different animals so martin, Dinny, Gonff and Trimp to rescue him. They did   rescue him and went to North Shore. There they met a rabbit that told martin the story of Luke. You find out what happened to his father, but I wont tell you. <br />This story slowly revels the character personalities through the other characters. Pretty much all the characters were great and, they all had their separate personalities. Gonff Chugger the squirrel that they rescued was a character. He was always goofing around. Martin seemed like he was really serous. With the help of the other characters he seemed to lighten up and relax more. The plot was great and every thing made since in the end, that is if you read every part of the story. Some times it skips around but if your paying attention you'll understand what's going on. The language was easy to understand.  The only time when it was hard to understand was when Chugger or the moles were talking. One phrase would say \\"Heeheehee, urr, an' us'n's bite ee paws offen.\\" Which says, those ones would have bitten me paws off.\\"  The one bad thing though Is that there are a lot of songs so they kind of break up the story. Which means they don't help in letting the story running smoothly. Also the book is fairly long with 340 pages. But you need all the pages because they tell you every thing you need to know in the story. <br />So if you like a serious, adventuresome boob then this is the book for you.  It's got many battles and is very descriptive. So if you want a book that will keep you on the edge of your seat then this is the book for you. And if it sounds like this book then you should read the other 11 books in the series.	2002-03-01
1636471:US	51744771	R19WRM7OVGE9ZJ	0671785699	75106824	Bad Dreams (Fear Street, No. 22)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Brave character	A review by Michael <BR>This was about a girl named Maggie Travers. Her and her family moved into a house on Fear Street, that was when the bad dreams started happening. Maggie and her sister Andrea are on a swim team, they are the best two people there. The dreams were happening every night. It was about a girl who was hurting Maggie's friends and she has to watch every night while she sleeps. Then the bad dream starts to come true and all the accidents start happenings.<br />What I liked most about this book is the fact that Maggie never gives up and tries to find out what the bad dream meant. The person that I liked most in this book was Maggie because she was never scared to find out what her dream meant and kept on trying to find out what it meant. The part I don't like is when her sister is never there for her and calls her a liar, and wont help her. In some of the chapters the author kind of went off on some stuff that wasn't needed. Maggie was really strong throughout the book and was really brave when it came to the bad dreams. <br />I would recommend this book to readers who like scary books. It is easy to read and follow.	2002-03-01
1636478:US	51744771	R18YO8WMJFTMO3	059035342X	400589274	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A strange Wizard	A Review By Kory<BR>A young boy, Harry Potter lives on Privet Drive with his aunt, uncle, and cousin. His mother and father died from a black magic wizard named Voldemort, even though he was told they died in a car crash. Harry is sent many letters by a school called Hogwarts School of Wizardry, which he is not allowed to read because his uncle treats him very unfairly. The family goes to a secluded house out by the beach thinking no one would find Harry there, but Hagrid comes to Harry's rescue, and later takes him to Hogwarts where Harry meets many new friends on the way.<br />This story was very fun to read. I really liked the way the author laid everything out in the story, and made the story very suspenseful yet adventurous at the same time. I also enjoyed how Harry and Hagrid became good friends and they were always there for each other. During the beginning of the story Harry had a very rough childhood having no parents and having to leave with his horrible aunt and uncle. Harry finds out around the middle of the story that he is one of the most well known wizards alive, because he was the only person strong enough to live through Voldemorts powers. Harry notices that someone is trying to take the \\"whatever\\" Fluffy the three-legged dog is guarding, so Harry, Ron, and Hermione go on an adventure of there own.<br />I would strongly recommend this book to almost anyone. It is a very fun and adventurous book with all kinds of curves. The reading isn't the easiest, but definitely not horribly hard. I am definitely going to read the second Harry Potter and hopefully read the rest.	2002-03-01
1636481:US	51744771	R3BRAZV8S2N1IP	0531301095	390768712	The Revelation of Saint Bruce	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Adventure of Bruce	A review by Trevor<br />Bruce is a goodie to shoes that doesn't do anything wrong. He has 3 good friends named Jack, Carrie, and Theresa. Jack is a little on the wild side, Carrie is a goodie good also. Theresa is like jack. His 3 friends and a kid named Ellis get drunk at school. Bruce was absent over this time and when he comes back  they tell him. A teacher finds evidence of the 4 drinking and Bruce rats on them. The four won't talk to him and in the end of the story his 3 friends leave Ellis and become friend with Bruce again. <br />The characters in the story were believable but did some things that wouldn't happen. I liked Bruce but he got in a crash and didn't get hurt at all. Then he walked the rest of the way to school, this wouldn't happen. Jack was my favorite character in the book because he was daring and dangerous. Carrie was very boring and wasn't talked about much. Theresa was cool because she was the first to start talking to Bruce. The subject didn't really appeal to me. It might have sounded like it was real. I don't really like hearing about people's problems. The author says the story very fast, but to where you could understand it. I wasn't relieved at the end of the story because I was never worried. The story was perfect length and easier to read.<br />I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone, I had too much detail. I think eleven or twelve year olds would enjoy it because the people in the book are that age.	2002-03-01
1636519:US	51744771	R9C911CTKBY61	0689710682	500045156	Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Adventure and Relationships	A review by Shannon<BR> Mrs. Frisby, a widowed mouse with four children. Unfortunally, one is ill with a serious case of pneumonia. The family lives beneath a garden that is soon to be harvested and must be moved immediately or will face death. Timothy, the child with pneumonia and must not be moved. As time goes on she hears about the rats of Nimh. These weren't any ordinary rats but ones with an extraordinary breed of high indigents. Soon she finds herself flying on the back of a crow and placing sleeping powder into a cat's dinner dish.<br />This was and exceptional book for all ages. This book is full of adventure and amusing humor. If you enjoy animal characters, this is a great book for you. I am now in High School and I think that this book is very exciting and will kept you motivated to read more. I really enjoyed the part where Mrs. Frisby slips a sleeping powder into the cats' dinner plate because you never know what is going to happen until it does. The part that really caught me off guard was when the author brought to conclusion what every thing looked like. He was very descriptive, for example\\" he was stocky, square and muscular, with bright, hard eyes. He looked efficient.\\" This story is told in a third person perspective. I like it. <BR>I would strongly recommend this to any reader that enjoys adventure and relationships that grow between the characters. This book has many positive out comes on life.	2002-03-01
1636628:US	51744771	R2XP15PUMXE355	0440228387	715923951	Soldier's Heart: Being the Story of the Enlistment and Due Service of the Boy Charley Goddard in the First Minnesota Volunteers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Survival!	A review by Jaimie<BR>This story is about a 15 year old boy names Charley.  He lived in Winona, Minnesota, he hadn't seen but 5 miles each way.  Minnesota was forming a volunteer army to go off and fight against the Rebs.  You had to be 18 to fight and Charley was only 15.  he wanted to go so bad that he lied about his age.  His mother didn't want him to go but let him because he was so responsible.  He has many encounters along the way.  Read to see what happens and find out if he made it through all the wars!  This is a book you wont want to put down!  <br /> The main character, Charley, develops really well through the story.  I liked him, he was a good person who loved animals!  As I read the story I got to know more and more about him!  This character was very realistic and believable.  This story was really interesting to see what the soldiers had to go through!  I liked it a lot because I tend to like historical fiction books. So if you like historical fiction that keeps you going this would be the book for you.  <br /> I would recommend this book to any one who likes historical fiction and a book that keeps you going!  I really enjoyed it.  This book can be for all ages just depends what you are interested in.	2002-03-01
1636630:US	51744771	R1WDWNJMELVEU2	0440208378	205539629	Chinese Handcuffs (Laurel Leaf Books)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Best of Friends	A Review by Zach<BR>Dillon Hemmingway is not your average high school kid with your average high school kid's life. For starters his only brother committed suicide right before his very own eyes. His best friend Jen is having problems of her own and the girl of his dreams, Stacy, is still in love with his dead brother. And that's only the half of it.<br />This was a great story, in fact almost perfect. It is filled with the perfect mix of laughter, excitement, drama, and suspense. Everything falls into place perfectly, though it was slightly slow at some points. This, however, didn't take away from the wonderful character development. Chris Crutcher painted colorful pictures in your mind with his wonderful wording. The one major complaint I had was the fact that the book jumped around a lot. It seemed to switch main characters to the point where you couldn't tell who the main character was. This also made it hard to hang on to the plot as fascinating as it was. All in all it was a good book and it kept my attention throughout the entire thing.<br />I would strongly recommend this book to anyone who wants to read a good book. It is a fairly easy reader so I would recommend it to the middle school crowd, grades seven and eight. It would keep the attention and be enjoyable to an older crowd too.	2002-03-01
1636660:US	51744771	R19YONPF0REUW5	0689821026	487297523	Michael, Wait for Me	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A Twisted Ending	A review by: Anastasia<BR>A slave girl, who finds her life boring and dull, is stuck in the middle of the harsh service of Jade Leaf. Claidi, who is but a teenager, seizes the chance of a lifetime. When she escapes with a prisoner, she finds herself in the sandy, bitterness of what the House calls \\"hell\\". She faces many challenges, but wouldn't take it back for the world.<br />This story had many extensive ways of drawing you in. I mean, for one the characters were expressed how a person in Claidi's position would express them. Claidi describes her feelings and what she thinks of a person on a level anyone would understand. For example, when she describes the way she feels for Nemian, it's the same type of unexplainable words people use trying to express the inexpressible feelins they have for other people. She tells about Argul, the Hulta leader, how she sees him: \\" He looked... astonishing. I mean, he did look the way a leader should. A young king. Polished black hair and eyes, tall and lean and tawny. He was covered in gold fringes and coins, and silver rings and things.\\"	2002-03-01
1636667:US	51744771	R1BXL9CN0HFP7F	038072913X	26810930	The Maze	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Flying through your problems	A review by Kelley<BR>A boy of the age of fourteen is faced with further challenges then any other typical young teen. Rick has been passed on from foster family, to foster family all his life. Rick one day takes out all his anger in his life by breaking the law. The judge sentenced him to 6 months in Blue Meadows Detention Center. Three weeks into his long sentence he escapes and travels to Arizona by hitchhiking and stowing away in peoples cars without them knowing. After arriving in the middle of nowhere he finds a man who studies birds them in the wilderness next to the maze in Arizona.<br />This story portrays the thoughts of Rick having nowhere to go and no thoughts of his own. I enjoyed how the author explained in details what Rick was thinking. For example, the author told about the dreams Rick was having and what they meant. It was kind of hard to believe that Lon would take in a boy he doesn't even know that could easily take over him and know that he has escaped from the law. Lon and Rick took chances many people wouldn't take. For instance, Lon tried teaching Rick to fly with a hang glider but turned very unsuccessful the first week or two. I enjoyed how Lon believed in Rick and never doubted him just because he has gotten in trouble. I think the author showed the readers how even thought the world is not perfect people can work together on their differences and succeed in anything they want I enjoyed the characters in this book because the characters varied in all personalities and their actions were predictable. This book is not like books I've ever read before but mad me change my mind about what I think about these kinds of books. I believe I will be reading more of these kinds of books again. The language of the book was easily read without difficulties but still left a sort of edge to the thought and description. The climax of the story doesn't get built up it just sort of came out not to strongly either. I was hoping for more roadblocks in the story that got in the way.  I think the length of the story was too long for what was happening in the story each situation was extended more then it should have been. I enjoyed the ending of the story because al though Rick's problems were faced again he had a better understanding and someone to turn back on for support. <br />I would recommend this book to people that enjoy long thought out details in books and not a whole lot of laughs. The book is easy to read but hard to out down. Enjoy!	2002-03-01
1636684:US	51744771	R38M6DJTT281DT	0590460986	694747269	Halloween Night (Point Horror Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Halloween Parties Are Killers	A review by Jessica<BR>A girl named Brenda's cousin, Halley, comes to live with her. Halley comes to live with Brenda because he parents are in the middle of a divorce. When Halley comes to live with her Brenda then starts to relive how much she hates her cousin, and wants to kill her. First Brenda has to write a sort story for her English class. Brenda decides to write a murder plot with her friends.<br />After writing this plot Halley does all these horrible things to ruin Brenda's life. She steals her boy friend, wrecks her car, and then weird threats start to appear in Brenda's room, like blood writing on the wall. Does Halley know about the murder plot?	2002-03-01
1636697:US	51744771	R1M2AWEKQP0TDW	0671882066	458319956	Illegal Procedure (Hardy Boys Casefiles, Case 95)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Football Isn't All Fun	...The Hardy Boys: Illegal Procedure is a football mystery. Frank and Joe got to San Diego for a break with their father. The owner of San Diego's N.F.L. team seeks Mr.Hardy's help. He also gives Joe a job as the new punt returner, and gets Frank a job at the main suspects office. Through these jobs Frank and Joe solve the mystery.<br />The story is ended a little abruptly. It would be better if it told a little bit more about what happened after they solved the case. It was almost like the author got tired of writing and just quickly rapped it up. The story was easy enough to read, the author didn't use big rare words that bore and confuse people. That makes this book an easy and fast read. As far as the plot goes, it is easy to follow and moves at a good pace, so you shouldn't get bored with is. The author uses enough detail so that he leaves some things up to the imagination, but not to little that you're left wondering about the things that need detail to understand.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes football and mysteries. The Hardy Boys have been around for a long time. So a lot of people out there that like them, so check one out for yourself.	2002-03-01
1636807:US	51744771	R9PDEAQNIZFLK	0374404755	141708104	Bad: A Novel (Aerial Fiction)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Mainly for Teen girls	A review by Alison<br /> Dallas is a 16-year-old girl who gets thrills from shop lifting, having sex in public places with her boyfriend, and taking nice cars out for \\"joy rides.\\" Dallas and her friends called it \\"skating.\\" Ray, her boyfriend, and her friends Pam and Sonny had a great new idea for skating. They had planned to rob the store Jiffy Spot. They wanted Dallas the hold the fun and get the money. She ended up getting caught in the act and she was arrested. After her court hearing, the judge and her father decided to put her in GRC, Girls Rehabilitation Center. There she makes a really good friend, Shatasia, who helps her out a lot. After her six months is up, she decides that she would rather live in a group home instead of living with her father. <br /> This book was very interesting. The main character, Dallas, was semi-realistic. She seemed pretty sarcastic at times as well. \\"What do you expect? I'm a felon. And what does that make you, going through my pockets?\\" At first I was a bit skeptical about reading this book, I didn't think I would enjoy it too much. It had a serious concept to it, but at times, I found myself laughing at some of the things the girls in GRC would do. The author uses pretty simple language. Some parts were hard to follow, especially when dialogue was coming from Shatasia. \\"My gram says that, and I've seen it happen too much to think she's wrong. That's why I'm turning myself around, if I can. I got me some bad juju pilin' up.\\" The author also uses a lot of slang words. Some conflicts were more realistic than others. I can see how the girls always fought with each other, but I didn't think that they would actually beat up a P.O. The ending of the book really disappoints me; I wanted to know more. When the story is over, it doesn't tell what happens to Dallas when she gets out of GRC. I was really interested in knowing if she was continuing to get in trouble, or if she cleaned up for good. It leaves you guessing.<br /> I would recommend this book to mainly teen girls because almost all of the characters are teen girls or older women. It has a very easy reading level and would be good for those who have trouble reading higher-level books. If you like reading books about teenage delinquency, this is a book for you.	2002-03-01
1636919:US	51744771	R1KSN8LMGOC0F4	0553280414	586746552	A Separate Peace	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Life's Little Difficulties	A Review by Craig<br />A story about a young man named Gene Forrester who went to a boarding school called Devon in during WW II.  The book starts out in the summer session where most people have left and gone home, but Gene, his best friend Phineaus, and some other guys are left.  They were always inventing games and sports and clubs to pass the time.  Like the Super Suicide Club of the Summer Session, where they met out at this big tree to jump off into a river.  One of the meetings, Gene and Finny both decide to jump off into the river together.  When they get to the top, Gene, with out thinking, wobbles the branch, which they both were standing.  Phineaus falls off the tree and falls to the shore shattering his leg.  The doctor said that he would walk again but could no longer play sports.  Gene was stunned, how could he have done that?  He spent the next few weeks in deep thought about his actions until Finny returned to school.  Nobody knew quit what happened so they didn't blame Gene.  After that, Finny decided to train Gene for the 1944 Olympics.  A few months' pasts and life went on, but rumors were going around about Finny's accident.  So, to get to the bottom of it, Brinker decided to have a sort of a trial in which a boy named Leper had seen Gene wobble the ledge causing Phineaus to fall.  Finny was shocked, he left crying and on his way out he fell down some stares breaking his leg again, from there, the story takes a turn but I can't reveal the ending you'll just have to read it.<br />This story was one of the best books I've ever read.  It was full of action, and it described everything in great detail.  This book made me think more than any other book has ever done.  It's a really great story of the life of a high school student in 1942, and it was interesting to see their ideas of the war.<br />I would strongly recommend this book to anyone who just likes a good book.  It will defiantly put you through a whole range of emotions.	2002-03-01
1636940:US	51744771	R308RSJRA5PMA6	0671887432	212152576	Overdue	Books	5	1	6	N	N	A Night at the Library Gone Wrong	A review by Darcy<BR>Kathleen is a senior in high school and works in the city library. She has one real true friend named Robin. The kids in school make fun of Robin because he is slow and mute. She has one life long friend named Bran. Most of the girls in school are jealous of Kathleen because of that. When the head librarian Ms. Finch leaves town for a seminar strange things start to happen. People start disappearing and end up being found dead. Kathleen tries to tell Bran and Robin what's happening and they start to think that she is crazy. It all started when Ms. Finch left and a stranger came in. His name is Alexander and he uses the library to do research for a project for his classes in the college he goes too.  Kathleen finds books with torn out pictures and mutilated pages. She finds more books that are actually clues of what happened to the missing people.<br />The characters are pretty believable. The character that I can mostly relate to is Robin. He seemed to be the most believable of all. Kathleen I thought was a little strange. I wouldn't have jumped to conclusions so quickly but I would be a little freaked out. Bran I didn't really like because he seemed to be flirting all the time and didn't really seem to care or pay attention to Kathleen's warnings or about the books being clues to the missing people. Ms. Finch I thought was a little crazy because if she killed people just to get the one she loves attention then she should be put in a mental institution. I really enjoyed this book and I recommend that everyone read it at least once. I was hanging on the edge of my seat with suspense. If you like horror books then you'll love this one.	2002-03-01
1676057:US	51744771	R1B5U6OZPZZZI8	0440918057	577609442	Down a Dark Hall	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Puts you in the Characters' Shoes!	A Review by Jillian:<BR>This is a powerful book that you won't want to stop reading until the very last page. Kit Gordy is starting a new private school, while her mother and stepfather are on their honeymoon. From the moment she steps inside this mansion school, Blackwood, she knows there is something different about it. Kit must face many strange months in this creepy school. She meets three other girls at this school, and they are very different in their own ways. Although, they find that they have all had similar weird experiences, which links them all together. <br />This is a very good book and I recommend it. Lois Duncan is great in all of her books at making you feel like you are in the character's shoes. If you are into wonderfully thrilling books, than this is for you. Join Kit and the other girls as they try to figure out the mystery of Blackwood, and why they are changing. \\"	2002-01-28
1676880:US	51744771	R2T0I4NN6JFIDK	0061064572	383588617	Music from the Dead	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Too many mysteries	A Review by Danielle:<BR>  The main characters are Peter, Marnie, and Clare.  Peter and Marnie move to a new house called Stoneycraig.  Something weird was going on but they had no logical explanation for it.  Clare, someone who's lived in the city her whole life wants to help.  ... in some way she had made it even harder to figure out the truth.  <BR> I really liked this book, it was so interesting and surprising.  But, it had too many mysteries to call it a horror book.	2002-01-28
1710151:US	51744771	R24I5BDCWG781P	0440979374	166129888	The Seance (Laurel-Leaf Suspense Fiction)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not a fast-paced thriller	A Review by Jessica<BR>I wouldn't quit call this book a fast-paced thriller or that it would keep you up all night. I agree that it wasn't a bad book and that it was pretty good but not a severely scary book. <br />In the beginning of this book not much happened, which is what made me give it a three, because I didn't get into it in the beginning of the book. Towards the end of the book, like in the last 4 or 5 chapters is when I got into it more and wanted to finish reading it. <br />It's about a few girls that want to have a séance to see if they can contact spirits and ask them questions. Some thing is wrong though and Sara is the first to notice and screams it out, but then suddenly all the light go off and when the light come back on Sara is missing and all the doors are still locked but Sara is no where in the house. Then soon Sara's body is found and she's dead, and pretty soon another girl from the séance is found missing. She is then soon found out to be dead. Is Lauren the next one to be killed? Better read this book to find out.	2002-01-03
1737194:US	51744771	R1MBQ9B2K2L33	0064471969	831577893	Shade's Children	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Dark, scary, graphic, but the best ever	A Review by Blake<BR>This book takes place after the change. An event where everyone over the age of 14 disappears and alien overlords take control of the world. At the age of 14 children are taken to the meat factory and are subject to an extreme harvest where their muscles and brains are used to build the overlords' creatures. Those who have escaped from this harvest are taken in by the robot-like Shade. This story is mainly about Ella, Drum, Ninde, and Gold-Eye and the missions they are given to by Shade. Everything is fine at first but Shade becomes more and more reckless as they come closer to the truth... <BR> <BR> The story draws you in with action and suspense while giving you foreshadows of what is yet to come making you want to keep reading. This book is written in a style all its' own. The book is written in chapters with interview sessions in between that let you know information of how characters escaped and Shade's own thoughts. The plot has many twists and leaves you surprised at every turn. While this is my favorite book, it isn't for everyone. The story is dark, scary, and very graphic at some points making it more of an adult book. Overall this is the best book I have ever and I doubt any book could be better.	2001-12-11
1737986:US	51744771	R1Q7D2ZGQW6BQP	0345358791	363379837	2061: Odyssey Three	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A predictable future in 2061	A Review by Phillippe<BR> This is a story that's supposed to follow after 2010: Odyssey Two and 2001: Odyssey One. It tells the story of how a normal space explorer name Heywood Floyd, who was released from hibernation in 2001 &amp; 2061, encountering his enemy, Dave Bowman. Bowman has faced Floyd twice, during the other two odysseys. But this time, Bowman will work with a mysterious alien race to push mankind into the evolution of the galaxy, even if they won't do it,<br /> When I read this book, it had some interesting conflicts like, the original conflict of Floyd vs. Bowman, and the new conflict of the crewmembers on the ship, Galaxy vs. the alien race. I liked how Mr. Clarke used different planets in the Solar System. For example, Floyd and his crew visit or pass by Jupiter, the sun, Mercury and some others. His language though was a little weird. Like on page 58, he says, \\" And suppose- just suppose- it was true?\\" You really can't start with, and, in a sentence or question. Even though I haven't read both odysseys, I feel the story is true to the other books, keeping the characters and conflicts the same. Just like the Floyd still trying to stop Dave Bowman. Since there's 264 pages, it won't take too long and won't make you bored. I gave this 5 stars because of the mysterious plot, along with parts of suspense and action. So, for all the science fiction fans, this is a must-read!	2001-12-10
1738024:US	51744771	R8ZMN28R8576F	0812522397	484188631	Children of the Mind (The Ender Quintet)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Some thoughts on life and well-being	A Review by Scott<BR>Wang-Mu, an Oriental ex-servant, and Peter are charged with the task of convincing Starway Congress to pull back a fleet ordered to destroy Lusitania.  They work their way up the chain of influence in order to convince the Congress to pull back the fleet.  Miro and Valentine have the task of colonizing planets to save the humans, the Hive Queens, and the Pequeninos living on Lusitania before Jane, a being inside all computers, is destroyed losing the technology of instant space flight forever and the Destruction of Lusitania.  On their quest to discover more planets, they learn their mission is entirely different.  They find out they must stop a force that threatens all species in the known universe. <br />I thought this book was very interesting.  It is complicated which holds my attention.  The book focuses on three different parties up until around the middle of the book when they begin to merge.  I feel the characters don't have very distinct personalities.  All the characters have the same trait of a very sophisticated, analytical mind.  I feel it's a trait of the author that shows in the characters he writes about.  Some examples are that Wang-Mu is always thinking of how society works and gives very thoughtful insights.  Miro and his sisters also give very analytical thoughts on how different species of the universe could communicate.  Ender gives thoughts on life and well-being.  Even thought these are very distinct subjects, there's the feeling that one person is saying all those things and not different personalities.	2001-12-10
1738089:US	51744771	R1J23O9HZLQEP5	0440228441	442710231	I Know What You Did Last Summer	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great book but it needs a little work	A Review by Josh<BR>The book I read, I Know What You Did Last Summer, was probably one of the best books that I have read. It is not quite up on the top of the list, but it is close. There are only a few small details that I didn't like about the book. They were; the book didn't have enough detail, the ending wasn't the greatest and the fact that the book started off really slow. The author, Lois Duncan, has written many books besides this one but most of them are full of detail, unlike this one. An example where she could have added a little more detail was where she was introducing the characters in the begging. She barely described what they looked like. The ending of this book, in my opinion, was one of the worst endings in a book I have ever read. The story just ended with not a trace of a resolution. I got a feeling that Lois Duncan had a deadline to meet to have the book finished and hurried the ending. She could have spent a lot more time on these setbacks but other than that this book was great. The problems in the book are why I gave this book four stars instead of five.	2001-12-10
1738131:US	51744771	R1GGLAK860RZA0	0553273310	380161256	The Tombs of Atuan (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wizard visits the Tombs of Atuan	A Review by Mitchel<BR>I give A Wizard of EarthSea The Tombs of Atuan two thumbs up for its storyline and its climax. The story is about a young girl who is taken from her home and raised as a priestess to guard a sacred underground network of tunnels called The Tombs of Atuan. Even if you haven't read any of the other EarthSea Trilogy books you'll still like The Tombs of Atuan, here's a quote from The Tombs of Atuan. \\"The first time she entered the trapdoor was hard; yet not so hard as she had feared. She had schooled herself up to it so well, had so determined that she would go alone and keep her nerve, that when she came there was nothing to be afraid of. Graves might be there but she could not see them; she could not see anything. It was black; it was silent. And that was all.\\" I recommend this book for all readers, I know almost everyone would enjoy this fantasy book if they read it all the way through; I know I did.	2001-12-10
1738248:US	51744771	R36GF75WKKYQZN	0590444794	629686265	Flight #116 Is Down! (Point)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The Dove House Crash	A Review by Kelsey<BR>This story, as you can tell by the title, is about an airplane crash. Heidi is a normal girl who lives in the small town of Nearing River. Her parents are constantly away on business, leaving her with Mrs. Camp, the housemaid. Heidi and her family live on a huge estate several miles outside of town. Patrick also lives in Nearing River and goes to the same school as Heidi, but they do not know each other. He is an EMT for the local fire dept. and is tired of never receiving a real adrenaline rush emergency. One night an event will happen that will change both Heidi's and Patrick's lives forever. Patrick finally receives his first real emergency when Flight #116 had problems and decided to crash in her backyard!<br />In this book I didn't like the way that Caroline wrote it. She wrote this book in both chapters and time intervals. For example when the plane is crashing she wrote - 5:41 P.M. Heidi looked up into the sky to see it turning red and a deafening noise filling the air. This method I liked a lot because it gave you a chance to realize how much can happen within a couple a minutes or how little could happen in an hour. Clooney would also tell the story through about 6 different characters in the book. She would sometimes be focusing on Patrick and then all of a sudden you are reading about what it's like to be on the actual plane. This way was not bad; it would sometimes be just a little confusing. I did, however, really enjoy this story. Even though it was written pretty elementary, I liked the plot and complications of it. This book was exciting and even suspenseful at times. I just wanted to keep reading. When I finished I still wanted more!   <br />Even though this book is mainly about a plane crashing, it is also a little more. People who would not normally associate with one another and work together do. Friendships are made and lives are changed as the whole entire town of Nearing River responds to this incident. I recommend it forreaders who like suspense and surprising outcomes!	2001-12-10
1738379:US	51744771	R2I5XQ5JML8VLF	0553567667	672519259	I Want to Live	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Close to Death	A Review by Laura<BR>This story is about a girl named Dawn, with cancer. She wants to live a normal life with out being treated like she is sick all the time. For a while her cancer was in remission, but one day when she went to the hospital for a check up she finds out that her cancer is back. <br />I really liked this book because I can kind of understand how Dawn feels being a teenager and all. She has to face a lot of different challenges since she has cancer. I also understand how her brother Rob felt and how he had to deal with Dawns cancer. I also thought that Darcy was very selfish in thinking only about her wedding instead of caring about dawn. <br />I really think people should read this book because it is really good and it kind of made me think a little more about people with cancer or any thing else, and also understand what they have to go through.	2001-12-10
1738445:US	51744771	R1UYSLT4BD01DZ	0316142034	166913231	Snowboard Maverick	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Learning to snowboard	A Review by Jeff<br />The Snowboard Maverick is about a 13-year-old boy named Dennis O'Malley who loved to skateboard, \\"it was his life\\". When winter came the streets had got covered with snow and he could not skateboard. Whenever the streets were clear he went and skateboarded. His two best friends, Robbie and Tasha, had got into the new coolest sport, it was snowboarding. He wanted to get one know. He had gotten one for a Christmas gift and he loved it, it was the new greatest sport. He had got really good at it and by the end of the book he was really good. There was only one other person who was as, good or even better, it was Dale Morgan. Everyone knew him as the \\"best snowboarder\\", no one had ever been challenged by him in a competition before. They had the competition and in the end someone had one.<br /> I would give this book 3 stars, it was mostly the way I had expected it to be. It had a better ending then I had thought cause it was not expected.	2001-12-10
1738550:US	51744771	R2N6SXHUCZ561R	0064407314	610990578	Monster	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Life in a Courtroom	A Review by Adam<br /> The book Monster is a great book about how you can be in the wrong place at the right time. The book starts off with the main character, Steve, who is in jail writing in his journal about, what he is going through as he is going through it in jail. We later find out about why Steve is in jail. We discover that he has been charged for murder and robbery. Throughout the book, Steve decides to write about what is happening to him as though it is a movie. But then he also writes about what is happening to him in jail in his journal.<br />The book is a great book, but is starts to get confusing about who is talking in the story, because it keeps going back and forth between the characters. This is because it is written as though a movie script. There for before every sentence it tells you who is going to be speaking next. You can also tell very easily when he is writing in his journal compared to the movie because it has different style of writing. I also like this book because it is almost exactly like a real court case. It has all the yelling, and the arguing, and much more. The only bad thing about this book is that it moves very slowly, although, court cases move very slowly too. But nonetheless you want to keep reading to find out what is about to happen next. I would recommend this book to anyone that is really into suspense books, and real life situation books.	2001-12-10
1738577:US	51744771	R2IGWZLKAX73ZR	0440972922	153123407	Ransom	Books	4	0	0	N	N	School Bus Kidnapping	A Review by Ashley<BR>This story is about five kids Dexter, Glenn, Marianne, Bruce and Jesse. The five kids ride the bus home, like a regular school day home but instead something else happens. These two guys Buck and Juan kidnap them. That is about all I can tell but I really recommend you read this book because there is a lot of really good suspense. For example, the kids have been at the cabin in the middle of nowhere for about a day and they want to escape some how but Dexter says, \\"If someone tries to leave, someone would be sure to get hurt, or maybe even killed. Fists don't add up to much against a gun.\\" (Pg. 87) You never know what is going to happen next and I love that when I'm reading books. <br />I liked how you never know what was going to happen next, and if you love mystery books, you will love this book. I found this book, very interesting, but we have to keep up with what is going on throughout the book to get the end. I would recommend this book to any age group and people that love a good mystery book.<br />What I didn't like about this book was the ending was kind of confusing for me because I really didn't pay attention to the little things throughout the book and you have to do that to get the book.	2001-12-10
1738637:US	51744771	R1FN1ZINOIV4NE	0380714752	795553485	The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sailing a Vicious Sea	A Review by Natasha<BR>This book is about a young girl that has to sail from England to America to meet her family. Her parent wanted her to finish out her schooling for the year, so she was sent to America alone. She changes a lot along the way. <br />In the beginning I didn't like the book. It had a very slow start and Charlotte seemed like a very spoiled, privileged young lady who would not be filled with a lot of adventure. Things definitely changed towards the middle of the story. <BR> <br />Charlotte was tried for a murder. I really began to like Charlotte once I got into the book. She developed into a very independent young woman. For example, she began to help out around the ship, and being the only girl it was not the easiest thing to do. Some parts of this book were very sad. When Charlotte's best friend on the ship was killed, it was very dramatic for her. <br />The plot went along at a good speed. The book climaxed at the end of the book. All of the details helped to paint a great picture in my head. For instance, during the storm it was explained very well. From how the rain was falling to what the characters were doing.<BR>You might think that in some parts it is dragging but as the action picks up you won't want to put it down. I defiantly recommend this to anybody.	2001-12-10
1738645:US	51744771	RQU775IB8Y0IC	0590484753	536847715	Talking to Dragons (Enchanted Forest Chronicles)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fast-paced action story	(...)<BR>This story is about a boy named Daystar, who is more important than he ever dreamed. The story begins with Daystar chopping wood outside his mothers cottage. Little does he know that his life is about to change forever. While Daystar is chopping wood a wizard confronted Daystars mother, she immediately melted the wizard. The next day Daystar saw his mother coming out of the forest carrying a sword. She gave the sword to Daystar and sent him into the enchanted forest. After being in the enchanted forest for a while Daystar met a young fire witch named Shiara, they become friends and decide to travel together.<br />            This book is a fast paced action story dealing with dragons, wizards, witches and magic. The story is filled with interesting and exiting characters. This is an awesome book I recommend it.	2001-12-10
1738735:US	51744771	R1A79652GO7I1C	1886910243	57247183	Asphalt Angels	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Ghetto Child	A Review by Caleb<BR>Asphalt Angels is about a 13 year-old boy named Alex. After his loving mother dies, he is thrown out onto the streets by his cruel stepfather. He makes his humble home there and meets a street gang called the Asphalt Angels. He is always trying to keep his hopes and dreams up but he is constantly pressured to sniff glue, steal and kill. <br />Asphalt Angels is a interesting story. Based on a true story, it follows the life of Alex in a bad way. I feel that the way they portrayed the streets wasn't strong enough or it did not convince me enough. On almost every other page there was something about how either Alex or one of his friends was making money by hold-ups or stealing. The book had a lot of controversial topics such as sniffing glue and prostitution.	2001-12-10
1738773:US	51744771	R8LF1JVGF98RM	0441007015	214910196	The Seven Songs of Merlin (Lost Years Of Merlin)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Loved it from start to finish	A Review by Elizabeth<BR>Here Merlin is again in book two of The Lost Years of Merlin trilodgy. He now has the task to bring life back to the land of Fincayra. He soon vearse of course. He Misses his mother. He is soon reunighted with his mother. But his happieness doesnt last long. His mother is stricken ill by a poisoness flower. Now Merlin has to travel to the other world to find the cure for his mother.<br />I loved the way Barron Mixed Celtic lore to his own version of the Merlin legend. Barron based his book during the years merlin was missing form history (when he was a kid). I love Barrons unique writeing style. He is very descriptive in the way he writes. He created a wonderful magical place full of mystical creatures. I personally love these kinds of storys. I loved this book from start to finish. I recommend reading the first book in the serese first. If you like Harry Potter you will love this book.	2001-12-10
1738843:US	51744771	R3DXJBC85ACGPI	0449704092	630375358	Coverup (Fawcett Juniper)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	How Drunk Driving can lead to a lot of trouble!	A Review by Bree<BR>Alden Whitlock and Brad accidentally hit a homeless man while driving drunk on their way home. Brad returns to the crime scene the next day to find a blood stained watch with the initials P.H.S. engraved on the back. Ellen Hansen came into town to visit her father. When Brad and Ellen meet its love at first site. Brad is now challenged to tell the truth to Ellen knowing she might leave him. He could also hide it from her knowing things might or might not work out. Either choice could result to loss and grieving for both of them.<br /> I enjoy reading mystery books of any sort. \\"Coverup\\" appealed and related to me in a way I least expected. Drinking and driving is a common problem with many teenagers. It shows how fast a simple situation can change from fun to drastically serious! \\"Coverup\\" is a real page-turner! From the beginning it starts our so incredibly descriptive that you are begging for more time to read! \\"He awoke in a cold sweat, pale and trembling, his eyes wildly trying to pierce the black night.\\" <br />I would strongly recommend this book to anyone that doesn't enjoy reading. It is a fairly short book that races by page after page. After completing the book I looked back on it asking myself if I actually read that book. \\"Coverup\\" gets you hooked on reading. The vocabulary can easily be understood too. Bennett's writing is clear and precise. I enjoyed this book and so will you!	2001-12-10
1738910:US	51744771	R2Q23C1LO23T9C	0440207290	925672149	Don't Look Behind You	Books	5	4	5	N	N	This could really happen to you	(...)<BR>Don&#8217;t Look behind You is a very intense book, which keeps you on the edge of your seat until the very last page. April Corrigan , an eleventh grader at Springside Academy, must move from Norwood Virginia, and start a new life in Grove City, Florida. Early in the book, April finds out that her father was working undercover for the F.B.I. Mike Vamp, a hit man, wants to kill April&#8217;s father, so he can&#8217;t testify. To stay clear of Vamp, or other hit men, their family goes into hiding. Eventually, they join the Federal Witness Security Program, and totally change their identity. <br />Lois Duncan does a wonderful job of making you feel like you are April. Unlike some other books, this could really happen to you. This thrilling mystery will keep you wanting  more. It makes you wonder what you would do if you were in April&#8217;s shoes. <br />Just at the moment you think April will face the worst, she finds a way out. &#8220;Brer fox doesn&#8217;t know it yet, but he&#8217;s just thrown us in the briar patch.&#8221; I recommend this to anyone who likes an interesting thriller.	2001-12-10
1738933:US	51744771	RNG834DDY6013	015284077X	498981922	Taking Sides	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The climax never really happens	A Review by Elizabeth<BR>The story \\"Taking Sides\\", the main characters are Lincoln and his 2 new friends, (James and Monica). This story is about a young boy who moves from an old run down town to a nice town. Lincoln is Mexican, an everyone at his new school are white. Everyone looks at him differently because of that. He his having a hard time getting to know people since he played from one of the schools that the kids there don't like.  His new coach is always giving him a hard time. <br />This story I thought was good, but it was a little too short. The could have had a little twist to it to surprise people. In this story a man breaks into Lincolns house (in chapter 5) an trys to taking things, but the man was caught but runs out the door. Right after I read that I put the book down and thought why didn't he go after the man. Why did he just stand there. That part of the book I didn't like.<br />The plot of this story is very simple, nothing surprising really happens. I thought something could have happened with the coach, but nothing interesting happened. The climax of this story never really happens. You get into the book and for get about the climax. An I never once thought about the climax while reading the book. Over all I liked the book, and I think it was good.	2001-12-10
1738974:US	51744771	R3EH6PYM084HZZ	0786824948	393951124	The Wind Singer (The Wind on Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very funny!	A Review by Drew<br />\\"The Wind Singer\\" is a very fantasy type book.  It starts out with a young teenage girl who lives a city run by The Morah, a very powerful god.  The city is based on class, if you lived in the White part of town you were considered like a queen or king.  Now if you were the Grey part of town you were the lowest of lowest classes.  In the city of Aramanth you were placed in your classes by yearly exams.  A young teenage girl named Kestrel Hath, Bowman (her twin sister), and Mumpo. (A friend)  Are sent on a journey to go out a find a piece of wood that fits into the wind singer, to make it sing again.  The wind singer is a windmill type of object with a organ in it, so that when the wind blows it blows through the pipes to make a very pretty sound.  As they go through the quest to find this piece of wood, they travel through strange lands and strange cities.  They know that they must fight the Morah in order to get the piece of wood.  In order to find out what happens, finish the book to see.<br />In my opinion I thought was an excellent book.  It kept me on my toes at all times.  The author was very good on describing things, in fact on of my most favorite lines is how the Hath's family talks when they are angry, \\"Saga hog!!!! Pompaprune!!!! Saga-saga- HOG!!!\\"  (p.235).  This is a very funny line!!  Also another great way the author talks is when he talks about the new land that kids have never seen before, \\"Now the children watched in a fearful wonder, a third level of wooden buildings loomed into view.  This level was a far more elaborately constructed, a classical sequence of houses with beautifully carved windows and handsome porticoes, gathered around three buildings, and up through the two father levels above.  Now the wheels on which it moved became visible, each one higher that a house.\\"  Now if that were not descriptive I wouldn't know what is.  Yes, indeed this author is a very good one.  He is also famous for the screenplays, Gladiator, Shadowlands, Sarafina!, Nell, and First Night., Shadowlands, Sarafina!, Nell, and First Night.	2001-12-10
1739064:US	51744771	RQFKLS82SMM8P	0440201845	248561365	The Twisted Window (Laurel-Leaf Suspense Fiction)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Block From Reality	A Review by Emily<BR>Tracy's view on the world all starts to change when her mother dies. She is forced to move to Ohio and live with her aunt and uncle. Her optimistic mind suddenly narrows, and she notices a boy following her. Sadly her pessimistic quality fails to bring her comfort. She falls for Brad's scheme to trick Tracy into helping him with his physiological manifestations.<br />This book is filled with suspense and action. It draws you in with its illusions. It keeps you wanting to read more. I loved the realism between Tracy and her guardians. \\" Tracy your uncle and I aren't mad, but it's 11:00 on a school night, we were very worried.\\" <br />I loved the ending of the story it was unexpected and shocking. <BR> I enjoyed reading this book very much. I would recommend it to anybody looking for a suspense filled and eye opening novel to broaden their imagination.	2001-12-10
1739120:US	51744771	R1PIFXWFW7FYG	0590457403	652372900	Emergency Room	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Non-Stop Adrenalin Rush!	...<BR>Its 4 p.m. and many people are packing up and ready to go home, but not Seth and Diana. Their volunteer shift at the citys busiest hospital has just begun. If you are a fan of the hit television show E.R. than this book is for you. Caroline B. Cooney has done it <BR>again with this adrenalin pumping book on the life of an emergency room volunteer and the tragic lesson of life and death in the E.R.. From the beginning you know who cant put this book, well, at least I knew.<br />Alec is admiring his cousins new Harley-Davidson when he decides to go for a test ride. When Alec does not return with the time he was supposed to be home, his cousin gets worried and just before he goes to call Alecs cell phone he notices the one and only helmet sitting next to were the bike stood. This is just one of the scenarios Seth and Diana have to face in their daily job as volunteers at the citys emergency room.<br />Caroline B. Cooney as written many books including, Flight Number 116 is down and The Fire. This book, along with her other books deserve a five-star rating, this one for the suspense, the laughs, and the true facts of life.	2001-12-10
1739171:US	51744771	R19IRMAJTCMIKG	0152009612	861267771	Emily in Love	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Struggles of a young girl	A review by Amy<BR> <BR>This book is about a developmentally delayed girl named Emily. She is starting a new high school and is desperately trying to fit in. Throughout this book, Emily faces many pressures to act a certain way, dress a certain way, and do certain things. For example, her best friend tells her that her clothes are too babyish and that she can't call her mother, mommy because she'd be \\"uncool\\". Emily tries very hard to do everything everyone tells her that she needs to do to be cool. But in the end, she lets her true self, shine through and finds new friends that accept her for who she really is. <br />Throughout this book Emily listens to her best friend and doesn't seem to have her own mind or a sense of herself. I felt like walking in on this book and being one of the characters to give Emily confidence in herself. Also, to teach her to be an individual and to do what she wanted, wear what she wanted, and hang out with whoever she wanted to. <br />Emily joins a new \\"regular\\" high school where there are \\"regular\\" kids and she feels a lot of pressure to grow up. For example, she feels like she's not pretty enough and needs to wear makeup. Something that was sort of a theme throughout this whole book was something that Emily read in a magazine. She read this article because she was trying to figure out what guys wanted in girls. She desperately wanted a boyfriend and the article she read was a statement that a boy made for the magazine. It read: ` I like girls who are sincere and honest. If they don't like me for who I am, then they're not worth being with'.<br />I thought that was a very good statement for the boy to make, but Emily took it the wrong way. She looked past what, in my eyes, was a very obvious point. That point was that guys should like her for who SHE is and THEY should be sincere and honest. Nope, that's not what Emily saw. She was too obsessed with trying and acting like she was sincere and honest. Key word, ACTING. <br />Another review that I read said that this book changed her life. That is a truly great thing that you can take from this book, but in my case, my life wasn't changed. Maybe that's because I've read many books such as this and this book sort of reaches out to a younger group than mine. Well, that's my opinion.	2001-12-10
1739280:US	51744771	R4NF6GL4C16SK	0671736817	534589478	Spellbound	Books	2	5	19	N	N	Boring as can beï&iquest;½	A Review by Josh<br />This is the tale of a young man named Alex. Alex is a normal person until strange things start happening around him after one of his classmates is suspected of brutally murdering his girlfriend. These events build and form into a truly ridiculous climax (for a horror novel).<br />This book had potential. Thats what I think when I look back upon reading this book. I honestly believe that this book had a semi-interesting story which could have been made MUCH better, had the author not written it like some kind of comic book. The books just plain corny! It also doesnt make much sense and is not written in an easily understandable format. For example, the story keeps fairly believable up until it gets close to the end, where there are waterfalls of blood or something like that, gigantic birds swooping at people, and even African exchange students uncovering their secret African Shaman powers (how lame does it get?). It hardly even follows with the summary given on the back cover, which is why I read the stupid thing in the first place, and is usually the reason that anybody ever reads a book. Thats false advertising! The only recommendation Im giving on this book is to not bother with it, its just not worth it.	2001-12-10
1739308:US	51744771	R3MSVVY2B500ZL	0441001866	987053887	Martin the Warrior: A Novel of Redwall	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Shocked but relieved when it ended	Do you like to read a good fantasy that has battles and skillful sword fighters in it?  If so, this is the book for you.  Martin the Warrior is a book about small animals.  Martin and Rose are two of the main characters, and they are both mice.  Martin had been enslaved by Badrang and escapes with some help from outsiders, but he is determined to free all of the slaves Badrang has and to get his father's sword back.  Will he achieve his one and only goal or will he give up?  <BR> I really like this book. At first the story seems to drag but then it turns to very efficiently told.  The main characters are so real and they all have different attitudes.  At times the characters can be really funny.  \\"Go to sleep, you filthy bunch.  I'd like to lay you all out with a punch.\\"  Brian Jacques likes to play with language, at times I found it hard to understand, but once you get used to reading it you begin to understand what they are saying.  Mostly it's just the moles talk weirdly, but there is also an Indian tribe talks diferently.  The moles talk like this, \\"You'm a dreadful `horrible crew an `oi wuddent give to you.\\"  While the Indian tribe talks like this, \\"Squidjees playnow, youwatch plennygood!\\"  At times this story seems to linger, but for the most part it carries itself until the high point!  The author likes to give lots of details but not too many.  \\"Primping the lace hems of her tunic...\\"  The conflicts seem real, and they can relate back to the time when we had slaves.  \\"Martin's head slumped onto his sodden chest as he recalled the day of his capture.\\"  At first you might be confused when Jacques moves on to another character, but you'll get the way he does it soon enough.  The ending could be different, but it definitely ends the story.  I think the story is just the right length.  I was shocked but relieved when the story ended.  If it had gone on it would have been a bore. I rate this book with 4 stars. I definitely think you should buy this book!	2001-12-10
1739333:US	51744771	R2Y8IPHZSMIJX7	0553213385	691093854	The War of the Worlds (Bantam Classics)	Books	2	1	8	N	N	Under attack	A Review by Trevor<br />This is a story of a reporter named Ogilvey. He shows up at a site were an alien aircraft landed on earth. The rest of the story is him trying to find his wife, while the aliens are trying to take over the earth. This story revolves around a radio broadcast.<br />I would give this book a two star rating. The book just needs more to it! I fell asleep reading it once, because it was so boring. The characters were real sounding, but they didn't do anything exciting. I usually like science fiction books; I guess it was just to old for me. H.G. Wells used words you usually don't hear in our society anymore. You can see what is to come so easily in this book. It was hard to tell when the climax was because there weren't any real exciting parts. This book seems to drag on because you know what is coming. I would not suggest buying this book. If you really want to read  it is your choice.	2001-12-10
1739336:US	51744771	R5DOPAZ47028I	0618002243	276015944	The Return of the King (Lord of the Rings )	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Will Good Defeat Evil?	A Review by Jake<br />When I first got this book, I didn't think I would like it at all, because it was so long. Boy was I wrong.<br />This book has so much description, it is unbelievable. It makes you want to start talking and writing with more description. \\"In such an hour of labour Sam beheld Mt. Doom, and the light of it, cut off by the high screen of Ephel Duath from those who climbed up the path from the west, now glared against the stark rock faces, so that they seemed to be drenched in blood.\\"<br />This is a great story about good vs. evil, Where an unlikely hero is asked to do the unthinkable..... Save the world from an unimaginable evil.<BR> <BR>This is a great story, and I think that J.R.R. Tolkien did a great job with the writing of this story. It makes you want to travel to middle earth to take part in the adventure.	2001-12-10
1743095:US	51744771	RIEZZJ93D3VV1	0440404541	240034975	The Winter Room (A Yearling book)	Books	1	0	3	N	N	Poorly Written!	A Review by Blaine<BR>As a winner of three Newberry awards, Gary Paulsen, I think, has let the readers of this book down by the boredom he displays. The narrator, Eldon, is the brother of Wayne in the story. As the story leads on, their Uncle David begins to tell stories about himself to them that are very amazing. Eldon and Wayne don't believe it, though their uncle proves it to them at the end. Many of the sentences Gary Paulsen wrote in this book were extremely long; in fact one of them was 210 words! Usually, many exciting books have a lot of events that happen in the story. But, in this one, there are not many fun and exciting events; this book only had one major event, which made it very uninteresting to read. There was only one good sentence of many details I admired in this book. \\"I hate the spring, it stinks of the fly infested manor pile in behind the barn.\\" I gave this book only 1 star because I feel this was a poorly written book. I would only recommend this book to somebody who has a lot of time on their hands.	2001-12-06
1743362:US	51744771	RWN5EQ31XLXPN	0842329242	940457812	Nicolae: The Rise of Antichrist (Left Behind No. 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Action packed and no swearing	(...) I really enjoyed this book.  It is the third book of a so far, nine book series.  And the most action packed the series this far.  This book is about a group of people, no younger than the age of twenty, living in hiding from the antichrist. One, a pilot for Nicolae {the antichrist} two, a former journalist for GNN {global news network}, and then some. The book gets more exciting as Buck {the journalist} goes to Israel to pick up an unsafe rabbi. The Arthur does a really good job to keep the reader reading, and not put the book down. I could not put the book down at some points!  Really action packed, no swearing. And no bad junk parents wouldn&#8217;t want their kids, thirteen and up, to read.  Overall it is a very good book for those who love the series!	2001-12-06
1743387:US	51744771	RRNUJI7IV6PWP	0141312467	591648191	The Other Ones	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I wanted a different ending	A Review by Jessica<BR>This book is about a girl named Bridget and her friends. This story takes place in Seattle, Washington. Bridget is in high school struggling. She is kind of like a witch in a way but not a bad kind. She has some powers, here's an example, she can see into other people minds, there thoughts. But when the new girl, Althea, comes Bridget trys to go into her mind but she blocks it off from her. During the book things seem to get more interesting and tense.<br />This book by Jean Thesman is a pretty good book. It's full of suspense, weird things, and friendships. Those are some of the things that I like about this book. It was a pretty funny book at some points but then it could also get serious. I like how Bridget had that one little sidekick xiii. I liked how he warned her about bad things are coming but she didn't know what bad things. The end turned out pretty good. It was kind of disappointing to me but it was pretty good in a way. I believe this book was an easy book to follow and read. It explains things very clearly and nicely. I still wanted the story to go on, I wanted the end to turn out differently because I didn't expect the ending as it was. I would read more of Jean Thesman's books if they sounded interesting because this one book was.	2001-12-06
1743421:US	51744771	R1MLQCON3GTIWZ	0440966388	26657678	The Other Side of Dark (Laurel-Leaf Suspense Fiction)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Believable Characters!	A Review by Jessie<BR>Stacy wakes up in a hospital bed, to discover her worst nightmare!  She had been in a coma for four years!  While she has been in a deep sleep, the world has gone on with out her-leaving her behind.  Stacy's family reveals the real reason why she was put in her unfortunate state.  She was shot, and her mother was murdered.  Stacy was the only eyewitness.  The only thing that is holding her back from putting the man, who has changed her life forever in jail, is her memory.  She sees only his eyes; her memory will not reveal his whole face. As she enquirers many suspicious people and problems, her determination will keep her alive.  Stacy will not rest until her mothers murder is put in jail.  I could not put this book down!  If you like scary, suspenseful books then I highly recommend this book!<br />I really enjoyed all of the characters in this book.  They were all very believable.  Stacy was very realistic, the way she acted when she faced problems.  Like when she first woke up from the coma, I could understand the way she felt.  I could relate to some of her problems.  All of the characters made me feel like I was included in the book.  I heard all of their thoughts in great detail and knew the decisions that they would eventually make.  I have always been interested in scary, thrilling books and this book defiantly covered my preferences.  Sometimes I would stay up late because whenever I would try to put the book down another frightening problem would occur.  So I just had to keep on reading.  One time, I was going to stop reading and Stacy got a suspicious phone call.  After that I had to read another thirty minutes.  I thought the book was a good length.  When the ending came I have to admit I was hoping for a little more.  I felt so included in the characters life's I wanted to find out their futures.  But I thought that the minimum was covered.  I thought this book defiantly deserved 5 stars.	2001-12-06
1743424:US	51744771	R1DRLNR4PPME4H	0064471101	575376127	The Magician's Nephew	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Different Worlds have different people	The Magician's Nephew by C.S. Lewis<BR>A Review by Lindsey<BR>The Magician's Nephew is a story about a boy named Digory and his friend Polly.  They discover a passage way and find themselves forced into a new world by magic.  In the different world and meet a queen named Jadis, who's an evil witch.  Later they discover themselves in another world called Narnia, and have some important errands to run for a talking lion before the two friends could go back home to London. <br />The characters are all very interesting. For example, the witch, Jadis, is very deceiving and wants everything her way and wants to rule everything too. On the other hand, Digory, is a serious person and doesn't like when things go wrong or bad.  For instance, he made a bad mistake and intended to try to make it right again. The mistake he made was that he let the witch into Narnia instead of back into her own world.<br />A couple parts in the story were kind of boring. I wish some parts could have been made a tiny bit more interesting. For example, when Jadis came to earth with Polly and Digory.  I also wish the climax also came sooner in the book.  It really didn't seem like the story was interesting to me because it wasn't exciting until about the middle of the book. Though, I understand the things before are needed to understand the good parts. The book was also somewhat predictable, probably because of my age.<br />This story was still good. This is a fantasy book and it you love going off into other worlds instead of being on earth you'll like this book. This book would probably be best for readers from ages 10-13 because the reading level isn't very difficult, but anyone would like it if they love fantasies and the impossible happening.	2001-12-06
1743595:US	51744771	R1UWRI656M4VAY	014130104X	491646592	The Final Journey	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Dying in a Concentration Camp	The Final Journey by Gudrun Pausewang       Morton, Mack<br />A Review by Mack<BR>This story is story of sadness. A story about The Final Journey that millions of Jews, Gays, and Lesbians etc.. took. Millions of people died in the Holocaust and not many are still alive to tell the story. This was a story of a strong girl, with a strong will power. During WWI there were hellish deeds going on in Germany. This young girl was put through hell and back. (...) I am not going to spoil the whole book but it was ok I wouldn't recommend reading it. The ending is a real hairaiser though.	2001-12-06
1743759:US	51744771	R3MSBPE3AFL083	0440234743	934400771	The Testament	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An all-around good book	A Review by Jimmy<BR>Have you ever imagined owning eleven billion dollars? It would probable be pretty nice. That's not the case for Troy Phelan. Troy Phelan \\"the tenth richest man in America\\" owns eleven billion dollars. Troy Phelan is a cruel hard old man who is on the verge of death. As he puts it, \\"Down to the last day, even the last hour now. I'm an old man, lonely and unloved, sick and hurting and tired of living\\". Troy Phelans 6, rude and greedy children, and his 3 ex-wives who have tried so hard to (...) money from their father over the years are now gathered one last time with their father for the final will signing. Each greedy hair has always thought that they will inherit some of their father's estate but their father had other plans.      <br />The hero of this story is a guy by the name of Nate O'Riley. Nate is a troubled young lawyer with a bad past. He has been battling his drug and alcohol addiction, hiding from the IRS and running from his marriage. Nate, just fresh out of rehab, has been asked by his boss and also friend Josh Stanford, to do one last case. Josh, who was Troy Phelans lawyer, and is now handling the Phelan estate, has asked Nate to find the legal inheritor of the will. Nate is being sent to the Pantanal to battle the heat, water, savages and to find the richest woman in the world.           <br />John Grisham a well known author of all types of books. His books have lots of action, adventure and reality about life. I personally think that \\"The Testament\\" was one of the best or the best book John Grisham has ever wrote. Rating this book in would give it 4 stars. If you're looking for an all around good book it has to be \\"The Testament\\".	2001-12-06
1744014:US	51744771	R21P0DJ7L48DXO	1550744151	785662414	Angels Turn Their Backs	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Book!	A Review by Carol<BR>This story is about a 15-year-old girl named Addy Jarrick. Her parents split up and her mom and her moved to Winnipeg. She moves into an apartment building. Addy hears voices of the old lady who used to live there. She hears these voices through a parrot named Victor who makes the story humorous. I think that this story is so great because of all of the different emotions in it. I never wanted to put the book down. You have to use your imagination to really enjoy this book. Some things that happen aren't very real but the whole situation and conflict is very good and interesting. I would recommend this book to teenagers. The feelings change throughout the book. It is sad because Addy has agoraphobia, a fear of going outside. It is also scary because she hears voices but that's what makes the book so interesting. The book was pretty easy to follow, easy to understand and very efficient. I could read this book over and over again!	2001-12-06
1744094:US	51744771	R4YFRMZAP230J	0316141674	533315854	The Team That Couldn't Lose: Who is Sending the Plays That Make the Team Unstoppable? (Matt Christopher Sports Classics)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The winners!	A Review by Erik<BR>This book was an interesting story about a kids football team that was supposed to lose every game, but they mysteriously get a new play that they used to help them.<br />Jasper was an old man who recognized the plays. He said they used them over 60 years ago when he was in high school. Chip, the quarterback, asked the high school coach if he was giving them the plays, but he said no.<br />Every week they got a new play and practiced it. And every week they won the game. Jasper, chip the coach, and the other kids on the team wanted to know who was sending the plays to the coach. They tried and tried to see where the plays were coming from, but the only person who knew wouldnt talk about it. <br />The characters are like real kids and very interesting. The coach doesnt know a lot about football but that part of what makes the story interesting. <br />The book is interesting and doesnt get boring. The main story talks about the football games and kids. But also talks about the mystery of who is sending the coach the secret plays and where did these plays come from. <br />The worst part about the book is that the Author led part of it get boring because parts of the book drug on too long, especially in the middle. But most of the time it was fun to read.	2001-12-06
1744184:US	51744771	R6YLK1WP8IKLF	0140370889	342647183	The Man from the Other Side	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Must Read for Younger Teens	A Review by Craig<BR>This is a story about a fourteen-year-old Polish boy, Marek, who lives in Warsaw, Poland in 1942.  The book takes place a couple of years after the Nazis invasion of Poland.  Warsaw is a city occupied by the Nazis who have sectioned off an area of the city called the ghetto. This area, which is basically a prison, is strictly for the Jewish people. The story follows the teenager Marek as he struggles to understand the hatred and mistrust towards the Jewish people.  The book follows Marek as he helps his stepfather and becomes a member of the underground, which smuggles weapons, food, and other goods through the sewers into the ghetto.  The Jewish people in the ghetto decide to defend themselves when the Nazi decide to get rid them all.  Marek gets involved in the uprising and fights along side his friend that he saved from the Polish and German Police.<br />This book does a good job of putting the reader right along side Marek in his adventures throughout the story and to feel his experiences.  The action and descriptions in this book really shows the horror of the Holocaust and war in general.  \\"For a moment I stood there with my mouth open, listening to the German's screams grow more distant.  Then there was a sudden thump in the courtyard.\\"  (p.167).  Even though it was sometimes hard to read because I knew that these things really could have happened, I always wanted to keep reading.  The author made me want to find out what would happen next.<br />The author wrote so that you could really get a feel for how he felt about the characters in the book.  He wrote, \\"The more I imagined him, the more I had to rewrite the whole story of his life, to change my whole conception of him, starting with his childhood\\" (p. 38).  Here he is talking about the father that he never knew well, and whom he was told lies about, but then finds out the truth.<br />This book got The Batchelder Award and I think it deserved it.  It portrayed life during the holocaust very well through the eyes of a sympathetic teenager.  On Amazon.com, they show this book at a 9-12 year old reading level, but I think you really have to be at least 12 to totally grasp the situation in this story.  That's one of the reasons I recommend this book to read, because it really grabs you, and makes you feel for the people who suffered through those times.	2001-12-06
1744250:US	51744771	R1KINGVEUV07SX	0140345353	91009783	The Devil's Arithmetic (Puffin Modern Classics)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The Devil's Back	A Review by Bryce<BR>The Devils Arithmetic is a great historical book. The story takes place in The Bronx, then transports you to 1940's Germany. Hannah, the main character, is tired of her grandfather talking about the holocaust. When Hannah wakes up one morning, she is in a small town in Germany. She meets her aunt, Gitl. <br />The historical aspect is right on target. One example of this is when \\"Hannah and gitl are waiting to get their head shaved. Jane Yolen depicts the nazi camps precisely; \\"the guards are every where.\\" This story has a special appeal to me, because I've studied World War 2 since I was able to read. The book has a sad, but serious story line. I would recommend this book to people who are interested in reading about or studying the holocaust. The plot goes the way I wanted it and expected it to.	2001-12-06
1744397:US	51744771	RQQO99B011FY4	0394895894	312522121	The Ruby in the Smoke: A Sally Lockhart Mystery	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Too confusing	A Review by Amy<BR>The book was very interesting. This story is about a girl named Sally, who is sixteen years old. It takes place in the 1870s, in an old town in England. Sally is trying to figure out her father's death. She was given a note that talked about \\"The Seven Blessings.\\" Sally has no idea what that means. So she goes on a hunt to figure it out. However, ever person she asks about the saying or her father's death, a new mystery shows up.<br />The story was somewhat a page-turner. Still, some chapters would be very long and not full of excitement. The author sometimes uses descriptive words that describe too many things at once and becomes confusing. Also, the author uses \\"she\\" a lot, so you have to follow the story to understand what she they are talking about.<br />The book would probably be better if it wasn't as confusing. I started to get into the book around the fifth and sixth chapter, and then it went downhill and became dull. The book was then very boring and not interesting. I would recommend you to buy this book if you can sit down and really focus in on the book. However, if you can't do this then you shouldn't buy the book.	2001-12-05
1744632:US	51744771	R2OY2FEHGNLA4M	0152012931	230161740	The Glass House People	Books	5	2	2	N	N	It was GOOD!	A Review by Sherri<BR>I thought this \\"The glass house people\\" was a good book, I thought Hannah was the best character though, because she was accused for killing someone, so it was like a mystery. It seemed like you were actually in the story, like when they got to their grandmas and grandpas house. They explained how the house was, and what it looked like. I would give this book a rating of 5 stars, because it was GOOD! I think anyone who likes mysteries should read this book; it's an AWESOME book!	2001-12-05
1744662:US	51744771	R2OV01XL721IUG	059035342X	400589274	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Harry Potter a Great Book	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone by J.K. Rowling<BR>A Review by Jordan<BR>Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone is the first book of the Harry Potter series. The main character, Harry, is orphan as an infant and survives tough times. He is raised by uncaring relatives who make him sleep in a closet under the stairs. All that changes when a giant, bearded stranger named Hagrid appears on Harry's eleventh birthday, tells the boy that he possesses magical powers and then whisks him off to a special school for wizards.<br />I really enjoyed this book, it was a book I just couldn't put down. I really liked the Quiddich matches. I recommend this book to all ages and anyone who just likes the thought of magical powers like, spells, potions, charms, transfiguration, and flying broomsticks. The characters were great they had the Hero, the Brains, the comic relief, and the good friend. To find out who's who read this book. There was nothing I didn't like about this book it was very well written, great characters, and overall just a great story. So, that's why I give this book five stars.	2001-12-05
1744696:US	51744771	R2P9MJ5HM3R88X	038089968X	669542390	Chain Letter (Avon Flare Book)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An exciting and sad ending	A review by Daisy<BR>  Seven teenagers committed a horrible crime last summer. They promised each other not to tell a soul about this dark deep secret. But some how somebody has discovered their secret and they are after them. One by one of them they start getting chain letters making them do dares that nobody would even think of doing on a sleepover. If they didn't attempted or did their dares things were going to start happening, bad things. Bad things did happen to some of them because they couldn't bare to go through such embarrassing dares, and they refused on doing them. They started getting hurt and some started missing. Some of them did their dares not wanting to get hurt but wanting this horrible nightmare to be over as soon as possible. Alison the main character tries to figure this mystery that is killing one by one of her good friends. It could even cost her and her friends lives. This book brings exciting parts and too much detail on horrible hurtful seines. This book has a very exciting and sad ending.	2001-12-05
1744832:US	51744771	R3IDYNSISI8C9P	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Life as we knew it	A review by Ross<br />This story takes place back in the time when Napoleon was at war with the world. It tells about how the war effected the course of the Russian people. Of how families united and how they split apart. About life and death, happiness and sorrow. It tells of how life can change with one decision and how it will turn out in the end because of those choices. The book was slow moving in the beginning and quite confusing. For one thing the author used so many details on starting the book that it takes a good hundred pages to. He gave so many details that it seemed as if you would have to read every second of the eighteen or twenty years this takes place during. In the first three pages the author changes to totally different setting and lives that you get confused on who is who. For there had to be about twenty princesses, ten princes, five counts, and what not other characters. The book becomes very interesting when it talks about the front lines of the Russian versus French battles. But the first two hundred pages bore you to death. All in all, beginning = bore, middle and end were quite good. The characters you can almost see perfectly in your mind, with every detail about them. The battles seem as if you were watching a movie. This I could say could be the most historical and LONGEST book I have ever read.	2001-12-05
1745150:US	51744771	R2GZGFWU8FCIY3	0451522753	5400916	Little Men (Signet Classics)	Books	2	4	23	N	N	Definitely not a must read	Little Men, is an average book. The whole story is about all these little orphans. There was Nat, Demi, Tommy, Dan, Franz, Emil, Ted, and little Rob. There was more but the girls are all stupid. It's a story about a bunch of orphans that have there own little special talents. The story is really a cute little story, but lacks a sense of plot. There's no action. I really think this book is so boring I fell a sleep every 5 minutes. Don't buy this book! If you don't like action and you like all that cute [stuff] read the counterpart, Little Women. Out of a 5 star review system, I'd give this book a 2.definetly not a must read. The only part I liked was the ending. The reason I liked the ending is because it was the end and I didn't have to read it anymore.	2001-12-05
1745185:US	51744771	R1UWO5BFEIZUZ7	0064405648	65129925	The Moves Make the Man (Newbery Honor Book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I really enjoined this book	A Review by Brandi<BR> This book is about a kid named Jerome. Jerome is a black kid going to a white school and is currently in the seventh grade.  Jerome meets a kid named Bix when he has to watch his brother's baseball game. Although, they didn't play the same sport, Jerome admired Bix for is athletic abilities. They didn't talk to each other at first; Jerome just used him as a name for his opponent when he was playing basketball with himself.<br />They finally meet in a home economics class, and were friends from then on. Bix was an emotionally troubled kid, and had to be taken out of school class, after he started to freak out in home ec. They became the best of friends after that.<br />I really loved the way Bruce Brooks wrote this book. He always had me guessing. It was like a lot basketball games with a different plot wound in to every one. Brooks pulls it together to make one very good plot covering everything that is true in life today. It also didn't tell you what happened to Bix at the end, leaving you and your imagination to run wild. I really suggest that everyone reads this book.	2001-12-05
1745378:US	51744771	R2A6FE1919KC55	0380722690	366231888	Heart of a Champion (Avon Camelot Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	If you even remotely like sports	A Review by Tyler<BR>Heart of a Champion is a good book, actually it's great book. Probably the best book I've ever read, I give it 5stars. This book was so real to life, and the struggles, heartaches, and pains a real friendship goes through. Seth and Jimmy both love the game of baseball, and everything about it, they both dream of playing in the Major Leagues. But Jimmy likes one thing inpaticular that some Major Leagues do, that will eventually break him. To find out what read the book. The ending to this story is what no one would expect, and that is how the whole book is, this is part of the reason the book is so good. The book was well written; all the conflicts seemed so real. Although there were a couple of scenes where I had to read it twice, to figure out whose talking or just what it meant. I would recommend this book to anybody who even remotely likes baseball or any sport.	2001-12-05
1745435:US	51744771	R22B5EVOYR8650	0140379940	524334616	The Boys from St. Petri	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Historical, funny, and suspenseful	A review by Jamie<BR>This is a very good book about a boy named Lars, it takes place in 1942.  Lars is in the St. Petri group, against German Nazis, they steal caps, guns, flags, signs, and license plates.  The group breaks lets a new member in named Otto, and then he helps them break into the German head quarters, the first time they don't get caught but Otto gets hurt so they have to take him to the doctors.  The second time, a few, but not all of them get caught.  This is also a romance story, kind of like a soap opera, because Lars is in love with his older brothers girlfriend, Irene.  Read the story to find out who ends up with her.  The book is historical, funny, and suspenseful, it kept me reading!	2001-12-05
1745437:US	51744771	R1MU4LROM97S8R	0440226864	870219988	In the Middle of the Night	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Accident	A Review by Ellie<BR>This story was about a boy who caused an accident when he was sixteen at a circus.  The boy was harassed by people on the anniversary of the accident, (Halloween), every year.  One woman in particular always calls in the middle of the night. Now, it's the twenty-fifth anniversary and the boy is all grown up and has a family of his own.  It is a few weeks before Halloween and the calls start again.  But now the caller wants to talk to his son, Denny, and she starts messing with his head. <br />I thought this was a really good book and it keeps you interested and makes you want to keep reading.  The author described the scenes really well so it made a picture in your head of what was going on.  He also described the characters very well.  For example, when Denny waited at the bus stop every morning there were these little bratty kids that were always really annoying and the author described them so well that you kind of get annoyed by them yourself.  One thing that the author did that I didn't like was that he didn't make the main character, Denny, very interesting.  He made him kind of a dull person.  But, I think that maybe he was supposed to be kind of boring, but it still annoyed me because he didn't have any friends.  Overall, I really liked this book and I would recommend it.	2001-12-05
1745501:US	51744771	R1BRMJLALDEJ46	0380677024	848646640	Hunter in the Dark	Books	2	3	5	N	N	It had no magic	Rating: 2 stars. Author: Monica Hughes. <br />The story \\"Hunter In The Dark,\\" by Monica Hughes is about a boy named Mike who is in realistic situations in everyday life, who faces challenges in and out of school. Mike has a somewhat perfect life. He has a beautiful girlfriend named Gloria, he's on the school basketball team, and is keeping his grades up to date, and is earning a pretty strong B average. All of that falls apart, when Mike suddenly falls apart on the basketball court one day, during a game after school in his school gym. He soon finds out he might have a blood disease called anemia, but after weeks and weeks he soon realizes that he is not getting better, and he might have an even greater disease. <br />Overall, I believe the quality of the book is somewhat okay, but the thing that really disappointed me was that there was no interest  grabbing me, or taking me into the story. I couldn't feel there, and it was not a page turner, and I got bored of it at parts of the book, because things were not flowing, and in my opinion, the sentences were poorly detailed, and did not have any meaning, or description hardly. I've read some really good books  before, and you didn't want to put them down, and you didn't want the story to end, you wanted it to keep going, but with this book, I felt it had no magic, or the qualities a well-written book should have.	2001-12-05
1745546:US	51744771	R3FBDSH07UMI17	0440945151	654097905	Killing Mr. Griffin	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An abrupt and unsuspected ending	Killing Mr. Griffin is a good book about some high school students who plan a revenge on their tough literature teacher, Mr. Griffin.  But when their plans go wrong and their harmless practical joke turns into a murder case, their lives get turned upside down.  They try to keep it secret but the guilt and anger finally gets to them and the truth is revealed. The book had a good beginning and it kept me interested the whole time. In some parts the book seemed to start dragging but then something really exciting would happed and it would recover itself.  The book has a lot of suspenseful parts, which makes the book even more interesting and exciting to read.  The author also did a good job on making the characters and plot believable, the way the characters reacted to each other and got along was just like if they were real high school students put in this position.  The book ending was kind of abrupt and unsuspected but I was relieved for the book to end because there couldn't have been much more added to the story without it starting to drag.	2001-12-05
1745631:US	51744771	R15MSXUN7JHDBF	0440226104	337409677	Black and Blue: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	A splendid book with a great message	A Review by Joan<BR>Black and Blue is a very interesting book and domestic violence. It shows how a wife gets fed up with her husband beating her and decides to run away with their child. She goes as far as changing her name and appearance. This story portrays very well what a woman might have to go through to change her life completely in the drop of a dime, and not to leave a trace. The story line is amusing, but at times Quindlen tends to ramble on about parts that aren't that crucial to the story. She repeats what she's saying a lot of times, but by using different words. \\" There were almost no cars on the highway, and the breeze was a little cold, as though even the tropics had to pay a homage to the Pilgrims' chilly feast. It's as if life stops in America on holidays. Or maybe it's that way everywhere, all over the world, all the places I've never gone, countries I've never seen.\\" ( pg. 156) I think she does this for effect but she uses this technique a lot. <br />I fully enjoyed reading this book when the story line was making progress. I know some people that have ran from their abusive husbands, and this provides me with further insight on how they might have felt. This book makes me hold a big grudge against abusive husbands, because in the book the husband gets away with everything, and treats her horribly.  I know this happens all around but the book reminded me of it. \\" \\"What are you gonna do, Fran? Call the cops?\\" This was funny for him because he was a cop.                <br />I think Quindlen should spent a little more time describing the characters other than the narrator. I personally think that she should have spent more time reflecting how the other characters felt about the situation, and how well she hid her past. During the middle of the book it starts to dragon and the last about thirty pages was the most intriguing. This was a splendid book with a great message to send. I suggest that if you interested in this sort of thing than you shouldread Black and Blue.	2001-12-05
1745882:US	51744771	R2QL9A2CPTYW0I	0440200806	22689778	Stotan! (Laurel-Leaf Contemporary Fiction)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Swim with the Stotans!	A review by Zach<br />In this book 4 friends, Walker, Nortie, Jeff, and Lion are swimmers at Frost High in Spokane Washington. They are all good friends and they come across many challenges as they go through their last year of high school. Like when Nortie had become abused by his father and Walker, Jeff, and Lion came and took him from house. There are also many other issues like racism. <br />This book was perfectly written with the eight amounts of suspense, comedy, and drama mixed in. In many parts it will keep you right on the edge of your seat wanting to read more and more. It is not a book you can easily put down. It did move a little slow in some parts, but not to the point that it would make you bored. It also may have been better If it were longer. The end left me with many unknown things and wanting to learn what would happen next. <br />Overall it was an excellent book and is one of my favorites. I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good book, though this book would probably appeal more to teenagers over the age of twelve. I would also recommend any other Chris Crutcher book especially Iron Man or The Crazy Horse Electric Game, they all posses the same great qualities.	2001-12-04
1745991:US	51744771	RZPYVDMYDGS71	006205161X	39806637	Beauty Queen	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Easy to read	A review by Allison<BR>This book is about a naive 19-year-old girl named Sam. Sam has several problems in her life. It begins when Sam's boyfriend breaks up with her and she gets depressed about it. Sam has problems with her alcoholic mother and her mother's boyfriend. She finds an apartment to move into so she can get away from her mother. She also gets a new job as a topless dancer. Working at her new job, Sam is introduced to the drug heroin. It is her \\"magic potion\\" while she is dancing. The author gives vivid descriptions of Sam of how she feels when she shoots up. \\"As soon as he left, I danced another set, then went into the bathroom to shoot up again. And I did too much! My heart was racing like mad, almost jumping out of my chest, and I had to lie down on the floor to get myself back together. I felt like I was going to die. My ears closed up and my head felt all fuzzy. Then it slowed down and it was like I was fading away, leaving my body. Then I started to come to.\\" (Page 101.)<br />Linda Glovach, the author, does a great job writing this book. She makes it seem so real with each and every journal entry. She pulls you into Sam's world and makes you feel empathy for her. (...)	2001-12-04
1746325:US	51744771	R1HQFXMIMGTDKP	0441001866	987053887	Martin the Warrior: A Novel of Redwall	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Buy this book!	A review by Judy<BR>Do you like to read a good fantasy that has battles and skillful sword fighters in it?  If so, this is the book for you.  Martin the Warrior is a book about small animals.  Martin and Rose are two of the main characters, and they are both mice.  Martin had been enslaved by Badrang and escapes with some help from outsiders, but he is determined to free all of the slaves Badrang has and to get his father's sword back.  Will he achieve his one and only goal or will he give up?  <BR> I really like this book. At first the story seems to drag but then it turns to very efficiently told.  The main characters are so real and they all have different attitudes.  At times the characters can be really funny.  \\"Go to sleep, you filthy bunch.  I'd like to lay you all out with a punch.\\"  Brian Jacques likes to play with language, at times I found it hard to understand, but once you get used to reading it you begin to understand what they are saying.  Mostly it's just the moles talk weirdly, but there is also an Indian tribe talks diferently.  The moles talk like this, \\"You'm a dreadful `horrible crew an `oi wuddent give to you.\\"  While the Indian tribe talks like this, \\"Squidjees playnow, youwatch plennygood!\\"  At times this story seems to linger, but for the most part it carries itself until the high point!  The author likes to give lots of details but not too many.  \\"Primping the lace hems of her tunic...\\"  The conflicts seem real, and they can relate back to the time when we had slaves.  \\"Martin's head slumped onto his sodden chest as he recalled the day of his capture.\\"  At first you might be confused when Jacques moves on to another character, but you'll get the way he does it soon enough.  The ending could be different, but it definitely ends the story.  I think the story is just the right length.  I was shocked but relieved when the story ended.  If it had gone on it would have been a bore. I rate this book with 4 stars. I definitely think you should buythis book!	2001-12-04
1746782:US	51744771	R1KUTUKM0P3YNA	0590484060	671828013	Dreadful Sorry (Point Signature)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An excellent ending!	A review by Kenya<BR>Haunted be horrible nightmares of people screaming and of herself drowning, Molly Teague is apparently having many restless nights. Molly Teague happens to be the main character in the novel, \\"Dreadful Sorry\\". Molly has a terrible water phobia and will not go anywhere near getting into a swimming pool no matter how many people are watching. She lives in Brattleboro Heights, Ohio with her savvy mother while her recently remarried laidback father has moved to a tiny fishing town in Maine. After going to live with her stepfather for the summer, molly starts doing some research. It is through this research that she discovers that she is reliving the life of Clementine, a girl from the 1800s. The well-known childhood rhyme, \\"Oh My Darlin' Clementine\\" was incessantly playing through her mind and Molly never knew why until she realized that she is here for Clementine and Clementine is asking Molly to make all of Clementine's wrongs right again. Basically, Molly is reliving the life of Clementine. <BR>The main thought or plot of this story is great and it was a good idea, but the story itself is too coincidental. For example, at a friend's party Molly is thrown into the pool by Jared, her best friend's cousin, and it just so happens to turn out that Jared is also reliving a past life. This life just happens to be the life of Hob, Clementine's admirer and Jared, coincidentally happens to admire Molly. Another coincidence that proves this story is excessively coincidental is when molly goes to live with her father and discovers that the house he lives in is that of Clementine's uncle whom she lived with. The author, Kathryn Reiss, is a fantastic writer and clearly shows this through her writing of this novel. Her use of words was perfect for the age group this novel was aimed at. I really enjoyed the way she interwove a childhood rhyme into a sort of eerie story.<BR>    The characters chosen were perfect for the parts they played. Personally, I think thatthe best character is the savvy stuck up mother. The way she puts the down Molly's father every chance she gets is a snap back to reality since it happens in many households in the real world. Also its quite funny how Kathryn Reiss has the stepmother thinking that her ex-husbands new wife is simply a dumb California blonde when she actually turns out to be a redhead and quite intone with the east coast way of life. One thing I didn't like is how it took forever and a day for molly to figure out what was going on with her nightmares and such when I as a reader figured it out quite a few chapters before her and we even shared the same point of view, first person. This made me think that Molly was stupid but that soon changed. She is tough and very stubborn. In Ohio she tried to attract attention to herself and laid around feeling sorry for herself after the swimming accident but that quickly changed after moving to Maine.<BR> In parts, the story lagged a bit but soon picked up again. For instance, sometimes the story would be moving very slow and then something big would happen. It wasn't always slow, only for two chapters or so. Most of the time it would have a steady pace and then a couple big events would come along but it would soon go back to its original pace. I really enjoyed the way that Kathryn Reiss related some of the relationship details with the stepmother to real life. This being the way her mom doesn't like the stepmother, the way that Molly feels resentment to her stepmother at first, and the way the stepmother and Molly's father don't really show affection for one another in front of Molly. All in all I highly enjoyed this novel and even had a couple of laughs. The ending was excellent and  everything turned out ok.	2001-12-04
1747970:US	51744771	R9A004IDLKDRS	0451527593	870497727	Two Years Before the Mast (Signet Classics)	Books	3	3	16	N	N	Not Moby Dick, but just as boring	This story of an educated man doing the work of a common seaman in the 1830's takes it's place with Melville's tome.  It seems to go on forever and ever describing the finest details of sailing and shipping furs.  Just how much does the reader want to know about this especially when we get described repreatedly which sail and which wind, and how long they sat motionless in the water, and on and on.  Somehow I felt compelled to keep reading, in hopes of finding some action or excitement.  A few pirates would help, especially if they had peglegs or obnoxious parrots.  Oh well, it's a different style than Robert Louis Stevenson or even &quot;A Perfect Storm.&quot;	2001-12-03
1748062:US	51744771	RI7RWJL44BLPP	0553278517	52313710	Solid Gold Kid, The	Books	4	3	3	N	N	You'll love this realistic book!	Review by Casey<BR>If you like realistic stories, you will love The Solid Gold Kid by Norma and Harry Mazer. <BR>    Sixteen year old Derek Chapman, who lives in Central Park South in New York City, the son of a millionaire banker.  Derek likes to take the 12:22 pm bus to the youth center in town.  On one rainy, April, Saturday afternoon, Derek was at the bus stop with four other kids and they were all getting soaked.  A van pulled up with a man and a woman in it and Derek asked, &quot;Give me a ride downtown?&quot;(p. 11)  The people in the van gave them a ride.  Derek and the other kids thought that the man and woman were just being nice but they were really kidnappers waiting to kidnap Derek.  Will Derek and the other kids get out of this situation alive? <BR>    I liked the realism of the story because this story could really happen.  I also liked how fast the plot went.  The plot kept speeding up for the majority of the story. <BR>    I think that the story had great characters.  Two of my favorite characters were Wendy and Derek.  Wendy had come up with a great idea on how to get out of the fire lookout tower.  They were trapped in a fire lookout tower and the trap door was tied with chains from the outside.  &quot;You'll let me down on the rope about ten or twelve feet, that's all.  I don't have to go all the way to the ground.  I just have to get a good swing going, swing out and then back in through the iron struts.  I'll grab on to one of the struts and climb over to the stairs and untie those chains.&quot; (p.143) <BR>    I liked Derek because he thought of everybody before himself and wanted the others to live and not  get hurt.  He tried to make the best out of a horrible situation.  For example, when Wendy came up with the idea to escape from the fire lookout Derek said, &quot;No it is just risky, what if the line breaks you could die.&quot;  (p. 144) <BR>    This is a very serious story.  What happened in the book could happen in real life.  In the story, people were shot, beaten, punched, and burned. <BR>    The language that the author used was very easy to understand except for the times when Derek was talking to himself.  For example, &quot;Stay calm, Derek.  Think.  They want to kill you, but you want to live.  You are going to live, you're going to live, you're going to live, you hear me, you're going to fight.  Fight.  Not dead till proved dead. Think.  What are you going to do?&quot; (p. 161-162).  When I read the story, I thought that someone was saying that out loud. <BR>    The book was pretty good except I didn't like the ending.  During the whole story, there was alot of action that led up to the climax.  After the climax, the story slowed.  I think the ending wasn't necessary to the story.	2001-12-03
1757771:US	51744771	RNWLM70QVLD7N	0060932759	694565872	Daughter of Fortune	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Search for Identity	I was handed this book by an Allende fan who thought I would love it as well.  Love is too strong a word, perhaps, but I was engaged and entertained throughout.  This story is epic in scope and romantic in texture.  As an historical fiction, it gives an enlightening view of settings that already interested me: 19th century Chile and California.  Along the way Allende provides a glimpse of the prejudice and hatred felt toward the Chinese by aristocratic Chileans and white Americans, and a similar hatred toward Hispanics of all origins and cultures by gold-seeking white people caught up in the fever of anticipated wealth.  Without really trying the author also handed us another injustice, the one that shows how women, especially Asian, were treated as just so much disposable merchandise by men who sought their wealth by servicing the sexual needs of those populating Central California during the Gold Rush of 1849 and beyond.  Her language was beautiful at times, but tended to be flowery and of the romance novel genre.  Her history was fascinating and enlightening.  I will definitely read more Allende and already have &quot;The House of Spirits&quot; on my shelf.  It will have wait a couple of months, however.	2001-11-26
