727547:US	51809405	R2NZCL77V5Q4H	0060510242	757802694	Bobby Fischer Goes to War: How the Soviets Lost the Most Extraordinary Chess Match of All Time	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Straightforward Account of a Memorable Story	\\"Bobby Fischer Goes to War\\" succinctly recounts the events leading up to and surrounding the famous 1972 chess match that (briefly) wrested the world championship away from the Soviets.  The story was compelling then as a surrogate battle of the Cold War.  Now, however, it fascinates because of the incredible and tragic story of the American champion who was made famous by and ultimately consumed by the game of chess.<br />The authors do a great job of telling the story, giving just enough history of the game of chess and biography of the participants to set the stage.  A particularly surprising revelation is what a sympathetic character Soviet champion Boris Spassky actualy was.  A poltical maveric (at least by contemporary standards) Spassky comes off as a decent guy, especially when compared to the notoriously unstable and anti-Semitic Fisher.<br />The book climaxes with aa compelling description of the match itself, which would have been memorable even without the geopolitical implications.  The authors wind down by revealing what became of the principle players in the drama, including the sad and notoriouslt paranoid state into which Fisher has descended.<br />Overall, this is a fascinating book that will delight the chess enthusiest as well as anyone else who likes a great story.	2004-03-29
751647:US	51809405	R30AEG5KQZFQ0V	0804119120	154526115	A Conspiracy of Paper: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Historical Tough Guy Fiction	Despite its somewhat awkward title, &quot;Conspiracy of Paper&quot; is a first rate work of historical fiction with enough action to please any mystery fan.  Author David Liss paints a vivid portrait of early 18th century London as seen through the eyes of his protagonist, Jewish &quot;theif-taker&quot; Benjamin Weaver.  Weaver is actually a forerunner to the modern private eye, and is as quick with his wits as he is with his tounge.<br />As the book opens, Weaver is hired to investigate the apparently accidental death of his own estranged father.  He delves, reluctantly at first, into a world of double-dealing and high finance, in which paper &quot;currency&quot; is fast replacing barter and gold as the principle means of exchange.  Liss is a master at creating the proper atmosphere, and he painstakingly includes the necessary detail to give his story authenticty.  The end result is a book that is satisfying both as a mystery and a work of history.	2004-03-10
757791:US	51809405	R1E43BBI832I82	006019619X	496866529	Down the Great Unknown: John Wesley Powell's 1869 Journey of Discovery and Tragedy Through the Grand Canyon	Books	3	13	21	N	N	Exciting, but Flawed, Historical Account	If author Edward Dolnick had been content to provide a straightforwrd account of John Wesley Powell's historic exploration of the Grand Canyon, then &quot;Down the Great Unknown&quot; would be a timeless adventure classic.  Dolnick is a gifted writer with a great flair for enticing details.  Unfortunately, he continually gets sidetracked with stories having little or nothing to do with expedition, and often goes, if you'll pardon the pun, overboard with his cutesy metaphors.  The end result is an informative book that is almost as exhausting to read as the expedition itself was to endure.<br />The tale of the Powell expedition hardly needs embellishing.  He set out with nine men down the Green and Colorado rivers through what at the time was virtually unknown territory in wooden boats battling some of the most forbidding whitewater in the world.  That his party survied at all is remarkable.  That they did so without any deaths or serious injury (at least from accident or mishap), is astounding.<br />Dolnick's problem as a narrator presents itself early on when he detours from the trip for two full chapters describing Powell's losing his arm at the Battle of Shiloh.  Certainly, the injury is an important part of Powell's story, but a complete retelling of the history of battle itself is unnecessary.  As the book progresses, Dolnick gets distracted with other Grand Canyon anecdotes, and often spends time describing in the second person what it is like to go rafting in the area today.  One or two such descriptions would have sufficed, but the author keeps going back to them again and again.<br />Overall, &quot;Down the Great Unknown&quot; covers a fascinating subject, but is a widely uneven reading experience.	2004-03-05
787935:US	51809405	R2VYO7VC91FNR9	0060567759	573704480	The Best American Magazine Writing 2003	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Quality Writing From Every Corner	I'm a big fan of the &quot;Best American&quot; series of books.  Nowhere can the reader find such great collections of stories and articles in the fields of Sports, Travel, Crime, Mysteries, Short Stories, and so on.  &quot;Best American Magazine Writing 2003&quot; was my first experience with this particular catagory, and I immediately noted that it contains entries from both the 2003 Sports and Crime volumes.<br />Fantastic prose and exemplary storytelling are key features to the Best American books, and this one is no exception.  The highlights from this collection include a discussion of Icebergs and Global Warming called &quot;Terminal Ice,&quot; a retelling of football coach George O'Leary's downfall called &quot;Lying in Wait,&quot; a chilling account of Holocaust victims used to create an anatmy guide in &quot;The Most Dangerous Beauty,&quot; and reportage on the Hezbollah terrorist movement called &quot;In the Party of God.&quot;<br />The only drawback to this collection is that the articles and stories vary so widely in subject matter that some will likely be of much more interest to any individual reader than others.  Nevertheless, it's a keeper.	2004-02-12
789371:US	51809405	RV08N5NGKMQGO	0813025664	77847247	In the Eye of Hurricane Andrew (Florida History and Culture)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Incomplete	&quot;In the Eye of Hurricane Andrew&quot; is a collection of first hand accounts of people who survived the horrible disaster and it's aftermath in South Florida.  It is NOT an overall history of the storm, as it doesn't cover what it wrought upon the Gulf Coast after hitting Florida.  It is also NOT a compelling narrative history, like the book &quot;Issac's Strom&quot; about the 1900 Galveston Hurricane.  It is, however, fairly brief at less than 150 pages of narrative and contains only a few black &amp; white photographs.<br />Given the above, I would recommend this book primarily for South Florida victims of the storm as well as to anyone doing research about hurricanes.  General readers will not find much of interest here.	2004-02-11
792410:US	51809405	RBDQW1WNCYPZZ	0399150919	533097786	What Ifs? of American History: Eminent Historians Imagine What Might Have Been	Books	4	10	11	N	N	American History that Might Have Been	This is the third collection in the superb &quot;What If&quot; series, and the first to focus exclusively on American History.  The first caveat I would give to anyone thinking of making a purchase is that two of these essays (by David McCullough and James McPherson) are repeats from the first volume in the series.  I would secondly note that the quality of the essays included here vary wildy.<br />Some, like the speculation on John Tyler's ascendency from Vice-President to President upon the death of William Henry Harrison, and the possible outcome of a third U.S. war with Britain (circa 1896) are quite informative.  At least one, a telling of the Cuban Missle Crisis as if it precipated World War III, is quite chilling.  Others, however, are less engaging.  Anthony Beevor's recounting of Eisenhower's decision at the end of World War II not to march on Berlin, for example, adds little to the controversy that wasn't already there.<br />Overall, a worthwhile collection for those who love counterfactual historical speculation, with the above reservations.	2004-02-09
795392:US	51809405	R2B3CBCUTT28C3	1594200041	518829493	The Coming of the Third Reich	Books	5	134	143	N	N	First Rate Historical Account	Many historical works about Nazi Germany focus on the cult of personality that surrounded Adolf Hitler.  And while it is true that without Hitler there would have been no Nazi movement, it is equally true that Hitler as a leader could only have flourished in the hothouse political environment that was post-World War I Germany.  Historian Richard Evans?s ?The Coming of the Third Reich,? the first in a trilogy about the Nazis that takes the movement up to Hitler?s 1933 ascension to power, concentrates on those qualities of the German nation that made it susceptible to his virulent brand of fanatical nationalism and racism.  This is an important historical work that will soon take its place alongside the best books ever written about the subject.<br />Evans is a meticulous researcher, but even more importantly he is a good storyteller whose easy prose brings the subject matter to life for the reader.  He begins his story in the days of the legendary Otto von Bismark, the so-called ?Iron Chancellor,? who once and for all united the German nation in 1870.  Evans shows how the latent intellectual seeds of ferocious nationalism, militarism and subdued but prevalent anti-Semitism that would later spring to life so forcefully were sown into the body politic of Germany, waiting for the catastrophic defeat of the First World War to help bring them into full flower.  This worthwhile examination of previous German history is often overlooked, or gets only perfunctory treatment, in other books about the Nazis.  Indeed, Hitler himself is not mentioned by name here until after almost 160 pages of text.<br />Evans goes on to describe early Nazi history, dramatically illustrating how Hitler and his henchmen tapped into the currents of discontent flowing just under the surface of 1920s Weimar democracy, particularly among military veterans.  He graphically depicts the street violence that was so much a part of the fledging democracy, as thugs beholden to the Nazis, the Communists and even democratic parties like the Social Democrats engaged constantly in pitched battles the ultimately undermined the republic.  Even in this environment, however, the Nazi movement needed the drastic economic upheavals of the 1930s before they could turn from a fringe party to a mass movement.  The final tragedy of the book comes in late January 1933 when Hitler, whose party had peaked short of 40% of the popular vote and was actually declining, is invited to become chancellor by some contemptible and hopelessly misguided conservative politicians who thought they could control him.<br />Overall, ?The Coming of the Third Reich? is an outstanding historical work that is aimed at general readers, but should appeal to anyone with an interest in this important subject.even democratic parties like the Social Democrats engaged constantly in pitched battles the ultimately undermined the republic.  Even in this environment, however, the Nazi movement needed the drastic economic upheavals of the 1930s before they could turn from a fringe party to a mass movement.  The final tragedy of the book comes in late January 1933 when Hitler, whose party had peaked short of 40% of the popular vote and was actually declining, is invited to become chancellor by some contemptible and hopelessly misguided conservative politicians who thought they could control him.     <br />Overall, ?The Coming of the Third Reich? is an outstanding historical work that is aimed at general readers, but should appeal to anyone with an interest in this important subject.	2004-02-07
799137:US	51809405	R2H47XWDPHQ9QR	0380713802	280023223	Neither Here nor There: Travels in Europe	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Bryson's a Treasure, Wherever He Goes	It can't truly be said about many authors, but Bill Bryson is laugh-out-loud funny.  Especially if you like your humor with a little edge to it.  &quot;Neither Here Nor There,&quot; was one of his travelogs that preceeded his massively sucessful &quot;A Walk in the Woods&quot; (and is now a dozen years old).  Yet it is not remotley dated.<br />The book is basically Bryson doing what he does best, bumming around a particular countryside (this time all over continental Euroope) and commenting upon everything he sees, hears, smells, tastes and touches.  He does not particularly seek out resort spots, nor would the typical tourist want to imitate his arduous treks (many of which involve endless walking).  But that's what makes his work so charming.  He travels the way most of us live, and his sense of humor is unsurpassed.<br />Overall, another winning travel book from one of the most offbeat popular writers working today.	2004-02-04
800551:US	51809405	R1HZWFSRL61BMX	0553802577	767640279	The Last Stand of the Tin Can Sailors: The Extraordinary World War II Story of the U.S. Navy's Finest Hour	Books	5	272	278	N	N	An Epic Naval Battle Remembered	\\"This will be a fight against overwhelming odds from which survival cannot be expected. We will do all the damage we can.\\" - Lieutenant Commander Robert W. Copeland, from the dust jacket.<br />One of the saddest truths about the turn of the new Millennium is the realization that the veterans of the so-called \\"Greatest Generation,\\" those who defeated Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan, are now rapidly passing into history. As such, it has become even more important that the stories of their heroism and sacrifice be written down for posterity while the heroes themselves are still around to tell them. With his new book, \\"The Last Stand of the Tin Can Sailors,\\" literary agent and author James D. Hornfischer has documented one such lesser-remembered World War Two tale with a reverence befitting the brave men who fought and died for America's freedom.<br />The events of the book take place during the Battle of Leyte Gulf, which stands as the largest naval engagement in world history, and was fought between the Japanese and American navies in the vicinity of the Philippines as General Douglas McArthur's forces were invading to take the archipelago back from the Japanese. The Leyte Gulf campaign has been well documented in other books about the Pacific war, so Hornfischer focuses most of his attention on one particular engagement off Samar Island. There, a small task force of American escort carriers and destroyers (the \\"Tin Cans\\" of the title), held off a far superior enemy fleet of battleships and cruisers with a combination of near-suicidal bravery and spectacular seamanship coupled with a healthy dose of sheer good fortune.<br />\\"Tin Can Sailors\\" is exhaustively researched, which gives the narrative the kind detailed nuance that elevates it above the level of mere reportage into inspired storytelling. Hornfischer sets the stage by introducing the main players, both the ships and the men who sailed on them. He gives an overall view of events leading up to the battle to assist the casual reader in placing it in context, and also presents enough of the Japanese point of view to give an appreciation of how desperate the forces of the Rising Sun were at this stage of the war. Desperate enough, in fact, to risk virtually their entire remaining surface fleet on a gamble, the success of which hinged on their ability to bluff hard-charging American Admiral William F. \\"Bull\\" Halsey. If not for the almost superhuman courage of the Tin Can Sailors, they might well have succeeded and seriously imperiled McArthur's invasion forces.<br />The battle scenes in the book are particularly well depicted; some of the first hand accounts are every bit as graphically disturbing as, say, the first half-hour of the movie \\"Saving Private Ryan.\\" Such images are absolutely vital to the telling of the story, and the author handles them deftly, never lapsing into sensationalism. Hour-by-hour position maps showing the locations of the ships are helpfully provided to assist the reader along with a generous selection of photographs. The extras make \\"Tin Can Sailors\\" one of the best battle books I've read in terms of helping the reader see the action as it is taking place. The epilogue contains a list of those who died fighting the battle, and what's immediately striking is that America lost more fighting men in just over three hours in this one small corner of World War Two than it has during the entire nine-plus months of the Iraq war.<br />Overall, \\"The Last Stand of the Tin Can Sailors\\" is a first rate work of history that will be enjoyed equally by both military buffs and more casual readers. The book was obviously a labor of love for its author, and he should be saluted for his efforts in writing it.st the casual reader in placing it in context, and also presents enough of the Japanese point of view to give an appreciation of how desperate the forces of the Rising Sun were at this stage of the war. Desperate enough, in fact, to risk virtually their entire remaining surface fleet on a gamble, the success of which hinged on their ability to bluff hard-charging American Admiral William F. \\"Bull\\" Halsey. If not for the almost superhuman courage of the Tin Can Sailors, they might well have succeeded and seriously imperiled McArthur's invasion forces.<br />The battle scenes in the book are particularly well depicted; some of the first hand accounts are every bit as graphically disturbing as, say, the first half-hour of the movie \\"Saving Private Ryan.\\" Such images are absolutely vital to the telling of the story, and the author handles them deftly, never lapsing into sensationalism. Hour-by-hour position maps showing the locations of the ships are helpfully provided to assist the reader along with a generous selection of photographs. The extras make \\"Tin Can Sailors\\" one of the best battle books I've read in terms of helping the reader see the action as it is taking place. The epilogue contains a list of those who died fighting the battle, and what's immediately striking is that America lost more fighting men in just over three hours in this one small corner of World War Two than it has during the entire nine-plus months of the Iraq war.<br />Overall, \\"The Last Stand of the Tin Can Sailors\\" is a first rate work of history that will be enjoyed equally by both military buffs and more casual readers. The book was obviously a labor of love for its author, and he should be saluted for his efforts in writing it.	2004-02-03
813150:US	51809405	RYTWVDDEBYDVJ	0375713018	154988173	The Best American Crime Writing: 2003 Edition: The Year's Best True Crime Reporting	Books	5	8	8	N	N	This Collection is Hard to Put Down	Simply stated, the &quot;Best American&quot; series is a national treasure.  This is only the second volume of the Crime Writing entry, and it is already up there with Best American Mystery Stories and Best American Sports Writing in terms of quality.  All of the Best American books feature great use of the written word, regardless of subject matter.  In that sense, this book is a home run.<br />The book starts out with &quot;Big Shot,&quot; the tragic tale of former NBA star Jayson Williams, and of the less famous man he unfortunately killed while showing off a gun in his home.  &quot;The Counterterroist&quot; is about a wourld renowned FBI counterterrorism expert who retired to become head of security at the World Trasde Center, only to die in the attacks two weeks later.  &quot;The Last Ride of Jesse James Hollywood&quot; is a disturbing spectacle of bored modern youth.  &quot;The Enron Wars&quot; provide a great insiders view of that scandal.  &quot;How Two Lives Met in Death&quot; is a heartbreaking tale of an Israeli and Palestinian teenager, one of whom killed the other in a senseless suicide bombing.  And &quot;The Bully of Toulon&quot; describes how a psychotic resident of a small town instituded an atmosphere of fear among his neighbors until it exploded into violence.<br />These great tales and much more await those who decide to sit down with the 2003 edoition of Best American Crime Writing.	2004-01-24
825560:US	51809405	RLI0OPU0J6JJL	0609609890	438683023	The Darkest Jungle: The True Story of the Darien Expedition and America's Ill-Fated Race to Connect the Seas	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Ill-Fated Expedition	Author Todd Balf's &quot;The Darkest Jungle&quot; comes along as the latest in a glut of recent books about historical expeditions that came to grief because they were ill-equiped, poorly led, misguided, or some combination of the three.  The United States' Darien Expedition of 1854, led by earnest Naval Lieutenant Issac Strain fell squarely into the last category.  Misled by erroneous maps drawn by previous charlatan explorers, the Darien Expedition set off across the Panamanian ismuth in seach of a viable ship canal route and became hopelessly lost.  Six men of the party starved to death, and most of the rest would have followed suit but for a heoric rescue effort led by Strain himself.<br />&quot;The Darkest Jungle&quot; is a well written book that tells the story of the Strain party with a minimum of hyperbole.  Particularly gruesome are Balf's depictions of the ravaging effects that starvation and parasites had on the members of the party.  As an added bonus, in the last chapter Balf briefly describes his own travels in the expedition's footsteps.<br />The story of the Darien party isn't an epic, like that of the Scott party in Anarctica for example, but it still makes for enjoyable reading for anybody who likes real-life adventure tales.	2004-01-15
890618:US	51809405	R2ZAT158XWR8LN	1930754299	344036214	Samsara	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Love &amp; Death in Old Hong Kong	\\"Samsara _n. Hinduism and Buddhism_.  The eternal cycle of birth, suffering, death and rebirth.\\" - American Heritage Dictionary<br />  Author John Hamilton Lewis has lived and worked in the Middle East and Far East for over fifteen years; experiences he puts to good use in his new novel, _Samsara_.  Though the story opens in a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp late in the Second World War, most of the action takes place in postwar Hong Kong, a city Lewis shows by his writing that he knows intimately.  Situated precariously on the edge of a newly-Communist China, Hong Kong in 1950 was just emerging as an economic powerhouse.  As such, it is the perfect backdrop for a tale of suspense and intrigue.<br />  The book opens with Royal Air Force pilot Nick Ridley locked in a fierce battle of nerves with the POW camp's commandant, the sadistic Tetsuro Matashima.  Try as he does, Matashima is unable to break Ridley's indomitable spirit despite his use of physical and mental torture.  Increasingly distraught as the defeat of the Japanese Empire becomes more and more inevitable, Matashima challenges Ridley to a sword duel.  Ridley is badly wounded in the engagement before rallying to chop off the commandant's leg.  Sent to a Philippine hospital for recuperation after the war, Ridley does not learn of his tormentor's fate.<br />  Flashing forward five years, former POW Ridley has become the successful head of Cathay Airlines, which is about to win recognition from the British colonial government as Hong Kong's official airline.  Despite his success, however, all is not well in Nick Ridley's world.  The woman he left behind before the war mysteriously disappeared just before his release from the POW camp.  Worse yet, his old enemy from before the war, Thomas Gradek, has become the colony's most powerful businessman and is determined to prevent Cathay from winning the airline concession.  When a vicious heroin-fueled gang war breaks out, Ridley is asked by the colonial government to help with the investigation, much to his eventual regret.  He finds himself drawn deeper into the intrigue; unaware that he has also become the target of Matashima as the crippled former commandant plots his revenge.  When an old face from his past suddenly reappears in Ridley's life, it sets in motion a violent series of events.<br />  Lewis is also very knowledgeable about history, using real events to spice up his narrative.  The story is as richly textured as Hong Kong itself, and is peppered with colorful minor characters with names like Formidable Fung, Charlie Sing Sing and Terrible Wu.  Lewis weaves in numerous subplots, bringing them all together in an explosive climax.  At 244 pages, the book is fast-paced and lively.  Lovers of historical mysteries will find themselves right at home with \\"Samsara\\".<br />A Futures Magazine book review.overnment to help with the investigation, much to his eventual regret.  He finds himself drawn deeper into the intrigue; unaware that he has also become the target of Matashima as the crippled former commandant plots his revenge.  When an old face from his past suddenly reappears in Ridley's life, it sets in motion a violent series of events.<br />     Lewis is also very knowledgeable about history, using real events to spice up his narrative.  The story is as richly textured as Hong Kong itself, and is peppered with colorful minor characters with names like Formidable Fung, Charlie Sing Sing and Terrible Wu.  Lewis weaves in numerous subplots, bringing them all together in an explosive climax.  At 244 pages, the book is fast-paced and lively.  Lovers of historical mysteries will find themselves right at home with \\"Samsara\\".    <br />A Futures Magazine book review.	2003-11-23
890956:US	51809405	R34L4JOPN1PGLQ	1930754329	7419816	After Life Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Defending Your Life Life	\\"After you die you go to After Life Life, and you get interviewed by people you knew in your life on earth.  When your character has been thoroughly dissected, you go on to the next stage.\\" - from the first chapter<br />  Author Don Goldman's \\"After Life Life\\" is not an easy book to categorize.  It starts out in somewhat the same manner as the thought provoking Albert Brooks movie, \\"Defending Your Life.\\"  Like the movie, the book's main character wakes up in a strange place, only to eventually realize that he's dead but not in heaven.  Instead, he's been transported to an otherworldly weigh station in which his entire life will be evaluated to determine if he's ready to ascend to the next level.  The similarity ends there, for despite having some of the same lighthearted humor as the Brooks movie, Goldman's book weaves in elements of science fiction and suspense thriller, along with a good old-fashioned whodunit? murder mystery.<br />  Texas Supreme Court justice Andrew Law is the man who wakes up in the After Life Life to find himself being interviewed and oriented to his new surroundings by his wife's best friend, Carol.  He soon discovers that a relatively minor judicial decision he made right before his death triggered a chain of events that eventually led to a world wide economic collapse and a nuclear war.  As if that wasn't bad enough, he also learns that a seemingly innocuous lie he told his wife on their last night together ruined the rest of her life and is now preventing him from moving on to the next level.<br />  During interview process Andrew becomes convinced that he was murdered and that his death was somehow related to the fateful court ruling.  When an attempt is made on his after life life, Andrew finds that he must convince the After Life Life authorities that his killer is on the loose in their world.  Meanwhile, he must also contend with Carol's romantic feelings for him and his wife's unwillingness to forgive him for lying to her.<br />  \\"After Life Life\\" is an intriguing and challenging book that contains quite a few surprises.  The characters are quirky and unique, particularly Andrew, who narrates the story.  Goldman wisely stays away from the religious implications of the plot, save for a few obligatory phrases that leave questions about God blissfully unanswered.  The logic of the After Life Life world that he's created is quite complex, but he manages to keep it consistent throughout.  Though the murder mystery is central to the book's plot, the science fiction element, particularly the future history of Earth after Andrew's death, is vital to the story and is discussed at great length.<br />  Overall, \\"After Life Life\\" will be most readily enjoyed by those who with a taste for quirky and offbeat mystery stories.<br />A Futures Magazine book reviewr />     \\"After Life Life\\" is an intriguing and challenging book that contains quite a few surprises.  The characters are quirky and unique, particularly Andrew, who narrates the story.  Goldman wisely stays away from the religious implications of the plot, save for a few obligatory phrases that leave questions about God blissfully unanswered.  The logic of the After Life Life world that he's created is quite complex, but he manages to keep it consistent throughout.  Though the murder mystery is central to the book's plot, the science fiction element, particularly the future history of Earth after Andrew's death, is vital to the story and is discussed at great length.<br />     Overall, \\"After Life Life\\" will be most readily enjoyed by those who with a taste for quirky and offbeat mystery stories.   <br />A Futures Magazine book review	2003-11-23
891110:US	51809405	R12KRZF9F73EC6	0974319902	384171673	Crystal Meth Cowboys	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Gritty Cop Drama	\\"Officer Bell raised his baton over his head and, using all the leverage of a long arm on a tall body, RANG the crown of the naked man's skull like a ball peen hammer on a ten penny nail.\\" - - from Crystal Meth Cowboys<br />  Authenticity is vital for any good cop story.  Too many novels written about police officers and how they do what they do read like the author's only expertise comes from watching reruns of the television show \\"Law &amp; Order.\\"  Not so with John Knoerle's excellent \\"Crystal Meth Cowboys,\\" a gritty thriller written with the kind of detail that could only come from having spent time riding around in a squad car.  It is a quirky, hard-boiled novel in the tradition of Elmore Leonard, filed with moments of graphic violence, but also warmth and humor.<br />  As the story begins, we meet rookie patrolman Wes Lyedecker during his first night working the streets of Wislow, California.  His partner, Officer Thomas Bell, is the most colorful cop on the force, a man with a sharp wit and a natural instinct for trouble.  The two men bond quickly after a routine disturbance call brings them face-to-face with a wildly deranged suspect overdosing on methamphetamine.  Alerted by this deadly confrontation to a surge in the local supply of the drug, Bell begins to suspect that a meth lab is operating in the area.  When he and the young Lyedecker investigate, they start to unravel a deadly conspiracy.<br />  Knoerle gets all of the details just right, especially the descriptions of law enforcement procedures and nomenclature.  He gives his police characters realistically colorful dialog, including an amusing bit in which the experienced Bell bewilders the neophyte Lyedecker with a barrage of unexplained acronyms.  The two protagonists are quirky and unique, especially Officer Bell, yet the story is not all about life on the job.  In the background are a romantic subplot and a mayoral election that the two officers become intimately involved in.<br />  \\"Crystal Meth Cowboys\\" is the first of what should be many successful novels for Mr. Knoerle.  A relatively short book (204 pages in paperback form), it's a must read for anyone who enjoys police stories with a strong dose of realism.<br />A Futures Magazine Book Review\\"Crystal Meth Cowboys\\" is the first of what should be many successful novels for Mr. Knoerle.  A relatively short book (204 pages in paperback form), it's a must read for anyone who enjoys police stories with a strong dose of realism.  <br />A Futures Magazine Book Review	2003-11-23
891173:US	51809405	R18L6X9R0949TW	1592799086	713291086	Duty, Honor, Murder	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Historical Murder Mystery	\\"When duty and honor at nineteenth century West Point Academy collide with murder, it's a who-dun-it that challenges even the Superintendent of the military school-Colonel Robert E. Lee.\\" - from the back cover.<br />  The two most important rules when writing a good historical mystery are to get both the history and the details of the setting right.  In her new novel, *Duty, Honor, Murder,* Author Pamela Cummings succeeds in the above so spectacularly that you'll swear she must have lived through the tumultuous decade leading up to America's Civil War.  Another element that always helps spice up a historical mystery is utilizing a major historical figure in a supporting role.  For this Cummings chooses Robert E. Lee, whom in the early 1850s served as the Superintendent at West Point.  Cummings is carefully sparing in her use of Lee as a character, giving him just enough to do to avoid demystifying his legend.<br />  The main protagonist is a young, newly minted instructor at the academy, Second Lieutenant Garet Morgan.  Not long after Morgan's arrival, a legendary engineering professor, the detestable Captain Edgewick, is found floating in the nearby Hudson River.  When Morgan finds himself suspected of Edgewick's murder, he teams up with the other prime suspect, an aristocratic Southern cadet named Lambert Gardner.  Assisted by Gardner's intellectual sister Elizabeth, the pair probe into Edgewick's death in order to clear their names.<br />  In addition to providing plenty of rich historical details, Cummings has created a challenging murder mystery with enough twists and turns to keep the reader guessing until the very end.  She possesses a keen understanding of the military mindset, which is vital when writing about the internal workings of the Army academy.  Her characters are quirky and well drawn, and in the context of the story quite believable.  Lingering in the background are the issues (slavery, the growing North-South split) that were tearing the country apart.  Above it all stands Lee, whose very presence lends the story a weight it would otherwise lack.<br /><br />  Overall, *Duty, Honor, Murder* is an excellent historical mystery that will be thoroughly enjoyed by both history buffs and anyone who likes amateur sleuth tales.<br />A Futures Magazine book reviewcountry apart.  Above it all stands Lee, whose very presence lends the story a weight it would otherwise lack.      <BR> <BR>     Overall, *Duty, Honor, Murder* is an excellent historical mystery that will be thoroughly enjoyed by both history buffs and anyone who likes amateur sleuth tales.<br />A Futures Magazine book review	2003-11-23
891224:US	51809405	R2JL1S4LYXCEDM	0618251324	665625853	The Best American Sports Writing 2003 (The Best American Series)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	2003 Collection Might Be the Best Yet	I've read most of the &quot;Best American Sportswriting&quot; annual collections since the series began back in 1991.  The 2003 edition might just be the strongest yet.  Guest editor Buzz Bissinger has put together a strong collection of stories that probe beyond the headlines to focus on the place of sports in our society.  The book starts out with the awful tale of a former triathlete turned quadroplegic (&quot;Lucky Jim&quot;) and rarely loses intesity from there.  Other highlights include a profile of the man behind The Chicken (&quot;Fowled Away&quot;), the Washington comeback of Michael Jordan (&quot;Gambling Man), a profile of demolition derby racers (&quot;Appetite for Destruction&quot;), a recount of the 1972 Munich Olympics massacre (&quot;When the Terror Began&quot;), and a sad biographical story (&quot;Bobby Fisher's Pathetic Endgame).  All told, there is not a clunker in the mix.<br />Overall, this is a great collection for anyone who loves sports or who simply loves a good story.	2003-11-23
891276:US	51809405	R1Z4C9PSPV4TLB	0972881913	864012067	Degree of Risk	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Risky Suspense Thriller	\\"The degree of risk to be taken should never exceed that determined by the humanitarian importance of the problem to be solved by the experiment\\" - from the dust jacket.<br />  Author Josef Wilson takes two major risks with his new novel, *Degree of Risk.*  First of all, the suspense thriller is based upon *very* contemporary events.  Set in that relatively short period of time between the September 11th terrorist attacks and the March 2003 invasion of Iraq, its timeline has already been overtaken by events.  Secondly, the basic premise of the novel is that the Pentagon deliberately poisoned veterans of the first Gulf War in 1990-91, not a topic likely to win the author any dinner invitations from Secretary Rumsfeld and company.  The premise is lent credence by a brief forward written by the daughter of a deceased weapons scientist at the U.S. military's Aberdeen Proving Grounds who claims that her father's death was directly attributable to his work.<br />  As for the novel itself, *Degree of Risk* contains a plot worthy of the television show *The X-Files.*  Hot shot young attorney Leesa Lambert, daughter of a United States Senator, and her best friend, former Special Forces operative Garth Porter, battle an evil Pentagon conspiracy to cover up the real cause of Gulf War syndrome.  According to the story, injections given to most of the veterans who fought in Iraq the first time were a failed attempt by the military brass to inoculate the troops from the radioactive effects of new and deadly American weapons made with depleted uranium.  The conspiracy is headed by the Secretary of Defense himself, who hires another former Special Forces operative to assassinate all potential witnesses.<br />  As America prepares to invade Iraq again, Lambert files a multi-billion lawsuit against the Pentagon, creating a media frenzy and alienating her from both her father and her politically minded fianc&eacute;.  The story then splits time between the courtroom battles and the assassin's attempts to keep the cover up intact.  Author Wilson is a very good writer who knows how to effectively build suspense.  Whether or not you buy into the basis for his story, you'll find yourself inevitably pulled along by it.  Befitting any good suspense novel, the climax is explosive and very satisfying.<br />  Overall, an exciting and politically charged thriller that is certain to raise a few eyebrows.<br />A Futures Magazine book review.assassin's attempts to keep the cover up intact.  Author Wilson is a very good writer who knows how to effectively build suspense.  Whether or not you buy into the basis for his story, you'll find yourself inevitably pulled along by it.  Befitting any good suspense novel, the climax is explosive and very satisfying.<br />     Overall, an exciting and politically charged thriller that is certain to raise a few eyebrows.<br />A Futures Magazine book review.	2003-11-23
936926:US	51809405	R1COXJVWAFL8VD	0393058506	904288157	The Great Unraveling: Losing Our Way in the New Century	Books	5	39	56	N	N	Krugman Effectively Sounds a Warning	Economist Paul Krugman is horrified by the economic stewardship of the current administration, and his critique, &quot;The Great Unravelling,&quot; is devastatingly effective.  Those with American Flag stickers pasted on their cars who have been blindly following our current President and accepting whatever he says at face value would be rudely awakened from their patriotic slumber, if they could stir themselves to read this book.  Using a large selection of his New York Times Op-Ed columns, Krugman fires salvo after salvo at the radical Republicans who are running the nation.<br />What makes Krugman's critique all the more powerful is that he clearly and rationally backs up his arguments.  This is not a half-baked, knee-jerk liberal reaction to conservatism, but rather a painstakingly well thought out broadside at the callousness, hypocrasy and deceptions that permeate the corridors of power these days.  The superficial patriots will not read this book, but every other American who cares about their country should before they enter the voting booth in 2004.	2003-10-17
938914:US	51809405	R1UO0ZL68D3PRL	0393051781	972393508	Black Earth: A Journey Through Russia After the Fall	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Disturbing Portrait of Modern Russia	Andrew Meier spent much of the past decade in Russia, and is as familiar as any Western writer with the goings on in that tragic land.  In &quot;Black Earth,&quot; Meier follows the tradition of the best travel writers, journeying beyond Moscow for a first hand account of the country itself.  His travels take him to Chechnya, Norilsk, Sakahlin Island and St. Petersburg.  In each place he documents what he sees and what has gone wrong as Russia attempts to awake from its Soviet nightmare.<br />&quot;Black Earth&quot; is, perhaps, best thought of as a follow up to writer David Remnick's twin classics &quot;Lennin's Tomb&quot; and Resurrection,&quot; which covered Russian life in the first half of the 1990s.  Meier paints with broad rhetorical strokes, weaving in elements of history, literature and statistics with his observations.  Though a bit long winded at times, &quot;Black Earth&quot; is vital reading for anyone interested in modern Russia.	2003-10-15
939005:US	51809405	R2R54LNALMI16K	0618155481	920527176	Braving Home: Dispatches from the Underwater Town, the Lava-Side Inn, and Other Extreme Locales	Books	4	3	4	N	N	You Think You Have it Bad?	Jake Halpern's &quot;Braving Home&quot; is a delightful little travel book that explores the question of why some people cling tenaciously to homes in some of the worst spots in the country.  Halpern's journeys take him to a North Carolina flood plain, an active volcano in Hawaii, the Malibu country, a barrier island in Lousiana and an isolated outpost in Alaska.  Along the way, he meets and befriends some very unusual, but very down to earth people.  Halpern's likability is the key to the book's success.  It allowed him to get his subjects to open up to his questions and gives the book a good natured tone.  In the end, he tries to find some common ground that they all share, but it is the journey itself that makes the book worthwhile.<br />Overall, a quirky and amusing book that will be best enjoyed by armchair travelers.	2003-10-15
962621:US	51809405	R1PUCQ5YLNRGXP	0618334661	847790169	Reefer Madness: Sex, Drugs, and Cheap Labor in the American Black Market	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Loose Collection of Essays	Hot on the heels of his massive success with the superb &quot;Fast Food Nation,&quot; author Eric Schlosser has filled in the gap between it and his next project with &quot;Reefer Madness.&quot;  The book purports to explore the American underground economy, and Schlosser's preface tries to link the book's three sections together using that theme, but it ultimately doesn't come together as a cohesive whole.  The three individual topics (the criminalization of marijuana, the exploitation of migrant farmworkers and the rise of pornography as a major industry), however, are quite interesting.<br />What's obvious is that Schlosser has reported on these subjects before and has merely updated them to be put into book form.  The incidents he describes for the most part took place back in the 1990s, which makes them less than immediately topical.  Nevertheless, like with &quot;Fast Food Nation,&quot; the author has some strong views and isn't shy about sharing them.  Schlosser is a refreshing breath of fresh air as a journalist in that he refuses to buy into the conventional wisdom and asks the kind of questions that rarely get asked in other forums.<br />Overall, &quot;Refer Madness&quot; is a good stopgap for people who enjoy Schlosser's style.  It made me look forward to his next project, which will explore the American prison system.	2003-09-26
1015616:US	51809405	R1EATXDA63WTU	0060184701	683960669	Journal of the Dead: A Story of Friendship and Murder in the New Mexico Desert	Books	2	9	14	N	N	Padded Magazine Article	Jason Kersten's &quot;Journal of the Dead,&quot; an account of Raffi Kodikian's murder of David Coughlin in the New Mexico desert, was expanded from a feature magazine article that he wrote about the same subject.  Kodikian claimed that Coughlin asked him to kill him as the two lay dying from dehydration, but he ultimately pled guilty to murder.  While the book is a mildly interesting foray into the true crime genre, it doesn't really provide much more information or understanding about this notorious incident than the article it was based upon.<br />The book lacks endnotes or a list of sources, which caused me to wonder how much of it is fact and how much is purely speculation.  Kersten provides a first hand account of the pair's misfortune in the desert, but since he apparently never interviewed Kodikian, the account itself is suspect.  Additionally, though the book runs to a mere 230 pages of text, it is quite obvioulsy padded with irrelevant historical anecdotes and a verbatim transcript of the murderer's sentencing hearing.<br />All of this wouldn't really be important, however, if the story iteself were compelling beyond the circumstances of the crime.  Prior to the tragedy, neither Kodikian nor Coughlin led anything other than mundane lives, and their blunder into the desert, rather than being some epic struggle, was really pretty pathetic.  Coughlin died only a few miles from where the two had parked their car, with a National Park visitor center clearly visible from a nearby hilltop.  Whether Kodikian acted malicously or whether he and Coughlin were merely stupendously incompotent, their grim story is ultimately just not that interesting.  Also, I caught at least one major factual error as Kersten states that Calvin Coolidge was President in 1930, when he in fact left office in March 1929.<br />Overall, a readable but not memorable true crime book.	2003-08-11
1015734:US	51809405	R3DOPB1MKMESCR	0375507809	578543375	The Prince of Providence: The True Story of Buddy Cianci, America's Most Notorious Mayor, Some Wiseguys, and the Feds	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Long Winded Account	The colorful Buddy Cianci enjoyed a long and sordid career as the Mayor of Providence, Rhode Island.  And now, as Cianci is still settling into his cell at the federal detention center at Ft. Dix, New Jersey, having been convicted of corruption, author Mike Stanton has written a long and sordid account of Cianci's life and career.  The Cianci story is so compelling that is could sell itself.  How does a man go from being an ambitious young prosecutor trying to lock up mob figures to putting wiseguys on the payroll during his tenure as Mayor?  That's the question Stanton tries to answer, and would have done so more effectively had he not become so distracted along the way.<br />As Stanton demonstrates, Cianci is a tragic figure; a man with unique political skills and leadership ability whose dark side ultimately ruined him.  Cianci was a charming rougue who knew how to manipulate his supporters and foil his enemies in the same manner as another disgraced big city Mayor: Marion Barry.  Ultimately Buddy Cianci was all about Buddy Cianci, and that was what finally did him in.<br />Stanton obviously loves politics as much as Cianci did.  His book is loaded with anecdotes and stories of the Providence and Rhode Island political landscape.  Far too many, in fact, for quite a number are either superflous or merely rumor.  Stanton repeats rumors that Cianci was hooked on cociane, for example, but never provides any proof.  The book runs to nearly 400 pages of narrative, but could have easily been chopped down by about a third.  Accounts of Cianci's appearances on the Imus in the Morning radio show, for example, are worth mentioning once, but not four or five times.<br />Overall, &quot;The Prince of Providence&quot; is a fascinating but overly long retelling of the sordid saga of a fallen politician.	2003-08-11
1017264:US	51809405	R24ZOQIEN3ZXY3	0465091539	902320669	The Battle Of The Atlantic	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Outstanding Military History	&quot;The Battle of the Atlantic&quot; is a fascinating and well written account of the struggle for naval supremacy between the Allies and the Germans during World War II.  The primary focus of the narrative is the German U-Boat service and its charasmatic leader, Admiral Karl Donitz, as well as the British military experts who eventually devised the strategy that would defeat the submarine offensive.  The stakes were very high.  As the author states, thousands of merchant ships and tens of thousands of sailors were lost during the struggle.  At several points, Winston Churchill privately despaired that the U-Boat menace would succeed in cutting off Britain's vital supply lines and bringing the country to defeat.<br />All of this is told primarily through the first hand accounts of those who lived through the battles.  Particularly harrowing are the descriptions of death and survival by those who were aboard the sunken vessles.  The book is well balanced, providing equal time to the men who served on both sides.  Donitz emerges as the central character: a principled and dedicated fighter who ultimately allowed himself to be corrupted by Adolf Hiter's cult of personality.  Augmented by a generous illustrations section and just shy of 300 pages of narrative, the book doesn't get too bogged down in minute detail.<br />Overall, an outstanding work of military history that should appeal both to history buffs and to general readers.	2003-08-09
1019766:US	51809405	R3KE0WTLO2KHD1	0805069550	80591489	Woodrow Wilson	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Overview of an Idealist	The American Presidents series, condensed biographies of individual presidents by eminent historians, makes the lives of our nation's readers accessible for general readers.  That said, the books work better when resurrecting the memory of nearly forgotten minor presidents such as Rutheford B. Hayes than they do documenting the accomplishments of major historical figures like Woodrow Wilson.  Simply put, Wilson's life was just too full to be given real justice by a 40,000 or so word manuscript.<br />Limited by the format, Texas A&amp;M Professor of History H.W. Brands gamely gives it his best shot.  The author of such first rate works as &quot;TR - The Last Romantic&quot; and &quot;The Age of Gold&quot; recounts Wilson's life, devoting most of the mere 139 pages of narrative to his presidency.  It's a good overview, and one that will likely whet the appetite of many readers to know more.  Wilson was a strong, controversial and enigmatic leader.  A progressive and idealist on the international front, for example, he was still very much a son of the South who strongly supported segregation at home.  Brands deals with such events as World War One, the failed battle for ratification of the Versailles peace treaty and Wilson's debilitating 1919 stroke, but doesn't delve much into the details.<br />Overall, a good if all-too-brief overview of Woodrow Wilson's life.	2003-08-07
1020802:US	51809405	R1VYY8XS90BEKP	0375414878	652828607	Only Child: A Burke Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Burke, Back in Town	It took Andrew Vachss nearly two full novels to get his tarnished hero, the underworld figure Burke, back to his native New York from his exile on the West Coast.  Burke's return is more than wlecome, for it pumps new life into a series that was growing somewhat stale heading into its 15th volume.  Though bringing Burke home causes &quot;Only Child&quot; to start a little slow, it picks up the pace after about pasge 25, and is ultimately one of the better entries in the series.<br />This time out, Burke is hired by a closeted homosexual gangster to investigate the murder of his teenage daughter.  Burke enlists his usual crew: The Mole, The Prof, Michelle, Mama, Max the Silent, etc., to help him track the killer.  The investigation eventually leads to a video ring that is taping violent &quot;reality&quot; encounters featuring local teenagers.<br />Once again, Vachss has managed to mine the depths of human depravity to lend additional weight to his story.  Crime novels simply don't get much grittier than this.  Though some of his dialog still tends to be a bit over the top (the worst offenders this time out are the two lesbian porno queens), no other mystery writer working today writes with such cuttingly sharp prose or with a better feel for the streets.<br />Overall, &quot;Only Child&quot; is a winning entry in a veteran mystery/crime series.	2003-08-06
1030089:US	51809405	R3UCA8PKD3LDVU	1585674028	787049495	The Spartans	Books	3	107	132	N	N	Not for General Readers	Author Paul Cartledge quite obviously knows his stuff, and shows it in his book &quot;The Spartans.&quot;  Unfortunately, it appears that he knows his stuff a little too well for his book to be of much interest to non-academic readers.  This is surprising, given that the book is being marketed as a companion piece to an upcoming PBS special about Greece's legendary warriors.  Though the book is relatively brief at around 300 pages, it is so packed full of dates, names, places and events as to become bewildering to anyone who is not already intimately familiar with the subject matter.  I'm a history buff myself, but I had a hard time following the narrative.  The author writes as if he's addressing graduate level history students with a speciality in the subject.<br />Overall, &quot;The Spartans&quot; is very well researched, but will be of little interest to general readers.	2003-07-30
1030209:US	51809405	R3INL7KVSBVPSY	0670030872	748137553	The First Heroes: The Extraordinary Story of the Doolittle Raid- America's First World War II Victory	Books	2	17	23	N	N	Informative but Virtually Unreadable	I'll preface my review by saying that I am a big history buff, and especially love military history.  And while I found the subject matter of \\"The First Heroes\\" to be quite compelling, the writing is so leaden that the book is virtually unreadable.  I also have to quibble with the title since the heroic and doomed stand at Wake Island occurred months before the Doolittle raid was just as important as an early psychological victory in the American war against Japan.  The most pertinent comment that I can make about \\"The First Heores\\" is that I became so bogged down by its lack of narrative force that, despite being an avid reader, I couldn't finish it.	2003-07-30
1033027:US	51809405	R2LU02GVJFAVTL	0151005591	878443798	Last Man Out: The Story of the Springhill Mine Disaster	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Great Story, Distracting Technique	Author Melissa Fay Greene employes the \\"non-fiction novel\\" storytelling technique in the book, \\"Last Man Out,\\" which in a disaster book always carries the risk of exploiting the agony of the victims for the sake of sensationalism. Greene's use of generalizations to describe what certain individuals were thinking as well as her occasionally overdramatic literary prose mar what is otherwise a very compelling real life story.<br />The disaster itself hardly needs embellishment. Nineteen coal miners were trapped for days a mile underground when a large section of the Springhill mine in Nova Scotia collapsed in 1958. As the town above fretted and began to give up hope, the men lay entombed, slowly dying. This story is similar to one published last year by Karen Tintori in a book called \\"Trapped\\" about the 1909 Cherry Mine fire in Illinois. Tintori's book, however, relies on straight reporting and is thus far superior to this one.<br />The technique used by Greene is distracting and fails to place the disaster in proper context. The book is interesting primarily because the story is so compelling and because Greene is a very talented writer. When writing about disasters, however, the author has a duty to stay out of the way and let the victims tell their stories. By that measure, \\"Last Man Out\\" is a failure.	2003-07-27
1033164:US	51809405	R1K86S1F0RRWXQ	0765304473	288541928	Poison Blonde (The Amos Walker Series #17)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Amos Walker, Back in Form	As a huge fan of the Amos Walker private eye series, I am happy to report that &quot;Poison Blonde&quot; is a return to form after the previous book in the series &quot;Sinister Heights&quot; had been something of a letdown.  At his best, author Loren Estleman is an elite hardboiled mystery writer.  Since its first appearance with 1980's &quot;Motor City Blue&quot; the Walker series has been rivalled only by Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder series in term of quality hardboiled private eye writing.<br />This time out, Walker is hired by a susperstar female Latin singer with a very dark and sordid past.  A onetime revolutionary in her home country, she fled to the U.S. under an assumed identity after being accused of murder.  When the person whose identity she assumed turns up missing after blackmailing her, she hires Walker to find the blackmailer before her secret becomes public.<br />The plot draws Walker into web of intrigue, pitting him against his usual assortment of gangsters, cops and other assorted heavies.  Though &quot;Poison Blonde&quot; breaks no new ground for the series, it is delivered with such fresh and inventive prose that it is a more than worthwhile read.  Fans of hardboiled mysery novels owe it to themselves to get hooked on Amos.	2003-07-27
1033501:US	51809405	R17RA15KAV8RC8	0805069798	291359672	True Believers: The Tragic Inner Life of Sports Fans	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Joe Queenan, Sports Fan	Humorist Joe Queenan is a true sports fan.  No writer could boil down what it means to be a true fan to its very essence, as he does in &quot;True Believers,&quot; without having the years of hopes and disappointments of being a loyal follower burned into his very soul.  In the book, Queenan puts his lifetime of sports fan agony to very good use, using it as the basis for what is essentially one long rant about fans, both good and bad.  His pen is as sharp as ever, and it is delightful to see him use it on such deserving people as front-running fans and slobs who make spectacles of themselves at the stadium.<br />Mostly, however, Queenan ruminates on what it is that can make an otherwise sane, rational person (such as himself) a hopeless maniac on game day.  Though he's a Philadelphia fan (Phillies, Eagles, 76ers, Flyers) he speaks enough universal truth that his book can be enjoyed by anyone who is also hopelessly hooked on sports.	2003-07-27
1033632:US	51809405	R1QKYX84J2EPAC	1582341990	13975696	Fire Mountain: How 30,000 Perished and One Man Survived the World's Worst Volcanic Disaster	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Lonliest Survivor	&quot;Science, history and human tragedy collide in a heart-stopping tale of natural catastrophe.&quot; - from the dust jacket.<br />Author Peter Morgan makes a canny choice in his book &quot;Fire Mountain&quot; by focusing on the life of the single survivor of the volcanic eruption of Mount Pelee in Martinique in 1902 that completely destroyed the city of Saint-Pierre.  By telling the story of the incredible survival of Ludger Sylbaris and his subsequent career as a sideshow oddity in the Barnum &amp; Bailey circus, Morgan warmly humanizes what otherwie would have just been another run-of-the-mill disaster story.<br />Morgan carefully reconstructs the events leading up to the destruction of Saint-Pierre, describing the city and the colorful personalities in what was then a French colonial town.  Called the &quot;Paris of the Caribbean,&quot; it was caught totally unprepared when Pelee began erupting a few months before the final disaster.  The residents convinced themselves that they were far enough away to be safe before the mountain exploded in much the same manner as Mount St. Helens, utterly erasing the city from the map.<br />In the aftermath, resucuers picking over the rubble made a startling discovery.  Ludger Sylbaris somehow managed to survive the disaster in a solitary confinement cell in the local jail.  Though horribly burned, he became an instant celebrity.  When Barnum &amp; Bailey made him a part of the so-called &quot;Greatest Show on Earth,&quot; he became the first black man ever to grace the stage of the segregated show.<br />Morgan is an excellent histroian and a good storyteller, and the book contains numerous photographs and illustrations to help the reader.  At just over 230 pages of narrative, this is a highly readable and very enjoyable work.	2003-07-27
1047418:US	51809405	R272GOOFCSBSB0	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	5	360	392	N	N	Faith and Murder	&quot;I was doing God's will, which is not a crime.&quot; - Dan Lafferty<br />The above quote is from a man who brutally murdered his fifteen month-old niece and her 24 year-old mother in their home while his younger brother was at work.  Lafferty's older brother Ron convinced him to commit the crime by claiming that God had spoken to him and instructed that it should be that way.  Both men were born and raised Mormons, but turned to radical Mormon fundamentalism as adults.  Through their horrific story and the history of the Mormon church in genral, author Jon Krakauer examines the larger issue of how relgion leads some people to commit unspeakable acts.<br />&quot;Under the Banner of Heaven&quot; is not an anti-Mormon diatribe, as anyone who has actually read it can attest.  Krakauer, who had such a massive success with &quot;Into Thin Air,&quot; should be applauded for taking a risk following up that work with a potentially controversial project well outside his area of expertise.  Part travelog and part history, &quot;Under the Banner of Heaven&quot; is a very unique true crime book as the various narrative threads are wound together by the author.  The simple yet forceful narrative style that made Krakauer's Everest such compelling reading are very much evident here.<br />Overall, &quot;Under the Banner of Heaven&quot; is an outstanding true crime book that raises some disturbing theological questions.	2003-07-16
1048050:US	51809405	R2I8JFX5UL3G3D	0385493282	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Outstanding Historical Biography	With a series of well researched and well written books, Texas A&amp;M History Professor H.W. Brands has placed himself in such heady company as David McCullough as one of the preeminent history authors working today.  Brand's biography of Benjamin Franklin is a lively, witty and very informative look at the senior statesman among America's Founding Fathers.  Helped by Franklin's engaging personailty and prolifc writings, Brands brings him to life for modern readers.<br />&quot;The First American&quot; provides a sweeping overview of Franklin's life, from his Boston upbringing to his early audulthood as a Philadelphia printer to his later years when his stature as a philosopher, scientist, politician and diplomat made him world famous.  Electricity, the Gulf Stream, the modern fire department, the lightening rod and bifocals are among the many deicoveries or inventions he either initiated or was key in developing.  And oh by the way, Franklin was also the prime negotiator of the Treaty of Paris in 1783 and played host to the Constitutional Convention in 1787.  On the whole, not a bad set of lifetime accomplishments.<br />Brands' account of Franklin's life is must reading for anyone with an interest in American History.  The author has that rare gift that combines storytelling ability with scholarship.  If more history professors could write (and lecture) this well, the subject would be all the more popular for it.	2003-07-15
1048898:US	51809405	R2LOEZ4C0IV5ZY	0786884649	707244782	Confessions of a Cineplex Heckler: Celluloid Tirades and Escapades	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Bit Dated, but Still Hilarious	Humorist and film critic Joe Queenan has one of the most biting sense of humors around.  Reading along as he skewers Hollywood, a pompus institution that sorely needs it, is sheer pleasure.  The book is mostly a series of essays in which Quennan takes on one aspect or another of Hollywood filmmaking and works it over with his lethal prose.  Anyone who loves Queenan's writing, or who is dedicated film buff should love &quot;Confessions of a Cineplex Heckler.&quot;<br />That said, the book is a bit dated.  Most of the individual chapters were articles Queenan wrote for &quot;Movieland&quot; magazine between ten and five years ago.  Though I had seen many of the movies he makes reference to, I occasionally had to strain my memory to recall exactly what he was talking about.  That one caveat aside, however, I give &quot;Confessions of a Cineplex Heckler&quot; an enthusiastic &quot;Thumbs Up!&quot;	2003-07-15
1058992:US	51809405	R144QC4L7WEQ91	0451208730	411917543	Pacific Alamo: The Battle for Wake Island	Books	5	45	47	N	N	A Heroic Stand	\\"Those guys are legendary in the Navy and Marines for what they did, and whenever one is around you pay him the highest respect.\\" - a fellow Marine describes a Wake Island defender.<br />Author John Wukovits has selected the perfect title for his new book, \\"Pacific Alamo.\\"  Like the famous stand of Colonel Travis and Jim Bowie that helped win Texan independence, the battle of Wake Island in December 1941 was a hopeless cause that turned into a tactical victory as the gallant and vastly outnumbered defenders managed to buy enough time for their comrades-in-arms to organize for eventual victory.  In the process, the defenders of Wake gave America a much-needed rallying cry as it regrouped from the initial disaster at Pearl Harbor.<br />Wukovits's outstanding military history is a fitting tribute to the military and civilian personnel who fought and died on Wake Island in the dark days immediately following the Japanese attack on Hawaii.  The author sets the stage by introducing key figures who fought there and describing the political situation that led to the Japanese first strike.  The accounts of the battle itself are particularly well rendered, mostly told through the recollections of the defenders themselves.  The accounts several Japanese soldiers are also included, helping to provide balance to the battle descriptions.<br />Equally important, Wukovits doesn't end the book with the American surrender, but instead goes on to describe the experiences of the survivors in Japanese captivity.  The description of their three-plus year ordeal of beatings, starvation and appalling living conditions are as harrowing as the accounts of the battle.  In the final chapter, Wukovits describes the fates of the survivors of the battle after the war.  In the end, the picture that emerges is of a group of reluctant heroes who did their duty when their country called.<br />Overall, \\"Pacific Alamo\\" is a compelling work of narrative military history that should appeal both to history buffs as well as to general readers.both to history buffs as well as to general readers.	2003-07-07
1076777:US	51809405	RX1IM27N5GNG4	0786711515	41090816	The Dark Horse: The Surprise Election and Political Murder of President James A. Garfield	Books	5	45	48	N	N	Fascinating Political History	Let me first issue this advisory: To truly enjoy Kenneth D. Ackerman's book, &quot;The Dark Horse&quot; you have to love reading about politics.  Ackerman is a Washington type, and his love of the political game and all of its intricaces is very much evident in his writing.  Fortunately, he is such a good writer that he can make even the most mundane and obscure political manuevering as compelling as any suspense thriller.<br />&quot;The Dark Horse,&quot; as the subtitle indicates, tells the tragic tale of President James A. Garfield, who was the surprise Republican nominee in 1880 and won a razor thin victory that Novemeber.  Garfield had not desired the Presidency, and was only beginning to become comfortable in the office when he was felled by an assasssin's bullet four months into his term.  He died a slow, agonizing death, and in the process became a martyred hero to the country.<br />Ackerman argues that Garflied's killing, remembered (if at all) for being perpetrated by a &quot;disappointed office seeker&quot; was a residual effect of the wars going on within the Republican Party between two competing factions: the Stalwarts and the Half Breeds.  Though the Stalwarts, led by irascible New York Senator Roscoe Conkling, were not directly complicit in Garfield's murder, their strident rhetoric helped set the political climate that made it possible.<br />Ackerman tells his story in great detail (the narrative portion of the book runs to well over 400 pages).  The is a decent illustrations section and a number of helpful charts for the reader.  Overall, this is an excellently well written book that will appeal most strongly to American History and politics buffs.	2003-06-23
1084105:US	51809405	R1LAFSC16CESRM	031286504X	486151984	I Am Legend	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Legendary Horror	Richard Matheson's &quot;I am Legend&quot; takes the traditional vampire novel (in this case, they've taken over the Earth) and combines it with the killer plague theme and tops it all off with a last-man-on-Earth scenario that is as compelling as it is frightening.  Unlike many other 1950s sci-fi and horror novels, it has lost little of its impact.<br />Protagonist Robert Neville lives in his barricaded house near Los Angeles.  During the day he can move around, but at night the vampires surround his house and try to break in.  He keeps them at bay, but at a terrible cost to his mental well being.  In an effort to stave off madness, he begins to research was caused the vampire plague.  He eventually discovers the truth, which then leads to a climax that is both electrifying and haunting.<br />The novel itself is only 170 pages in length, and the length of this trade paperback edition has been doubled by the inclusion of a number of Matheson short stories.  The shorts of of varying quality, but they do not detract from what is one of the best vampire novels ever written.	2003-06-18
1093079:US	51809405	R2EKVEGHCMLTEW	0767909054	655574149	Ship Ablaze: The Tragedy of the Steamboat General Slocum	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Compelling Historical Disaster Saga	Edward T. O'Donnell's &quot;Ship Ablaze&quot; is head-and-shoulders above the glut of historical disaster books lining the shelves these days.  O'Donnell's well written narrative history has all of the elements that make a book like this compelling: it details a tragic and nearly forgotten event, it paints the event on the proper historical backdrop and also tells the stories of the victims in a sympathetic and unsensationalistic way.<br />Though it is not well remembered, the fire and sinking of the steamboat General Slocum near New York City was the city's deadliest disaster prior to September 11, 2001.  Over 1000 people, mostly women and children, perished in a few horrifying minutes.  What is more disturbing about the story is that the disaster was completely preventable.  Had the General Slocum's fire safety equipment been properly inspected and maintained and had the crew been trainbed in fire safety, it is unlikely that there would have been any loss of life.<br />All of this O'Donnell describes in vivid detail.  He also describes life in turn-of-the-century New York, particularly the so-called Little Germany section where the victims were from.  The latter part of the book is dedicated to the legal battles that resulted in the imprisonment of the General Slocum's captain, but not the federal inspectors or boat owners who were equally responsible for the tragedy.<br />Overall, an outstanding work of narrative history that will appeal to history buffs as well as general readers.	2003-06-10
1096265:US	51809405	R1TNMSXBGVFISA	078686740X	797105738	The Frozen-Water Trade: A True Story	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Full Business Cycle	Part biography, part business history, author Gavin Weightman's &quot;The Frozen Water Trade,&quot; is an interesting and readable account of a uniquely American business that is all but forgotten today.  In this modern era of refigeration, it seems impossible to imagine the world of a century ago in which everything was cooled by harvested freshwater ice, or indeed a world of two centuries ago when NOTHING was refrigerated.  Were it not for the entreprenurial genius of a man named Fredric Tudor, Weightman's man protagonist, we all might be drinking warm drinks to this very day becuase the very idea of cold beverages might never have caught on.<br />Tudor's classic story is that of a vsionary who had difficulty convincing his contemporaries of the wisdom of his ideas, and who risked everything he had to make that vision a reality.  He eventually succeeded beyond his wildest dreams, and in the process changed the habits of first America and then of the world.  Starting in 1806, Tudor hatched upon a scheme to deliver New England ice to the tropics for sale.  He was beset by all kinds of difficulties: bureaucratic red tape, unreliable underlings, shipwrecks, disease, debtors prison, embargoes and even a war or two.  By midcentury, however, his trade in ice had become New England's leading export and had become a commodity no American could do without.<br />All of this Weightman dutifully recounts in the narrative history style that has become so popular these days.  It was appeal most to those who enjoy business success stoires.  The one drawback of the book is that Tudor as a character is relatively colorless.  He was a driven businessman who had few other interests.  Because he is forgotten today, the accounts of his personal life don't carry much interest.  Nevertheless, the story of the forgotten industry he pioneered has been well preserved by this enjoyable book.	2003-06-08
1102244:US	51809405	R1P2HTV86XF1KS	0743223799	717864257	Gentleman Revolutionary: Gouverneur Morris, the Rake Who Wrote the Constitution	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A Compelling Biography	With his well-written and highly entertaining biography, &quot;Gentleman Revolutionary,&quot; author Richard Brookhiser has resurrected the memory of founding father Gouvernor Morris for the modern reader.  Among his many accomplishments, as the book's subtitle points out, it was Morris who wrote the final version of the American Constitution, the single greatest document of governance in world history.  For that accomplishment alone, his memory should not be allowed to fade in comparison to his contemporaries.<br />Morris's career encompassed, among much else, two terms in the Continental Congress during the height of the American Revolution.  His financial expertise was vital to keeping the war effort afloat until the victory at Yorktown secured American independence.  He also served as America's Ambassador to France during the French Revolution, keeping a meticulous account of events as they unfolded.  Much of the rest of his life was spent as a successful lawyer and financier, who occasionally enagaged in such acts of public service as championing the Erie Canal and laying out the streets of Manhattan.<br />All of this Brookhiser captures with his lively narrative prose.  The book is a relatively quick read at just over 200 pages of narrative, and Brookhiser concentrates his efforts on those periods of Morris's life that were devoted to public service.  A generous helping of illustrations are also provided.  Brookhiser also avoids being too overly fawning of his subject, pointing out those ideas of Morris's that were either dangerously flawed or just plain wrong.<br />Overall, a fascinating biography that can be enjoyed by history buffs as well as general readers.	2003-06-02
1102618:US	51809405	R1SVXP5EXUCUDS	1565123476	807905484	In the Wake of Madness: The Murderous Voyage of the Whaleship Sharon	Books	4	15	16	N	N	The Criminal Captain	Joan Druett's \\"In the Wake of Madness\\" joins the glut of recently published worksks about historical nautical disasters and mutinies that are lining the bookshelves these days.  The quality of these books varies widely, but fortunately Druett's is both well-researched and well-written.  The story of the ill-fated 1841 voyage of the whaleship Sharon is fairly grusome in its details.  The ships's captain, Howes Norris, a respected member of the Martha's Vineyard community, became increasingly mentally unhinged, turning on members of his crew with savage fury.  Things came to a head when he literally beat his cabin steward to death in front of the crew.  Not long after, Captain Norris was himself savagely murdered by several Pacific islander crew members that had been picked up as replacements for deserters from the original crew.<br />All of this Druett recounts with prose that is elegant and highly readable.  Throughout, she intertwines the story of the Sharon with that of Herman Melville, the \\"Moby Dick\\" author who had sailed on a whaling ship and was starting his writing career at around the same time.  She describes the awful conditions that the whaleship crews labored under and throws in enough historical backdrop to frame the story.<br />If the book has a drawback, its that there were no surviving firsthand accounts of Captain Morris's death.  Most of the book draws on never-published journals kept by two of the crew members.  Unfortunately, both journals have signifcant gaps in them, which Druett attempts to fill with other contemporary accounts of whaling vessles.  For the most part, she succeeds, though the book could also have used an illustrations section.  At 230 pages of narrative, it is a relatively fast read.<br />Overall, an excellent work of narrative nautical history that will appeal most strongly to those who love good sea adventure tales.	2003-06-02
1107424:US	51809405	RN1NS7EO8OPZL	0767908171	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	4	29	33	N	N	Bryson's Scientific Journey	You've gotta hand it to Bill Bryson.  Instead of cashing in on his status as the most popular travel writer in the business by merely cranking out one formulaic book a year as he easily could do, he decided to take on a monumental challenge outside of his area of expertise.  Though &quot;A Short History of Nearly Everything&quot; does contain some of Bryson's standard lighthearted interviews, the bulk of his book about the world of science comes from what must have been exhausting and occasionally tedious research. The good news is that for the most part he succeeds in his attempt to make science writing palatable for the general reading public.<br />Though Bryson has always been a master at combining the humorous with the serious, this book finds him mostly treading in the latter territory.  He comes up with just enough amusing anecdotes to liven up the subject matter, but there are few laugh out loud funny moments as in Bryson classics like &quot;A Walk in the Woods&quot; or &quot;In a Sunburned Country.&quot;  The trick he does manage to pull is making such topics as geology, biology, astronomy, meteorology and other scientific fields (for the most part) lively and interesting.<br />With each topic, Bryson gives an overall historical overview of how the various theories and research have evolved, giving nods to famous eccentrics like Sir Issac Newton and Charles Darwin and explaining why what they accomplished is so incredible (and valuable).  He also gives numerous lesser-known scientific geniuses their proper due.  It must be said, however, that at nearly 500 pages of narrative this is not an easy read.  Some subjects even Bryson's magical pen just cannot breath much life into.  Nevertheless, it is still a fascinating journey.<br />Overall, a challenging triumph from one of the best non-fiction authors working today.	2003-05-29
1121770:US	51809405	R3E8X61CFDQYM9	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	2	15	21	N	N	Misleading Title, Tedious Book	Those looking for a good historical narrative of a famous disaster be forewarned:  Simon Winchester's &quot;Krakatoa&quot; devotes only about 40 of its over 400 pages to the disaster itself.  Instead of a concise account of the volcanic eruption that killed over 36,000 people, Winchester's book covers the entire political history of Indonesia, from colonial times forward.  He also heaps on an overly generous amount of science, from what causes volcanic eruptions to descriptions of the botanical landscapes of Southeast Asia.<br />All of this leaves precious little room for the actual eruption, which Winchester doesn't get to until more that 200 pages into the book.  He also makes an error by not highlighting any of the many personalities who were either killed by or survived the disaster.  The most any individual person gets is a few paragrahs, so there isn't anyone for the reader to develop empathy for.  Whole villages are destroyed by tsunamis, but merit only a sentence or two.  Instead, the mundane facts and figures keep piling on like the debris from the volcano until the reader is numb.<br />All of which makes me wonder if what Winchester really wanted to do was write a history of Indonesia and merely seized upon the Krakatoa event as a highlight to cash in on the recent historical disaster publishing craze.  The subtitle of the book calls it &quot;The Day the World Exploded,&quot; which couldn't be a less accurate description of its contents.  Winchester compounds the problem by repeating himself a lot, suggesting that the book was not well edited either.<br />Overall, this is confused and meandering book that will likely disappoint many readers.	2003-05-16
1124382:US	51809405	R1MSKFYNFUA8B3	0743232836	363718933	A Hanging Offense: The Strange Affair of the Warship Somers	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fascinating Historical True Crime Saga	Buckner F. Melton Jr.'s \\"A Hanging Offense\\" is a fascinating work of narrative history that resurrects an important but little-remembered incident from the early days of the U.S. Navy.  The U.S.S. Somers, one of the last sailing vessles to be commissioned by the navy, was on a routine training cruise when a near mutiny broke out, resulting in the hanging of three of her crew.  The story of the voyage is both hair raising and heartbreaking, particularly considering that two of the three hanged were very young men.<br />The would be mutineers were led by midshipman-in-training Phillip Spencer, the troubled son of a U.S. Cabinet Official who pulled the strings that got his son the post.  Spencer almost immediately began conspiring with members of the crew to kill the officers and turn the ship into a pirate vessle.  His plan was ultimately thwarted when he was double-crossed by a crewman he took into his confidence.  The tragedy caused a sensation back in the U.S., resulting in the well publicized court marshal of Captain Alexander Mackenzie.  It also exposed the many flaws endemic to the navy at the time, and ultimately resulted in much needed reforms, most particularly the establishment in 1845 of the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis.<br />All of this Melton recounts with his highly readable prose.  He details the life of Phillip Spencer, who most likely suffered from a personality disorder that caused many of his actions.  Melton's accounts of the attempted mutiny itself read like the most suspenseful fiction.  The lengthy aftermath describes the legal proceedings that ultimately exonerated Mackenzie, despite the political machinations of Phillip Spencer's father.  As a professor of law, Melton also explains the finer legal points of the case in considerable detail.  The book is a lively and relatively brief at about 260 pages of narrative.<br />Overall, an excellent work of narrative history that will appeal most strongly to maritime buffs.	2003-05-14
1133396:US	51809405	R2O2TX7W5S8GCS	0618074678	407894218	The Best American Travel Writing 2000	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Outsanding Collection of Stories	&quot;Best American Travel Writing 2000&quot; is the first edition in yet another outstanding entry in the &quot;Best American&quot; series.  It is structured like other &quot;Best American&quot; books, with a series editor and a yearly guest editor putting their heads together and selecting two dozen or so of the best articles to be published in the field during the previous year.  Bill Bryson was a very canny choice to be the first guest editor for the travel series, given his recent stature as one of the best selling travel writers around.<br />The best articeles in the debut 2000 edition include Tom Clynes's  account of a truck driver in the Australian Outback, a lament by David Halberstam on the yuppie-fication of Nantucket Island, P.J. O'Rourke's amusing piece about driving in India, and Mark Ross's harrowing first person account of the slaying of eco-tourists in Uganda by Interhamwe rebels.  Some of the articles are amusing, some are scary, others are full of wonder, but they are all well written and informative.  Anyone who enjoys good travel writing, or who simply likes good storytelling, ought to pick up a copy.	2003-05-06
1140074:US	51809405	R2B8J0U9KXRVQA	0750925876	70426099	Hitler's Henchman	Books	2	10	11	N	N	A Bizarre Work of History	Guido Knopp's \\"Hitler's Henchmen\\" is really a multiple biography of the six men the author identifies as the German dictator's most important disciples:  Herman Goering, Heinrich Himmler, Joseph Goebbles, Albert Speer, Rudolf Hess and Admiral Karl Doenitz.  In Knopp's chosen lineup lies the first problem.  Most students of The Third Reich would certainly place Hitler's Chief of Staff Martin Boorman and SS Security Chief Reinhard Heydrich well above the ineffectual Hess or the plodding Doenitz in terms of their importance to the Nazi regime.  Ignoring those two vital figures is a serious flaw in the book.<br />The second problem is the book's configuartion.  Not witstanding the fact that a few chapters is not nearly enough space to adequately explain the lives and roles of any of these individuals, Knopp provides pages of direct quotes from and about each one, interspersed at random throughout the narrative.  He also makes the fatal mistake in such an introductory work of assuming the reader is already intimately familiar with the overall history of Nazi Germany, referring to larger events without attributing dates or in what sequence they occurred.  All of this left me wondering exactly who the intended audience was for this work?  Nazi scholars won't learn anything they didn't already know, while casual readers are likely to find themselves hopelessly confused.<br />Overall, \\"Hitler's Henchmen\\" is not a well written work of history, even allowing for the fact that it was translated from German into English.	2003-04-30
1143098:US	51809405	R2HVKOGL7L6577	0393050998	530648082	Lusitania: Saga and Myth	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Lusitania: Dense and Plodding	Author David Ramsay's account of the sinking of The Lusitania is one of a glut of maritime disaster books to appear in recent years (and, indeed, was released almost simulateously with Diana Preston's book on this particular disaster).  Obviously, this is a hot publishing trend.  Alas, it is also one that could stand better editing.  Ramsay gamely provides the full sweep of The Lusitania tragedy, including detailed accounts of the political intrigue that surrounded it.  Unfortunately, his prose is so, uh, lifeless, that the book is barely readable.  Ramsay's approach might be fine for historians, but readers who are looking for the kind of lively narrative history that has become so popular recently should look elsewhere.	2003-04-28
1143197:US	51809405	R32B7YZAWXLSQ3	0892967390	210767208	The Mysterious Press Anniversary Anthology : Celebrating 25 Years	Books	4	2	2	N	N	New Stories by Some Past Masters	To celebrate the 25th anniversary of The Mysterious Press, the first publishing house dedicated solely to mystery writing, the editors of the company asked their distiguished authors to each contribute a short story each to an anniversary volume.  In the process, not only did they collect some excellent writing, but they helped give a boost to that sadly sagging art form: the short story.  Not all of the stories included are first rate, but enough of them are to make this anthology well worth owning.<br />The highlights include the always dependable Loren Estleman with an Amos Walker P.I. story, appropriately titled &quot;The Anniversaary Waltz;&quot; Stuart M. Kaminisky's grim, gritty caper drama &quot;Sometimes Something Goes Wrong;&quot; Archer Mayor's brutal &quot;Instinct;&quot; Marcia Muller's playful &quot;The Imposter;&quot; and Robert Greer's &quot;Revision.&quot;  There are 18 stories included in all that run the gamut from cozies to hard-boiled.  Mysterious Press founder Otto Penzler provides the introduction.<br />Overall, a very good anthology that includes stories for every type of mystery fan.	2003-04-28
1143447:US	51809405	RFNQI5YAVG2YU	0395797624	790983773	The Best American Sports Writing 1997	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Treasure of Great Writing About Sports	The 1997 edition of &quot;The Best American Sports Writing&quot; has plenty of moments that will enthrall avid sports fans and even those less avid who merely like a good story.  The series is a national treasure, which collects the best sports related writing every year and puts it into a single easy-to-read volume.  The sports included run the gamut from the traditional team sports of baseball and football to more extreme examples like mountaineering.  The main requirement for inclusion is great writing, and that's wht this series delivers consistently.<br />The best articles in the 1997 edition include New Yorker editor David Remnick's hilarous book review of Dennis Rodman's &quot;Bad As  I Wanna Be,&quot; Rick Reilly's revealing (and revolting) interview with former Cincinnati Reds owner Marge Schott, Jon Krakauer's &quot;Into Thin Air,&quot; the Outside Magazine piece that later became a runaway bestselling book, Gary Smith's account of how Tiger Woods destiny was largely predetermined by his father, and Padgett Powell's biography of an American arm wrestling champion.  As always, the quality of the reporting means that even if you have only a margainal interest in the sport described, you'll still find it entertaining.<br />Overall, another fine entry in an outstanding series.	2003-04-27
1143475:US	51809405	R2TIGZVB6EQ7KN	0618012095	790983773	The Best American Sports Writing 2000 (The Best American Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An American Treasure	The 2000 edition of &quot;The Best American Sports Writing&quot; has plenty of moments that will enthrall avid sports fans and even those less avid who merely like a good story.  The series is a national treasure, which collects the best sports related writing every year and puts it into a single easy-to-read volume.  The sports included run the gamut from the traditional team sports of baseball and football to more extreme examples like mountaineering.  The main requirement for inclusion is great writing, and that's wht this series delivers consistently.<br />The best articles in the 2000 edition include Jeff Macgreggor's disturbing account of the violence that permeats Candian youth league hockey, Robert Hubert's sad biographical piece on Joe DiMaggio's only son, Michael Finkel's story about the cult of extreme marathoning, Allison Glock's entertaining biography of Robbie Knievel, and Charles Sprawson's tale of the feats of extreme swimmers.  As always, the quality of the reporting means that even if you have only a margainal interest in the sport described, you'll still find it entertaining.<br />Overall, another fine entry in an outstanding series.	2003-04-27
1143922:US	51809405	R3JN6BMEQ72DDP	0395930561	26057961	The Best American Sports Writing 1999 (The Best American Series )	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sporyswriting as Literature	The 1999 edition of &quot;The Best American Sports Writing&quot; has plenty of moments that will enthrall avid sports fans and even those less avid who merely like a good story.  The series is a national treasure, which collects the best sports related writing every year and puts it into a single easy-to-read volume.  The sports included run the gamut from the traditional team sports of baseball and football to more extreme examples like mountaineering.  The main requirement for inclusion is great writing, and that's wht this series delivers consistently.<br />The best articles in the 1999 edition include Thomas Boswell's account of Cal Ripken's voluntary stoppage of his historic games played streak, Steve Friedman's biographical article on tormented 2nd generation professional bowler Pete Weber, Allen Abel's hilarous tribute to the long-folded World Hockey Association, and Adam Gopnik's insightful explantion of why World Cup Soccer fails to excite American fans.  As always, the quality of the reporting means that even if you have only a margainal interest in the sport described, you'll still find it entertaining.<br />Overall, another fine entry in an outstanding series.	2003-04-27
1146806:US	51809405	R28FSQVYXC5O4J	0743205839	576682884	John Paul Jones: Sailor, Hero, Father of the American Navy	Books	5	60	62	N	N	A Flawed American Hero	Author Evan Thomas's account of the life of John Paul Jones is an excellent narrative historical biography that brings to life yet another colorful personality from the American Revolution.  Like his contemporary, Alexander Hamilton, Jones was a vain, contentious and controversial figure of humble origins who rubbed many of those who knew him the wrong way.  He also happened to be a rare and valuable commodity in Revolutionary America in that he was a man who actually knew how to fight.<br />As Thomas dramatically illustrates, Jones was virtually the only captain among the Americans to have any success against the Royal Navy.  Jones's raids against the British home isles and his daring defeats in two diferent battles against Royal Navy battleships made him famous world wide.  Thomas's detailed accounts of the naval battles are particularly gripping.  And while Jones most likely never said the famous words, \\"I have not yet begun to fight,\\" that does not detract from his heroic refusal to surrender his ship in what was perhaps the bloodiest naval battle of the age of sail.<br />Thomas tracks Jones's entire life, from his childhood as the son of a Scottish gardner, to his time as a merchant ship captain through his Revolutionary exploits to the last, bizarre chapter in his life when he became an Admiral in the Russian fleet against the Turks.  Thomas is evenhanded in his descriptions of Jones, detailing his many faults in addition to his triumphs.  In the end, the picture that emerges is of an essentially noble individual whose insecurities made him his own worst enemy.  At just over 300 pages of narrative, the book is a relatively quick read and also has plenty of illustrations.<br />Overall, an outstanding historical biography that should be enjoyed by history buffs and even by more casual readers.	2003-04-24
1147489:US	51809405	R2LRPTZWUTC99X	0809324903	836321675	Chicago Death Trap: The Iroquois Theatre Fire of 1903	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Solid Historical Disaster Saga	There has been a glut of books in recent years detailing historical diasters.  Some have been very good, while others have been exploitative attempts to cash in on this particular publishing trend.  Fortunately, author Nat Brandt's \\"Chicago Death Trap\\" falls squarely into the former catagory.  Both well researched and well written, it tells the story of the deadliest fire in U.S. history.  The disaster occurred in a brand new, supposedly \\"fireproof,\\" theather, echoing the way a certain \\"unsinkable\\" ocean liner would go down a decade later.<br />Brandt appropriately tells the story in a straightforward manner.  He describes the design and construction of the theather, introduces the major players in the tragedy and then recounts the disaster in an appropriately somber tone.  Particularly gruesome is the account of the many who died after being forced to jump from the upper level of the theater, their bodies horribly filling an adjascent alleyway as helpless rescuers looked on.<br />Brandt also describes the aftermath of the fire, which saw an  increase safety laws and an attempt to hold some of the theater officials responsible.  Typically for the age, they ultimately managed to avoid formal punishment for the negligence that led to the disaster.  The book is a fairly quick read at less than 150 pages of text, and there are a number of illustrations and pictures included to help the reader.<br />Overall, a decent historical account of an unfortunately preventable tragedy.	2003-04-24
1152164:US	51809405	RDV3RKCK8NZYQ	080506883X	280671724	American Road: The Story of an Epic Transcontinental Journey at the Dawn of the Motor Age	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Epic Journey	&quot;The American Road&quot; is a fascinating historical work that chronicles an event that was of monumental importance that has been most forgotten in the public consciousness.  In the summer of 1919, a U.S. Army convoy left Washington, D.C., bound for San Francisco.  Two months later it arrived at its destination having fought incredible obstacles and hardships along the way.  In doing so, the convoy dramatically pointed out to a nation just emrging from the first World War and entering the automobile age the need for good roads.<br />Author Pete Davies does a decent job of resurrecting the memory of The First Transcontinental Motor Train.  He describes the trip in detail and recounts the contribution of its most colorful participants, including a young lieutenant colonel named Dwight D. Eisenhower.  The event was a spectacle all along the route, and even generated controversy between communities either included or left off the right of way.  For most of the journey, the convoy followed the &quot;Lincoln Highway,&quot; a privately funded project that was the first bicoastal road, but in 1919 in many places was actually little more than a line on the map.<br />As a work of history, &quot;American Road&quot; completes its mission well enough.  Author Davies is a decent storyteller and he does a good job of setting the historical context and showing how the event was crucial to the development of America's national road system.  The book's main drawback is that Davies chose to focus much of his attention on the relatively unintersting local political controversies along the route and not enough on the stories of individual soldiers in the convoy.  Even the colorful &quot;Ike&quot; gets only a scant few pages of coverage in total.  Also underutilized is the author's accounts of what the route looks like today, which are sprinkled in here and there without much rhyme or reason.  On the plus side, the book contains a generous helping of photographs and a helpful route map on the inside covers.<br />Overall, a decent historical work that serves to rekindle the memory of the dawn of the American motor age.map on the inside covers.<br />Overall, a decent historical work that serves to rekindle the memory of the dawn of the American motor age.	2003-04-20
1154813:US	51809405	RQNW37IYHMB3Q	0451208439	452393660	Cold Quarry (A Frank Palvicek Mystery)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Right Out of the Headlines	Private Eye writer Andy Straka excells at pulling his plotlines straight out of the headlines, as he shows again with \\"Cold Quarry,\\" his latest entry in the fine Frank Pavlicek series.  Basing a novel on terrorism these days is risky.  If the plotline is too close to real events it'll be decried as cheap sensationalism, and it's no longer fashionable to devise wildly unrealistic terrorist stroylines as it was before September 11th.  Straka strikes just the right balance, combining a gritty, realistic scenerio that's just far enough away from actual events to keep it comfortable.<br />Straka's hero is a hard-boiled P.I. of the old school who nevertheless has his tender moments.  He hails from Charlottesville, Virginia (home of the University of Virginia), but this time out Straka effectively takes Pavlicek to the wilds of West Virginia to do battle with an assortment of white supremacists, lowlifes and shadowy government types.  He's joined again by his sometime sidekick and former homicide partner, Jake Toronto, whose backstory gets some examination this time out.<br />I won't give away too much of the plot other than to say the book starts out with the murder of a friend of Pavlicek and Toronto who is a fellow enthusiast for the sport of falconry.  The official police line is that the death was a hunting accident, but when Pavlicek is brutally attacked while visiting the crime scene, he immediately suspects foul play.  When he starts asking questions, other people start to die and it becomes apparent that his friend Toronto is mixed up in something very dangerous.<br />Overall, \\"Cold Quarry\\" contains plenty of action as well as colorful and sympathetic characters and firmly establishes the Frank Pavlicek series as one of the best P.I. series to come along in recent years.	2003-04-18
1163336:US	51809405	RQ6ONB8UGNABL	1890768472	383612499	Painted Lady (A James P. Dandy Elderhostel Mystery)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	He's a Jim Dandy!	Let me start off by saying that I love it when I actually learn something while being entertained by a good book.  For instance, being a couple of decades short of retirment age, I had never heard of an Elderhostel before I read Peter Abresch's superb \\"Painted Lady.\\"  For those not familiar, an Elderhostel is a tour-like learning experience for folks who want to get the most out of their Golden Years.  Author Abresch is an enthusiastic Elderhostel participant, so much so that he uses his experiences as the basis for his fine James P. Dandy amateur sleuth mystery series.<br />The book starts out with a bang as Jim witnesses a woman plunge from the roof of a building during a mystery conference he's attending to be supportive of his artist girlfriend Dodee.  Suicide or murder?  That's the question that unfolds in the aftermath, and it continues to plague Dandy while he's trying to enjoy his bus trip though the West with a colorful collection of fellow Elderhostel travelers.  Things start to get really strange when the image of the woman, an American Indian, turns up mysteriously in one of Dodee's paintings.  The hardheaded Jim resists the idea that anything supernatural is going on.  Meanwhile, he and the others are being followed by a man who may or may not have some connection to the woman's death.<br />Though \\"Painted Lady\\" tends toward the cozy end of the mystery genre, there is enough sarcastic humor and suspense to satisfy those who like a little harder edge to their fiction.  Abresch is a master of little touches, such as giving minor characters memorably humorous names like Harriet Callahan and Martin Martin (not to mention Jim Dandy himself).  Though mature, his characters are plently lively with their witty banter.  As a backdrop to the story, Abresch recounts the history of the Sante Fe Trail so well that by the end you'll think you attended the Elderhostel with Jim and his companions.  It all leads to a conclusion that is both sharp and satisfying.<br />Overall, a spirited mystery novel from the kind of good natured author you'd like to sit and have a drink with.erall, a spirited mystery novel from the kind of good natured author you'd like to sit and have a drink with.	2003-04-10
1164926:US	51809405	RYO525V2XH3NC	0060195495	742046188	Alexander Hamilton: A Life	Books	4	27	29	N	N	The Original American Success Story	Willard Sterne Randall's biography of Alexander Hamilton joins the recent glut of books covering America's colonial period that have either focused on Hamilton or featured him prominently.  Randall's highly readable account of Hamilton's life brings into sharp focus the man who was Thomas Jefferson's ideological counterpoint in the two competeing governing philosopys that emerged from the American Revolution.  Ironically, while the aristocratic Jefferson became the champion of the \\"common man,\\" it was the \\"commoner\\" Hamilton who came to favor a strong central government at the expense of individual (and state's) rights.<br />Hamilton's rise from the illegitimate son of a West Indies merchant to the very heights of power at a time when such avenues were normally reserved for nobility make him America's first great self-made man.  Most of the other founding fathers were from either the aristocrat or merchantile classes.  Hamilton, whose family's entire modest estate was confiscated at the time of his mother's death when he was a boy, was possessed of the unique ambition of an insecure man who spent his life trying to overcome his humble origins.  As Randall demonstrates, Hamilton's close relationship with George Washington, who recognized his junior's incredible organizational and intellectual gifts, was of key importance to the latter's success.<br />The text of the book is quite sympathetic its subject, perhaps overly so at times.  Though Randall does not ignore the less noble aspects of Hamilton's character, he strives whenever possible to show him in the best possible light.  Thus Aaron Burr, who actually made his own important contributions to the nation, comes off mostly as a despicable villian.  Burr will always be infamous for firing the bullet that ended Hamilton's life, but Hamilton was equally at fault for the feud that ended so tragically.<br />Oveall, Randall's book is an enjoyable and enlightening work that will most appeal to history buffs.	2003-04-09
1166933:US	51809405	R2T12OC8FRJF5S	0743223861	516879829	Fraud of the Century: Rutherford B. Hayes, Samuel Tilden, and the Stolen Election of 1876	Books	5	5	10	N	N	We Who Forgot the Past...	Most people, if they've heard of the infamous 1876 Presidential election at all, recall it only when comparisons were made to the confused aftermath of the 2000 campaign.  There were many similarities in that the Democratic candidate ultimately failed to win the Presidency despite outpolling the Republican in the popular vote, and the final judgement was delayed long after the actual voting because of irregularities in Florida (among other states in 1876).  But the most glaring thing the two elections have in common is that in both cases the will of the people was ultimately thwarted by that most undemocratic of Constitutional anachornisms: The Electoral College.<br />Author Roy Morris Jr. rescues the 1876 election from the dustbin of history with his diligent research and lively prose.  He also does not hesitate to editorialize on the outcome, as the title of the book makes perfectly clear.  It's not that Morris is unfair to former Civil War General Rutherford B. Hayes, who was ultimately declared the winner in an unbeleivably convoluted series of back room dealings, quite the contrary in fact.  Morris instead lays outs the facts so that the reader can plainly see that New York Governor Samuel Tilden, despite being a less than perfect candidate, deserved a better fate.<br />The stakes were high in America's centenial year.  Reconstruction was winding down (indeed, Hayes would ultimately end it), white southeners were reasserting their political muscle in a way that would ultimately lead to Jim Crow and the disenfranchisement of the former slaves and tensions between the parties were running high enough that a resumption of Civil War hostilities seemed a distinct possibility.  The outgoing, scandal-plauged Grant administration burdoned Hayes, while Tilden was saddled with a Democratic party that had been the home of the Copperheads during the Civil War.  Like 2000, the country was nearly evenly split politically, though unlike 2000, as Morris points out, the outcome did not dramatically effect the course of American history because Morris supposes that Tilden would have made many of the same decsions that were made by Hayes as President.<br />Overall, an extremely well-written and important work that will be enjoyed be history buffs and even by more general readers.did not dramatically effect the course of American history because Morris supposes that Tilden would have made many of the same decsions that were made by Hayes as President.<br />Overall, an extremely well-written and important work that will be enjoyed be history buffs and even by more general readers.	2003-04-07
1167962:US	51809405	R136LJN9KQSCEB	0824086589	774540942	Hitler Victorious: Eleven Stories of the German Victory in World War II (Garland Reference Library of the Humanities)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Frightening "What If" Collection	\\"Hitler Victorious\\" collects 11 short stories based upon the premise that Nazi Germany won World War II.  The premise alone is enough to make for compelling reading, and fortunately the stories themselves expand upon it.  The highlight of the book is Brad Linaweaver's novella \\"Moon of Ice,\\" which masterfully extends the famous diaries of Nzai propoganda chief Joseph Goebbles into the mid-1960s.  Goebbles chronicles in the first person the death of The Fuhrer and the intrigue surrounding the foundation of Burgundy, the medieval mini-state formed by Heinrich Himmler's notorious SS.  Linaweaver throws into the mix Goebbles's relationship with two of his (now adult) children, each of whom has chosen a much different path.<br />Other highlighs include Hilary Bailey's noir-ish tale of intrigue \\"The Fall of Frenchy Steiner,\\" and Howard Goldsmiths nastly little horror tale \\"Do Ye Hear the Children Weeping.\\"  There's even a good Rip Van Winkle-like tale in C.M. Kornbluth's \\"Two Dooms.\\"  Also it must be said that, title of the book not withstanding, Hitler rarely remains victorious at the end of most of these stories.<br />Overall, this a  juicy little short story collection for those who like alternative history tales.	2003-04-07
1171240:US	51809405	R3SIVQZ7DJ02UM	0451205707	811727980	A Killing Sky (Frank Palvicek Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hardboiled Political Saga	Andy Straka's \\"A Killing Sky\\" is a private detective story loosely based upon headlines from what seems long ago, but is actually less than two years ago.  Gary Condit is the real life doppleganger for fictional Virginia Congressman Tor Drummond, a man desperately seeking re-election despite a nasty sex scandal.  When one of the Congressman's twin daughters disappears, the other hires Charlottesville Private Eye Frank Pavlicek to determine her wherabouts.  Pavilcek is, of course, dubious at the beginning, and not surprisingly ends up with far more than he bargained for as he probes into the Congressman's sleazy life.<br />Anyone who reads a lot of private eye fiction will find plenty of familiarity in Straka's book.  Pavilcek cracks wise and has a somewhat mysterious, tough-guy sidekick (his former partner from his days with the NYPD), an emotionally strong and supportive girlfriend and an eccentric hobby (he's a Falconeer).  Straka's descriptions of Charlottesville (home of the University of Virginia) are so accurate and inviting that they could have been written by the Chamber of Commerce.<br />As for the mystery, even though some of the minor elements of the book are a bit cliche (the Chief of Police is a jerk, the Feds are the clumsy heavies, the Congressmen's Chief of Staff is cast right out of the movie \\"No Way Out\\"), you can forgive it because Straka's prose and storytelling are so fresh and immediate.  For example, Pavilcek's relationship with his college age daughter, who sometimes helps him with his cases, never lapses into cheap sentimentality the way it could in a lesser writer's hands.  The build up to the climax is well done and when it comes it is explosive and ultimately satisfying climax.<br />Overall, an outstanding work of private eye fiction from a recently bygone era that I'm sure we all wish could return to.	2003-04-04
1174954:US	51809405	R3UA9OAZ8X29L0	0385420536	626095980	Adolf Hitler: The Definitive Biography	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The Definitive Hitler	Historian John Toland's \\"Adolf Hitler\\" stands as the greatest of the many works that have been published about the 20th Century's most fascinating and diabolical leader.  Toland doesn't content himself by merely reporting the facts, rather he makes a real effort to get inside the man's head and determine how he came to be such an explosive package of brilliance and insanity.  The story of Hitler the man is so improbable that had this been a work of fiction, no one would have found it plausible.  He was a self-man who, against all odds, seized absolute power in a Europe in which until his own adulthood, heredity usually dictated one's station in life.<br />Though daunting at over 100 pages, Toland has a good stroytelling touch, making the book quite readble.  Toland thoroughly chronicles Hitler's life, from his abused upbrining, through his service in the First World War, to his rise as a young politician, and finally his seizure of power and all the evil that followed.  The book is generously sprinkled with photographs and other illustratins to help the reader.<br />Overall, an outstanding historical biography that is as monumental as its subject.	2003-03-31
1186794:US	51809405	R1RO7WBZLYGONW	0060503068	844887439	Alaska: Saga of a Bold Land--From Russian Fur Traders to the Gold Rush, Extraordinary Railroads, World War II, the Oil Boom, and the Fight Over ANWR	Books	4	37	37	N	N	An Exhaustive History	Walter R. Borneman's &quot;Alaska: Saga of a Bold Land&quot; delivers exactly what it promises to deliver from its subtitle.  The book is a complete history of the 49th State, from prehistoric times until the dawn of the 21st Century.  Checking in at 540 pages of narrative, it is as big and daunting as Alaska itself.  Though the book could have used more illustrations and perhaps some photographs to assist the reader, Borneman is a good enough storyteller to keep things interesting.<br />The story begins with a discussion of the migration of native tribes from Siberia during the last ice age.  Borneman then flashes forward to Vitus Bering and the first Russian explorations and colonization of the territory.  This is then followed by &quot;Seward's Folly,&quot; the American purchase of Alaska, which, surprisingly, as Borneman demonstrates was much more widely supported than many historical accounts would indicate.  At two cents an acres, it was certainly one of the great bargains of the 19th Century.<br />Moving into the 20th Century, the story focuses on the Alaskan Gold Rushes and American settlement, the Japanese invasion during World War II, the 1964 earthquake, and finally the production of oil and the resulting envioronmental controversies.  Borneman's scope is expansive, and any reader of his book will come away with a very complete knowledge of the history of what remains the last American frontier.<br />Overall, a comprehensive and well-written account that will be particularly appreciated by history buffs.	2003-03-20
1190292:US	51809405	R29GX9PEW9D01P	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	5	182	200	N	N	Fabulous Historical True Crime Saga	Author Erik Larson had set the bar pretty high for himself after his previous book, \\"Issac's Storm,\\" was such a huge critical and commericial success.  Surely, he couldn't top that, could he?  Well, with \\"The Devil in the White City,\\" Larson has produced a book at least the equal of, if not better than, his previous effort.  As a work of history, this book has it all.  It resurrects for the modern reader the memory of an all-too-forgotten historical event (the 1893 Chicago World's Fair) and combines it with the sensational and gruesome story of the firt American equivalent of Jack The Ripper.<br />The book is structured as a dual biography of Daniel Hudson Burnham, the steadfast architecht who was the prime mover in making the World's Fair an astounding succes; and of Dr. H.H. Holmes, the diabolical psychopath who operated his own killing chamber in a hotel he built not far from the fairgrounds.  The two men never met, nor did they have any connection other than their contemporary existance, but weaving their stories together was a brilliant choice by Larson.<br />Larson provies plenty of colorful backdrop for his main story, vividly describing harsh life in 19th Century Chicago; the development of the first skyscrapers, the Charles Dickens-like ambiance of the streets and the colorful personalities that made it go.  He also describes the amazing and lasting impact the Fair had upon America, the The Ferris Wheel, Cracker Jack and Shredded Wheat being but a few of the things that debuted there.  And, of course, he graphically describes the Holmes murders and the investigation that finally brought him to justice.  Larson is a diligent researcher in addition to being an excellent storyteller, and that's what makes this book so special.<br />Overall, an outstanding work of narrative history that is like to be high on most reviewer's lists of the Best Nonfiction Books of 2003.	2003-03-17
1190489:US	51809405	R3VP7MQ9P37YWN	1587219867	16753439	Women May Be from Venus...But Men Are Really from Uranus: A Parody of Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus and Other John Gray Books	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Skewering the Self Help Ninnies	Though author Katherine Black aims her outrageously funny &quot;Women May be from Venus, but Men are Really from Uranus&quot; at Dr. John Gray's inane &quot;Venus and Mars&quot; relationship self help series, her target could in fact be the whole of the self help industry.  Granted, Black is taking aim at an enormous and very slow moving target, but she possesses the rhetorical equivalent of a howitzer in the way she blasts every aspect of Gray's psycho-babble to smithereens.  It is sort of like what would happen if George Carlin took on Dr. Phil in a no holds barred debate.<br />Black structures her book just like any self help tome you see on the shelves.  The chapters are short, lest she test her (daytime television watching) audience's short attention span.  There are plenty of meaningless &quot;lists&quot; and the print is nice an large so you can feel like you've accomplished something by reading lots of pages in a short amount of time.  The book is also peppered with a generous portion of amusing illustrations by Peter J. Welling.  Even if you've never read a self help book before and can't imagine ever reading one, you'll find plenty to laugh at.<br />Overall, a quick and humorous read that is a perfect and long overdue satire.	2003-03-17
1191029:US	51809405	R2JSVDQ2V53TCN	0880150130	846695060	The Butcher of Lyon: The Story of Infamous Nazi Klaus Barbie	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Incomplete Account of Barbie's Life	\\"The Butcher of Lyon,\\" is an effective, well-wriiten account of the life of Klaus Barbie, who as a Gestapo Lieutenant ruled the city of Lyon, France, with an iron hand for two years (1942-1944), personally murdering many French citizens and Jews and sending thousands of others to the death camps.  After World War II, Barbie became one of the most notorious Nazi fugitives and a fixture in his adoptive home of Bolivia, where he advised the dicatatorial government on security matters.  He was finally arrested in 1983 and extradited to France.  Convicted of war crimes in 1987, he was sentenced to life in prison and died there in 1991.<br />Unfortunately, author Brendan Murphy's account, while a compelling study of human evil and crime and punishment, was published in 1983, years before Barbie was finally made to pay for his considerable crimes.  As such, it is incomplte.  Nevertheless, the book is still a compelling account of one of Nazi Germany's more notable criminal leaders.	2003-03-17
1195289:US	51809405	R35OOSWQXS5CCJ	0609610007	291060622	A Time to Die: The Untold Story of the Kursk Tragedy	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A Sad Story of Preventable Disaster	Author Robert Moore's \\"A Time to Die\\" is a straightforward account of the tragedy that occurred aboard the Russian submarine Kursk, which sank to the bottom of the Barrents Sea after a horrific explosion in August 2000.  Making the disaster even more gruesome was the fact that 23 of the crew survived the initial explosion only to die a excruiating death from slow suffocation followed by flash fire.  And the worst part is that had it not been for the sad state of the Russian Navy and the country's continued suspicion of the West, the 23 survivors might have all been rescued alive.<br />Moore has done a tremendous job of getting to the facts considering the obstacles he must have faced.  He describes the bleak life of those assigned to Russia subartic, super secret naval bases and the deterioration of the Russian Navy since the cold war in vivid and unflinching terms.  He also humanizes his narrative by telling the vicitims personal stories.  Moore then shows how Russian military paranoia contributed to the disaster, first by preventing its detection for twelve crucial hours, then by refusing to acknowledge that anything unusual had occurred and lastly by initially refusing help from British and Norwegian diving experts even when it became apparent that the breakdown in their own infastructure was hampering their rescue attempts.<br />The overall picture that emerges is that of a preventable tragedy compounded by multiple human errors.  The only silver lining is that because Russia is now ostensibly a democracy, the military couldn't cover up its mistakes like it had in the past.  The families of the victims were able to pressure the Russian leadership for answers, and ultimately receive monetary compensation for their loss.  Also, for the first time, Russiaan military commanders were held accountable for loss of lives under their command.  Moore might not be quite as deft a storyteller as he could be, but his unflinching account is complete and compelling.<br />Overall, an excellent work of book length journalism.ll, an excellent work of book length journalism.	2003-03-13
1207899:US	51809405	R19YNE0MXAFVTA	0917657462	271841305	The Last Nazi: The Life and Times of Dr. Joseph Mengele	Books	3	10	10	N	N	The Angel of Death	Gearld Astor's biography of Dr. Joseph Mengele tells an important story to be sure.  The notorious Auschwitz camp doctor who personally comdemmed thousands to their deaths and performed hideous experiements on many others is an important symbol of just how depraved the Nazi regime was.  That a man of science, a man sworn to prevent human sufferning, could allow his profession to be so grotesquely perverted clearly demonstrates how fundamentaly evil Nazi ideology was.  Mengele is a real life villian for the ages, someone the likes of whom humanity will hopefully not see again.<br />Unfortunately, Astor's portrait, while compelling and informative, fails to really capture essence of the man.  Perhaps becuase the author apparently received little cooperation from Mengele's (prominent!) family, there isn't musch information about Mengele's early childhood or adulthood, nor of the period from the end of World War II to his escape from Europe in 1949.  The two periods of Megele's life where Astor's information is most complete is his time at Auschwitz from 1943-44 and the last two decades of his life, when he lived in Brazil before drowning on the beach in 1979.<br />There's almost nothing in the book about Megele's marriage, nor of his service on the Eastern front with the Waffen SS before a battlefield wound sent him to the death camp and his infamy.  Even the Auschwitz period is strangely stilted.  There are eyewitness accounts of the atrocities committed by Mengele and of his experiments, but a thorough account of what he thought he was accomplishing is strangely lacking.  It must also be said that Astor's prose is at times somewhat stilted, and he occasionally digresses into pop psychology--a dangerous thing to do in a case such as this.  Ultimately, Menegele comes off as despicable but still a mysterious figure.<br />Overall, I would give this book a qualified recommendation only because of the importance of its subject matter.	2003-03-03
1211752:US	51809405	RXCFVTGK0GMLI	0131401041	509732540	Brave Companions: Portraits in History	Books	4	117	120	N	N	The Collected  McCullough	David McCullough is, arguably, the best popular historian of his generation.  He has written amazing historical works (\\"The Johnstown Flood,\\" \\"The Path Between the Seas,\\" \\"The Great Bridge) and outstanding Presidential biographies (\\"Truman,\\" \\"John Adams,\\" \\"Mornings on Horseback\\").  In addition, over the years he has produced numerous shorter pieces for magazines, which were bound together for \\"Brave Companions.\\"<br />As a historian, McCullogh has always been very interested in the lives of people, hence the title of the book.  In his narrative he brings to life a number of historical figures, some of whom have become quite obscure.  Alexander von Humboldt, for example, was a contemporary of Lewis and Clark whose scientific expedition to South America may have been a more impressive feat than the journey of the two Americans.  \\"Uncle Tom's Cabin\\" author Harriet Beecher Stowe and Old West painter/sculptor Frederic Remington are the subjects of short but frank mini-biographies.<br />The biographical material remains McCullogh's strong suit and represents the best parts of this collection.  A few of the other pieces don't work quite as well.  Some were written as long as 30 plus years ago and are dated today.  As with any collection of this kind, the reader is likely to focus on those articles that are of the most personal interest.  At less that 250 pages of text, the book is a relatively quick read compared to most of McCullough's works.<br />Overall, an excellent historical work that will particularly be enjoyed by fans of David McCullough.	2003-02-28
1213148:US	51809405	R71SWPUSIDXEQ	1591290066	707961330	An Elusive Inheritance	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Literary Mystery, With a Local Twist	If you love books, especially if you are a book collector, and you also love a good mystery story, then Elizabeth J. Morris's &quot;An Elusive Inhertitance&quot; is definately for you.  Morris has penned the ultimate book lovers mystery--the plot turns on the theft of a classic book collection.  Based in the Maryland suburbs of D.C., Morris also provides plenty of local Capital-area color that will be appreciated by residents of the region.<br />Her heroine is Margaret Anne Phillips, a volunteer at the Writer's Space of Bethesda, Maryland.  As part of her volunteer duties, she accepts a large donation from the husband of a wealthy socialite who has died.  It all seemed pretty routine, until a large portion of the collection turns up missing and it becomes apparent that the books are a sore spot in a long-running feud among the eccentric wealthy family that donated them.  As the mystery of the missing books unfolds, Margaret Anne finds herself entagled in the affairs of the family even as she and her husband are trying to enjoy a much-needed vacation at the beach.<br />&quot;An Elusive Inheritance,&quot; fittingly, is a well-written literary mystery.  Morris's love of books and book collecting shines brightly on every page.  Her description of the appreciation collectors have for fine first-edition books is absolutely dead on.  Additionally, Morris's descriptions of the Washington area are as detailed as I've read in a work of fiction.  This is not official Washington, mind you, but the sprawling metropolitan area in which several million people live and work.<br />Overall, an excellent literary mystery novel that I would highly recommend.	2003-02-27
1220962:US	51809405	RZD99B8WD68AF	1585745855	876920196	The Last Frontier: Incredible Tales of Survival, Exploration, and Adventure from Alaska Magazine	Books	4	21	22	N	N	An Interesting Collection of Stories	&quot;The Last Frontier&quot; is an interesting collection of feature stories that originally appeared in &quot;Alaska&quot; magazine from 1935 until the present.  They were chosen by the current editors of the magazine.  The subject matter is quite varied, featuring outdoor adventure tales, life among the native people, wildlife exposes and much more.  The stories are as varied as the people who inhabit the last great American wilderness.<br />The caveat I would note for anyone interested in reading the book is that most of the stories are quite short, and because they were published for a then-contemporary audience, someone not familiar with local history or geography might sometimes get lost in the narrative.  Also, &quot;Alaska&quot; started out as a sportsman's magazine, so a lot of the early stories are about hunting and trapping, which some people might not enjoy.<br />Those cautions aside, &quot;The Last Frontier&quot; is a decent read for those who likes outdoor adventure stories.	2003-02-20
1233084:US	51809405	RQ3YZXGX5Y5VA	0060185414	126171382	City on Fire: The Forgotten Disaster That Devastated a Town and Ignited a Landmark Legal Battle	Books	1	14	16	N	N	Not Well Written	&quot;City on Fire&quot; purports to be a work of history, but it is so poorly written that it loses whatever historical value it might have.  Much of it is written in the present tense, rarely ever appropriate in a historical work.  Additionally, the book contains no notes or bibliography, another major warning sign in a work of history.  Given how it is constructed, one has to wonder if the author intended for his work to read like a historical novel, but it fails on that level as well.<br />It's a pity, because the subject itself is quite interesting and deserves a much better treatment.	2003-02-10
1233503:US	51809405	R2846X12XW21JT	081541207X	899319009	Killer 'Cane: The Deadly Hurricane of 1928	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A Decent Storm Story	There has been quite a glut lately of weather-related disaster books, and the quality of these books has varied widely.  \\"Killer 'Cane,\\" though a bit rough in places, is one of the better efforts in the genre.  The book tells the story of the 1928 hurricane that devastated the Florida Everglades, killing perhaps as many as 3000 people when the Lake Okeechobee Dike gave away.  Author Robert Mykle sets up his story well, providing a generous helping of historical background and meterological facts.<br />Mykle spends much of the first half of the book describing everyday life in the Everglades in the early 20th Century.  He particularly focuses his attention on several families who had settled there hoping to scratch a decent living out of the \\"mucklands,\\" as drained Everglades swamps were called.  Mykle the shows how poor forecasting, inept politicians and ignorance of the landscape combined with sheer bad luck to cause a tragedy that could have been greatly diminished if the victims had been given adequate time to evacuate the lowlands.<br />Mykle is a decent storyteller, but the book does have a couple of drawbacks.  Mykle largely ignores that great devastation that the 1928 storm wrought upon numerous islands in the Caribbean, including Puerto Rico, giving these other disasters only a cursory mention.  He also has a tendency to repeat himself in the text and portions of the book are very poorly edited.  <br />Overall, a readable an interesting book for those who love a goodweather-related disaster tale.	2003-02-10
1234008:US	51809405	R1WWOT147O52Z7	0471218227	156303511	The Great Fire of London: In That Apocalyptic Year, 1666	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Decent Historical Account	Author Neil Hanson has created a decent historical work with his \\"The Great Fire of London,\\" recreating an event that happened nearly half a millennia ago so vividly that the book reads like a contemporary account.  The fire was of great importance in the history of Great Britain's capital, as it essentialy erased medieval London from the map and allowed the modern city to be erected in its place.<br />Hansen sets the stage very effectively by describing everyday life in the city circa the 1660s.  London was just recovering from a plague epidemic when the fire struck, started innocently enoough in a bakery and whipped up by strong winds and the effects of a nearly year-long drought.  The descriptions of the fire itself are particularly harrowing and Hansen shows himself to be a master of the details.<br />The book's one drawback is that the maps that are included are not well-detailed, so that the reader often has to guess where a particular event is taking place.  Additionally, Hansen assumes a certain amount of prior knowledge about British History and Georgraphy that might be lost upon those readers not intimately familiar with London or its history.  Nevertheless, the book is still a compelling read for those who like a good disaster tale.	2003-02-10
1242609:US	51809405	RLYK9PBOB4TS8	158574607X	599564468	The Forgotten Storm: The Great Tri-state Tornado of 1925	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Not Exactly &quot;Forgotten&quot;	The title of &quot;The Forgotten Storm&quot; is a bit misleading as any weather buff will tell you.  Nobody (amature or professional) with a passion for meterology is unaware of the 1925 Tornado's impressive resume as the deadliest twister in U.S. history.  It is &quot;forgotten&quot; only in the sense that because there are no survivng photographs, it tends not to get mentioned whenever tornados are featured on weather-related television programs.<br />That said, author Wallace Akin, who was a child when the storm virtually destroted Murpheyboro, Illinois, has documented the accounts of that harrowing day for history.  Akin faithfully recalls the events as they happened, throwing in a helpful amount of weather-related science to help the less informed reader.  Akin tracks the storms progress from touchdown as it crossed parts of three states, spreading destruction and misery in its wake.<br />The book's main drawback is Akin's limited abilities as a storyteller.  The first hand accounts in the book are mostly matter-of-fact, and rarely come alive for the reader.  Combined with the fact that the book is barely 150 pages of large type narrative in length, and it feels like a pretty slight effort.  The overall impression you get as a reader is that the story would have made a better long magazine article that a full length book.	2003-02-03
1248154:US	51809405	R2DUAJ4O20LT9F	0393051862	610249434	Outside 25: Classic Tales and New Voices from the Frontiers of Adventure	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Great Reading About the Outside World	Over the last decade or so &quot;Outside&quot; has repeatedly proven itself to be the magazine with the most compelling and well-written feature stories anywhere.  For example, Jon Krakauer's &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; and Sebastian Junger's &quot;The Perfect Storm&quot; began as stories in the magazine.  The definition of what constitutes an &quot;Outside&quot; article is very loose and there are stories here about animals, landscapes, extreme sports, exotic travels, and yes, even an ongioing Communist insurgency.  &quot;Outside&quot; is the magazine you read if you want to know what is going on in the world around you beyond the insipid sniping of politicians and celebrity-obssessed news reports.<br />&quot;Outside 25&quot; collects nearly three dozen articles into a nearly 600 page volume that never lags for a second.  Some of the &quot;giants&quot; of modern literature and journalism are here, including the aforementioned Krakauer and Junger, Peter Maas, Hampton Sides, Paul Theroux, Tim Cahill, Bob Shacochis and many others.  The one thing ever piece has in common is a refusal to in any way to limit the imagination.  The articles are almost all from the last five years, meaning that they are mostly still fresh and relevant.<br />Overall, an outstanding and well thought out collection that even couch potatoes can enjoy.	2003-01-29
1250755:US	51809405	R2O67Q3Q4AXE3R	1891620983	81792354	Great White Fathers: The Story of the Obsessive Quest to Create Mount Rushmore	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Overlong, but Still Interesting	John Taliaferro's &quot;Great White Fathers&quot; is an interesting, if somewhat confused book.  It can't decide whether it wants to be a straight historical account of the creation of Mount Rushmore or a piece of modern &quot;travel&quot; writing, in which the author describes his subject as part of the backdrop for his own adventures.  Generally, the historical parts work better than the travel parts, and at over 400 pages the book is definately too long for its subject matter.<br />That said, Taliaferro is a good writer, though he occasionally makes rather glaring factual errors (like placing the year that the Monica Lewinsky scandal broke as 1997 instead of 1998).  He also dwells a too much on issues like the American Indian view of Rushmore being placed in the middle of the Sioux tribe's &quot;ancesteral homeland.&quot;  In this he comes off like a liberal who despises everything Rushmore stands for even while professing to admire it as a monument.<br />The book is at its best when describing the history of the monument itself and the biography of its creator, the volatile and controversial sculptor Gutzon Borglum.  Borglum was full of paradoxes, for example his hero was Abraham Lincoln and he was a confidant of Theodore Roosevelt, and yet he was a ardent supporter of the Ku Klux Klan.  Taliaferro spends the first 200 pages of the book describing Borglum's life and the contemporary history of America at that time before he even gets to the construction of Rushmore.  There may bee too much historical background, but it is nonetheless a compelling story.<br />Overall, an insteresting and informative book that nevertheless contains a number of flaws.	2003-01-27
1277806:US	51809405	R3V94Y506AZW8X	031242082X	280975572	Balsamic Dreams: A Short But Self-Important History of the Baby Boomer Generation	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A Short but Self-Important Book	Getting into the spirit of things, I am going to write the short but self important review to tell you about \\"Balsamic Dreams: A Short but Self-Important History of the Baby Boomer Generation.\\" Queenan is perhaps the most intellectual non-political humorist writing today.  With \\"Basalmic Dreams\\" he turns his sharp wit against what he sees as the many \\"crimes\\" of his own generation.  And what a ripe target for satire.  Queenan is able to skewer Boomer pomposity and hypocrisy with the kind of detail that could only come from someone who has walked among them.<br />That said, the book starts slowly.  Queenan's last book (the hilarious \\"Red Lobster, White Trash and the Blue Lagoon\\") saw him actually experiencing things.  \\"Balsalmic Dreams,\\" however, reads more like an essay, and it takes Quenan about half the book to really get warmed up.  By the time he comes to the Chapter entitled \\"What a Fool Believes\\" and deservedly lambastes Tom Brokaw's silly notion of \\"The Greatest Generation,\\" the book becomes laugh out loud funny.  Queenan goes on to portray an alternative version of American History told as if Boomer values had been held by historical figures.  Under this scenerio, Thomas Jefferson is impeached for having an affair with his \\"nanny\\" and Abraham Lincoln delivers a touchy-feely Gettysburg Address.<br />In the end, \\"Basalmic Dreams\\" is properly subtitled.  It is indeed short at a mere 210 pages and it reeks of self-importance (in a self-effacing way).  It is also quite funny, especially in the second half.  Hopefully, its readership will also get its message and learn to \\"mellow out.\\"	2003-01-07
1300674:US	51809405	R2LBQAMPDL363M	0465008038	84007262	The New Killing Fields: Massacre and the Politics of Intervention	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Essays on Genocide	\\"The New Killing Fields\\" is not straight reporting, but rather a collection of essays by various writers concerning modern genocide, particularly in Yugoslavia, Rwanda and East Timor.  The writers of the essays for the most part assume some level of knowledge about each war zone on the part of the reader, and the book is aimed more toward opinion leaders than the general public.<br />The essays themselves are an attempt by the various writers to help those of us in the West come to grips with the causes of genocide and our obligation to attempt to stop it.  The argument is made that in Yugoslavia, for example, even the most minimal military intervention could have stopped the slaughter years earlier and that the Bosnian Serb forces in particular were nothing more than paper tigers.  The \\"Powell Docterine\\" that has repeatedly led to a reluctance by the U.S. to use its military comes under particular criticism.  The authors also tailor their remarks to the post-September 11th political realities.<br />Overall, a strong collectiion of political essays aimed at opinion leaders.	2002-12-18
1305889:US	51809405	RBRS8U9ZOUGQ3	0802138675	50018220	Killing Dragons: The Conquest of the Alps	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Alpine History	British historian-author Fergus Fleming has recently been a prolific chronicler of the so-called &quot;Golden Age of Exploration.&quot;  Since 1999, he has published three relatively lengthy antholgy type works, including &quot;Barrow's Boys,&quot; about British Polar and African exploration in the first half of the 19th Century, and his recent &quot;Ninety Degrees North,&quot; about the numeorus attempts to conquer the North Pole.<br />&quot;Killing Dragons,&quot; the second of the three, also has the least interesting topic.  The polar and African expeditions were mammoth affairs that taxed those who participated in them to the limit, often killing or horribly maiming them.  By contrast, being the first person to scale an Alp, as we know today not by far the most imposing of mountains, just doesn't rate as an achievement.  Still, the book is interesting as an historical account of the beginnings of the sport of mountaineering.<br />Fleming is an excellent writer and a good stroyteller.  Parts of &quot;Killing Dragons&quot; are quite thrilling, particularly his accounts of the conquest of the Matterhorn and the first ascent of Mount Blanc, the highest peak in the Alps.  Between such events, however, the story lags.  The history of the founding of Britains Alpine Club and squabbles among its illustrious members, for example, isn't exactly the kind of stuff that takes your breath away.<br />Overall, &quot;Killing Dragons&quot; is better as a work of history than as a collection of adventure stories.	2002-12-13
1331796:US	51809405	R1R5FI0T4EUH3O	0802117252	55761129	Ninety Degrees North: The Quest for the North Pole	Books	5	3	3	N	N	First to the Pole	British author Fergus Fleming follows up his extroadinarily entertaining &quot;Barrow's Boys&quot; (about the early 19th century golden age of British exploration) with &quot;Ninety Degrees North,&quot; another fascinating portrayal of men driven to go where no one had previously gone before.  The narrative of Fleming's book covers the quest to stand literally on top of the world that began in earnest in the wake of the disappearance of British explorer Sir John Franklin while searching for the fabled Northwest Passage in 1845.<br />Fleming reconts each expedition individually and chronologically, retelling the compelling horrors that befell men such as the hapless George DeLong and Charles Francis Hall.  He describes in vivid detail what it was like to exist in a climate where the temperatures sometimes reached 100 degrees below zero.  Men watched helplessly as their ships became trapped and slowly crushed by the polar ice pack and faced sledging journeys of hundred of miles with little food or shelter.<br />Fleming recounts the numerous mistakes that were made both theoretical (the persistant belief that the pole was covered by open water) and pratical (the fact that scurvey continued to haunt the explorers even after they figured out how to stop it).<br />Slowly but surely, as each expedition added to knowledge about the perils of Arctic travel and technology slowly improved, men penetrated farther north until finally Robert Edwin Peary claimed the ultimate prize in 1909.<br />Fleming is a gifted writer and storyteller and his book makes for terrific reading in front of a fireplace with a mug of hot chocolate on a cold winter night.	2002-11-21
1341292:US	51809405	R3W0XTBLTPLOUB	0743228324	770295457	Napoleon and Wellington: The Battle of Waterloo--and the Great Commanders Who Fought It	Books	3	40	46	N	N	Not  for general readers	Though you can't tell it from reading the dust jacket, &quot;Napoleon and Wellington&quot; is a book written for a very specific audience.  It became apparent from the very first chapter that author Andrew Roberts is assuming that his readers already have substantial knowledge about the lives of his two protagonists.  Rather than a straightforward account of their lives like you would expect in a dual biography, the author makes comments and observations about facts he assumes the reader already knows.  I already had some general knowledge of Napoleon's career, and I still had a hard time following the narrative.<br />A second observation about the book is that the battle of Waterloo itself gets a very small percentage of the narrative.  Most of the book concerns what came both before and after Waterloo in the lives of the two generals who fought there.  Also, events in the book are not presented chronologically and Roberts jumps around while comparing the two leaders.<br />There is nothing necessarily wrong with Roberts's approach, except that the book is being marketed to the general history audience.  I would definately not recommend it to anyone not already intimately familiar with the subject matter.	2002-11-13
1345441:US	51809405	R2HDT0HU697S5O	1586481282	267400619	Our Votes, Our Guns: Robert Mugabe and the Tragedy of Zimbabwe	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Distressing Portrait of a Nation	Martin Meredith's \\"Our Votes, Our Guns\\" is a particlarly depressing work of jouralism covering the descent of post-Rhodesia Zimbabwe into a barbarous authoritarian kleptocracy thoroughly dominated by a corrupt leader who turned his back on ever principle he supposedly had before obtaining power.  The world's attention (such as it is) has been focussed on the forcible removal of white farmers from their land with the  explict support of the government.  But as Meredith demonstrates, President Mugabe's racist policies toward whites is just one of many evils he has perpetrated on his country.<br />Meredith starts out by setting the historical stage, including telling about the horrific brutality of white rule in what was then Rhodesia before the 1979 \\"revolution\\" that brought Mugabe to power.  Certainly, Zimbabwe's violent release from colonialism has a lot to do with the country's current situation.<br />Meredith then goes on to show the early promise that Mugabe showed as president, so willing for reconcilliation that he met with the last white Prime Minister, Ian Smith on numerous occasions to ask adbvice in the early years.  Meredith then shows how as Mugabe became increasingly paranoid and obsessed with power his cronys became more and more corrupt.  Anyone who believes that third world debts ought to be forgiven should read this book.  Zimbabwe is in a state of financial collapse because its president and his associates bled the country dry, not because of IMF or World Bank financial imperialism.  If anything, Western aid has helped serve as an enabler for Mugabe's destruction of Zimbabwe.<br />The book's main drawback is a lack of first hand reporting by Meredith.  There is no indication in the narrative that the author has ever visited Zimbabwe and he seems to have relied mostly on second had accounts.  Nevertheless, he is an excellent researcherr, and despite this flaw this is still a compelling read for those with an interest in current events beyond the headlines.lines.	2002-11-10
1348066:US	51809405	RS8VVYT4ET1J4	1585744166	23910265	The Hunter, The Hammer, and Heaven: Journeys to Three Worlds Gone Mad	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Dangerous Journeys, Average Book	Give Robert Young Pelton credit for having the courage to go where few journalists are willing to go and report on stories that most of the world is completely indifferent about.  In this case, he traipsed to Sierra Leonne, Chechnya and the island of Bougainville in Papau New Guinea to cover three vastly different war zones where people were dying and little attention was being paid.  With all three stories, Pelton sets the recent historical backdrop and then travels into the thick of things.<br />The Sierra Leonne piece, which kicks off the book, is by far the weakest.  The guerilla conflict there was essentially over by the time Pelton arrived and he neither witnessed any of the atrocities committed there first hand nor has much luck providing real insight other that the obvious: namely that the diamonds buried beneath the soil provided the income to keep the rebel forces going.<br />Pelton has better luck in Chechnya, where he entered Grozny shortly before the 1999 Russian offensive and barely escaped the advancing forces.  This is war reporting at its best, immediate and chilling.  This part is particularly relevant in providing understanding to the recent Russian hostage crisis.<br />The back story of the Bougainville section was the most enlightening part of the book.  I'm sure very few people outside of the south Pacific region are even aware that the large, mineral rich island has been the site of a terrible insurrection for more than a decade.  Once again, however, Pelton doesn't arrive until after the shooting stops and his attempts to interview the elusive Bougainville rebel leader Francis Ona are only interesting to a point.<br />Overall, an interesting if uneven work that will appeal most strongly to those who like real life adventure tales and those with a curiosity about the world's most dangerous places.	2002-11-07
1373789:US	51809405	R20R1A4YWIO9MK	0525946799	49722860	Dangerous Waters: Modern Piracy and Terror on the High Seas	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Sounding a Warning	John S. Burnett's &quot;Dangerous Waters&quot; sounds a warning about the global rise in crimes on the high seas.  What he's talking about in his investigation is not, for the most part, large pirate vessles sailing the oceans in search of booty.  Instead, he describes (mostly) small scale acts of robbery punctuated by the occasional dramatic act of violence.  As Burnett points out, most pirarcy today occurs between Africa and the Pacific Ocean, and indeed Burnett spends most of his investigation in and around Indonesia, which has become modern pirarcy's largest hotbed.<br />Burnett had a harrowing personal experience with pirates in 1992 when he was robbed while sailing his small boat off the coast on Indonesia.  This was the genesis for his investigation, though he did not begin his travels in search of pirates until nearly ten years later.  Along the way, he talks to several victims of pirates, some law enforcement types out to stop it and also takes a journey aboard an oil tanker through pirate infested waters.<br />Burnett does a good job sounding a warning about modern piracy and the potential for a major economic or environmental disaster if, for example, an oil supertanker is hijacked for ransom or crashes while being the crew is being attacked.  On the downside, Burnett's approach is haphazard and not well organized.  He jumps from topic to topic randomly and has the annoying habit of repeating himself.  The book also lacks one central compelling event to give it added punch.<br />Overall, an informative book with a few flaws.	2002-10-17
1380612:US	51809405	R1Z3CYZPC3XQ2Q	0618124942	262985220	The Best American Mystery Stories 2002 (Best American (TM))	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Return of an Annual Classic	\\"Best American Mystery Stories 2002\\" is the latest volume in what has become a very fine and enjoyable series.  Given that it is so difficult to find magazines featuring short stories these days, it's nice to have the best culled out and placed in one volume.  James Ellroy of \\"American Tabloid\\" and \\"L.A. Confidential\\" fame is the guest editor this year, which may explain why this year's model is a touch more hard-boiled that the 2001 edition.  Additionally, it should be noted that the 2002 collection also contains several boxing and baseball stories because series editor Otto Penzler put together theme anthologies for both sports in the last year.<br />That said, the stories in the 2002 collection run the gamut from literary to whodunnits? to crime stories.  How you like each one will probably depend on your tastes as a reader.  All are expertly written by the best mystery writers working in the genre today.  My personal favorites are Thomas J. Cook's boxing  story \\"The Fix,\\" Clark Howard's grim caper story \\"The Cobalt Blues,\\" and Stuart M. Kaminisky's gritty crime saga \\"Sometimes Something Goes Wrong.\\"  Some of the stories didn't work for me, particularly the literary stories, but that's mostly a matter of personal taste.<br />The short story, particularly the mystery short story, is a disappearing art form.  \\"Best American Mystery Stories 2002\\" is doing its part to keep it alive and well.	2002-10-11
1389753:US	51809405	R10K97XE322H7R	0805065415	636052637	Blue Latitudes: Boldly Going Where Captain Cook Has Gone Before	Books	4	52	60	N	N	Horwitz, Out of the &quot;Attic&quot;	Tony Horwitz had a tough task in following up his massively successful &quot;Confederate in the Attic.&quot;  Give him credit, &quot;Blue Latitudes&quot; certainly is no quickie effort to cash in on Horwitz's now-famous name.  Instead, the author travelled tens of thousands of miles researching the legacy of Captain James Cook, arguably the greatest of all European explorers.  Like &quot;Attic&quot; the book is part history, part travelogue and part social commentary.  Horwitz includes mnay more historical information this time out, most likely because far fewer readers are intimately familiar with Cook's voyages than the Civil War.<br />Horwitz starts his journey by sailing on a replica of Cook's first ship Endurance to get a feel for 18th Century shipboard life.  He then spends most of the remaining time traipsing around the Pacific with his Australian friend Roger, who provides the same kind of narrative counterpoint as Robert Lee Hodge did in &quot;Attic.&quot;  Horwitz documents the changes that have occurred in Oceania because of Cook's &quot;discoveries&quot; and interviews numerous islanders to find out how they feel about Cook's legacy.  The results are often surprising and enlighteneing.<br />Having said all of that, &quot;Blue Latitudes&quot; is not a classic on the order of &quot;Attic.&quot;  The narrative is a lengthy at nearly 450 pages and is sluggish at times.  Companion Roger is not nearly as interesting a character as was Hodge and the moments of uproarious humor that made &quot;Attic&quot; so entertaining are mostly missing this time out.  Nevertheless, &quot;Blue Latitudes&quot; is still a well-written and worthwhile read for those with an interest in the subject matter.	2002-10-03
1405908:US	51809405	RXTW0224XNLN6	0385502168	137034861	The Age of Gold: The California Gold Rush and the New American Dream	Books	5	58	59	N	N	Wins the Gold	H.W. Brands shows again why he is one of America's foremost historians with his compellingly readable account of the 1849 California Gold Rush and the early history of the state.  Brands digs down through the myths about the Gold Rush and unearths the fascinating stories of the people (immigrants and Americans alike) who caught America's first big burst of gold fever.  Among the key players were William T. Sherman (later the famous Civil War General), explorer John C. Fremont (later the first Presidential nominee of the Republican Party), and Leland Stanford (founder of the University that bears his last name).  They all come together at what was truly one of American history's major crossroads.<br />Brands does not limit himself to just recounting the adventures in the gold fields.  He focusses on the larger political, social and even military effects of the gold rush.  The chapters recounting the lengthy, perilous journeys by land and sea that the gold miners took to get to Califorinia are particularly compelling.  Brands also discusses at length the growth of San Francisco into a major city and the establishment of California's state government.  Additionally, he devotes time examining the U.S. congresional Compromise of 1850, which allowed California to be admitted as a state only after a bitter and acrimonious sectional feud over slavery.<br />Brands is an excellent writer with that rare ability among historians to make his historicals accounts read like fiction.  His book is well-researched and the author has a flair for capturing the essence of the historical figures involved.  He also argues strenuously that the gold rush's effects on American politics as a whole, including pushing the country toward Civil War, should not be underestimated.<br />Overall, an outstanding work of history that can be enjoyed by serious students and casual readers alike.	2002-09-17
1406575:US	51809405	R3H4I2ZRI3K7TI	0743421949	672620331	Trapped: The 1909 Cherry Mine Disaster (Illinois)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A Compelling Historical Account	\\"Trapped\\" is the latest in a recent glut of books about historical disasters.  The quality of these books depends largely on the storytelling ability of the author in question.  Fortunately, Karen Tintori, who has a familial connection to this particular disaster, is well up to the task.  She tells the harrowing tale of the 1909 Cherry (coal) Mine fire in central Illinois that ranks as the nation's third deadliest mine disaster.  Over 250 men died in the mine, and the death toll could have been much worse if not for the amazing heroism of some of the rescuers (eight of whom died in circumstances eerily reminiscent of the firefighters who perished on September 11th).<br />The disaster was the usual result of carelessness, bad luck and arrogant overconfidence.  When built, the Cherry Mine was thought to be fireproof, much like the Titanic was thought to be iceberg proof.  When the fire started, it wasn't taken seriously at first, indeed, the elevator operators continued to haul up coal for over an hour after the initial flames appeared.  By the time the danger became readilly apparent, it was too late for a majority of the miners.<br />Tintori adopts the correct tone for such a book, letting the words of the survivors speak for themselves whenever possible.  Her account of the twenty miners who spent several days trapped below ground and presumed dead before being rescued is particularly compelling, as are the verbatum words from a short journal written by a trapped miner who eventually suffocated.  Tintori may not quite have the narrative touch of say, Sebastian Junger or Jon Krakauer, but she is still quite good.<br />Overall, an excellent historical account of a very unfortunate trajedy.	2002-09-17
1411384:US	51809405	R1Y8Q794D9VOVT	007138037X	807992239	White Hurricane : A Great Lakes November Gale and America's Deadliest Maritime Disaster	Books	3	16	20	N	N	Informative but Repetitive	David G. Brown's &quot;White Hurricane&quot; is yet another in the recent flood of books depicting historical weather releated disasters.  Indeed, the 1913 storm of the book's title is so little remembered that I had never heard of it prior to reading the book, despite growing up in the Great Lakes region.  Brown obviously did a copius amount of research and does a fine job describing the history of Great Lakes shipping and demonstrating the risks that sailors face when the &quot;gales of November&quot; start howling.<br />The 1913 Great Lakes storm was unusual both for its intensity and because it raged over the lakes for almost a full week rather than just a couple of days.  As a result, it claimed a dozen ships and nearly 250 lives.  Dozens of other ships barely escaped and the first hand accounts of the sailors who survived the tempest make for chilling reading.<br />The book's main drawback, however, is that it lacks a single compelling central event as a focus for its narrative.  Brown gamely switches back and forth between accounts of each individual ship as the storm progresses.  Unfortunately, there are far too many ships and sailors for the reader to keep easy track of and eventually all the accounts begin to sound the same.  On the plus side, the book provides several helpful maps as well as a generous helping of photographs, mostly of the ships that were lost.<br />Overall, an informative if not highly readable account of a largely forgotten weather disaster.	2002-09-12
1412058:US	51809405	R3RDBU4Q3DCROT	0195135210	436402699	Crossroads of Freedom: Antietam (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	4	87	90	N	N	A Brief Overview of an Epic Battle	Don't buy James McPherson's &quot;Antietam&quot; expecting a detailed blow-by-blow account of the battle itself.  As he showed in his classic account of the entire Civil War, &quot;Battle Cry of Freedom,&quot; McPherson is more interested in the political, social and even diplomatic aspects of America's deadliest conflict.  The point of the book is to argue that Antietam, not Gettysburg, was the pivital battle of the war.  McPhereson makes his argument by describing the events that led up to the battle and demonstrating how it affected what came after.<br />Antietam, McPherson argues was the moment when the South came the closest to winning diplomatic recognition from the European powers and a resulting negotiated settlement that would have secured its independence.  The aftermath of the Union &quot;victory&quot; at Antitam also persuaded Abraham Lincoln to finally issue the Emancipation Proclamation, turning the war once and for all into a battle against slavery.<br />McPherson is a first rate writer and historian, and his book is well reasearched and highly readable.  What it is short on, however, is accounts of the actual fighting, which resulted in the single bloodiest day in American history (far worse than even Pearl Harbor or September 11th).  The narrative clocks in at a brief 155 pages, only about a third of which are devoted to the battle.  Yet the book is well worth reading despite this flaw.<br /><br />Overall, a brief historical overview of an epic moment in American history by one of our most distinguished historians.	2002-09-11
1412350:US	51809405	R76PLV5B7KTOZ	0792280105	877597761	Storm of the Century: The Labor Day Hurricane of 1935 (Adventure Press)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	The Politics of a Weather Disaster	Willie Drye's &quot;Storm of the Century&quot; treads in the same footsteps as Erik Larsen's classic &quot;Issac's Storm&quot; from a couple of years ago.  Both are historical and social accounts of deadly hurricanes the struck the United States and took a much larger toll on human life than they should have because of regrettable human mistakes.  Larsen's book told the tale of the Glaveston Hurricane of 1900 that was the deadliest in U.S. history.  Drye's account, meanwhile, is of the Labor Day storm of 1935 that struck the Florida Keys and is suspected of being the strongest hurricane to make landfall in U.S. history.<br />Drye does not content himself with merely retelling the story of the strom and the mayhem it caused.  Instead he focuses on the lives of the islanders, most particularly on an unfortunate group of World War I veterans left destitute by the Great Depression and hired to build the highway that would eventually connect Key West with the mainland.  A large number of the veterans were trapped on the low level island and drowned as a hapless rescue train sent to retrieve them was blown of the tracks.  Their story and that of the bureaucratic bungling that left them to their fate is the book's most compelling part.<br />On the downside, Drye lacks the deft storytelling touch that helped make &quot;Issac's Storm&quot; so memorable.  The book is a bit over long for its subject at over 300 pages, lengthened considerably by a deteailed account of the ultimately futile investigations of the officals responsible for the veteran's welfare.  This part is not as compelling and at times displays a political bias against Franklin Delano Roosevelt.<br />Overall, a decent historical account of a horrific weather releated disaster.	2002-09-11
1425264:US	51809405	RUKKVVFASS7AG	0671796666	127432424	The Jordan Rules	Books	5	34	36	N	N	First Rate Sports Journalism	With &quot;The Jordan Rules,&quot; Sam Smith proves why he is one of the very best sportswriters in America.  The book follows Jordan and the Bulls during their first championship season (1990-1991), before Jordan established himself as the most successful NBA player (in terms of championships) since Bill Russell.  What is largely forgotten today is that in his first six years in the NBA was thought of as a selfish ballplayer who would never win a championship because he was not a &quot;team player.&quot;  Enter coach Phil Jackson, who in his first year would manage to convince his star player that in order for his team to win the championship, he would need to rely more on his teammates.<br />Great sports books are usually the case of the right writer (Smith in this case) being in a position to cover the right story at just the right time (Jon Krakauer's &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; is another example).  That is certainly the case here.  As a sports reporter for The Chicago Tribune, Smith had plenty of access to the team during that first championship run, and he interviewed all of the principals extensively.  Fortunately, Smith pulls no punches.  The book's title refers to the preferential treatment afforded to Jordan that was a constant source of irritation to his teammmates.  Then-Bulls Center Bill Cartwright, for example, is memorably qoted as saying that Jordan is, &quot;Maybe the greatest athelete ever to play any sport...He's just not a basketball player.&quot;<br />Overall, &quot;The Jordan Rules&quot; is that rare sports book that transcends the particular sport it covers and can be enjoyed by any sports fan.	2002-08-29
1425796:US	51809405	RHX2DP3C7UKSD	1585745022	296527305	The Falcon and the Snowman: A True Story of Friendship and Espionage	Books	5	44	48	N	N	Stumbling Into High Treason	Of all the major spy stories to break open in the last thirty years, the case of John Boyce and Andrew Dalton Lee has to take the prize and the most troubling in its larger implications.  Other spies like Aldrich Ames or Robert Hanssen were disillusioned middle aged bureucrats whose spying was an outlet for their frustration as well as a source of additional income.  Boyce and Dalton, however, were young men who blundered into the spy game mostly because of boredom with their comfortable upper middle class upbringings.  Their betrayal of the country that allowed them to live such an easy life is as baffling, if not as horrific, as the later actions of the shooters at Columbine High School.<br />Those who enjoyed the popular movie starring Timothy Hutton and Sean Penn based on this book will particularly enjoy the details that the movie had to leave out.  Of the two, Boyce's story is the most tragic.  He was highly intellegent with a potentially bright future, and secured a position at defense contractor TRW with a Top Secret security clearance because of his retired FBI agent father's connections.  Lee, on the other hand, was a dropout and a drug dealer whose life was spiraling downward toward the inevitable bad conclusion.  One of the astonishing facts revealed in the book is just how many second chances Lee squandered along the way.  A child of less affluence would have ended up in prison long before he even had the chance to join Boyce in his spying.<br />Author/journalist Robert Lindsey is an excellent writer and he tells the story in such a way that it reads like a fiction thriller.  Lindsey reports astonishing facts such as the incredibly lax security at TRW without editorial comment, letting the events speak for themselves.  Lindsey's extensive interviews with all of the principals, including Boyce in particular, make for particularly compelling reading.<br />Overall, a well-written journalistic account of one of the most unfortunate of America's spy cases.	2002-08-29
1425899:US	51809405	RYL637RL61U9J	0812928318	569591838	Pumping Irony:: Working Out the Angst of a Lifetime	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Intermittantly Funny	Full disclosure: I am a HUGE Tony Kornheiser fan.  I listen to his daily radio sports talk show religiously and have always enjoyed his sports columns in The Washington Post.  Unfortunately, I was somewhat disappointed by &quot;Pumping Irony.&quot;  The book is a collection of columns Tony wrote for The Post's Sunday Style section, none of which have anything to do with sports.  As Tony demonstrates on his radio show, he is capable of being quite funny when discussing topics other than sports.  He is much funnier, however, when he is being spontaneous on his show.  When he labors over the material and reduces it to the printed page, it just doesn't come off as well.  As a result, the book reads like one of the many recent books by various stand up comedians.  Without their comic delivery and timing, the jokes just don't have the same effect.<br />Overall, &quot;Pumping Irony&quot; is not the best place to enjoy the engaging wit of Tony Kornheiser.	2002-08-29
1426540:US	51809405	R17TZPW4Z01W7D	0805069399	603366254	John Quincy Adams (The American Presidents Series)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	JQA - The Overview	John Quincy Adams is remembered today (if at all) as the first son to follow in his father's footsteps to the presidency.  Adams, or \\"JQA\\" as historian/author Robert Remini refers to him, had a brilliant diplomatic and political career--albiet under his father's long shadow--before becoming president in a disputed election (the other similarity he shares with the current occupant of The White House).  Among his other major accomplishments, Adams the second negotiated the end of the war of 1812 and as Secretary of State formulated the priciples that would later become known as The Monroe Doctrine.  Unfortunately, Admas's skills as a diplomat were of little help during his largely unsuccessful presidency, in which he was overshadowed from the beginning by the popular Andrew Jackson, who bitterly opposed almost every move he made.  The split between the two would revive America's two party system after over a decade of dormancy.<br />Remini documents all of the major events of JQA's life, from the \\"corrupt bargain\\" with Henry Clay that propelled Adams to the presidency to his unhappy personal life.  For all of his brilliance, Adams was a tormented man, brutalized emotionally by his domineering mother (the otherwise revered Abigail) as well as by his failure to secure the hand of the one true love of his life.  The equally overbearing upbringing he fostered upon his own sons resulted in tragedy for two of them.<br />The sense the reader gets from Remini's book is that JQA was one of the more fascinating and tragic figures ever to become president.  Unfortunately, at only a brief 155 pages of narrative the book only scratches the surface of the man.  Still, Remini is a first rate writer and historian, and his easily readable prose makes this a very accessible work of history.<br />Overall, a breezy historical account documenting the life of an often overlooked president.	2002-08-28
1432765:US	51809405	R2CPSKVDCX5ZTT	0446530883	353555561	Five Past Midnight in Bhopal: The Epic Story of the World's Deadliest Industrial Disaster	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Grisly Nonfiction Novel	\\"Five Past Midnight in Bhopal\\" documents the story of the famous disaster at the Union Carbide plant in India that killed between 16,000 and 30,000 people.  The reason the death toll is so variable is because most of the victims were among the very poorest in a country that has a staggering numbers of such people.  Whole familes were killed, leaving nobody behind to report their deaths.  Authors Dominic Lapierre and Javier Moro recount the disaster by using the technique of the non-fiction novel rather than reporting the events in a straight narrative.  There are no notes and no bibliography, just a 400 page narrative of the story from the inception of the plans to build the Union Carbide plant to the aftermath of the tragedy.<br />The authors build the story through interviews with the workers at the plant, survivors from the city and several Union Carbide employees.  The tale that emerges is one of an unfortunately preventable disaster that occurred because of misguided corporate decisions, the faultiest of which was probably the decision to build and run such a technologically complex and potentially dangerous facility in a third world country in the first place.  Union Carbide also suffered from a misreading of the Indian marketplace and ultimately from a horribly misguided cost cutting plan that decimated safety proceedures at the plant and directly led to the disaster.<br />Lapierre and Moro are excellent writers whose prose is compellingly readable, though a bit overly dramatic at times.  The style of the book is likely to put off some readers, who may be expecting more straightforward reporting.  I should also note that the book concludes with an appeal for donations to help the poverty stricken in India, further illustrating that it is not a work of journalism.  Nevertheless, this is an important story that deserves to retold as a cautionary note to both big business and to governments.<br />Overall, a gruesome story of man made disaster that most readers will likely find both moving and enraging.will likely find both moving and enraging.	2002-08-22
1433952:US	51809405	R23YHIY0L3GHMT	0066212677	467162807	Sailors to the End: The Deadly Fire on the USS Forrestal and the Heroes Who Fought It	Books	5	19	20	N	N	First Rate Military History	The tragic fire aboard the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Forrestal, which claimed the lives of 134 U.S. servicemen and horribly wounded many more, was very much overshadowed by The Vietnam War, which the ship was then fighting.  At a time when there were more casualties each week in the ground war and America's cities were erupting into racial and anti-war violence, the disaster quickly faded from the news.  Now, author Gergory A Freeman has done a terrific service to both the victims and survivors with his fair, well-balanced and highly readable account.<br />Give Freeman credit right off the bat for not attempting to cash in on the celebrity interest potential of then-navy pilot John McCain's narrow escape by unjustly playing up McCain's involvement.  In Freeman's story, McCain is just one more survivor, and one who made it out with only minor injuries.  The real story is one of a preventable trajedy, and Freeman does not shy away from the laying the blame for the disaster where it belongs, on the political leadership of the time and on the navy bureaucracy.<br />Freeman's account of the fire itself and resulting ordinance explosions as seen through the eyes of the survivors is absolute riveting.  He strikes just the right tone, relaying the horrible events without sensationalizing them.  The book's title come from a particularly poignant moment in which three trapped sailors uncomplainingly performed a final vital duty for their shipmates even as they knew they were about to die.  Theirs is just one of the many incredible stories that Freeman has unearthed.<br />Overall, \\"Sailors to the End\\" is an expertly written work of military history that should appeal to both military buffs as well as to general readers.	2002-08-21
1438130:US	51809405	R1IE33F940RQ3W	0805067809	325756372	Firestorm at Peshtigo: A Town, Its People, and the Deadliest Fire in American History	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The "Other" Great Fire of 1871	The massive Tornado-whipped fire that engulfed the town of Preshtigo, Wisconsin, on October 8, 1871, was one of the deadliest natural disasters in American history, consuming perhaps as many as 2500 lives. And yet it is little remembered today because it occurred at the exact same time as another inferno was consuming the city of Chicago. While the Chicago fire may have wrought more impressive physical destruction, by comparison it was only one-tenth as deadly.<br />Authors Denise Gess and Willaim Lutz now recreate the history of the Preshtigo Fire for modern readers. They set the backdrop by telling a bit about the town before the fire and the people who inhabit it. Then they give accounts of the blaze through the eyes of those few who managed to survive. The descriptions of the blaze and particularly of its aftermath are unrelentingly gruesome and haunting. Gess and Lutz are fine writers. The book is well researched and highly readable. My only quibble is that at just over 220 pages of text it is a tad slight for a work of history.<br />Overall, \\"Firestorm at Preshtigo\\" is a haunting true life tale that should be of much appeal to history and disaster buffs.	2002-08-17
1438140:US	51809405	R3SV0Z6R5YIKNH	0375420975	449634161	Peanuts: The Art of Charles M. Schulz	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Coffee Table Book for Peanuts Fans	...featuring luscious graphics and design layouts, \\"The Art of Charles Schultz\\" is definately aimed at those who are already big fans of his work.  This is not a standard collection of comic strips.  Instead, there is commentary about the development of the strip and Schultz's devlopment as an artist.  The first 50 or so pages contain samplings of his pre-Peanuts work, which is fascinating for how it shows the development of his ideas.  Next the book provides a real service by providing a generous helping of the early Peanuts strips (circa 1950-54), many of which have never appeared in book form.  The characters look radically different and their personalities were just starting to settle in.  Charlie Brown was a bit of a dandy instead of always being a loser, Lucy was sort of an airhead and Snoopy didn't \\"talk\\" yet.<br />The book has a genrous helping of photographs of Schultz, his staff and of various Peanuts memorabilia.  The Sunday strips are rendered in glorious full color and there also rough drafts of strips that give an idea of how the creative process works.  The book's only drawback is that it is oddly laid out, with some strips cut in half at page breaks and other pages featuring minaturized strips, apparently to save page space.  Nevertheless, this book is of high enough quality that it will look good on any Peanut fan's coffee table.	2002-08-17
1438662:US	51809405	R6UJUSWCQ84BO	0802713645	547236598	A Thread Across the Ocean: The Heroic Story of the Transatlantic Cable	Books	4	29	30	N	N	A Breezy Historical Account	At a brief 215 pages of double-spaced narrative, &quot;A Thread Across the Ocean&quot; as a book stands in sharp contracst to the Herculean feat it resurrects for modern readers.  We have come to take instant communications so much for granted that we tend to forget that prior to a mere century-and-a-half ago, it took news many weeks to cross the world's great oceans.  Though dwarfed in memory by such other mammoth engineering feats such as the Panama Canal and the Brooklyn Bridge, the laying of the first Trans-Atlantic cable in 1866 was every bit important in the delvelopment of the modern world, if not more so.<br />Author John Steele Gordon tells the tale with easily readable prose and superb storytelling.  Along the way, he enhances the historical memory of Cyrus Field, the visionary entreprenuer whose single-minded devotion to the project kept it going despit many setbacks.  Field's project was the perfect marriage of private and public enterprize in an effort that greatly bennefitted both.  Field's story is as interesting as that of the cable itself.<br />The one main drawback to the book is that its brevity doesn't seem befitting of its subject matter, even more so since Gordon throws in a number of anecdotes that are sidelights to the main story.  He commits a major factual error with one of the side stories, stating inaccurately that General Zachary Taylor led the American Army to Mexico City during the Mexican War when in fact it was General Winfield Scott who accomplished that task.<br />Overall, despite a few flaws, &quot;A Thread Across the Ocean&quot; is a worthwhile read that will be of primary interest to history buffs.	2002-08-17
1443268:US	51809405	R2POT0L9MW4FWO	0393051412	289223922	The Reckoning: Iraq and the Legacy of Saddam Hussein	Books	4	27	30	N	N	A Good Historical Overview	The subtitle of \\"The Reckoning\\" is somewhat misleading, billing itself as being about \\"Iraq and the Legacy of Saddam Hussein,\\" when nearly half of the book's length is devoted to Iraq's history BEFORE \\"The Butcher of Baghdad\\" came to power.  Nevertheless, it still works quite well as a one volume overview and comes at a very critical time in which the U.S. is again considering military action against the country.  It also chillingly portrays the trajedy that has befallen this turbulent country because of its unfortunate history and outlaw leadership.<br />The book mostly consists of historical accounts drawn from other sources.  Author Sandra Mackey did in fact visit Iraq while researching it, but she was very limited in where she could go or who she could talk to.  Her first person accounts of Saddam's totalitarian society are brief, but chilling in their implications.  Mackey uses them as a backdrop for her straightforward account of Iraqi history from Mesopitamina times until the present.  The story is a tragic one, of course, made even more so by the fact that the country enjoyed a brief period of prosperity before Saddam plunged it into the nightmares of the Iran/Iraq war, the Gulf War and internal genocides against the Shia and Kurd populations.<br />Mackey is a very good writer, and for the most part her prose is crisp and readable.  On the downside, she repeats herself a bit too much, and at nearly 400 pages the narrative lags a little at times.  Nevertheless, Mackey has provided a valuable service by giving Americans (and other Westerners) the chance to catch up on a subject that seems about to rivet the wrold's attention once again.  For that, I give it an enthusiastic recommendation.	2002-08-13
1448905:US	51809405	R3DVWGJLMU2VAS	0375508244	739781436	Shark Trouble	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Don't Get Bitten by &quot;Shark Trouble&quot;	Peter Benchley's &quot;Shark Trouble&quot; is a pretty flimsy non-fiction book.  The author of &quot;Jaws,&quot; who became a hugely successful by using a shark to scare the wits out of people, now comes down on the side of sharks by trying to convince people of their admirable traits.  This is a noble gesture on Mr. Benchley's part, but it is delivered in such a half-hearted manner that he shouldn't have bothered.<br />The book contains very little actual reporting.  Instead, Benchley mostly realtes his own experiences with sharks and other dangerous sea faring critters.  He provides the reader with VERY little scientific information about sharks.  More surprisingly, he relates almost no third person shark stories, other than those told to him by his by mysterious &quot;friends&quot; (who he seldom names).  Instead, there is a chapter on ocean swimming safety, several in which Benchley lists (ad nauseam) every type of Marine life that is potentially harmful to humans, some &quot;Jaws&quot; anecdotes and a bizarre short fiction piece about what would happen if every shark on the planet were to be killed (say what???).<br />Given that the book is only 186 double-spaced pages to begin with, anyone with a real intrest in sharks will be sorely disappointed by the lack of real information provided.  Needless to say, Benchley's lightweight effort was huge disappointment.	2002-08-07
1449207:US	51809405	R6UEE6X8HI80X	0684856344	702952694	A World Turned Over : A Killer Tornado and the Lives It Changed Forever	Books	1	12	19	N	N	A Literary Disaster	Warning: If you are looking for a good disaster story with a straightforward narrative account, then steer well clear of &quot;A World Turned Over.&quot;  The cardinal rule in such books is that the author should stand aside and allow the horrific events and the accounts of the survivors speak for themselves, maybe providing a little commentary along the way.  Unfortunately, this tragic tale of a killer tornado is conveyed with so much overloaded flowery literary prose as to render it virtually unreadable.  For example, here is a direct quote from page 70 describing the tornado: &quot;Cruel and without conscience, calculated in its killing, the wolf at the door was deadlier than the red-haired boy could ever have known.  The world rolled onto its side, the ground was pulled into the sky, the prayers for mercy given up were given back, and up into the dark column rose our sense of place and those who had made it so...&quot;<br />If passages like the above were lightly scattered throughout the book, it would be one thing.  But they appear repeatedly on just about every page.  Given that the victims of the tornado were, for the most part ordinary small town folk, the literary pretentions of the book seem even more inappropriate.  Author Lorian Hemingway had a close personal connection to the disaster, having moved from Jackson, Mississippi, as a teenager only a few months before it happened.  She knew most of the victims personally.  Nevertheless, I can't imagine that anyone who does not have a personal connection to the disaster will be able to make it to the end of this book.	2002-08-07
1452921:US	51809405	R1NP0TTAFZGDQJ	0312276699	374132639	War Without End: Israelis, Palestinians, and the Struggle for a Promised Land	Books	4	23	25	N	N	An Excellent Historical Recap	Journalist Anton La Guardia spent most of the 1990s in Israel as a reporter, much like Thomas Friedman spent most of the 1980s in the Middle East before writing his masterpiece &quot;From Beruit to Jerusalem.&quot;  There are important similarities and differences between the two books.  Whereas Friedman's book examined the broader perspective of Middle East politics, &quot;War Without End&quot; is concerned exclusively with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  Addtionally, while Firedman's book used history as a backdrop for a telling of his own experiences, La Guardia's book concentrates on historical writing punctuated only occasionally by his first person accounts.<br />That said, La Guardia has produced an excellent one volume history of the conflict.  He sets the stage by explianing the origins of Zionism and of the European anti-Semetism that caused it to gain force.  He then gives an overview the history of the Ottoman and British rule over Palestine, the 1948 UN Mandate and Israeli War for Independence, and the subsequent Arab-Israeli conflicts.  After this, the rest of the book is devoted to the many conflicts between the Israelis and the Palenstinians as well as the internal conflicts between various factions within Israel and of the ineptitude of the PLO leadership.  La Guardia gives a balanced account, and is critical of the excesses and mistakes committed by both parties.<br />One comes away from the book with a clearer understanding of recent conflict.  Though chronologically disjointed, the narrative covers events all the way up until early 2002.  The odd structuring of the book is most likely due to the numerous rewrites La Guardia admits in the preface to doing as events continued to unfold.  His most valuable service is that, like with Friedman's book, he cuts through the ideological and religious issues to give readers a relatively clear picture of just what lies behind the world's most intractable conflict.<br />Overall, a well written and readable book that works a tad better as a work of history than as a work of journalism.ble book that works a tad better as a work of history than as a work of journalism.	2002-08-04
1452943:US	51809405	RXWVJ38JJTIKZ	0385413726	244095611	From Beirut to Jerusalem	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Vital to an Understanding of the Region	Thomas Friedman spent the decade of the 1980s in the Middle East (hence the title of the book) as a foreign correspondent for the New York Times.  That he was able to survive as a Jew living in Lebanon during the height of the mid-80s kidnapping craze there is remarkable in and of itself.  \\"From Beruit to Jerusalem\\" is Friedman's account of his time in both capitals, one for which he justifiably won the Pulitzer prize.  Despite that somewhat limiting title, Friedman's focus is on the entire region as the key flashpoint in the modern world.<br />What makes the book so compelling is the way the Friedman uses history to paint the backdrop for his story.  He goes beyond a mere reporting of the facts and scratches behind the surface to the underlying reasons for the Middle East's many conflicts.  Friedman's reportage on Syrian president Assad's massacre of his own people in the city of Hama, for example, is used to explain how power politics reigns supreme among the unelected rulers of the Arab world, to the continuing detriment of their people.  On the flip side, Friedman is openly critical of Israel, particularly for the 1982 invasion of Lebanon and how the country responded to the first Palestinian uprising in the late 1980s.  Friedman's even handedness makes his work that much more valuable.<br />Though his observations are now more than a decade old, there are plenty of lessons here that remain valid today.  Though Lebanon has for the most part settled down since then, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is more dangerous than ever, especially in the wake of increased terrorist activity after September 11th.<br />Overall, a first rate work of journalism and history that is one the most important books released on the Middle East in the past twenty years.	2002-08-04
1453591:US	51809405	R12A9MG3N2T4PB	0688132200	845163030	Theodore Roosevelt: A Life	Books	4	14	16	N	N	TR - The Overview	Author Nathan Miller faces some stiff competition with his Theodore Roosevelt biography.  Edmund Morris won the Pulitzer prize with \\"The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt\\" and one of mega popular historian David McCullough's best loved books is \\"Mornings on Horseback.\\"  Additionally, Miller faces the fundamental problem that TR was really too complex a figure to be given his just due in a single volume.  The man himself was larger than life, and his biographies ought to be as well.<br />Nevertheless, Miller gives it his best shot.  His prose is very readable and he briskly covers each event in Roosevelt's busy life with aminimum of opinionating.  Those looking for a thorough examination of TR's presidency will be better off with Morris's recent \\"Theodore Rex,\\" as the two terms combined account for only about 140 of the 560 pages of narrative.  Roosevelt's post-presidential years get even less coverage, a mere 70 pages, despite the fact that he continued to be a major player on the American political scene for another decade.  These factors illustrate just how difficult was Miller's one volume task.<br />Overall, \\"Theodore Roosevelt: A Life\\" is a good bare bones introduction to one of America's most fascinating historical figures.	2002-08-03
1460080:US	51809405	RJJJ7BYI5VIUM	0385488181	262510817	Eiger Dreams: Ventures Among Men and Mountains	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Excellent Collection of Stories	\\"Eiger Dreams\\" is a compelling collection of twelve stories by mountaineering writer Jon Krakauer.  Included are several first person accounts of his own adventures, including his life-defining attempt to climb the Devil's Thimb in Alaska as a young man and his later failed attempt to scale the Eiger face.  Krakauer also failed in his attempt to climb Mount McKinley, but manages to say more with one of his defeats than other climbers do with their success.<br />Krakauer also proves himself to be a first rate reporter with his accounts of other mountaineering stories.  Particularly good is his tale of John Gill, the man who practically invented \\"bouldering.\\"  Krakauer goes on to describe waterfall climbing, canyoneering and the horrors of being tent bound with his deft narrative touch.  At 186 pages, and featuring his easily readable prose, the book is a delightful experience for those who like good adventure stories of the kind featured in Outside Magazine.	2002-07-28
1460120:US	51809405	R2TB6DAIZXOW98	0792270142	14766088	Everest : Mountain Without Mercy	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Beautiful Pictures, Deadly Story	This book is an excellent companion piece to Jon Krakauer's epic Everest tale \\"Into Thin Air\\" as well as the Everest IMAX film that was being shot at the time that the May 1996 trajedy occurred.  The book is coffee table size, and full of spectacular photographs of the mountain, mostly taken by the IMAX team.  The narrative that accompanies the images documents what happened during that terrible month, from the horrific deaths to climber David Breashears's team's successful summitting of the mountain with IMAX camera in tow.  The words read like a National Geographic article, however, giving only an overview of the events that occurred.  Krakauer's book is essential for a complete understanding of what happened.<br />Overall, a fine coffee table book for those with an interest in mountaineering as well as those fascinated by the May 1996 disaster.	2002-07-28
1460233:US	51809405	R3V5O171JHJUZX	038000321X	399926886	Alive: The Story of the Andes Survivors	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Grisly Survival Tale	By now, the story of \\"Alive\\" is well known.  A plane carrying a group of Uruguayan rugby players crashed in the high Andes, leaving the survivors stranded for over two grueling months.  They resort to cannibalizing those who were killed in the crash in order to survive.  Eventually, several of the young men embarked on a desperate effort to reach civilization, succeeding just in time for the remaining survivors to be successfully rescued.<br />It's a horrific tale, and one that is very well told by author Piers Paul Read.  To his credit, Read avoids ...sensationalism.  He lets the words and actions of the survivors speak for themselves.  What ultimately emerges is a testament both to the survival instincts of the players and to their very humanity despite what they were forced to do.  The descriptions of the trek out of the mountains is so well described that it reads like a fiction thriller.<br />Overall, a well written and compassionate book that stands as a tribute both to the survivors and to those who died.	2002-07-28
1460544:US	51809405	R1FJK951CR3TDR	0375409009	105731385	Masters of Death: The SS-Einsatzgruppen and the Invention of the Holocaust	Books	5	122	130	N	N	The Horror	Warning: Richard Rhodes's \\"Masters of Death\\" is one of the most horrific books you're ever likely to read.  It details very completely the history of the roving death squads who followed Adolf Hitler's armies into the conquered territories of the Soviet Union and unleashed the opening salvos of what would later become known as The Holocaust.  Many people today think of The Holocaust in terms of Auschwitz and the other death camps.  What tends to be forgotten is that the Eisatzgruppen units that started the mass killings of Jews racked up a death toll at least as high as those of the camps.  And in most instances, the murders by these minions were even less humane, if that's possible.<br />Rhodes, a fine writer and first rate historian, pulls no punches.  Wherever possible, he uses the first hand accounts of both the survivors and the perpetrators to tell his gruesome story.  The ghastly pictures that accompany the book only begin to hint and the true horror of the events described.  Along the way, Rhodes explores the psychology of the murderers, particularly that of both Hitler and of Reichsfuhrer SS Heinrich Himmler, the man who allowed his whole personality to be subjugated to the Fuhrer.  Rhodes also provides enough of the history and ideology of Nazi Germany to set the proper context.<br />At just under three hundred pages of text, the book makes its point concisely.  Lest the reader think that what happened has been confined to the dustbin of history, Rhodes points out that Einsatzgruppen methods were recently resurrected by the death squads in the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s.<br />Overall, an incredibly powerful and important book that serves as a grim reminder of the darker side of human nature.	2002-07-28
1460603:US	51809405	R3OMB4K1Q4X9PK	0679457526	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mount Everest Disaster	Books	5	392	420	N	N	A Classic Tale	I first read &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; right after it was first published five years ago.  It haunted me at the time, and it continues to do so today.  By now, the story has been told so many times and by so many different people that it hard to remember that Krakauer's original account is the one that made it famous to begin with.  Were it not for his incredible abilities as a storyteller, it is doubtful that anyone outside the world of mountaineering would remember what happened at the peak of Everest in that fateful May of 1996.<br />Krakauer's account is so compelling because it reads like a book length confession, which it is in a sense.  The author worked through his very considerable feelings of survivor's guilt in the book's pages.  His descriptions and not inconsiderable opinions have become legendary.  For example, how many people read of AOL Chairman Robert Pittman's recent outster from the company and remembered him as the husband of Sandra Hill Pittman, who personified the rich amature climber who buys their way to the top of the world's tallest peak and who has no business being there?  Krakauer's descriptions of Mrs. Pittman on the mountain are an example of his simple but devastating observations.<br />Krakauer's highly readable prose make the book read like fiction, probably another reason why it was so popular.  He signed on for the Everest climb intending to write a standard mountaineering magazine article.  That he chose the fateful May 1996 climb is simply a rare case of someone being at the wrong place at precisely the right time.  Though it caused him plenty of personal torment, it also allowed him to write a story for the ages.<br />Overall, &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; fantastic storytelling make it one of the best non-fiction books published in the last decade or so.	2002-07-28
1462546:US	51809405	R1V9YFFOVL6FMK	0385501161	956263277	Until the Sea Shall Free Them: Life, Death, And Survival In The Merchant Marine	Books	4	7	8	N	N	First Rate Investigative Reporting	&quot;Until the Sea Shall Free Them&quot; is another in the recent glut of books about nautical disasters that takes the genre one step further by documentating the legal aftermath that resulted in a substantial improvement in maritime safety.  Author Robert Frump was the leader of the investigative reporting team from the Philadelphia Enquirer that pursued the larger story behind the February 1983 sinking of the merchant marine vessel Marine Electric.  What they found was a civilian service plagued by reliance on ancient rustbucket ships, adherence to the corporate bottom line at the expense of safety, and an inspection system beholden to ship owners that ignored these problems.<br />The first third of the narrative deals with the sinking of the Marine Electric and the harrowing rescue effort that managed to save only three of the 37 crew members.  Most of the remaining two-thirds of the book documents the legal wrangling, political manuvering and Enquirer media pressure that ultimately led to reforms in the system.  Several heros emerge along the way, including survivor Bob Cusuik, who risked his career to tell the truth, and Coast Guard Officer Dom Calicchio, who bucked the military bureaucracy to his own detriment.  Additionally, the author documents his and his colleague's role without overstating it.  He also includes tales of other nautical disasters to serve as a backdrop to the main narrative.  The story might lack the concise punch of a book like &quot;The Perfect Storm,&quot; but it is still highly readable.<br />Overall, this is an excellent true nautical disaster tale that will be enjoyed by anyone who enjoys such stories.	2002-07-26
1466092:US	51809405	R2C2LCRDW8D5P	0195151747	846543535	Six Days of War: June 1967 and the Making of the Modern Middle East	Books	4	16	22	N	N	Well Researched, but a Bit Dry	Michael B. Oren bends over backward in &quot;Six Days of War&quot; to be an unbiased and objective reporter.  He succeeds in the attempt, though perhaps a bit too well.  His book is well researched and very balanced, showing the good and bad of both sides in what is the most important military engagement since World War Two (at least in terms of its lasting repercussions).  Oren meticuously documents the factors that led up to the war, paints portraits of the major political and military figures, and then lays out a day by day account of the battles.<br />The book's one drawback is that it is a bit dry at times.  Perhaps because Oren was being so careful to avoid anything that could be remotely interpreted as opinion, his writing lacks the narrative force that has marked the best works of recent historical writing.  Nevertheless, he has produced a very thorough account that covers all aspects of the war.  In light of recent developments in the Middle East, understanding what happened that fateful June more than 35 years ago has taken on even more importancance.<br />Overall, a thorough and complete history of the six day war that will appeal most strongly to military and Middle East history buffs.	2002-07-23
1467206:US	51809405	RXQNGKYVFFW36	0375507469	155280014	Cicero: The Life and Times of Rome's Greatest Politician	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Outstanding Historical Biography	Anthony Everitt's \\"Cicero\\" is a biography of a figure from antiquity that reads as if it was written about a 20th Century American President.  That's because a large amount of the great Roman orator's correspondence luckily has survived the 2000 plus years since his death.  Cicero was a great tragic figure, a conservative and a republican (small \\"r\\") fated to live in a time of great turmoil that resulted in the death of the Roman republic (and his own).  In the end, his philisophical writings helped crystalize Western thought and still affects academics and statesmen to this day.  All of this from a man who held the highest Roman Reublic office (that of Consul) for only one year and had little military experience in a time when great generals were both feared and revered.<br />Everitt tells Cicero's story in a superbly readable narrative style that marks the best history writing these days.  He explores his subject's political career and personal life while deftly setting the backdrop of the times in which he was a chief actor.  Everitt pays particular attention to Cicero's stormy life long relationship with Julius Ceasar, that archenemy of republicanism who nevertheless had a soft spot for the cantakerous philosopher.  Ceasar's assassination is the crucial event upon which Everitt's narrative pivots.<br />Overall, \\"Cicero\\" is an outstanding work of biography that will be greatly enjoyed by history buffs and even by more casual readers.	2002-07-22
1473492:US	51809405	R31I8V8TNZZM1N	0071377956	401462696	After the Storm : True Stories of Disaster and Recovery at Sea	Books	3	14	15	N	N	The Literary Side of Nautical Disaster	Be forewarned if you purchase \\"After the Storm\\" expecting it to be another in the recent spate of books recounting tales of nautical disasters. It does focus on ten seperate instances of seaborne mayhem dating from the 1820s to the 1990s. But instead of including straightforward narrative accounts, author John Rousmaniere is more concerned with the literary and spiritual aspects of such events. The common thread that runs through these tales is that for the most part they all either affected or were commented upon by notable literary personalites, from Mary Shelley to Robert Louis Stevenson to Joseph Conrad and others. So much so that the accounts of the disasters themselves take a back seat to describing their social, psychological, religious and even political effects.<br />All in all there is nothing necessarily wrong with Rousmaniere's approach, except that its appeal will be limited to the interest that the reader has in the exteraneous subject matter. Unfortunately, the book's subtitle, \\"True Stories of Disaster and Recovery at Sea,\\" leads one to believe that it is a collection of adventure tales, which is really not the case.<br />Overall, I would recommend that potential readers closely scrutinize the summaries of this book's subject matter to determine if it will appeal to them.	2002-07-16
1476642:US	51809405	RR5DYJC1AETKW	0786865334	22123758	The Pirate Hunter: The True Story of Captain Kidd	Books	4	43	46	N	N	The "Hunter" Becomes the Hunted	Richard Zacks's \\"The Pirate Hunter\\" is a lively adventure tale with the kind of twists and turns that prove the old adage that truth is, indeed, stranger than fiction.  Along the way, he sets the record straight and rehabilitates the reputation of Captain William Kidd, the late 17th Century privateer and gentlemen who set out to hunt pirates with noble backing and ended up branded as one.  Kidd is a tragic hero of the first order.  Honorable (at least, by the standards of the time), resolute and with an unshakeable faith in his own abilities, he was laid low by an incredible run of double crosses and sheer bad luck.  Particularly touching were his devotion to his wife and his strong sense of duty, neither of which were ultimately enough to save him.<br />The book's other main character is the despicable Robert Culliford, an actual pirate who betrayed Kidd twice and whose fate was tied closely to the Captain.  Culliford's villany stands in sharp contrast to Kidd, giving the story a strong counterpoint.<br />Along the way Zacks, who demonstrates himself to be a meticulous researcher, paints a vivid portrait of the lives of sailors and pirates during the period.  Zacks's authentic descriptions of what it was like to be a real life pirate bears little resemblence to the modern literary and cinematic stereotypes.  His prose is vivid and highly readable, and the book feels more like a novel than a work of history as a result.  My only quibble is the Zacks occasionally gets a little TOO bogged down in the details, as evidenced by the narrative's 400 plus pages.<br />Nevertheless, overall \\"The Pirate Hunter\\" is an excellent read for those who enjoy nautical history tales.	2002-07-13
1485248:US	51809405	R3SD7TIOI061LE	1559706082	749832144	Imperial Legend: The Disappearance of Czar Alexander I	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Disappearing Tsar	Author Alexis Troubetzkoy's \\"Imperial Legened\\" explores the possibility that Russian Tsar Alexander I faked his own death in 1825 in order to shed the burden of the crown after twenty-five years of rule.  There is plenty of evidence suggesting that this is more than historical speculation, even though all of it is circumstantial.  The first half of the book is dedicated to a retelling of Alexander's reign, which featured spectacular successes (the defeat of Napolean) and personal torment (guilt over his own complicity in his father's murder).  The picture that emerges is of a (relatively) enlightened Russian monarch who would very much have preferred not to be the king.<br />The book goes on to recount the life of the mysterious Siberian vagabond that many Russians, including descendents of the Romanov dynasty, have come to believe WAS Alexander.  If so, he shed the Imperial life about as completely as anyone ever could.  Once again, the evidence is far from conclusive, but still compelling.  Troubetzkoy is a good storyteller, and his narrative is highly readable.<br />Overall, \\"Imperial Legend\\" is a good historical mystery that should be enjoyed by history buffs with an interest in Imperial Russia.	2002-07-06
1485840:US	51809405	R94NXGLAPOSCV	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	5	4	5	N	N	TR Comes Alive	Edmund Morris's \\"Theodore Rex\\" is a lively, spectacularly well written biography that is every bit as good as David McCullough's \\"John Adams\\" from a year ago. Granted, TR was such a fascinating figure that it would be hard to write an uninteresting account of his life, but through his clever use of anecdotes, Morris paints a lasting picture of the man who was (arguably) the greatest peacetime President in American history.<br />\\"Theodore Rex\\" picks up where Morris's first volume about TR (\\"The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt) left off, and we join \\"Teddy\\" as he is preparing to take the oath of office upon the death of his predecessor, William McKinley. In 555 pages, The book neatly covers the seven and a half years of TR's rule, ending on March 4, 1909, as he watches his reluctant handpicked successor, Willam Howard Taft, take the oath. In between, Morris describes one of America's most dynamic and eventful administrations. Morris aptly describes TR's genius as well as his faults. His triumphs and failures get equal treatment and examination. Thoughout, Morris's prose is lively and highly readable.<br />Overall, \\"Theodore Rex\\" is certain to rank among the best works of history this year and will also take its place as one of the best Presidential biographies ever written.	2002-07-06
1492939:US	51809405	R34HU6IF3P8YZZ	1885408765	895595530	The Darwin Awards II: Unnatural Selection	Books	1	15	22	N	N	Save Your Money	I was a HUGE fan of the so-called Darwin awards when they were circulating around on the Internet.  I love the notion of morons offing themselves through their own stupidity.  Now that someone has decided to cash in by putting them in book form, they have unfortunately lost their charm.  Problem number one is that in order to pad the material for now two full volumes, lots of stuff has been put in that doesn't belong.  Many of these so-called \\"winners\\" don't deserve Darwins because either 1). they didn't die or 2). the story itself is either unverified or an actual urban legend.  The author also throws in a lot of stupid criminal anecdotes, which also don't deserve Darwins and are the same exact stories that have previous appeared in things like News of the Weird.<br />The other comment I would make is that the Darwin Awards were written up to much funnier effect when they were being posted anonymously on the Internet.  Author Wendy Northcutt has actually managed to, uh, drain the life right out of them with her unfunny prose.<br />Overall, get 'em from the 'net and don't waste your money.	2002-06-29
1493282:US	51809405	R1K7DV3DBXJ8AQ	0385503938	17381091	The Road to Verdun: World War I's Most Momentous Battle and the Folly of Nationalism	Books	2	11	19	N	N	Dense and Plodding	It is a shame that author Ian Ousby died before completing &quot;The Road to Verdun.&quot;  If he had lived to see the project all the way through, he might have shaped it into something more readable.  Certainly, Ousby was a diligent researcher and a very astute historian.  Unfortunately, the book's plodding prose and strange configuration (for example, a 58 page prologue!) have mangaged to drain all but the most scholarly interest from the famous World War I &quot;battle&quot; in which there were more than 700,000 casualties.  Great works of history, particularly military history, make the past come alive in such a way that expands interest in the subject matter well beyond the academic world.  Ultimately, &quot;The Road to Verdun&quot; doesn't come close to doing that.	2002-06-29
1497931:US	51809405	R3JXDSGC9ZQPFG	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	3	33	68	N	N	Disgusting and Depraved	No, the title of my review is not a value judgement.  It is, in fact, an accurate reflection of the contents of Bret Easton Ellis's \\"American Psycho.\\"  It is more disturbing to read than the movie \\"Henry; Portrait of a Serial Killer\\" is to watch, perhaps because no film could possibly accurately portray the ugly horror of some of the book's more graphic passages (I haven't seen the movie version of this book, but I can't imagine that it wasn't CONSIDERABLY watered down).<br />The book is written in a rambling first person (emphasis on the \\"rambling.\\"  For example, one paragraph goes on for an excrutiating FIVE pages).  We see the action through the eyes of Patrick Bateman, who is a high living Wall Street investment banker (I guess, Bateman never really says what it is exactly that he does).  He and his utterly vapid friends spend most of their time in trendy restaurants and clubs having endless discussions about such completely inane topics as tabloid TV shows, proper men's attire and the best brands of bottled water.  Meanwhile, in his spare time Batemen kills people, especially women.  The scenes of him sexually torturing some of his victims before killing them are particularly hard to take.  In between it all you get odd bits like lengthy reviews of Genesis, Whitney Houston and Huey Lewis and the News that read like they were written by an actual music critic.<br />I guess the whole thing was meant to be taken tongue and cheek, but the story lacks any narrative force and at 400 pages reads like a Unabomber manifesto.  It is most definately NOT for the squeamish, and though I admire Easton's gifted talent in writing it, I can't imagine what compelled him to do so.	2002-06-25
1498523:US	51809405	R39X2IJQIE4ASQ	0679427724	555570204	Shakey: Neil Young's Biography	Books	4	67	76	N	N	A Whole Lot of &quot;Shakey&quot; Goin' On	I'm a huge Neil Young fan, with over two dozen of his albums in my collection.  But I'm not a fanatic, and as a result I found his biography, &quot;Shakey&quot; to be as stimulating, but as frustratingly erratic as the artist himself.  One thing Neil Young could never be accused of is self-censorship, and author Jimmy McDonough writes about him in the same vein, telling in nearly 800 pages a stoory that could have been more succinctly and powerfully conveyed in about half that number.  McDonough spent over ten years working on the book, however, and I guess he felt that his huge investment of time justifies the book's length.<br />The book is a rambling narrative of Young's life, mainly as seen through the eyes of his closest associates, but is told in the Hunter S. Thompson &quot;gonzo&quot; style of journalism as McDonough frequently inserts himself into the story.  There is nothing necessarily wrong with this approach, in may have in fact been necessary, but it ends up padding the length.  The main story is interspersed with a hundred or so pages of text from McDonough's various interviews with Young in which the artist is quoted verbaitim.  It is a fascinating and unprecedented look into Young's mind, but again it starts to become wearing after awhile.  Lengthy passages about such relatively uninteresting subjects as Young's passion for model trains slow things down even further.<br />Ultimately, &quot;Shakey&quot; is likely to be endured only by Young's most ardent fans and will not win the artist any new converts.  But I get the feeling that Young would prefer it that way.  As McDonough recounts, the quickest way to get Young to drop a song from an album is to tell him its going to be a surefire hit.  He is that rare rock star who actually eschews popularity.  Young remains a startlingly original talent after nearly four decades in the recording busines and for all of its flaws, &quot;Shakey&quot; manages to capture his essence.	2002-06-25
1511987:US	51809405	R1FD417MDXAFWD	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	3	4	N	N	First Rate Military History	Cheers to author Mark Bowden.  Thanks to his incredibly dedicated research and excellent storytelling ability, he was able to  resurrect the quickly fading memory of America's military &quot;debacle&quot; in Somalia and give the troops who fought (and died) there their proper due.  For the most part, Bowden doesn't get bogged down with the details of WHY the U.N. and American troops were in Somlaia in the first place (though he does give enough of an overview to set the proper context), nor does he go in depth  into how Somalia descended into lawlessness.  Bowden's story is of the soldiers, and it is a story he tells as well as any combat chronicler has ever done.<br />Bowden focusses on the soldiers of Delta Force and of the U.S. Army Rangers who on October 3, 1993, were sent on a daylight mission ointo the section of Mogadishu controlled by Warlord Mohamed Aidid two apprehend two of Aided's top lieutenants.  Despite popular perceptions (fueled by the media) that the mission was a disaster, it was actually a tactical success.  The force captured its targets and at the same time inflicted tremendous casualties (many times their own) on Aided's forces.  Unfortunately, the political leadership in the U.S. and the American media focussed intead on the two downed Blackhawk helicopters and the deaths of 18 soldiers.  What was overlooked was the fact that the American casualties were among America's most elite fighters who had all volunteered to join the units they were in with the expectation that they would someday get tested in real combat.  Bowden drives this point home relentlessly.<br />The battle scens in the book are incredibly detailed and told from every point of view (even that of the Somalis, some of whom Bowden interviewed).  Bowden is also scrupulously fair, letting the participants speak for themselves and not censoring them when they criticize each other.  The book's most valuable portion, however, is the epiloge, where Bowden reports the soldiers' biggest disappointment was that right after the battle,  President Clinton, pushed by Congress, decided to get out of Somalia and leave Aidid in place.  In other words, they had fought the battle in vain.<br />Overall, &quot;Black Hawk Down&quot; is one of the best military history books written in the past decade or so.disappointment was that right after the battle,  President Clinton, pushed by Congress, decided to get out of Somalia and leave Aidid in place.  In other words, they had fought the battle in vain.<br />Overall, &quot;Black Hawk Down&quot; is one of the best military history books written in the past decade or so.	2002-06-12
1512287:US	51809405	R30UJTVWFZIGCB	0786868783	330116058	Massacre at the Palace	Books	4	30	32	N	N	Royal Mass Murder	Though it failed to generate a huge amount of interest in the U.S., the killing of the entire royal family of Nepal by the country's Crown Prince is an incredible story.  Had he not been a Royal, Crown Prince Dipendra would still have to go down as one of the most diabolical mass murderers in history.  In all, he managed to kill his entire immediate family and five other close relatives in quick succession before turning his gun on himself.<br />Author Jonathan Gregson sets the table by recounting the entire history of Nepal's royal family, which stretches back to the mid eighteenth century.  To say that the dynasty has had an unhappy history is an understatement, and after awhile the numerous accounts of Royal bloodletting become monotonous.  Nevertheless, this history is vital to the story.<br />Flash forward to June 1, 2001.  The Crown Prince is an unhappy man of thirty. An alcoholic and a drug addict, he has been denied permission to marry the woman he loves by his domineering mother and threatened with being removed from the line of succession to the throne.  Gregson sets all of this up well and then recounts the bloody events as they happened.  The secrective nature of Nepal's royal family and the god-like awe to which the king is still held there seems to have smewhat stunted Gregson's narrative.  Still, he does a fine job with what he was able to decipher.  Along the way, he paints a vivid portrait of a fiercely proud third world country that is forever wrestling with the conflict between traditionalism and modernism.<br />Overall, \\"Massacre at the Palace\\" is an enlightening book that is full of surprises.	2002-06-12
1512360:US	51809405	R3KSK7C2TT5C1A	0743222172	78011641	The Sea Shall Embrace Them: The Tragic Story of the Steamship Arctic	Books	4	3	5	N	N	More Disaster on the High Seas	The recent resurgence of interest in The Titanic disaster has led to a whole slew of books recounting historical shipwrecks.  Some have been obviously just been attempts to cash in on Titanic-mania, while others have diligently recounted the events they chronicle.  Fortunately, \\"The Seas Shall Embrace Them\\" is in the latter category.  Author David W. Shaw sets the backdrop nicely, explaining how the U.S. merchant marine challenged Great Britian's supremacy in the Trans-Atlantic trade during the first half of the 19th century.  A great race was on to see who could build the fastest and most luxurious steamships.  Unfortunately, as both sides broke each other's time records, concerns such as safety inevitably got the short shrift.<br />Enter Captain James C. Luce and his steamship The Arctic, which struck another vessle in the waters off Newfoundland in late September of 1854 and sank in about five hours.  There were not enough lifeboats abord the vessle, and many among the crew violated the cardinal rule that their passengers should be saved first.  Luce and several men loyal to him tried valiently to prevent it from happening, though their efforts proved futile.  All of The Arctic's women and children passengers, including Luce's own sickly son, died.  Luce himself was determined to go down with the ship, but survived by a strange twist of fate to become a tragic hero.  The account of the sinking and rescue is chilling to say the least.<br />Author Shaw is a good storyteller.  The only flaw with the book is that at a brief 213 pages of text, the narrative is not quite as fleshed out as perhaps it should have been.  Nevertheless, it is still a good read for anyone who likes a good nautical adventure tale.	2002-06-12
1517622:US	51809405	R2L8D2JS92CUJS	0393041638	125161689	Mutiny on the Globe: The Fatal Voyage of Samuel Comstock	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Not as Good as Some Other Recent Nautical Books	There has been quite a glut lately of books about nautical disasters, both recent and historic.  Some like &quot;The Perfect Storm&quot; and &quot;In the Heart of the Sea&quot; have been excellent.  Others have been less so.  Unfortunately, &quot;Mutiny on the Globe,&quot; while not awful, belongs in the latter category.  It faces some tough competition, being one of two books released this year on the savage mutiny led bed Nantucket whaleman Samuel Comstock in 1822.  It is also in competition with &quot;Batavia's Graveyard,&quot; another book released a couple of months ago about a historical mutiny which is far superior to this one.<br />Part of the problem is that only a brief portion of &quot;Mutiny on the Globe&quot; is devoted to the voyage and the mutiny itself.  Author Thomas Heffernan spends a long time detailing the early life of Smauel Comstock, which is not all that interesting and pales by comparison to &quot;Batavia's Graveyard&quot;'s gruesome accounts of life at sea during the so-called golden age of sail.  The book is also strangely lacking in details about Nantucket whaling, which were so memorable in &quot;In the Heart of the Sea&quot; (the events of which took place around the same time).  The last third of the narrative is devoted to the stories of the survivors of the mutiny, though the accounts of the two sailors who were forced to live in captivity among Marshall Island natives for two years before being rescued are also not worth the amount of narrative space they are given.<br />Heffernan is a decent storyteller and tries his best to liven up his tale.  The main problem seems to be that the material he had to work with seems more suited to a long magazine article than a full length book.	2002-06-07
1520835:US	51809405	R14IVDPAAQOQDL	0465007201	758212963	The Savage Wars Of Peace: Small Wars And The Rise Of American Power	Books	5	67	75	N	N	Enlightening and Very Well Written	\\"The Savage Wars of Peace\\" is a book that is likely to surprise all but the most ardent military history buffs.  Once and for all it does away with the myth that before World War Two, America was completely \\"isolationist\\" in its foreign policy.  The book focuses on America's many \\"smaller\\" military actions, from the Tripolitan War circa 1801-1803 to the hundred years (1840-1941) that American troops were continuously stationed in China to the Phillippine \\"Insurrection\\" (1900-1902) to the many 20th Century American interventions in Latin America.<br />Surprises abound, the biggest being how Author Max Boot demonstrates that for the most part America's interventions happened for idealistic reasons, rather than the usual sterotype that has the U.S. always watching out for big business interests.  Also surprising is Boot's account of how effective America was at fighting anti-guerilla wars, at least up until Vietnam, when our misguided tactics may have actually snatched victory from our grasp.  Boot covers each intervention seperately, combining politics with actual battle narratives in an excellently readable manner.  Colorful figures emerge, like \\"The Fight Quaker\\" Marine General Smedley Butler, who for over thirty years was America's foremost (and most successful) guerilla fighter, only to become a staunch pacifist upon retirement.<br />Though it is a historical narrative, it is obvious that the author is trying to send a message to today's military leaders, especially in the wake of such misguided post-Vietnam policies as the \\"Powell Doctorine.\\"  The message is that America has a duty to continue to fight small wars to make the world a safer place (especially after September 11th), but that it should also not encorage our enemies by cutting and running from such engagements after the first casualties.<br />Overall, Boot has wrtitten and extremely enjoyable military history book that carries with it a powerful message.	2002-06-04
1529747:US	51809405	R3FFWUKV3V1W3J	0671024728	979997746	The Second Angel	Books	2	13	14	N	N	A Letdown for Phllip Kerr	Author Phillip Kerr has written some amazingly diverse stories over the years, from the Phillip Marlowe-meets-the-Third Reich Berlin Noir trilogy to the high tech horror of \\"The Grid.\\"  Set in the year 2069, \\"Second Angel\\" is Kerr's stab at Near Bad Future science fiction.  Unfortunately, it falls way short of expectations.  Kerr is a master at creating memorable characters and scenes.  This time out, however, his story is populated by a group of people who fail to generate much interest (even his main villian is just your standard issue bad guy and is bumped off well before the climax).<br />The backdrop against which the story is set has some interesting aspects.  There's a computer generated assistant who is also a marital aid as well as a deadly Aids-like virus that has infected over 80% of the Eath's population, making unifected blood a commodity more valuable than gold.  The polt, however, unfolds slowly, stalls and never really regain momentum.  Annoying grammatical embellishments like the numerous footnotes (bizarre in a work of fiction) and the \\"author-narrator\\" repeatedly injecting himself into the story serve mainly as irritating distractions.<br />Overall, this is a disappointing work from an author who has produced many excellent works in the past.	2002-05-27
1532674:US	51809405	R33DRGDEVI8IKM	0684814374	765793358	The Trouser Press Guide to 90's Rock: The All-New Fifth Edition of the Trouser Press Record Guide	Books	5	11	11	N	N	It's a Shame it isn't Updated	The Trouser Press Guide's Fifth Edition calls it a &quot;Guide to 90s Rock.&quot;  Unfortunately, it is now nearly six years out of date and only covers from 1990 until mid 1996.  That said, it features some of the best rock and roll criticism (and writing) anywhere.  It purports to cover so-called &quot;alternative rock,&quot; which even editor and major contributor Ira Robbins freely admits is a fuzzy definition at best.  The artists included range from rap to heavy metal to college rock to punk to &quot;alternative&quot; country and everything in between.  The main requirement is that they have to have released albums in the 1990s.  Hence many rock icons of the new wave 1980s are missing from this latest volume.  The artists also range from the megastar level (R.E.M., U2, Metallica) to the truly obscure (Uncle Joe's Big Ol' Driver?).  The one constant is the writing, which is uniformly excellent.  As music guides go, this one is top of the line.	2002-05-24
1540379:US	51809405	R3KPLB2VCKDRJN	0345328167	384072769	In Our Image: America's Empire in the Philippines	Books	5	13	14	N	N	First Rate Historical Writing	Stanley Karnow's \\"In Our Image\\" does exactly what it purports to do in the subtitle.  It is a very complete political history of U.S. involvement in the Phillippines and how American influence has shaped that country.  It is, in fact, as much a history of the United States during the same period, giving detailed portraits of important figures like William Howard Taft, who was the first civilian governor of the Phillippines after America won the colony from Spain in the Spanish American War, and who considered the islands to his personal political domain, even after he became President in 1909.  Another American who looms large is, of course, General Douglas MacArthur, whose father Arthur fought during the little remembered Phillippine insurrection against American rule at the turn of the last century and who became an icon to the Phillippine people despite his serious personality flaws.<br />Karnow begins the book with an overview of Phillippine history under Spanish rule that sets the stage quite well.  He then describes America's conquest and subsequent torment as it found itself bogged down in a jungle guerilla war quagmire that unfortunately portended the Vietnam War six and a half decades later.  Over 100,000 Phillippinos and 4,000 American soldiers died in one of the bloodiest colonial wars ever.  Once the islands were finally subdued, however, America became the most benevolent of all colonial powers, granting the Phillippines unprecedented autonomy and zealously undertaking to educate its people and improve its infastructure.  After World War Two, the U.S. became the first colonial power to voluntarily relenquish a colony, granting the Phillippnes full independence with a minimum of fuss.<br />Overall, Karnow's book is a very throroughly researched and highly readable account.  It is also very well balanced, and describes America's colonial experience fairly.  One comes away from the book conflicted about whether the America's colonial rule in the Phillippines was ultimately a good thing or a bad thing.  Certainly, there are plenty of arguments on both sides.ines was ultimately a good thing or a bad thing.  Certainly, there are plenty of arguments on both sides.	2002-05-17
1541210:US	51809405	R2SUDLVXE4GVN1	0679732519	588113044	A Hell of a Woman	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Noir Classic, A Bit Tame by Today's Standards	\\"A Hell of a Woman\\" is somewhat similar to another Jim Thompson classic, \\"The Killer Inside Me\\" in that it is a story of murder and mayhem told in the first person through the eyes of the killer.  Like \\"Killer,\\" Frank Dillon, the protagonist here, has deep rooted issues involving women.  In fact, the woman of the title could be any of several he describes, including his hell-on-wheels wife.  The plot is right out of classic noir, as Dillon hatches an elaborate double murder scheme in order to make a huge score, win the girl he loves and escape his small town life and cruddy job as a salesman working for an abusive boss.  Things go awry, as they usually do in these tales, and Dillon has to resort to further violence in a vain attempt to keep his plans from unravelling.<br />The frank sexuality, gritty violence an unrepentant nature of the central character were probably quite a shock to readers when this book was first published in the early 1950s.  It will, however, seem fairly tame to modern readers.  A quick read at 185 pages, it is the novel equivilent of film noir from the era of its publication, and can be enjoyed the same way those films are today.	2002-05-17
1543787:US	51809405	R2GZ1X23W7O790	0679733973	697417133	The Killer Inside Me	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Noir Classic Will Slay You	I imagine that Jim Thompson's \\"The Killer Inside Me\\" was quite a shocker upon first publication in 1952, when the idea of the psychopathic serial killer was still quite unusual.  Thompson's protagonist, small town deputy sheriff Lou Ford, tells his tale of murder and mayhem in the first person, which adds to the book's sense of dread.  1950s-era notions of morality and chivalry are also key to the development of the plot.  A prosecutor can, for example, accuse a man of murder while questioning him, but it isn't good form to degrade his mother by calling him an S.O.B. while doing so.  The only caveat to recommending this book is that its shock value is somewhat diminished by the many real life horrors our modern society has witnessed since it first hit the shelves.<br />A quick page turner and relatively brief at 244 pages, this is one tough \\"Killer.\\"	2002-05-14
1551393:US	51809405	R2M6ELWVMA4HYD	0451201299	917535261	The Private Eye Writers of America Presents: The Shamus Game	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Mixed Bag Anthology	I've come to the realization after reading several volumes of Robert J. Randisi's private eye collections that as the founder of the Private Eye Writer's of America, he is compelled to invite every author working in the genre to participate in his books, regardless of whether the quality of the stories merit it or not. \\"The Shamus Game\\" is another collection of private eye stories in which the best inclusions (Loren Estlemen's Amos Walker, Bill Pronzini's \\"Nameless\\" Dectective) make the lesser lights look worse by comparison.	2002-05-08
1552445:US	51809405	R2L4X48JGZT3M8	0802713610	905195727	The Boxer Rebellion: The Dramatic Story of China's War on Foreigners That Shook the World in the Summer of 1900.	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Informative if a Bit Meandering	Diana Preston's book about The Boxer Rebellion is well researched and does justice to its subject.  The terrible events of the summer of 1900 in China still have enormous implications for the country and its relations with the West, particularly the United States.  The Boxers were a shadowy legion of xenophobic marauders whose movement spread like wildfire in the wake of drought and national humiliation.  Once the anti-foreigner fever was whipped up, China's dynastic rulers decided to use it in an attempt to drive the foreign powers from its soil.  It was a foolhardy decision, at best.<br />Preston focuses primarily on the plight of the foreigners, including members of the British, American, German, Italian, Japanese and Russian legations; who were for the most part able to put aside their national rivalries and fight for their own survival.  The tale of their beseigement in Peking is the book's central story.  Preston also chronicles the disasters and triumphs of the inetrnational military expedition that finally managed to liberate their countrymen.  If the book has a flaw, it is that it tends to meander at times and is somewhat dull in places.<br />Overall, this is a decent work of history that revives interest in a subject that is mostly forgotten in the West, but still well remembered in China.  It should be read by anyone who wants to understand how China arrived where it is today.	2002-05-07
1553132:US	51809405	RJ326JK1DFI9L	0441008240	293019063	Space Soldiers	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Battle Scenes Strangely Lacking	I'll preface this reveiw by saying that \\"Starship Troupers\\" and \\"The Forever War\\" are among my favorite novels, so I love a good space war story.  Unfortunately, that's exactly what there isn't a whole lot of in this collection.  It is a strange gathering of newer stories and older ones that for the most part are lacking in actual battles.  The best of the bunch is Joe Haldeman's \\"Time Piece\\" from 1970, which is the prototype story for what would later become \\"The Forever War.\\"  Stephen Baxter's new (2000) \\"On the Orion Line\\" is perhaps the best actual combat story included.  Paul J. McAuley's \\"The Gardens of Saturn,\\" and William Barton's \\"Soldier's Home\\" are about the aftermath of war.  The rest truly are a mixed bag.  There's nothing here remotely on the level of Phillip K. Dick's riveting novella \\"Second Variety,\\" which was  the literary godfather of the Terminator moveies and should be the lead whenever an anthology of sci-fi war stories is put together.<br />Overall, \\"Space Soldiers\\" is a disappointing collection of second rate military science fiction.	2002-05-07
1555534:US	51809405	R5WKIAMJX6WL0	0786709707	800962244	The Sea's Bitter Harvest: Thirteen Deadly Days on the North Atlantic	Books	4	12	12	N	N	More tales of fishing disasters and rescue	\\"The Sea's Bitter Harvest\\" chronicles the sinking of four commercial clam fishing boats in the North Atlantic during an amazingly short two week period in January 1999.  Ten fishermen lost their lives in that brief period, easily the worst month for Atlantic fisherman in the modern age.  The book is clearly intended to appeal to those who enjoyed Sebastian Junger's \\"The Perfect Storm\\" (and  even mentions Junger's book several times).  That said, author Douglas A. Campbell lacks Junger's storytelling touch, though he is a obviously a very good reporter.<br />Like \\"Storm\\", this book details the lives of the oridinary men (no women here) who risk their lives in what is perhaps the most dangerous profession in America.  Clam fishing is portrayed as exhausting and unglamorous profession that appeals to the the blue collar types who do it for the large paychecks and the relatively unrestrained lifestyle.  Campbell also unflinchingly details the problems in the industry, from the considerable level or drug use to the obstinate nature of fisherman when it comes to the safety regulations designed to prevent disasters.  He also goes into considerable detail about the personal lives of the men who died and survived on each of the four boats.  The fact that there were really four seperate incidents does prevent his book from having the same concise narrative as \\"Storm.\\"<br />Overall, this book is yet another fine entry in the recent glut about the perils of commercial fishing that have appeared in the wake of \\"The Perfect Storm.\\"  It should appeal to anyone with an interest in the subject matter.	2002-05-04
1561638:US	51809405	R1Q20JTYNB0YQ2	0609607669	232930099	Batavia's Graveyard: The True Story of the Mad Heretic Who Led History's Bloodiest Mutiny	Books	5	1	1	N	N	First Rate Historical Reporting	Few authors truly have the ability to make their history books read like an extended newspaper feature article. With \\"Batavia's Graveyard,\\" author Mike Dash proves he has the knack. Even though it contains over 100 pages of notes and sources, which indicate that it was exhaustively researched, Dash strikes just the right balance between being a storyteller and being informative. The key players, both good and evil, come alive in the book's pages and the backdrop in which they appear is expertly painted.<br />Luckilly for Dash, his central character is one of the most diabolical real life villians imaginable. Jeronimus Cornelisz, a heretical merchantman, led a mutiny among the survivors of the ship Batavia after it was wrecked off the coast of Australia in 1628 that resulted in the horrifying deaths of nearly 120 of his shipmates and passengers, including nearly all of the women and children. Cornelisz and his band of cutthroats spared almost no one who was marooned with them.<br />Author Dash recounts the voyage, the wreck, the saga of the survivors, and their eventual rescue. If not for Cornelisz's treachery, it is likely that nearly all of those killed would have survived. Dash the goes on to recount the punishment of those responsible, one of the book's more grisly passages. His graphic descriptions of shipboard life in the 17th Centruy should further dispell any remaining romantic notions regarding the golden age of sail.<br />Overall, this is a first rate piece of history writing that should appeal to anyone who likes narrative history and particularly nautical disaster buffs.	2002-04-29
1562108:US	51809405	R3RM89L5KXJN1Z	047138934X	789994540	Desperate Hours: The Epic Story of the Rescue of the Andrea Doria	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Good Nautical Disaster Book	With &quot;Desperate Hours,&quot; author Richard Goldstein effectively recreates the sinking of the Andrea Doria in 1956, one of the last great ocean liner catastrophies, but also perhaps the greatest martime rescue in history.  Nearly 1700 passengers and crew were rescued from the ship after its collision with another liner, The Stockholm.  Goldstein starts his story by developing the backgrounds of the key players, the two captains, the mate who was on watch on The Stockholm's bridge at the time of the collision, and many of the key passengers.  He then takes the reader on board both ships during their journeys and in the fatal moments before the crash.  The rest of the book deals with the rescue efforts and the heros (an yes, a few villians) that emerged from it.<br />Goldstein also recounts the international politics of the disaster (involving the governments and national pride of both Italy and Sweeden) and the history of Trans Atlantic travel that help give it the proper context.  A little touch like including the fact that Walter Lord's bestellar about the Titanic disaster, &quot;A Night to Remember,&quot; had just come out and helped increase passenger anxiety makes the narrative seeme even more real.  He explains the mistakes that led to the collision and deals well with the aftermath, including trhe settling of the myriad of lawsuits that resulted.  Many of the stories are first hand accounts from the survivors, which increases their effectiveness.  Goldstein possesses a good narrative touch as a historical author, and if the book has a flaw, it is that at times it is a bit too detailed.<br />Overall, an &quot;Desperate Hours&quot; is fine reading for nautical disaster buffs and anyone with an interest in seafaring stories in genereal.	2002-04-29
1562380:US	51809405	R3CZ87GI8UKL40	1567311555	637183654	A Century of Mystery 1980-1989	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Mixed Bag	You don't really get the sense when reading &quot;A Century of Mystery Stories 1980-1989&quot; that these were the best short stories in the genre written during that particular decade.  Rather, the book reads like these were the best stories the publishers could get the rights for.  The husband and wife editing team of Bill Pronzini and Marcia Muller are first rate mystery writers themselves (and each contribute one story to this collection), and they have come up with a few dandys.  Loren Estlemen's &quot;Greektown,&quot; for example, is among his best Amos Walker shorts, while Pronzini's own &quot;Stacked Deck&quot; may his best ever short story.  Lawrence Block is rightfully included, though he produced many stories in the 1980s better than &quot;As Good as the Rest,&quot; which was included.  Several of the stories truly don't rank with the best, and at least one, Clark Howard's &quot;The Dakar Run,&quot; barely qualifies as a mystery story.<br />At a mere 310 pages of text, the book is also far too short to cover an entire decade.  Overall, this is a fairly undistinguished collection of shorts, despite the book's grandiose title.	2002-04-29
1569312:US	51809405	R3M48BXM29F0OI	0525941045	335291529	First Cases: First Appearances of Classic Private Eyes	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Interesting for Historical Purposes	&quot;First Cases&quot; is a collection of the first short stories by classic private eye writers featuring their heros (or heroines).  That should be the book's caveat, as many of the protagonists had already appeared in full length novel form before these stories were published.  The lineup includes such luminaries as Loren Estlemen's Amos Walker, Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder, Bill Pronzini's &quot;Nameless&quot; and Editor Robert J. Randisi's own Miles Jacoby.  All of the series characters featured are currently ongoing (or at least were as of 1996, when the book was published).  Editor Randisi knows his stuff, having been the founder of the Private Eye Writers of America.<br />All that said, the quality of the stories varies.  Some of the writers had yet to really find their voice and some (especially the older) stories are somewhat by-the-numbers.  Nevertheless, the book is an inetersting historical artifactfor those who want insight on how their heros developed.  My personal favorites are Block's and Estlemen's.  They show again why they are, for my money, the two best and most consistent private eye writers currently working in the genre.	2002-04-23
1572365:US	51809405	R2J30YT30INKCG	0399147950	185638418	2: What If? II	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Another good collection of historical challenges.	&quot;What If 2,&quot; though not quite as strong as the first &quot;What If,&quot; collection (and featuring historians, on average, who are not nearly as well known as such first volume luminaries as Stephen Ambrose and David McCullough) is still an enjoyable and stimulating collection for those who like history.  While most of the scenarios of the first collection concentrated on military battles, the second features a lot of political twists and turns as well.<br />The alternate scnerios this time out include, &quot;What if Socrates had been killed at the Battle of Delium before he made his mark on Greek philosophy?&quot;  &quot;What if William the Conqueror had not won the Battle of Hastings?&quot; &quot;What if Martin Luther had been executed in 1521?&quot;  &quot;What if the Germans hadn't transported Lenin to Russia in 1917?&quot; &quot;What if the Franco-Prussian War in 1870 had been avoided?&quot;  &quot;What if FDR hadn't allowed the progressive Henry Wallace to be dumped as VP in 1944 in favor of Harry Truman?&quot;  Indeed, &quot;What if any of seven plausible scenerios had kept FDR from the Presidency?&quot;  All of these are great questions, presented in the highly readable narrative style that has come to define this series.<br />My only quibble is that a number of the essays present the questions without really giving an answer.  One is left to ponder the &quot;What Ifs&quot; without the essayist presenting the likely alternate reality.  Nevertheless, this is still a very enjoyable read for those with a passion for history.	2002-04-21
1589284:US	51809405	R248521BEH3I3T	039593916X	389303269	The Best American Mystery Stories 1999	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Strong Collection	\\"The Best American Mystery Stories 1999\\" is a strong collection of modern crime related short stories that run the gamut from Private Eye tales to ameture sleuth stories to whodunnits?  They are as varied as the authors themselves.  Some giants of the genre check in here, including Lawrence Block with \\"Keller's Last Refuge,\\" Loren Estleman with an Amos Walker short \\"Redneck,\\" and John Updike with the sinsiter little tale \\"Bech Noir.\\"  Among the best of the rest are \\"Poachers\\" by Tom Franklin, the gruesome mass murder aftermath story \\"Safe\\" by Gary A. Braunbeck, \\"Netmail\\" by Brendan DuBois, and an excellent Vietnam era story, \\"A Death on the Ho Chi Minh Trail.\\"  As with every entry in this fine series, there were a couple here that didn't work for me, but overall the quality of the nineteen stories selected cannot be disputed.	2002-04-07
1589959:US	51809405	RFYDD02EEES4I	0465057918	276025833	The Tsar's Last Armada	Books	4	1	5	N	N	A Little Remembered Epic Naval Battle	The Battle of Tsushima in 1905, in which the Japanese fleet under Admiral Togo utterly anihilated the bulk of the Russian Navy, brought about Russia's defeat in the Russo-Japanese war and marked the first time that an Asian power militarily defeated a European power.  The battle was also an epic naval encounter between modern battleships and cruisers, a harbinger of the British-German naval battles in the North Seas of World War One.<br />\\"The Tsar's Last Armada\\" tells this story almost totally from the Russian's point of view.  The Russian Fleet had to sail from The Baltic Sea and around the Cape of Good Hope (almost 18,000 miles!) just to get to the engagement.  The endeavor was doomed almost from the beginning by Russian government corruption and international intrigue (the British, while officially neutral, gave much assistance to their Japanese allies).  The book's main protagonist, Russian admiral Zinovy Rozhestvensky, comes off as a sympathetic victim of circumstance, an honorable man doomed by his oath to the Tsar to carry through with an endeavor he knew was doomed to fail.<br />Auther Konstantin Pleshakov writes in a narrative, stoerytelling style that makes the book an interesting read, though sometimes his rhetorical flourishes (like repeatedly referring to Tsar Nicholas as \\"Nicky\\" and Kaiser Wilhelm as \\"Willy\\") can sometimes be annoying).  The book also suffers from a lack of a Japanese perspective.  For example, just enough is revealed about Admiral Togo to leave you wishing there was more.  Overall, however, \\"The Tsar's Last Armada,\\" is a fascinating work of history that will especially be of interest to naval warfare buffs.	2002-04-07
1595282:US	51809405	R559ZXUEGW5X6	0312344570	15083788	Graveyard Plots: The Best Short Stories of Bill Pronzini	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The &quot;Plots&quot; Thicken	Author Bill Pronzini, in addition to being one of the most prolific of present day novelists, has also produced a vast quantity of short stories in the western, horror and mystery genres.  Published in 1985, &quot;Graveyard Plots&quot; is a selection of 23 stories chosen (as the author states in his premise) from the over 150! works of short crime fiction he had produced up until then.  The best of these include &quot;Cain's Mark,&quot; &quot;Strangers in the Fog,&quot; &quot;Rebound&quot; and &quot;Smuggler's Island.&quot;  There are also three &quot;Nameless&quot; Detective shorts, the best of which is the clever &quot;Skeleton Rattle Your Mouldy Leg.&quot;<br />Many of the stories are quite short (as few as five pages), and the book clocks in at a mere 255 pages of text.  Nevertheless, it is a very good collection by an author who personifies the term &quot;professional writer.&quot;	2002-04-03
1602048:US	51809405	RP18DHVN45W2E	0871138255	745066592	The CEO of the Sofa	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not Among P.J.'s Best, but Has its Moments	With \\"The CEO of the Sofa,\\" P.J. O'Rourke continues his recent trend of attempting to tie his various magazine articles together thematically.  It worked brilliantly in his previous effort, the economics made funny tome \\"Eat the Rich.\\"  It works less well here.  \\"CEO,\\" for the most part, focuses on domestic American life, rather than O'Rourke's usual travel writing.  Parts of the book are VERY funny (particularly the first chapter, in which he gives the UN a well deserved bludgeoning).  Other good rants involve modern celebrities and the inane 2000 Presidential campaign.<br />Unfortunately, the unifying theme of this work, the author sitting around the house with his family, is patently annoying.  He also throws in some material, like the drunk wine tasting, that very much reads like filler material.  Additionally, some of his pre-September 11th cracks (like the ones about Rudolf Guiliani and Osama Bin Laden) seem short sighted and inappropriate now.  Overall, this book would have been stronger had O'Rourke just bound up a collection of the original articles instead of trying to unify them.	2002-03-28
1602181:US	51809405	R3N4O18HL9FC7X	0395939186	753005234	The Best American Mystery Stories 2000 (The Best American Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Lives Up to the Title	&quot;Best American Mystery Stories 2000&quot; lives up to its title.  It is a varied collection of (mostly) fine mystery and crime stories, many by up and coming authors.  I'll confess that two or three of them didn't work for me, but that's a very small number in a book than contains 20 stories and nearly 480 pages of text.  My two favorites were by two of the few old names in the collection.  Dennis Lehane spins an excellent down south slice of life tale in &quot;Running Out of Dog,&quot; while longtime television writer and children's author, the late Shel Silverstein, chimes in with the light-in-tone but still serious courtroom story &quot;The Guilty Party.&quot;  Doug Allyn contributes a fine private eye tale with &quot;Miracles! Happen!&quot; while Barbara D'Amato spins an on-the-road yarn with a twist in &quot;Motel 66.&quot;  Also first rate are Tom Franklin's &quot;Grit,&quot; and the down and dirty gangster in the hospital tale &quot;ICU.&quot;<br />Basically, there's a mystery story here for just about every type of mystery fan, from hard-boiled detective tales, to crime stories, to amature sleuths to compelling whodunnits?  Modern short stories do not get nearly the audience they should, and this is a book that deserves to be read.<br />(Note:  The 2000 &quot;Best Mystery Stories&quot; collection is far superior to the 2001 anthology, mostly because it has a better variety of stories).	2002-03-28
1607302:US	51809405	R1JBLGPFWGH5AW	0743235150	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Everything's Pretty Good	\\"Everything's Eventual\\" is Stephen King's fourth short story collection, and his first since \\"Nightmares and Dreamscapes\\" nearly a decade ago.  King is perhaps the best and most consistent short story writer working in genre fiction today (number two would probably be Lawrence Block).  The sheer number of first rate ideas he has cranked out over the course of the four volumes is nothing short of incredible.<br />Having said all that, \\"Everything's Eventual,\\" while a decent collection, is not quite up to the standards of the previous three (which, for the record are \\"Night Shift,\\" \\"Skeleton Crew\\" and the aforesaid \\"Nightmares...\\").  The first thing I noticed was that it is a bit short on actual horror stories, though \\"The Road Virus Heads North,\\" \\"The Man in the Black Suit,\\" and \\"1408\\" are among his best pure horror stories.<br />Of the rest, \\"The Death of Jack Hamilton,\\" \\"All that You Love Will be Carried Away,\\" and \\"In the Deathroom\\" are first rate stories (like \\"Dolan's Cadilac\\" from \\"Nightmares...\\") that belong in the mystery/crime category.  \\"Autopsy Room Four\\" and \\"Lunch at the Gotham Cafe\\" are creepy suspense stories that feature no supernatural elements.  The rest, including one \\"Dark Tower\\" piece, read more like filler material.  Eash story gets a short blurb of either introduction or post script, and there's the usual King introduction addressed to \\"you, Constant Reader.\\"<br />Overall, King deserves credit for continuing to write short stories at a time when the style has continued to decline.  As King points out in the introduction, while this collection is sure to be a bestseller like everything else he writes, it is also likely to be the only short story collection to make the list this year.  If he gets even a few people ineterested in short fictiona again, it will have been worthwhile.	2002-03-24
1618490:US	51809405	R2T0QCCM8EG3TK	0345441508	788622093	Last Breath: Cautionary Tales from the Limits of Human Endurance	Books	2	14	25	N	N	A Misleading Title and a Mediocre Book	The subtitle of \\"Last Breath\\" calls it \\"Cautionary Tales from the Limits of Human Endurance.\\"  This would lead one to believe that it is a series of factual stories about people who either died or had near death experiences.  Alas, it is nothing of the sort.  It is instead a series of \\"essays\\" in which the author merely imagines what it would be like to drown, fall from a great height, suffer heat stroke or hypothermia, etc.  He liberally sprinkles each essay with medical data and historical anecdotes, but these hardly obscure the fact that there is no actual reporting going on here.  The chapter on scurvey, for example, is particularly ludicrous.  The author imagines a pleasure sailor who fears coming down with the disease because he forgot to pack any fruits or vegtables for a long distance voyage.  Say what???<br />There are dozens of excellent books out there that feature real life survival (and failure to survive) tales.  \\"Eiger Dreams\\" by John Krakauer is one of the best that immediately comes to mind.  Any of them would be preferable to this peculiar effort.	2002-03-15
1622851:US	51809405	R3TW9MG5OB4BQG	0871138344	570501457	The Bureau and the Mole: The Unmasking of Robert Philip Hanssen, the Most Dangerous Double Agent in FBI History	Books	2	34	37	N	N	Not Well Written	Though readable, David A. Vise's \\"The Bureau and the Mole\\" is poorly written, poorly researched, gratuitous and just not well thought out.  It's a shame since a spy as good as Robert Hanssen deserves a better chronicler.  The first indictation that the book was rushed include a major factual error in the very first chapter (Vise refers to the \\"Daley Machine\\" in Chicago circa the late 1930s, even though the senior Daley was not elected Mayor until 1955).  The book then becomes a dual biography of Hannsen and FBI Director Loius Freeh, but because the narrative is a brief 229 pages, neither party gets more than a superficial telling of his life story.  The book also contains lengthy verbatim passeges of Hannsen's letters to the Soviets and his fantasy e-mails, which shorten the already inadequate narrative even more.  The e-mails are particularly offensive in that they detail Hannsen's perverted sexual fantasies about his wife to the point where the book starts to read like a degrading peep show.<br />In documenting Freeh's story, Vise relates every major FBI success and mistake during his tenure so that each get a scant few sentences of mention.  Another example of underreporting comes from the account of how Hannsen's brother-in-law reported his suspicions that Hannsen was spying in 1990 and the FBI dropped the ball.  Vise reports the fact, but apparently never attempted to find out WHY nothing was done.  Another poor decision was interviewing psychologists who never treated or even met Hanssen to get \\"psychological insight\\" into the man.  This ploy strikes me as less than worthless.  I should also mention that apperently no interviews were done with Hannsen's immediate family members for insight into how his spying impacted their lives.<br />Overall, this book is a shoddy rush job that never should have been released in its present condition...	2002-03-12
1624137:US	51809405	R3TMZTAVUSMW9R	0892967382	291476036	Sinister Heights (The Amos Walker Series #16)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Amos Goes Over the Top	\\"Sinister Heights\\" is the 16th novel in the Amos Walker series.  I've read them all, and unfortunately have to report that it is one of the lesser in the series.  That's a shame, because it feels like a key turning point in the the Walker saga.  Estleman brings back many of the memorable supporting characters from past novels (and in one case, the son of a supporting character) that really enhance the plot for any longtime fan.  The part with the former hooker Iris, who first appeared in the very first Walker novel, \\"Motor City Blue\\" is particularly poignant.  Walker also revisits the infamous Iroquois Heights, the corrupt town that has tromented him in previous novels (hence the title).<br />Unfortunately, the plot that all of this is in service of strains credibility to the breaking point.  It also goes over the top with the violence, a first in a Walker novel.  Estlemen uses the old \\"talking killer\\" ploy no less than THREE times, a key indicator of the weaknesses within with the story.<br />Overall, the Amos Walker series remains among the absolute best private dectective series currently ongoing.  But even an ace can take a bit of a stumble once in awhile.	2002-03-11
1631210:US	51809405	R3MGXG8JQRVG8A	0395410711	348907668	General Murders (The Amos Walker Series #8)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Crackles Like a .38 Special	\\"General Murders\\" is a collection of ten Amos Walker short stories that are done every bit as well as any of the Detroit P.I.'s best novels.  Author Loren Estleman proves himself to every bit as effective working in the short form as he is with his novels.  As the title implies, the stories mostly deal with death and murder, but they all come with a twist, most of them unforseemn and satisfying.  Walker is the most Phillip Marlowe-like P.I. walking the means streets today.  Any P.I. fan owes it to themselves to make his acquaintence.  At at brief 230 pages, this book is a quick delight.	2002-03-05
1635855:US	51809405	R22U3QWXA4L3MO	0679768556	695970714	The Vintage Book of Classic Crime	Books	1	6	8	N	N	A Worthless Collection	I purchased the &quot;Vintage Book of Classic Crime&quot; expecting it to be primarily a collection of crime and mystery short stories by classic authors.  Instead it is primarily novel excerpts that are not in and of themselves self-contained stories.  What exactly is the point when you can buy &quot;The Postman Always Rings Twice&quot; or &quot;The Lady in the Lake?&quot;  What do you need a four page excerpt for?  This collection is virtually worthless.	2002-03-01
1636523:US	51809405	R2IUQV0GD1W413	061815566X	697506995	The Best American Mystery Stories 2001 CD	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Some good stories, but not terribly hardboiled	&quot;The Best Mystery Stories of 2001&quot; is a strange collection.  Because it was edited by the great Lawrence Block, I expected it to contain a fair number of good hardboiled stories.  Alas, that is the one subgenre that gets the short shrift in this collection.  I noted that many of these stories first appeared in literary magazines, which may have something to do with why so many of them are written with flowery prose and are a tad shy on gritty street realism.  There is also a decided absence of big name mystery authors, with long time great Bill Pronzini being one of the few icons in the collection.  As soon as Pronzini's story, a first rate &quot;Nameless&quot; dectective tale, begins, the level of excitement rose for me.  Jerimiah Healy is also in this collection, but his Cuddy short story is fairly pedestrian.  Big name T. Jefferson Parker delivers &quot;Easy Street,&quot; which is among the best in the collection.  The others were a mixed bag for me, and I found some of them, like Roxanna Robinson's &quot;The Face Lift,&quot; to barely qualify as mystery stories.<br />Overall, this collection left me wondering.  If these really are the &quot;best&quot; mystery short stories being produced today, then the genre could definately use a good jump start.	2002-03-01
1639430:US	51809405	R39JYVKOEBQ23F	0316349410	617652054	The World Treasury of Science Fiction	Books	4	10	11	N	N	An Exhaustive (and Exhausting) Collection	With over 50 stories and over 1050 pages of text, \\"The World Treasury of Science Fiction\\" is quite a heavy read.  The book contains shorts from almost all of the major science fiction writers of the 20th Century (at least up until 1989, when it was published).  Some of the tales are among the best I've ever read,  like Phillip K. Dick's chilling military piece \\"Second Variety,\\" Kurt Vonnegot's angry satire \\"Harrison Bergeron,' Larry Niven's apocalyptic \\"Inconstant Moon\\" and Rene Rebetez-Cortes's evolutionary horror story \\"The New Prehistory.\\"  Others I didn't like so much, but some of that was a matter of taste not quality.<br />The book is not presented in any kind of recognizable order, but there is a brief introdutory blurb for each author.  I would recommend it with the caveat that most readers are likely to skip over some of the less appealing entries.	2002-02-27
1645938:US	51809405	R3PC1ST733TXA5	0345439899	301033200	Best Military Science Fiction of the 20th Century	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Maybe not all the "Best," but still quite good.	\\"The Best Military Science Fiction of the 20th Century\\" contains 13 stories spread out over 544 pages of text.  At least two of them, Joe Haldeman's \\"Hero\\" and Orson Scott Card's \\"Ender's Game\\" were later expanded into full length novels.  Editor Harry Turtledove's \\"The Last Article\\" falls more into the \\"Alternate History\\" category (a volume of which he also recently edited), but the saga of Ghandi's attempt to free his native India from Nazi occupation is still quite compelling.  Superbly chilling is Phillip K. Dick's, \\"Second Variety,\\" and its scary post-apocalyptic battlefield.  One can see that this is where the idea for the \\"Terminator\\" movies came from.<br />The rest are more of a mixed bag.  Gregory Benford's \\"To the Storming Gulf\\" is a decent post nuclear war saga, while Arthur C. Clarke's \\"Superiority\\" is an excellent philisophical war story.  Some of the others are less compelling.  Anne McCaffrey's novella  \\"Dragonrider,\\" for example, takes up over 100 pages, and is more of a fantasy story than military science fiction.<br />Overall, this is a decent collection, worthwhile for fans of these types of stories.  I would recommend it with the caveat that you can skip over any of the tales that are not to your taste.	2002-02-21
1660618:US	51809405	R2IEWPH47L4ZR0	0345439902	913102079	The Best Alternate History Stories of the 20th Century	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Too Many Alternatives, Not Enough History	If the title of \\"The Best Alternative History Stories of the 20th Century\\" is truly accurate, then there must be a shortage of great stories in this particular subgenre.  To start with, there are a total of only 14 stories in the 415 pages of text.  Two of them, Ward Just's Civil War time travel saga \\"Bring the Jubilee\\" and Brad Linaweaver's Nazi nuclear victory space exploration story \\"Moon of Ice\\" take up close to half of the book.<br />The rest are a mixed bag.  Allen Steele's entertaining, \\"The Death of Captain Future\\" was my personal favorite, but it read like straight science fiction to me, I couldn't detect any \\"alternative history\\" in it.  Most of the others feature history changes that are trivial (Kim Stanley Robinson's \\"The Lucky Strike,\\" Susan Shwartz's \\"Suppose They Gave a Peace\\") or just not enough of a twist to be truly interesting.  My overall impression was that the stories in the book are just not as compelling as the many recent collections of speculative historical essays (the \\"What If\\" books, for example).	2002-02-09
1662952:US	51809405	RLAIWLKYOK9TI	0814756603	459801150	Beyond the Mountains of the Damned: The War Inside Kosovo	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Solid Journalistic Account	\\"Beyond the MOuntains of the Damned\\" is a journalistic account of the 1999 war in Kosovo told through both the eyes of journalist Matthew McAllester as well as several of the victims.  The senseless brutality wrought upon the Muslim majority by the Serbs is well chronicled.  The Kosovo \\"ethnic clensing\\" effort lacked the systemic nature of the Nazi genocide or even the occasional grand scale of some of the atrocities committed in Bosnia, but it was no less horrific.  Albnaians had their homes burned and their villiages destroyed and many were shot as the Serbs attempted to drive them out.<br />Most of the action in the book takes place in and around the city of Pec, in eastern Kosovo.  It was among the hardest hit regions in the territory.  McAllester spent the three month war infiltrating Kosovo around in this region, though he never made to Pec until after the war because he would certainly have been killed by the Serbs.  Meanwhile in Pec, an ALbanian butcher named Isa Bala and his family tried to stay inconspicuous and wait out the killing.  Thier fate ultimately gives this story its gravity.<br />The only knock against the book is that for the most part it lacks a broader perspective.  The political events surrounding the war and the history that led to Kosovo's destruction get some mention, but not enough for the avearge reader.  Also, the larger war outside the Pec region gets only superficial coverage.  Nevertheless, this is still a disturbing account of modern genocide and of the banality of man's evil.	2002-02-07
1669960:US	51809405	R146VPH8CWZKS9	0752825453	347773286	The Collected Mystery Stories: Non-Stop Suspense from the Grandmaster of Crime	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Block is &quot;The Man&quot;	If there is any doubt that Lawrence Block is the most creative mystery writer of his generation, this book dispells it.  A comprehensive work that encompasses nearly every published Block short story (over 70 of 'em!) it is a must have for mystery fans.  The book includes seven Matthew Scudder stories, nine Martin Ehrengraf stories, three Bernie Rhodenbarr stories and the complete texts of the three previous Block short story volumes.  As a bonus, there are five &quot;new&quot; Block stories, never before previously anthologized.<br />The stories run the gamut from hard-bitten to whodunnits? to even the occasional horror story.  Block shows every bit as much mastery with his short works that he does with his novels.  The diversity of his subjects and the bredth of his knowledge is simply breathtaking.  The book also includes a short prologue by the author, explaining how the book is laid out and giving a little helpful background.<br />Overall, &quot;The Collected Stories&quot; is a fine tribute to a great writer.	2002-02-02
1681633:US	51809405	R32OW0TLHL1VX2	9991279547	255431346	The Black Lizard Anthology of Crime Fiction	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Decent Crime Anthology	&quot;The Black Lizard Anthology of Crime Fiction,&quot; edited by Ed Gorman, is a decent collection of hard-boiled crime short stories.  Published in 1987 and containing 20 stories, it is heavily weighted toward the ten year period prior to its publication.  There are also a handful of stories from the 1950s and 60s, but none older than that.  Two of the best entries, &quot;The Used&quot; by Loren Estleman and &quot;A Cold Foggy Day&quot; by Bill Pronzini, kick things off.  (Note that neither of these stories contain either Amos Walker or the &quot;Nameless&quot; Detective).<br />After that strong start, things get more uneven.  For example, the Jim Thompson story that's included, &quot;The World, Then the Fireworks,&quot; is not one of his beeter efforts and doesn't make much sense.  Another story is about a rattlesnake attack and seems to have little to do with crime fiction.<br />Nevertheless, this is still a worthwhile collection.  Each story is preceeded by a short blurb about the author and the story itself (a MUST with these kinds of collections).  At just over 330 pages, it is a fine read for those who like their fiction hard-boiled.	2002-01-24
1682720:US	51809405	R2FOBDHCSIPU7F	0786703008	972414345	The Mammoth Book of Pulp Fiction (Mammoth Books)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Packed Full of Pulp	&quot;The Mammoth Book of Pulp Fiction&quot; certainly lives up to its name.  Containing 32 stories and nearly 600 pages of text, it is packed full of hard-boiled crimes taless, many of them superior in quality.  The best include, but are not limited to, &quot;A Candle for the Bag Lady,&quot; a fine early Matthew Scudder tale by Lawrence Block; &quot;So Dark for April,&quot; an excellent moody P.I. story by Howard Browne; &quot;Stacked Deck,&quot; a masterful caper tale by Bill Pronzini; &quot;We're All Dead,&quot; a heist-gone-wrong story by Bruno Fischer; plus a couple of good tales by the MacDonalds, Ross and John D.<br />On the downside, there are no author introductions for the individual stories to provide them context.  Nor are all of the stories first rate.  A couple of them veer into the supernatural, which doesn't seem to fit the theme.  They range in time period from the early 1930s to the mid-1990s but are not chronologically sequenced.  Nevertheless, as a reader you can certainly pick and choose, making this collection worthwhile for any fan of hard-boiled short crime fiction.	2002-01-23
1698261:US	51809405	R2GBYJRQ5VYRLG	019510353X	296898843	Hardboiled: An Anthology of American Crime Stories	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Top Notch Hard-Boiled Anthology	&quot;Hard Boiled&quot; is an absolutely first rate collection of short stories by some of the best AND least known writers of the genre.  One of its two editors, Bill Pronzini, is an avid collector of the old Pulp magazines as well as being one of the best hard-boiled writers working today (he's the author of the excellent &quot;Nameless&quot; detective series).  He and co-editor Jack Adrian really know their stuff, as they show with an extensive introduction that explains in detail the history of the genre.  They also provide good introductions for each individual writer, both the famous and the not-so famous, to give the reader a good perspective of where each author was coming from.<br />The stories themselves are grouped by the decade in which they were published.  The 1930s and 1950s are the most heavily represented because, the editors explain, they were the peak decades for hard-boiled fiction in terms of both poularity and quality.  The book covers the 1920s to the 1990s.<br />Overall, this is an excellent book for anyone who enjoys good crime stories.	2002-01-11
1705596:US	51809405	R28OUH5ZRA25UZ	0345427769	625419312	East of A	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Middling First Detective Novel	Russel Atwood's &quot;East of A,&quot; in which the author introduces us to  New York City private detective Payton Sherwood, is a well written book that has many of the elements (lonilesness, cynicism, street-wise attitude) that make for great private detective fiction.  Unfortunately, it is all put into service of a story that is just not terribly compelling, particularly if it is meant to be the first in a series starring Sherwood.<br />The plot is fairly straightforward.  Sherwood is beaten up by a trio of street thugs when he attempts to stop them from attacking a runaway teenage girl.  No good deed goes unpunished, and while he's lying in the street the girl steals his Rolex watch, the only valuable thing he owns.  After cleaning himself up, Sherwood goes in search of the watch.  That premise doesn't exactly compell one to keep reading, and it was only Atwood's light and easy prose that kept me interested.<br />The case takes some unexpected turns when Sherwood discovers that the thugs are after the girl because they believe the girl stole a new designer drug from their boss, a wealthy eccentric dance club owner.  From there Sherwood encounters a trail of murder and deceit.  The New York street scenes are well described and the characters that inhabit them are fairly well drawn (except, curiously, for the girl, who the reader never really gets to know).  Unltimately, the story just doesn't amount to all that much, though there is one grisly scene in which two men fall out a high window that is quite shocking and shows that Atwood has potential as a storyteller.  He just needs more scenes like that one.<br />Overall, &quot;East of A&quot; is not a bad novel, just not a terribly memorable one.	2002-01-06
1706161:US	51809405	R3K4XY8PY4FHYL	006019832X	82560035	Hope to Die (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Scudder, Back on Top	If there is any doubt that Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder is the best private detective series currently ongoing, &quot;Hope to Die&quot; dispells it.  After two subpar Scudder efforts (&quot;Even the Wicked&quot; and &quot;Everybody Dies&quot;) that made one wonder if it wasn't time for the alcoholic P.I. to pack it in, he returns here as good as he has ever been.<br />To his credit, Block uses a literary device this time that's he's never used before in a Scudder novel, namely interspersing the usual first person narrative with a view through the eyes of the villian.  It could have backfired, but instead it succeeds brilliantly as Block creates one of the most chilling enemies that Scudder has ever faced.  The story involves the grizzly murder of a Manhattan socialite couple and the apparent murder -suicide of the perpetrators.  Scudder is turned on to the possibility that there is something more to it and begins scratching around.  Sure enough, before long more bodies start turning up, the victims of a criminal mastermind.<br />Block is a first rate crime writer who pulls no punches in his descriptions.  Scudder's contiuned growth as a character during the series is another plus, and its nice to see him back in his element.  &quot;Hope to Die&quot; leaves you waiting impatiently for the next Scudder novel.	2002-01-05
1709881:US	51809405	R3HVEDLFEVGK8Q	0892966661	360210179	The Final Country	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Crumley Coasts on His Reputation	Way back in the 1970s, James Crumley wrote \\"The Wrong Case\\" and \\"The Last Good Kiss,\\" two of the finest detective fiction novels ever released.  If the great gonzo journalist Hunter S. Thompson wrote detective novels, his would read a lot like Crumley's.  Alas, like Thompson, Crumley has lost a few miles-an-hour off his fastball as he's gotten older.  He writes at a glacial pace, and this is his first novel in over five years (since 1996's \\"Bordersnakes\\").<br />The hero this time out is Milo Milodragovich, appearing in his third novel since his memorable debut in \\"The Wrong Case.\\"  Milo has relocated from Montana to Texas and is semi-retired on a small fortune he \\"stole\\" in \\"Bordersnakes.\\"  He can't stay away from the deteective game, however, and ends up with two interrelated cases, neither of which are good for his health.  The story features a myriad of characters (over two dozen, I would guess) and meanders like a river across the Texas plain.  The scenery is colorful, and the dialog is snappy, but the story is confused, and leads to a less than completely plausible ending.  Additionally, the chief villian is only on stage for a total of about a half a dozen or so pages, and is not developed enough as a character to make the first of two climax scenes resonate.<br />Overall, \\"The Final Country\\" is not a bad novel.  Crumley is a better writer than 99% of the mytery authors working today, and is still capable of creating vividly memorable scenes. Unfortunately, there are just not enough of them here to give this novel an unqualified recommendation.	2002-01-03
1723181:US	51809405	R1FY1JZ9JIYTZ2	0060920084	754387444	The Lost Continent: Travels in Small-Town America	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Early Bryson Effort has a Biting Edge	Those who have become familiar with Bill Bryson from his massively popular &quot;A Walk in the Woods,&quot; might be a bit taken aback by &quot;The Lost Continent.&quot;  While &quot;Woods&quot; is a typical Bryson book, well-researched, opinionated and, of course, first rate travel writing, Bryson smoothed the edges of his biting humor ever so slightly.  That is most decidedly NOT the case with &quot;The Lost Continent,&quot; in which Bryson heaps out much his trademark satire and humor which is at times decidely not good-natured.<br />The book takes Bryon on an automobile journey across America and back, mostly through small towns and historical sights.  He brings an intersting perspective in that he had spent the previous decade living in Great Britain, and this journey helped reacquaint him with America.  In this, he is a perfect commentator, combining his native Midwestern sensibilities with an adult perspective in which much of what he sees he does not expect because of his long absence from his native soil.<br />Throughout the book, Bryson make references to his father and the family trips taken across the U.S. when he was a child.  In this, &quot;The Lost Continent&quot; is a very personal work for him.  He dedicated the book to his late father and even though dad is a constance source of (very funny) satire, it also manages to be quite touching.<br />Overall, this is an excellent work from a first rate travel writer and humorist.  But if you don't like an edge to your humor, you should probably pass.	2001-12-22
1741431:US	51809405	RVSZKGHDWGWK3	0380476053	525631916	Infinite Dreams	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Haldeman's First Short Story Collection	&quot;Infinite Dreams&quot; is Joe Haldeman's first short story collection (&quot;Dealing in Futres&quot; is the second), and while I'd give the nod to &quot;Futures&quot; in terms of more consistent quality, &quot;Dreams&quot; is a decent collection in its own right.  Haldeman knows how to spin a good tale, much like Stephen King with his short stories.  Haldeman's usually come from a science fiction angle, and he's one of that genre's more grounded authors, including here a war analogy story based upon his own experiences in Vietnam (&quot;A Mind of His Own&quot;).<br />Some of the other better stories in this collection include &quot;The Mazel Tov Revolution,&quot; an example of Jewish science fiction; &quot;All the Universe in a Mason Jar&quot; a humorous story about aliens and moonshine; &quot;26 Days, On Earth,&quot; a fine coming of age story; and &quot;Summer's Lease,&quot; a poiniant philosophical story.<br />Overall, any lover of science fiction should love this collection.	2001-12-08
1747166:US	51809405	RGSH8K9VROQJ3	0393309851	511984872	A Nation of Enemies: Chile Under Pinochet (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	39	42	N	N	A Solid Journalistic Account	&quot;A Nation of Enemies&quot; is a fascinating and well-balanced account of the Pinochet years in Chile.  The book chronicles the abuses and the successes (yes, there were a few, particularly where the economy was concerned) of one of Latin America's more notorious dictators.  Pinochet's reign could be described as the banality of evil.  There was considerable political repression, and hundreds of Chileans lost their lives, but his was a rule more by ham-handed thuggery than systematic destruction like the Nazis.  In the end, Pinochet was brought down not by revolution, but by his own ineptness.<br />The authors do a good job in providing the historical context for their story.  They show both how Chile had a strong tradition of democracy before Pinochet, and how the excesses of his Socialist predecessor Allende helped lead to the coup that brought him to power.  The authors also debunk the notion that the U.S. was behind the coup, though they acknowledge that the Nixon administration and the CIA did everything they could to politically undermine Allende before the coup.<br />The book is broken down into sections covering various aspects of Chilean society, rather than chronologically.  The last chapter deals with the events that led to Pinochet's electoral downfall, and the relatively peaceful return to democracy in Chile.  If the book has a drawback, it is that it was published in 1991, and therefore lacks a chapter on post-Pinochet Chile.<br />Overall, this is an excellent book for anyone interested in world history or politics.	2001-12-03
1755371:US	51809405	R2K6CBA1UYE1AX	0345409469	137607328	The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Sagan Sounds a Warning	The underlying message of Carl Sagan's &quot;The Demon Haunted World&quot; is twofold.  First, that we are becoming an increasingly scientifically illeterate society, and second, that our ignorance of science is a threat not only to the security of our future, but to the freedoms we all enjoy.  Sagan spends much of the book debunking so-called psuedo-science (alien abductions, psycotherapy, astrology, etc).  He also makes the point that America is doing a very poor job educating its young about the wonders of science.  Sagan also castigates the media for not exercising more scepticism in scientific reporting, and, indeed, mostly ignoring hard science altogether.<br />The book itself is a bit disjointed, with several chapters deriving from expanded magazine articles.  Additionally, Sagan pontificates about political issues, and reveals a leftist political bent.  He also has a tendancy at times to overemphasize his point.  Nevertheless, he has some important points to make, and as a society we would be better off if we paid close attention to many of the issues he raises.	2001-11-27
1758496:US	51809405	R3J99Q03GBOL7L	0060188227	487593175	Shooting Dr. Jack	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Average First Novel	Norman Green would like his &quot;Shooting Dr. Jack&quot; to be a gritty crime novel of the Andrew Vachss mode.  Indeed, it has the right elements; shady underworld characters, a heartlss neighborhood, and and good amount of violence.  Neverheless, it feels like a novel written by someone who has spent their life outside looking in at the world of crime.  This novel, while interesting and with enough compelling characers to pull it along, never quite feels authentic.  Despite its attempt t be street hip, it is actully quite conventional.<br />Would I recommend this novel?  I suppose I would to anyone who likes a good crime story.  It is moderately ententaining, but not all that memorable.	2001-11-25
1780431:US	51809405	R34WYORJEHKKVF	0226500616	907441434	Young Men and Fire: A True Story of the Mann Gulch Fire	Books	3	7	15	N	N	An Old Man Rambles On	I purchased &quot;Young Man and Fire&quot; after reading author Norman Maclean's son John's excellent &quot;Fire on the Mountain.&quot;  While both books concern similar subject matter, that being the devastating effects of forest fire &quot;blowups&quot; and the resulting loss of firefighters' lives, John's book is simply a much better read than his father's.  Some of the problem may be that Norman died before &quot;Young Men&quot; was completed despite having spent nearly eight years on it.  Norman Maclean writes is a flowery literary style, which may have been appropriate for his &quot;A River Runs Through It,&quot; but is distracting in a work of non-fiction.  Additionally, only the first third of the book is about the fire itself.  The remainder focusses on the attempts by Norman Maclean and others to determine how the disaster happened, and quite frankly it is just not interesting enough to justify 200 pages of text.<br />&quot;Young Men and Fire&quot; is not a bad book for those interested in the subject matter.  But as a work of journalism, it is lacking.	2001-11-07
1782639:US	51809405	R10XMMO1T56VEL	0892967064	913247504	A Smile on the Face of the Tiger (The Amos Walker Series #15)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	15 Novels Later, Amos Walker STILL Rocks	Most mystery series have become either worn out or routine by the time they get around to their 15th outing.  Not so Loren Estlemen's Amos Walker P.I. series.  If anything, Estlemen and his hero are getting better.  &quot;A Smile of the Face of the Tiger&quot; is the fourth Walker book since Estlemen took a seven year hiatus from his favorite shamus, and it is easily the best of the &quot;comeback&quot; novels.  Walker remains one of the few who truly does carry on the torch of Phillip Marlowe with his lonliness, cynicism and uncorruptible nature.<br />This time out, he tracks a old pulp fiction writer who has disappeared after turning down an advance to reprint one of his old novels.  I've seen this story line several times before, but Estlemen gets clever with it.  Along the way, he weaves in his usual menacing mobster (a Sammy &quot;the Bull&quot; Gravano clone, no less) and corrupt police officer angles, also in a fresh and unique way.  It also helps that Estlemen puts two of the series's better supporting characters, police Lieutenant Mary Ann Thaler and beguiling publisher's representative Louise Starr, to good use this time out.  As always, the real hero of the story is the once great city of Detroit, still struggling to regain some of its lost luster, this time with casino gambling.<br />Overall, Walker is among the best private detectives in the literary world today, and this is one of his best novels to date.	2001-11-06
1787696:US	51809405	R1P2PMIELLVR1T	1559705582	669453712	The Weather Factor: How Nature Has Changed History	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not exactly what it purports to be	First the positive: &quot;The Weather Factor&quot; is a readable book that tells some good stories.  Now the negative: it is also not terribly insightful for anyone who knows a lot about history.  If you already know the story of events such as the Irish potato famine, the retreats of Napoleon and Hitler in the face of the Russian winter, or of the massive Pacific storm that savaged Admiral Bull Halsey's fleet in December 1944, then you aren't going to learn anything new.  For a book allegedly about the weather, Durschimed spends so much time giving general background information that the weather itself gets the short shrift in his narratives.  He could just as easily have called the book a collection of random historical essays, which is essentially what it is.<br />The two most bizzare chapters come at the end.  One tells of his own personal experience as a war corrrespondant in the Mekon Delta, like the revelation that jungle conditions hampered American war efforts in Vietnam is a something new.  The other is his essay on possible future attempts to use weather control devices as military weapons.  This is an intriguing notion, but anyone who knows anything about science will realize that the technology for such a possibility will never be had, if at all, by 2025, which is the random date picked by the author for the title of the chapter.<br />Overall, &quot;The Weather Factor&quot; is not a bad book, but people with a real interest in weather as well as history buffs will likely be disappointed.	2001-11-01
1787707:US	51809405	RKCVLNHTFDUJE	0393010465	73699063	Fire	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Solid journalism	Sebastian Junger's book &quot;Fire&quot; is getting a lot of attention these days becasue of Junger's visit to Afghanistan in November 2000, and his visit with the military leader of the Northern Alliance, who has since been assassinated.  This section, however, is only one chapter in a book that is a collection of diverse stories ranging from reportage on Western U.S. wildfires to the battlefields of Kosovo and Sierra Leonne.  Junger is a good reporter and an excellent writer who knows how to make his stories come alive for the reader.  He originally conceived a book in which he would report on the most dangerous jobs in the world, hence the first two chapters on Western firefighters and the third on a traditional whale hunter.  Junger then discovered he had a knack as a foreign correspondent and ventured into some of the world's war zones.  With all of his stories, Junger provides valuable insight for the reader, especially in his reporting on the long standing division of Cyprus, which he co-authored with another journalist.<br />The only drawback is that Junger's pieces are the original magazine articles and are not expanded upon for the book.  The focus of each article also tends to be very narrow, especially in the foreign pieces.  Junger lacks the depth of master correspondent like Thomas Friedman, and the book is fairly slight at just over 220 pages.  Nevertheless, he is a skilled writer, and this makes for excellent and informative reading.	2001-11-01
1795190:US	51809405	RSU8IKKU6K3ZN	0471384208	300078036	Great Shipwrecks of the Pacific Coast	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Good Book for Nautical Disaster Buffs	&quot;Great Shipwrecks of the Pacific Coast,&quot; contains the stories of 10 deadly maritime disasters that all occurred between the 1850s and the 1920s.  It does not attempt to be a comprehensive list of such disasters.  As such, it is a cut above the usual for these kind of books.  Author Robert Belyk is a historian, and though his prose it a bit dry at times, he delivers the goods with first hand accounts from the survivors and overall descriptions of the disasters.  He also includes a little background of each story as well as the aftermath.  This book will be much appreciated by anyone who enjoys a good maritime disaster tale.	2001-10-26
1803049:US	51809405	RMTSV21JEK2VF	0892966831	344064317	The Hours of the Virgin (The Amos Walker Series #14)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Amos Walker Comes to Grip with His Past	For a dozen previous novels, P.I. Amos Walker would occasionally mention the death of his former partner and mentor, who was killed during a stakeout of an adulterous husband.  But not until &quot;The Hours of the Virgin,&quot; do we find out just how much that tragic event affected him.  Walker is investigating a case involving a missing fifteenth century manuscript when he is double crossed and disciovers that his partner's murderer is involved.  Along the way, Walker learns much about his partner's death, and life, that he never knew.  All of this leads to a satisfying climax in which Walker finally confronts some of his own inner demons.<br />Estlemen's Walker P.I. series is one of the best currently going.  Unlike a lot of the fluff that passes for hard boiled detective novels these days, Walker is the real deal.  All of his novels have the kind of downcast loneliness that is vital to the genre.  The spirit of Phillip Marlowe lives on in Amos Walker.	2001-10-20
1804567:US	51809405	R26BP5TVGTOSMZ	0670806358	213423025	Dealing in Futures	Books	5	5	5	N	N	First Rate Short Story Collection	Joe Haldeman is an excellent short story writer, as he proves in &quot;Dealing in Futures.&quot;  The book opens with the chilling novella &quot;Seasons,&quot; about an outer space anthropological study gone horribly wrong.  Another lengthy item is &quot;You Can Never Go Back,&quot; which was originally intended to be the middle portion of Haldeman's best novel &quot;The Forever War,&quot; and was actually included in later versions of that book.  The best of the shorter stories include &quot;More Than the Sum of His Parts,&quot; a graphic outer space horror story, the humorous &quot;A !Tangled Web,&quot; an excellent historical story &quot;Manifest Destiny,&quot; as well as several poems by the author.  This work is nearly as good as Stephen King's short story collections.  Any sci-fi fan or lover of a good tale should enjoy it.	2001-10-18
1806994:US	51809405	R3M00BMGUBLPYP	0375503315	838011633	Brothel: Mustang Ranch and Its Women	Books	4	35	38	N	N	A very informative account of an under reported topic	Unlike illegal drugs, prostitution has received very little in the way of serious study. That's what makes Alexa Albert's book, &quot;Brothel&quot; so valuable. Despite her queasiness with the subject matter, Albert has managed to write a well balanced book that frankly portrays the pros and cons of legalized prostitution. There are a lot of surprises in the book, not the least of which is that nuances of the personalities of the working girls themselves. They do not all come from poor backgrounds, nor are they all victims of prior sexual abuse. They do not all have drug problems, nor are they all subservient to men. In short, their backgrounds are as varied as their stories.<br />Having said that, Albert's book is not for everyone. It is at times very sexually frank and contains some scenes that are not for the squeamish. I also found the passages where Albert worries about what her family will think of her research to be distracting and not relevant. It is enough for Albert to say that her feelings about what she witnesses are conflicted. This is a difficult subject, and this book should be read by both those who believe (as I do) that prostitution ought to be legalized on a wider basis and by those who would seek to try and eradicate it. Whatever your position, this book is guaranteed to surprise you.	2001-10-17
1816451:US	51809405	R2XQDP48X27XO0	0375413227	723539103	Pain Management: A Burke Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Burke, Out of His Element	I'm a huge fan of Andrew Vachss's Burke series, having read all thirteen novels, so it pains me to say that Burke seems to be losing his edge.  &quot;Pain Management&quot; is the second consecutive subpar Burke novel, as well as the second consecutive to take its hero away from his native New York and his fascinating cast of supporting characters.  That wouldn't be so bad, except that the story lags, leading to an ending that is less than satisfying.<br />Vachss is among the best modern mystery writers.  He uses very spare prose and cutting dialog befitting of the violent underworld that Burke inhabits.  Vachss understands the criminal mind better than any other writer in the genre.  Unfortunately, he is also getting way too preachy.  This time, he takes on the drug war and how it is responsible for the suffering of critically and terminally ill patients by denying them adequate pain relief.  But even if you agree with Vachss (as I do) the soapbox bit gets tiring.  Even Vachss's usual issue, child abuse, is not used effectively this time around.  The motivation of the missing teenager that Burke is searching for when finally revealed seems implausible and somewhat trite.<br />Overall, this Burke novel ranks among the worst of the series.  That still doesn't mean its bad, just that it leaves you wishing it had been better.	2001-10-09
1834095:US	51809405	R1KD1N1C2TIUJL	0553293494	51652490	State's Evidence	Books	3	0	1	N	N	An average Tanner, based upon the &quot;Evidence&quot;	Steephen Greeleaf's John Marshall Tanner private eye series is not quite as good as the best of the genre, though some of the stories are of high quality.  &quot;State's Evidence,&quot; is not among the better ones.  The convoluted plot has Tanner spending time investigating a woman's disappearance in the sleazy Bay town of El Gordo on behalf of the local district attorney.  The woman is a witness against the town's leading mob figure.  The story has a good level of violence, and takes plenty of twists and turns, but unfortunately becomes a bit too complex for its own good.  Tanner makes a good P.I.  He's fearless, tough talking, lonely and just a touch cynical.  He's just not given first rate material to work with during this particular outing.  If you are new to the Tanner series, I'd recommend &quot;Grave Erros,&quot; or &quot;Past Tense&quot; instead.	2001-09-20
1834099:US	51809405	RVUH3NTLMYHQL	1891620517	295701048	Royko: A Life in Print	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good for Royko fans, probably not otherwise	&quot;Royko: A Life in Print&quot; is a good book for fans who, like me, may not have been aware of many aspects of his personal history.  As such, the book delivers the goods and is a fairly straightforward retelling of the life of &quot;The Best Columnist of His Generation.&quot;  That said, if you're not a fan, there isn't much here that would compell you to read this book.  The author interviewed a lot of Royko's friends and associates, and the portrayal that comes across is one of a hardworking, fair-minded, alcoholic columnist from the old school of two-fisted journalism who had an uncanny ability to find the right tone in the over 8,000 columns that he wrote.<br />Unfortunately, the book doesn't really manage to get inside Royko's head, other than to show the obvious.  He was a product of his relatively poor, urban ethnic upbringing, and he had insecurities that continued to plague him despite his massive success.  He loathed racism in the 1960s, but also came to loathe political correctness in the 1990s.  He blasted the senior Mayor Daley at every turn, but came to support his son despite having compared him to one of the three stooges.  All of this Ciccone dutifully recounts, as well as Royko's troubled private life and prickly relationship with his professional colleagues.<br />Overall, this book benefits from having Mike Royko as its subject, but ultimately it does not transcend him.	2001-09-20
1845621:US	51809405	RV50HULGB396F	0571162657	569552891	GoodFellas (Based on the Book "Wiseguy" by Nicholas Pileggi)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best Gangster Film Ever Made	Martin Scorsese's &quot;Goodfellas&quot; is, hands down, the best gangster film ever made.  &quot;The Godfather&quot; created the mythical imagery of mob families that was forever buried by this gutty, bloody real life drama.  Based upon the true story as told by the film's main character, Henry Hill, &quot;Goodfellas is the best filmed example of the real life glamour and woekmanlike drudgery that goes with being a wiseguy.  It is difficult to imagine a show like &quot;The Sopranos,&quot; for example, had not &quot;Goodfellas&quot; reinvented the gangster film genre.<br />Ray Liotta is excellent as Henry, but the movie's real showcases are the performances of Joe Pesci and Robert DiNiro as his partners in crime.  Pesci in particular gives a tour de force performance that is downright frightening.  Other first rate performances come from Lorraine Bracco as Henry's Jewish wife and Paul Sorvino, whose performance as a real life Godfather could not be more different than Marlon Brando's.<br />This film is a must see for anyone who enjoys gangster movies.  It also has to rank as THE best American movie of the 1990s.	2001-09-08
1852118:US	51809405	R1C8LJDL9F7SD1	0312924291	363722355	The Westies: Inside New York's Irish Mob	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Good Real Life Mob Book	Those who get a little too wrapped up in &quot;The Sopranos&quot; should read books like &quot;The Westies&quot; every now and then just to remind them of what havoc real life organized crime can inflict.  The book chronicles the rise and fall of the Irish gang of the same name that was every bit as bloodthirsty as John Gotti's more famous crew.  The gang occupied New York City's since regentrified Hell's Kitchen neighborhood.  Mystery author Lawrence Block effectively used the Westies lore in creating the character Mickey Ballou in the Matthew Scudder private detective series.  The fictional Ballou could be Jimmy Coonan or Mickey Featherstone, the real life chieftans of the gang, who were known for dismembering victims and dumping their bodies in the East River.<br />&quot;The Westies&quot; is a brutally violent story and one that makes good reading for anyone who likes real life organized crime stories.  The prose and the reporting are a cut above average for this type of book.	2001-09-03
1859220:US	51809405	R5P3HFLIMI7IX	0385298951	256511826	Jackpot	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Hitting the &quot;Jackpot&quot; with Nameless	The &quot;Nameless Detective&quot; Private Detective series is not the best such series out there, but it is always dependable. &quot;Jackpot&quot; is no exception to the rule. As the book opens, Nameless is still recovering psycologically from the events of the previous book, &quot;Shackles,&quot; (the best of the series) in which he was chained and left to die in a mountain cabin. This time out, he investigates the suicide of a young woman's brother that came on the heels of the brother winning and losing a huge fortune in a casino. Of course, Nameless's investigation proves there was a lot more to the story. Much of the action takes place in Nevada, which is a refrsehing change of scenery from Nameless's native San Francisco. The plot moves along quickly and reaches a satisfying conclusion, except for one flaw. The scene in which Nameless confronts a big time mobster simply doesn't ring plausible. Otherwise, it is a fine entry in this always dependable series.	2001-08-28
1862920:US	51809405	R1ENTEXEI39EJU	0385271395	993514788	Death Bed	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Tanner's second is somewhat pedestrian	Stephen Greenleaf's John Marshall Tanner detective series has always been dependable, but never quite on par with luminaries such as Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder or the great Raymond Chandler's Phillip Marlowe. &quot;Death Bed&quot; was the second novel in the series, and it suffers a bit from the sophomore slump. It delves into subject matter that includes a dying multi-millionaire searching for his estranged son, and the dying embers of 1960s radicalism in the early 1980s. Throw in a subpolt about a missing hotshot investigative reporter and a disillusioned physician, and things get complicated enough. The story's main problem is that the 60s radical angle doesn't come off that well. James Crumley did a much better job examining that theme in &quot;The Last Good Kiss&quot; and &quot;The Wrong Case.&quot; And the ending is not the most plausible that Greenleaf has ever come up with. Overall, the Tanner series is a good one, but this is not one of the better entries.	2001-08-25
1863165:US	51809405	R2D4NNVIIB5267	0312269714	792118427	Coming Back Alive	Books	3	8	15	N	N	Yet Another &quot;Perfect Storm&quot;	See if this story doesn't sound familiar, unexpected strong storm catches a fishing boat unprepared and sinks it and Coast Guard helicopters attempt a near impossible rescue at sea while loved ones fret onshore. Change the setting from the North Atlantic to the Gulf of Alaska, and it is &quot;The Perfect Storm&quot; all over again. There have been a lot of books that have attempted to follow the massive success of Sebastian Junger's bestseller. In the case of &quot;Coming Back Alive,&quot; the story itself has its interesting aspects, but author Spike Walker lacks Junger's deft storytelling touch. The book tries to paint a backdrop of life in the fishing villages in Southeastern Alaska, but manages to do so somewhat incompletely. The snapshots of living in this vast wilderness are interesting but disjointed, and this portion of the book meanders. Walker throws in a couple of other dramtic Coast Gueard rescue missions, including one that ended tragically, but since those missions happened many years before the main story, they seem a little misplaced. And unlike the recently published, &quot;The Rescue Season,&quot; which is about Alsaka Mountain rescue crews, this book doesn't do as good a job at getting into the psyche pf those who risk their lives in such a dramatic style helping others. Overall, Walker's book is not bad reading for those with a particular interest in the subject matter. But don't expect another perfect storm story.	2001-08-25
1874352:US	51809405	R1UO09CMQA64A9	0061051748	467268065	Disaster! The Great San Francisco Earthquake and Fire of 1906	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Informative but not Compelling	&quot;Disaster&quot; was a disappointment for me, mainly because I'd greatly enjoyed two of author Dan Krzman's previous books, &quot;Fatal Voyage,&quot; and &quot;Left to Die,&quot; about the U.S.S. Indianapolis and U.S.S. Juneau disasters, respectively.  Those books, in addition to being informative history, tell great stories.  Alas, &quot;Disatser&quot; makes a similar attempt in the storytelling department but fails.  The book contains plenty of facts and first hand accounts of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire, but it is strangely disjointed.  There are so many stories of numerous survivors interwoven together that individually they are hard to follow.  And since the book checks in at a fairly brief 256 pages of text, each snippet of each story usually gets only a couple of paragraphs before moving on.  Together, the stories blend into a rather shapeless mass that all start to sound alike.  Kurzman would have been better served to tell his story from the larger perspective and using individual stories where they fit in.  This approach served David McCullough extremely well in his excellnt &quot;The Johnstown Flood,&quot; which serves as the ideal model for this type of book.<br />Overall, if you are interested in the subject matter or are a disaster buff, this book should be worthwhile with the above caveats.  If you are a casual reader, you may want to consider taking a pass on this one.	2001-08-17
1874639:US	51809405	R1XD0T2X94XY0Q	0446607606	479656433	The Witch Finder (The Amos Walker Series #13)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	You'll find this Amos Walker novel to be typical	The Amos Walker private detective series is one of the best ones currently going, as is also one that a reader who has never indulged can pick up any entry in the series and not feel lost.  Loren Estleman has all the moves down by this time for Walker, and &quot;The Witchfinder&quot; is typical of the series.  Walker has run-ins with the cops, gets mixed up in a homicide investigation, and comes up against an assortment of low lifes and homicidal killers, your typical day at the office.  He's hired by a dying millionaire archetect to find out who &quot;framed&quot; the love of his life eight years ago and caused him to break off their relationship.  The story takes an appropriate number of twists and turns, and as usual Walker remains uncorruptable throughout.<br />Though not among the best of the Walker series (that would be &quot;Sugartown,&quot; or &quot;The Glass Highway&quot;), it is still a solid effort from one of the best P.I.s since Phillip Marlowe.	2001-08-16
1875135:US	51809405	R3OERVM8HYSNXO	0515083704	120614909	Sometimes They Bite	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Very good short story collection	For my money, Stephen King is the best short story writer of the last thirty years.  I've never read a short story anthology by any other author to match his &quot;Night Shift,&quot; or &quot;Skelton Crew&quot; collections.  But Lawrence Block comes close with &quot;Sometimes They Bite.&quot;  Block may be a crime writer, but some of his stories, like the excellent title story, read similar to King's horror work, especially his non-supernatural horror work.  Private Detective Matthew Scudder makes one fine appearance in this collection, as does Bernie Rhodenbarr of Block's &quot;Burglar&quot; series.  The rest are a hodgepodge of stories told from the point of view of victims, perpetrators and cops.  Some work better than others, of course, but there isn't a dud in the lot.<br />Fans of Lawrence Block should check out this book for a different view of an author who normally produces great novels.	2001-08-16
1881264:US	51809405	R3CRJLTYTB93T6	1559639083	717788423	At the Ends of the Earth: A History Of The Polar Regions	Books	2	4	9	N	N	A meandering hodgepodge of stories and facts	Kieran Mulvaney's &quot;At the Ends of the Earth&quot; is a strong candidate for this year's most misleading subtitle award.  The subtitle states that the book is &quot;A History of the Polar Regions,&quot; a pretty hefty task, especially for a book that clocks in at a mere 245 pages of text.  Of course, it is not a comprehensive, or even a very complete history.  Instead, the book is really a essay on the environmental damage man's presence has caused in both the Arctic and Anarctic.  Stories of famous explorers like Admundsen, Scott, Cook, Peary and the like get mentions ranging from a couple of sentences to a few paragraphs.  The majority of the book concerns such subjects as whaling, seal hunting, oil exploration, the effects of civilization on eskimos and so forth.<br />Were the book as well written and as focussed and balanced as recent environmental tomes such as &quot;Oceans End&quot; and &quot;Earth Odyssey,&quot; it would still be a worthwhile read.  Instead, Mulvaney spends most of his time regurgitating facts and statistics until they become numbing.  His leftist environmental stance is also hard to take by anyone who doesn't share his zealous views.  He comes off as the kind of environmentalist who would rather see human civilization collapse than have it do anything to further exploit natural resources.  In the end, I suspect that his book will have little impact, as he will find himself preaching only to the already committed.	2001-08-12
1888272:US	51809405	R1XHSJN6ZPYXX0	0380725355	997279820	Everybody Dies (Matthew Scudder)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Not Everybody Died	&quot;Everybody Dies&quot; represents author Lawrence Block's attempt to reintroduce the edge that the great private detective Matthew Scudder lost in the previous novel, &quot;Even the Wicked.&quot;  In &quot;Wicked,&quot; Scudder turned into super-sleuth, solving three high profile cases while never coming remotely close to courting physical danger.  The result was the weakest novel of the 14 (and counting) in the series.  &quot;Everybody Dies&quot; tries to be different.  Right off the bat, Scudder is viscously attacked on the street, his AA sponser is killed by a hired gunman who mistakes him for Scudder, and his gangster buddy Mick Ballou's bar is firebombed, which kills a dozen people including Scudder's former mistress.  The rest of the novel concerns Scudder and Ballou's search for those responsible in order to take revenge.<br />All of this sounds exciting, and yet it is curiously rather sterile.  In the best Scudder books, the threat is always lurking in the background, including the threat that Scudder might fall off the wagon.  Here it seems over the top and not particularly plausible.  The leading badguy seems as if he'd be incapable of being organized enough to take on Ballou the way he does and the climatic battle has surprisingly little tension.  One problem, I think, is that Scudder has become far too domesticated with his stable marriage and stable life.  As a character, he needs to return to the edge.  Otherwise his stories will continue to be safe and predictable, rather than daring like the best of the series, no matter how many minor characters Block kills off in the process.	2001-08-07
1890259:US	51809405	RTEI5S7A266GT	0446605964	448277818	Never Street (The Amos Walker Series #12)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Walker, Back from Beyond	After a seven year absence, tough guy Detroit private detective Amos Walker returned in 1997 with &quot;Never Street.&quot;  I'm a huge fan of P.I. fiction, and Walker is one of the best around.  He doesn't work the streets of Detroit so much as he INHABITS them.  &quot;Never Street&quot; is longer and more complex than any Walker story up until that time as Amos tries to find a missing video producer and noir film buff who appears to be acting out his fantasy of sisappearing into one of his movies.  For any fan of classic film noir, this is a MUST read.  As a mystery, it reads reasonably well, although is not nearly as good as the best of the Walker series (novels such as &quot;Sugartown&quot; and &quot;The Glass Highway&quot;).  Walker novels suffer a bit from too little reliance on supporting characters.  Reappearing cops John Alderdyce and Mary Ann Thaler make a brief turn here, but only in the background of the story.  Walker does have a rare romance this time out, and that helps give the story a bit of a lift.<br />Overall, fans of Amos Walker should enjoy this entry in the series.  His is a welcome return.	2001-08-05
1891773:US	51809405	RK3M5V7QADHZX	0380725347	399784443	Even the Wicked (Matthew Scudder)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Scudder Gets Way Too Satisfied	The Matthew Scudder series is one of my favorite private eye fiction series (I've read all 14 novels).  Unfortunately, &quot;Even the Wicked&quot; is easilly the least enjoyable of the bunch.  Author Lawrence Block deserves credit for allowing Scudder's character to grow and mature over the years; going from down-and-out alcoholic to struggling AA member to reasonably stable married man while still maintaining an edge.  At least, he had until &quot;Wicked.&quot;  The three interwoven storylines are pure New York City (more so, in fact, than any past entry in the series).  But they have absolutely no edge to them.  At no time does Scudder seem remotely in physical danger.  Instead, he turns into super-sleath, solving high profile cases that are baffling entire police departments.  Also, his relationship with Elaine, who he is now married to, has grown stale.<br />Maybe Block sensed these problems and that is why he attempted to give the next (and currently most recent) entry in the series, &quot;Everybody Dies,&quot; much more of an edge.  If you are not familiar with how great Scudder can be, I implore to to start elsewhere in the series.  The best two are arguably, &quot;Eight Million Ways to Die,&quot; and &quot;When the Sacred Ginmill Closes.&quot;	2001-08-04
1929314:US	51809405	R1GF0YX00X0WCZ	0445202106	745485966	Blunt Darts	Books	3	5	5	N	N	To put it bluntly, not bad	&quot;Blunt Darts&quot; is the first novel in Jerimiah Healy's John Cuddy private detective series.  As such it's a good effort.  I am a huge fan of private detective novels and this was my first Cuddy effort.  I would rank it in the middle of the pack among such novels.  It has some elements that make these novels great.  The hero is world weary and lonely, having recently lost his wife.  The story has some good hardboiled elements and the ending takes shome shocking turns.  On the downside is Healy's use of two overused elements, The Rich Family with Dark Secrets, and The Corrupt Small Town Police Force.  Quite frankly, a lot of private detective writers seem tohave a pathological dislike for rich people and small town cops.  Overall, this isn't a bad start to the series, but here's hoping that later stories are more intersting.	2001-07-07
1934913:US	51809405	R2D8OPHGJAWAV2	0312969198	41453332	A Cold Day in Paradise: An Alex McKnight Novel (Alex McKnight Novels)	Books	3	15	20	N	N	Award Winning Novel is Merely Average	&quot;A Cold Day in Paradise&quot; scored an extremely rare coup in winning bost the Edgar and Shamus Award for best first mystery novel.  I am a huge fan of private detective fiction and on that basis alone I gave it a read.  Maybe it was the hype, but I was somewhat disappointed.  The novel starts out well, former Detroit cop Alex McKnight has retired to the bleak shores of Lake Superior after having received a bullet in the chest.  The cold landscape of Northern Michigan in the late fall is a perfect backdrop for a good hard-edged story.  Alas, it fails to materialize.<br />The plot is strangely oblique and uses the old device of a killer out of the hero's past.  It works well for a while, but ultimately stretches plausibility.  The book also doesn't make as good a use of its setting as it could.  McKnight never explains why he chose to live where he does (other than a tenuous family tie) and the events of the book have no unique local flavor to them.  But the novel's biggest flaw is the presence of two characters.  One is the local Chief of Police, who takes an absurd pathological dislike to McKnight for no particular reason that I could discern.  The other is the character of a missing man's wife with whom McKnight had an affair.  Her nastiness also seems contrived and their relationship, after taking an implausible turn, is left bizarrely unresolved at the end of the book.<br />Overall, author Steve Hamilton has some of the moves to be a great private detective fiction writer.  But he's nowhere near there yet, awards not withstanding.	2001-07-03
1938026:US	51809405	R2RPVBFSOCQGE8	0374108307	915039649	Bad Bet on the Bayou: The Rise and Fall of Gambling in Louisiana and the Fate of Governor Edwin Edwards	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Bored on the Bayou	Taylor Bridges' &quot;Bad Bet on the Bayou&quot; is a comprehensive account of how legal gambling (excuse me, &quot;gaming&quot;) came to pass in Louisiana and how it eventually led to the criminal conviction of the state's populist ex-governor Edwin Edwards.  The story is one of shady deals, sleazy politicians and outright bribery.  Edwards was just one of many crooked characters who put their own interests ahead of the state's.  As a result, New Orleans received a white elephant land casino, the Mississippi River and other Louisiana waterways got riverboat casinos that never leave the docks and every bar, gas station and truck stop got a video poker machine.  This was supposed to help cure the state's financial woes, but it instead led to a spate of corruption and a whole host of social ills.<br />All of this sounds interesting and it is to a point.  The problem with the book is that it is TOO comprensive to be a truly good read.  Bridges spends a couple of hundred pages painstakingly recounting every aspect of the dealmaking that took place, far more than will hold the attention of most readers.  Only in the book's last hundred pages does he finally get to the Edward DeBartolo riverboat deal which was ultimately Governor Edwards' downfall.  Bridges provides a good perspective of the state's long history with gambling, but his insistance of recounting the entire life history of just about every player slows his story down.  Interestingly, he give the least amount of space to his least compelling argument; that of the people who become addicted to gambling.  He recounts the stories of a few working class and middle class people who blew their life savings either on the poker machines or in the casinos.  He lets stand without comment one woman's ridiculous assertion that state of Louisina is to blame for her losing $100,000 on $2 video poker bets.  Excuse me lady, but no one put a gun to your head and forced you to make those bets.<br />Overall, &quot;Bad Bet on the Bayou&quot; is a story that needed to be told as a warning to other municipalities enamored with the potential financial windfall of legalized gambling.  Unfortunately, the book's narrative is not as good as its subject.Bayou&quot; is a story that needed to be told as a warning to other municipalities enamored with the potential financial windfall of legalized gambling.  Unfortunately, the book's narrative is not as good as its subject.	2001-07-01
1938488:US	51809405	R3ASC48EL54Q8J	0380807599	681188656	The Devil Knows You're Dead: A Matthew Scudder Crime Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Devil Knows that this is a Great Scudder Novel	As if Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder series wasn't already the quirkiest private detective series around, &quot;The Devil Knows You're Dead,&quot; is Scudder's most unconventional story yet.  Superficially, the novel is about Scudder's attempt to prove that a deranged homeless man did not randomly gun down a successful lawyer.  But actually, the novel is a dissertation about death and the choices one makes in life.  During his investigation, Scudder's ex-girlfriend Jan Keane discloses to him that she has terminal cancer and asks him to procure a gun so that she can end her life before the pain consumes her.  Meanwhile, Scudder and his current love, the former call girl Elaine Mardell, are moving closer together, even as Scudder becomes more restless and Elaine begins to question the direction of her own life.  To top it off, Scudder's restlessness causes him to begin an affair with the dead lawyer's wife that he is ashamed of but unable to stop.  This causes him to question whether he will be able to continue his sobriety despite over ten successful years in AA.<br />All of this accompanies a mystery that is interesting in and of itself, but not nearly as menacing as most Scudder mysteries.  The recurring charater of the street kid TJ also shows some progression in his life during the story while assisting Scudder's investigation.  Overall, I wouldn't recommend this novel as the place to start reading Scudder since to truly enjoy it requires a lot of the previous background of the characters.  But for those who already know how good the Scudder novels are it is a must read.	2001-06-30
1941692:US	51809405	RABG8LH9BSI7P	0451451538	315854277	Vampire$: A Novel	Books	1	8	29	N	N	Give the Steak to These Awful &quot;Vampire$&quot;	John Steakley's &quot;Vampire$&quot; falls into the category of &quot;great concept--lousy execution.&quot;  That Steakley is not a terribly creative writer is immediately apparent to anyone who has read his sci-fi epic &quot;Armor.&quot;  Though that novel is pretty good, one has to question why, other than abject laziness, would he use the same two names (Jack Crow and Felix) who were the heros of the previous book?  The first scene of &quot;Vampire$&quot; starts out scary, but decends into gratuitous violence.  From there, the novel stalls, spending over a hundred pages on uneffective character deveolpment.  The mood is all wrong.  If vampires WERE real and stalking the earth, one would think that governments would have more urgency about destroying them and that those who do the job would be a little more organized.  I also found the religous aspect of the story baffling.  Quite frankly, the whole novel lost comprehension for me well before the halfway mark.  I would love to see it rewritten by someone who is able to give its great concept true justice.	2001-06-28
1942503:US	51809405	RKWBDD20HGCX3	0553293478	789323379	Grave Error	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Tanner's debut is a downcast &quot;whodunnit?&quot;	&quot;Grave Error&quot; is the first novel in Stephen Greenleaf's fine but underrated John Marshall Tanner private Detective series.  Tanner is neither as quick with his wits as Phillip Marlowe nor as eccentric as Matthew Scudder, but this novel contains the kind of hard boiled elements both would be comfortable with.  When an old friend and fellow detective is murdered while investigating a case, Tanner drops his own case only to find that the two are somehow connected.  Ultimately, the story becomes an elaborate whodunnit with plenty of twists and turns along the way.  They violence is fast and ferocious and the mood is appropriately somber.  If there is a drawback, its that because the plot is so thick, Tanner's personality is not as well defined as it should be.  Nevertheless, as P.I. novels go, this entry is very worthwhile.	2001-06-27
1944185:US	51809405	RZEX8Q8T5EBRW	0395537673	167418473	Sweet Women Lie (The Amos Walker Series #11)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Return of Mrs. Walker	In the debut novel of Loren Estleman's excellent Amos Walker P.I. series, &quot;Motor City Blue,&quot; his hero says to the reader that he will tell more about his ex-wife when &quot;I get to know you better.&quot;  Well, ten novels and a short story collection later, in &quot;Sweet Women Lie&quot; we finally get to get to meet Caterine Walker, who is every it as much of a hellcat as you would expect her to be.  She inadvertantly ensnares her ex into one of his better cases.  Involving an ex-movie starlet, an inept fellow p.i., two shady CIA operatives and a tough but honest cop, this one has all the elements of a great Walker novel.  But its the personal touch of Amos dealing with his ex that makes this novel one of the better in the series.  Checking in at a very brief 193 pages in small hardback form, it manages to contain plenty of excitement while giving a long overdue glimpse into Walker's psyche.  Though not quite as good as &quot;Sugartown,&quot; or &quot;The Glass Highway,&quot; (the best of the series), for fans of this great long running series, this entry is top notch.  For beginners, its a good place to start.	2001-06-26
1947426:US	51809405	R1WV1ZCDVXFJAN	0395410746	963357073	Silent Thunder (The Amos Walker Series #10)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Amos Sticks to His Guns	Loren Estleman's Amos Walker private eye series is one of the best of the genre.  Novels like &quot;Sugartown&quot; and &quot;The Glass Highway&quot; are among the best P.I. novels ever.  With &quot;Silent Thunder,&quot; Walker stays true to form.  He's as quick with his guns and hit wit as ever.  He continues to run into dangeorus thugs and corrupt policemen.  And he remains as uncorruptable as ever.  In this installment, Walker takes on some crazy gun dealers and a powerful businessman on behalf of a client who's about to go on trial for murdering her husband.  Its the type of case that Walker specializes in, helping the little person in a battle against the larger forces trying to extinguish them.  Unfortunately in this book, Estleman allows plausibility to get taken for a ride.  He stretches both the corrupt cop and the crazy gun nut angles way too far.  Not to mention the fact that this is the first Walker novel in which the hero begins to seem a bit stale.  Estleman has not allowed Walker to grow as a character the way Lawrence Block has with Matthew Scudder or Andrew Vachss has with his Burke charcter.  And by this, the ninth novel in the series, Walker is beginning to get a little tired.  Perhaps that is why Estleman took a seven year break from writing Walker adventures after the novel that follows this one.  Overall, Walker novels are never bad but they are usually better than this.	2001-06-23
1947763:US	51809405	R1X6L73PHAU2VJ	0380811189	429465760	A Walk Among the Tombstones: A Matthew Scudder Crime Novel	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Scudder Takes a Walk	Lawrence Block's amazing Matthew Scudder series maintains a very high level of quality considering the number of novels.  &quot;A Walk Among the Tombstones,&quot; follows &quot;A Dance at the Slaughterhouse,&quot; which was one of the best novels in the series.  &quot;Tombstones&quot; is not quite as good, largely due to an ending that is not as satisfying, but it is hardly a dud.  In &quot;Tombstones,&quot; a drug dealer whose wife was kidnapped and hideously murdered hires Scudder to track down the perpetrators.  Scudder quickly discovers that the deed was the work of a team of serial killers who have decided to turn their &quot;fun&quot; into profit.  Like most novels in the Scudder series, this one is dark and obssessed with death.  It seems that even as the alcoholic Scudder gets more of a firm handle on his sobriety and his life, his cases get uglier.  Recurring characters in this novel are the street kid T.J., the police detective Joe Durkin, the eccentric informant Danny Boy Bell and call girl Elaine Mardell, who has become the love of Scudder's life.  In fact, &quot;Tombstone&quot; features a key moment in Scudder's developing relationship with Elaine.<br />Overall, this is not the best novel in the Scudder series, but it is still well written and highly satisifying.	2001-06-23
1954189:US	51809405	R20GPQ0F6TS07	0060197641	732555943	A Voyage For Madmen	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Madmen Across the Water	There have been an amazing number of books about sailing adventures released over the past several years.  Peter Nichols's &quot;A Voyage for Madmen&quot; is one of the better ones.  Given that solo sailing circumnavigations are a yearly ritual today, we tend to forget that as recently as a generation ago it was practically unheard of.  In 1968, nine sailors, mostly independently of one another, decided to try and become the first to sail around the world alone without stopping.  This was in an era before satelite weather radar or advanced communication equipment.  Basically, for their whole voyage, the competitors faced the ravages of the sea alone.  The feat became a contest to see who could finish first and who could finish the fastest.  That seperate distinction became moot, when only one sailor was able to complete the journey.<br />Nichols expertly introduces each of the competetors and describes the unbelievable difficulties they faced.  An ardent sailor himself, he writes with much authority, but with also much drama.  The only drawback is that at times he is too technical for the non-sailor to follow, but thies hardly dulls the book's excitement.  In fact if you go in unfamiliar (as I was) with the actual event, this book reads like a novel with surprise twists and turns along the way.  And the eventual winner of the race is the type of hero, though we may question his sanity, that anyone can admire.<br />Overall, this a great book for sailing enthusiasts that can also be enjoyed by anyone else who like a good nautical story.	2001-06-18
1955073:US	51809405	R1OD7Q9IDU0EU3	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Adams Gets His Due	With his biography of John Adams, David McCullough once again proves that he is THE preminent American historian of his generation.  His Adams book is meticuously reasearched and yet very readible.  This is historical writing at its very best in that it makes its subject come alive for the reader.<br />And his subject is a man who, while certainly not forgotten, has not received his just due as a leader of the American Revolution.  While Washington was a unifying symbol and Jefferson and Hamilton were great (if flawed) visionaries, Adams was a practical man of great devotion whose contributions to this nation were every bit as important.  While Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence, it was Adams whose forceful personality pushed it through the Continental Congress.  Later on, as a Diplomat during the Revolution, Adams helped secure France's assistance, helped secure much needed financing from the Dutch and helped negotiate the Treaty of Paris that ended the war on terms much more favorable to America than the military situation warranted.<br />Adams went on to define the role of the Vice President as the first holder of that office.  Then, facing the unenviable task of succeeding the mythical Washington as President, his biggest contribution was to steadfastly maintain peace with France.  Thereby he not only avoided a potentially destructive war, he checked the rampant militarism of Hamilton and established the diplomatic climate that made possible the Louisiana Purchase three years later.  His narrow defeat for reelection three years later represents the first peacible transfer of power in modern democratic times.<br />McCullough tells of this with a master storyteller's eye.  He uses Adams's own correspondence ands that of his extraordinary wife Abigal to good effect.  He also portrays Adams's long and peculiar friendship with Jefferson, show how their lives were uniquely intertwined.  This is a monumental book which in absence of real monument to Adams will have serve as a literary substitute.s will have serve as a literary substitute.	2001-06-18
1955350:US	51809405	RPZEDODC8OU24	0679429220	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil	Books	5	1	1	N	N	So Good, Its Evil	Having just recently visited Savannah, I finally got around to reading John Berendt's spellbinding &quot;Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil.&quot;  I found it to be every bit as good as Truman Capote's real life crime saga &quot;In Cold Blood&quot; and quite a bit funnier to boot.  Berendt, like Jon Krakauer in &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; was lucky enough to be in the right place at the right time when an extraordinary series of events occurred.  In this case, he had already come to know Savannah socialite Jim Williams and had met Williams rambunctous young housemate shortly before Williams shout the younger man under mysterious circumstances.  Williams was tried no less than FOUR times for the killing.  He was convicted the first three, but each conviction was overturned on a technicality.<br />All of this plays out against a backdrop as colorful as any that has been created in fiction.  Berendt encounters a plethora of eccentric Savannah characters including a deadbeat lawyer, a black drag queen, a somewhat unstable government scientist and a host of others that could only exist in a society as strange as that of the city they inhabit.  Berendt readilly admits that there are embellishments and that the book is not intended to be a journalistic account.  This is fine, because what he has written is an entertaining masterpiece that proves once again that truth really is stranger than fiction.	2001-06-18
1957629:US	51809405	R281Z2SGX5M88Y	0451202457	578600417	The Sopranos: A Family History	Books	4	20	20	N	N	It'll be a &quot;hit&quot; on your coffee table	This rather odd book would be a great gift for any Sopranos-phile.  Instead of just being a glorified fanzine, it is put together in a style that makes it both compelling and enlightening for even the most ardent fan.  The book is written as if the author has put together a real life FBI dossier on New Jersey's leading crime family.  Included are artifacts and ancedotes that supposedly provide insight to the agents who are trying to bring down Tony and the boys.  It is a clever and amusing way to provide fans of the series with detailed background and insight into the show's myriad of characters.  But not to fear, it also provides an episode by episode recap of every show from the first two seasons (hence its one drawback, it covers ONLY the first two seasons).  Oddities abound, such as a nursing home report on Livia and a discarded credit card bill showing a month's worth of Meadow's purchases.  In fact, were it the real thing, the author's obsession with both of Tony's &quot;families&quot; would be downright creepy.  This is the kind of stuff you would expect a stalker to have in his possession.  Overall, a worthwhile book for fans, but not the sort of thing you would give to someone who hasn't already been initiated.	2001-06-15
1961296:US	51809405	RKZM21AYB5X32	0380713748	982640796	A Dance at the Slaughterhouse (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Scudder Gets Ugly	Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder series is one of the absolute best P.I. Fiction series out there.  He is one of the few that can be compared with the great Raymond Chandler's Phillip Marlowe.  And &quot;Dance at the Slaughterhouse&quot; is one of the best and is certainly the most grusome entry in the entire series.  Death has always been a preoccupation in the Scudder novels.  In New York City, death seems to be Scudder's constant companion as he struggles to remain alcohol free and to keep his life on track.  Here he begin two seemingly unconnected cases and follows their meandering leads until they start to connect in some brutally ugly ways.  Scudder has come into possession of a genuine snuff film, and he can't get it out of his mind.  Ultimately, he encounters a world of sex deviants and children who sell their bodies.  Along the way, recurring characters such as gangster Mickey Ballou, call girl Elaine and ex-pimp Chance provide plenty of color.<br />Block's Scudder series is almost unique among P.I. fiction in that it is able to maintain its edge even as its hero goes through significant life changes.  His continuing battle with the bottle provides an added tension that stays in the background like a predator ready to pounce.  Overall, this is one of the best Scudder novels and a must read for P.I. fiction fans.	2001-06-13
1964371:US	51809405	R11T11RCU205TI	0226730735	535527075	For the Love of Mike: More of the Best of Mike Royko	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another great Royko collection	This book is for those of us who love Mike Royko.  It is a sequal to the superb &quot;One More Time,&quot; collection that came out last year.  This time the introduction is written by former collegue Roger Ebert, who delivers an appropriately poinaint snapshot of the man.  Then Royko's own words take over.  As always, he is at his best when deflating puffed up politicians or defending the little guy against big corporations and big government.  This book adds a bonus of also including the verbal sparring that Royko would occasionally do with readers who outraged by a particular column.  It also singles out individual Royko sayings for easilly quotable repeating.  Royko was a true Chicago original and perhaps the best newspaper columnist of all time.  Reading this book is another reminder of how the void of his absence has yet to be filled and perhaps never will be.	2001-06-11
1970901:US	51809405	RAFUKUYJMUOQ	0679429220	505485490	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil	Books	5	11	13	N	N	So Good its Evil	I've owned this book for a long time, but it was not until after a recent trip to Savannah that I decided to give it a read.  And I certainly don't regret it.  This book ranks with Truman Capote's classic &quot;In Cold Blood&quot; as a &quot;nonfiction novel&quot; crime story.  Author John Berendt, a native New Yorker, spent the better part of a decade living in Savannah.  As fate would have it, he came to know and interview the eccentric antiques dealer Jim Williams shortly before Williams shot a young hustler who turned out to be his homosexual lover.  Berendt was then privy to the inside story during Williams's unprecedented FOUR murder trials resulted from the shooting.  Along the way, he runs into a host of colorful and memorable characters who could only exist in a city as steeped in history and social tradition as Savannah.  Berendt gives the characters their due with masterful storytelling and compellingly readable prose.  &quot;Midnight&quot; was for him the story of a lifetime, and he pulls it off brilliantly.<br />The narrative is written in the first person and Berendt himself is a significant player in the events as they unfold.  He readilly admits that he has changed a number of names and even physical descriptions of some of the characters.  He also admits to inserting a few narrative flourishes to give the story flavor.  That's fine, because the central plot itself is not nearly as interesting as the colorful canvas upon which it unfolds.  Berendt's book is like a painting rather than a photograph.  And it should be admired as such.  Ultimately, it shows that truth really is much stranger than even the best fiction.	2001-06-06
1973805:US	51809405	R2RYU4S6KFP1IO	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	4	9	13	N	N	An informative book with a few flaws	Hampton Sides' &quot;Ghost Soldiers&quot; is a book riding the wave of World War II nostalgia that is hot right now in the wake of &quot;Pearl Harbor.&quot;  Perhaps that is why it seems like a book that was rushed out before it was ready.  Author Sides tells the main story well. In January 1945, a group of Rangers lauched a Top Secret mission through 30 miles of enemy held territory in the Phillippines to rescue just over 500 allied prisoners that were expected to be massacred as the Japanese withdrew.  The mission, though of no strategic value, was a spectactular success.<br />The story includes a cornucopia of colorful figures, from the gritty Colonel who organized the ranger unit to two Pillippino guerrilla leaders, to an American woman who posed as a Phillipna to spy on the Japanese to an American Chaplin in the prison camp and many more.  Sides brings them all to life expertly.<br />My quibble with the book is that Sides' prose occasionally veers in to the overly-dramamtic.  For example, the subtitle of the book refers to the mission as &quot;forgotten&quot; even though those who participated were well decorated and that there have been several other books written about the mission.  Even the use of the description &quot;Most Dramatic&quot; in the subtitle describing the mission is subject to debate.  These types of overstatements appear frequently in the narrative and are distracting.  Additionally, the book has no index or endnotes, which seems to indicated that it was a rush project.  Nevertheless, it is an entertaining read and is a fitting tribute to the brave souls who live and die on its pages.	2001-06-03
1974310:US	51809405	RSYLRVVZLENEX	0671039067	117471668	The Big Fix (A Moses Wine Mystery)	Books	3	20	21	N	N	A bizarre cultural artifact	I should start by saying that am a huge fan of Private Investigator fiction and that this was my first Moses Wine novel.  Apparently, author Roger L. Simon was trying to update the classic Phillp Marlowe type P.I. story to the hip and strange place that Southern California (especially the criminal underworld) had become by the early 1970s.  &quot;The Big Fix&quot; has a very strong sense of place and time, and today reads like a snapshot of that very confused era.  However, as a mystery, the plot is fairly pedestrian.  Set on the backdrop of a political campaign (though we never meet the candidate himself), one of Wine's ex-girlfriends is murdered shortly after bringing him a case.  However, Wine doesn't seem particularly outraged and pursues the case with a curious detachment.  Along the way he encounters a cornucopia of early 70s revolutionaries and hippies.  Ultimately though, the climax is a disappointment not worthy of the story's buildup.<br />Simon has all the moves of a classic P.I. writer.  Wine is appropriately cynical, hardedged and wise-cracking.  What he needs is a truly Marlowe-esque plot to sink his teeth into.	2001-06-03
1985644:US	51809405	RTVTJYP4SCLNL	0345360281	349095493	Deviant Behavior (Thomas Black Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Black's Decent &quot;Behavior&quot;	&quot;Deviant Behavior&quot; was the first novel in the Thomas Black P.I. series that I have read.  I am a huge P.I. fiction fan, and on the basis of this novel I would place Earl W. Emmerson's hero only a notch or so below masters like Raymond Chandler, Lawrence Block and Loren Estleman.  Black is not as quick with a metaphor as the best P.I.s, nor is he as world weary or cynical.  And Emmerson leaves a lot of the details of his story a little fuzzy around the edges.  But the central mystery in &quot;Deviant Behavior&quot; held my interest and it raises some interesting points about the human capacity for guilt and mistrust.  The ending may stretch credibility a bit, but overall the novel is a good one for P.I. fiction fans.  I guess the best recommendation I can give is that I do plan to spend some more time with Mr. Black in the future.	2001-05-25
1985951:US	51809405	R2CPX77C13737B	0395410738	35421016	Downriver (The Amos Walker Series #9)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Amos going up the &quot;River&quot;	&quot;Downriver&quot; is the 8th novel is the excellent Amos Walker P.I. fiction series.  As such, it is about average for the series, which is to say better than average for the genre.  In this outing, Walker goes &quot;Downriver,&quot; which is a Detroiter's term for any part of Michigan that does not include the city.  Actually, he goes to the Upper Peninsula to give a released con a ride back to Detroit.  When he and the con get run off the road and the con hires him to help find $200,000 from a heist for which he was convicted but which he did not commit, Walker has his hands full.  The novel contains the usual social commentary and Walker is as much a loner as ever.  Regular characters like Detectives John Alderdyce and Mary Ann Thaler get only cameo appearances this time out.<br />Bottom line is that while this edition does not rank with &quot;The Glass Highway&quot; or &quot;Sugartown,&quot; among the best Walker novels, it is still well worthwhile in its own right.	2001-05-25
1991167:US	51809405	R3E3HQMFC6GZPA	0380709945	66359816	A Ticket to the Boneyard (Matthew Scudder)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Scudder Almost Gets His Ticket Punched	&quot;A Ticket to the Boneyard&quot; is the Scudder novel that reitroduces Elaine, the sensible call girl who would eventually leave the life and become his wife.  Elaine calls Scudder after many years because a psycopathic killer that the two of them joined forces to frame when Scudder was still a cop is back out on the streets and aiming to kill them both.  This entry into the Scudder series starts out rather slowly, given that the reader is way ahead of Scudder in figuring out what's going on.  By the second half, however, things pick up as Scudder comes to terms with what he must do.  Along the way, his cherished sobriety faces a mean test.<br />Overall, I would rank &quot;Baneyard&quot; in the middle of the Scudder novels, particularly because it starts off so conventionally.  But author Lawrence Block does not disappoint in the end, giving us the type of high quality resolution we have come to expect from Scudder.	2001-05-21
1995233:US	51809405	R2C5IMUJEVAONM	1562870548	342776034	Killer's Payoff: An 87th Precinct Mystery (The Armchair Detective Library)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Has not improved with age	Granted &quot;Killer's Payoff&quot; was written nearly 45 years ago, but even forgetting the goofy then-hip dialog and arcane police proceedures, this is still not among the better 87th Precinct novels.  The story is fairly mundane for the series and features Detective Cotton Hawes out on a libido rampage.  This is obnoxios enough in and of itself, but at the end, McBain uses the old &quot;talking killer&quot; cliche, only here he multiplies it by three.  Bottom line is that these novels are better the more plausile they are.  This one contains enough implausibilities to make it hardly worthwhile.	2001-05-17
1997754:US	51809405	RDOGZZKDZ1U98	0871137836	323802732	Killing Pablo: The Hunt for the World's Greatest Outlaw	Books	3	13	21	N	N	Informative, yet unfulfilling	For a straight journalistic account of how the U.S. Government joined forces with elements of the Colombian government to hunt down and kill Pablo Escobar, &quot;Killing Pablo&quot; brings the goods.  The years long pursuit of the man many considered to be the world's most notorious outlaw was punctuated by epic corruption and fantastic levels of sickening violence.  All of this author Mark Bowdon scrupulously documents.  The problem with the book is that Bowden has no sources who were truly on the inside of Escobar's empire.  This is not surprising given that most of his associates were killed.  But without first hand accounts of many of the violent incidents, they become a blur of facts that eventually become mind numbing.  By all accounts, Escobar was a cunning and ruthless man, but without first hand accounts, the reader really doesn't get to know him.  As a result, Bowden's narrative tends to drag after awhile.<br />Bowden does an excellent job of humanizing the men, both American and Colombian, who were reponsible for Escobar's downfall.  But their stories are just not as interesting.  Ultimately, at the end of the book Bowden shows just how futile the drug war has been to date.  It would be nice to think that the book might help America rethink its drug startegy.  But I think that's being overly optomistic.	2001-05-16
1999699:US	51809405	R4GXP4EZY11Y7	0312700466	605185084	Scattershot	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Bad Week for 'Nameless'	&quot;Scattershot' is a week in the life of Bill Pronzini's &quot;Nameless Detective.&quot;  And what a bad week it is.  He fears he's losing his girlfriend (introduced in the previous novel, &quot;Hoodwink&quot;), has a crazy client's husband murdered right under his nose, and finds himself accused of both negligence AND theft.  Not to mention that he hates his new office space.  Overall, this edition of the Nameless series is good, but not amoung the best.  Part of the problem is that the three seperate mysteries compete for time with the personal stuff in a book that's relatively brief at just over 200 pages in trade paperback form.  As a result, the cases are a bit by-the-numbers and far too easilly resolved.  Nameless fans will probably enjoy it, but I would recommend newcomers start with either &quot;Hoodwink&quot; or &quot;Shackles&quot; instead.	2001-05-14
2005384:US	51809405	R34EOUG55NM9T	0684864797	409238451	The Rescue Season: The Heroic Story of Parajumpers on the Edge of the World	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Into (Very) Cold Air	&quot;The Rescue Season&quot; tells the courageous story of the rescue teams, primarilly the &quot;PJs&quot; of the U.S. Air Force, who ply their trade in Alaska, particularly in and around Denali National Park.  Author Bob Drury recalls some harrowing tales of rescue and tragic death and portrays his protagonists as rugged heros who seem driven to do what they do by their own genetic makeup.  Drury is a fine writer and his prose is eminently readable.  He introduces the reader to plenty of interesting characters and locales.<br />That said, the book is also a bit disjointed.  There is a main search and rescue story that is introduced in the beginning and which Drury returns to at times over the whole course of the book.  Drury also tends to throw a lot of geography, geology, meterology and history lessons into the mix (at least once, I got the impression that he was showing off his knowledge).  All of this is interesting, but gets in the way of his narrative.  He also makes a couple of mistakes that I noticed, for example once referring to the &quot;Seven Summits&quot; as the &quot;Seven Sisters.&quot;  Ultimately, the book doesn't hold together as a story, like with &quot;Into Thin Air.&quot;  Instead, it is a collection of good stories that should be quite pleasing to anyone with an interest in the subject matter.	2001-05-09
2005755:US	51809405	R15EGGB5J6G3F0	0312389698	409637982	Hoodwink: A "Nameless Detective" Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Hardboiled Whodunnit?	As a writer of detective fiction, Bill Pronzini tends to wear his influences on his sleeve, perhaps never more often than in &quot;Hoodwink.&quot;  This would be true even if he didn't make repeated references in the book to &quot;Mr. Marlowe&quot; and &quot;Mr. Spade.&quot;  His hero, the redoubtable &quot;Nameless&quot; detective, attempts to solve a puzzling mystery at a pulp convention.  Since Nameless is an avid pulp collector, he is in heaven even before he gets to meet some of his favorite authors and bed the bewitching daughter of one of them.  The case quickly turns ugly and baffling as the author who has give Nameless his in finds himself accused of murder and Nameless must...ahem...clear his name.<br />Overall, I found this novel to be of average quality for Pronzini, which is to say well above average as a work of detective fiction.  Pronzini isn't as quick with a metaphor as his heros &quot;Mr. Chandler&quot; and &quot;Mr. Hammett,&quot; and the plot here is a bit too convoluted.  Nevertheless, it is a goof read for those of us who love the hardboiled genre.	2001-05-09
2010953:US	51809405	R3CIU7RUJQTQDB	0380709937	761315149	Out on the Cutting Edge (Matthew Scudder)	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Scudder's first sober case	&quot;Out on the Cutting Edge&quot; follows the two best novels in the Matthew Scudder series, &quot;8 Million Ways to Die&quot; and &quot;When the Sacred Ginmill Closes.&quot;  It is also the first novel in which Scudder conducts a case (in this instance two cases) while not in an alcoholic stupor.  We catch up with Scudder a few years after he joined AA.  He has a sponser and has managed to recover control of his life.  His day to day existence, meanwhile, hasn't changed much.  He still lives in a residential hotel and still conducts cases off the books as &quot;favors&quot; for friends.<br />The two cases are interesting.  One is for pay; a family wants to know the whereabouts of their missing daughter.  One is personal; an AA companion apparently commits suicide just before he is ready to confess his sins to Scudder.  Both take Scuder in some unlikely directions and the payoff is typically messy.  Meanwhile, author Lawrence Block introduces one his most interesting side characters to the series, the Irish gangster Mickey Ballou.  Overall, this is a solid Scudder novel that is not quite on par with the best of the series.  But any Scudder novel makes for excellent reading.	2001-05-04
2011546:US	51809405	RFQJV4IJ542DP	0806132582	632113974	The Tornado: Nature's Ultimate Windstorm	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An informative but strangely written book.	Thomas P. Grazulis has obviously dedicated a good part of his life to studying Tornadoes.  This book has &quot;labor of love&quot; written many times over between its pages.  And yet, it is an odd book.  Grazulis combines tornado anecdotes, tornado science, tornado safety and even tornado mythology into a strange hodgepodge of information.  This is not the book to buy for great narratives of tornado destruction.  Grazulis' accounts are second hand and mostly used to illustrate his other points.  Nor is the book packed full of great pictures.  It has some, all in black and white photos and some that are more than a century old.  This book is really an encyclopedic account of everything there is to know about tornadoes.  I learned a lot, even if I found the book's style a bit bemusing.  If you love tornadoes on more than a superficial level, I would recommend it.  Otherwise, I would look elsewhere.	2001-05-03
2017543:US	51809405	R3BSKFV73YYIIO	0060199202	268898540	No Apparent Danger: The True Story of Volcanic Disaster at Galeras and Nevado del Ruiz	Books	4	13	21	N	N	&quot;Into Thin Air&quot; meets &quot;The Johnstown Flood&quot;	&quot;No Apparent Danger&quot; tells the story of two volcanic disasters that took place in Colombia in 1985 and 1993.  The first was an epic disaster that killed over 23,000 people and obliterated a small city.  The other was the result of sheer human stupidity, yet another example of man thinking he's smarter than nature.  Six scientists and three tourists were killed and several others horribly maimed because they were standing pratically on top of an active volcano crater when it had a minor eruption.  All of the victims probably would have survived had they taken some basic precautions.<br />The leader of the group, self-serving, aggrandizing geologist Steve Williams was largely responsible for the laxes that led to the tragedy.  And yet after barely surviving his own mule-headiness, he manages to convince the press that he's a hero through his own vulgar audacity.<br />Cheers to author Victoria Bruce for publishing the truth and defalting Williams' own self serving book about these events.  The book's only flaw is that the first tragedy doesn't get quite the coverage it deserves, as if she were in a hurry to skewer the villian of the story and rushed it.  Nevertheless, this is still a well written, informative and ultimately depressing account.	2001-04-28
2018139:US	51809405	R28UJ6N6HNI5RF	0786884088	7901323	Red Lobster, White Trash, & the Blue Lagoon: Joe Queenan's America	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Lets criticize the ciritic	I found Joe Queenan's book to be that rarity, written words that are truly laugh out loud funny,  Nevertheless, I will conceed that his writing could be an acquired taste.  Those who do not revel in cynical or vicious humor should avoid Queenan at all costs.  But for those like me who are more apt to read the newspaper review of the one star movie than that of the four star movie just for the laughs, then this book is your Valhalla.  Queenan spares no medium; books, videos, concerts, cds, movies, restaurants, Broadway shows; they are all the victims of his biting wit.  Even when h was trashing something that I like, I enjoyed his insights.  And because he also writes it all in a bit of a winking manner and he keeps it under 200 total pages, it doesn't become overbearing.<br />This was the first Queenan that I have read (I bought it based on hearing him on Don Imus's radio show).  That I will be searching out more of his titles is the best compliment I can pay him.	2001-04-28
2020846:US	51809405	R1PH6JMQ8QOLB1	039541072X	85803505	Lady Yesterday (The Amos Walker Series #7)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another winner for Amos Walker	&quot;Lady Yesterday&quot; is the 7th novel in the superb Amos Walker private detective series.  Once again, our wise cracking and world weary hero prowls the streets of his native Detroit with moves as fast as his wit.  In this outing, Walker's favorite femme fatale, the recovering hooker Iris (first introduced in the series debut, &quot;Motor City Blue&quot;), is back in town and Walker cannot resist doing her a favor by trying to find the father she never knew.  Along the way he explores Detroit's fading jazz scene and butts heads with an assortment of lowlifes and mobsters.  He also finds to his dismay that his only ally in the police department, his old friend homicide Detective John Alderdyce, is on an extended leave of absence suffering from burnout.<br />&quot;Lady Yesterday&quot; is another excellent entry into this fine series.  Walker novels ready like latter day Phillip Marlowe and his cases always take unexpected twists.  This one isn't the best of the series (that would be &quot;Sugartown&quot; or &quot;The Glass Highway&quot;) because it relies a little too heavilly on some of the elements of past entries.  Nevertheless, it is still a very good read.	2001-04-25
2024083:US	51809405	R3HELCU7NESFY3	0345404475	978657248	Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?: The inspiration for the films Blade Runner and Blade Runner 2049	Books	4	6	15	N	N	Yet Another &quot;Blade Runner&quot; Comparison	&quot;Blade Runner&quot; is and had been for many years one of my favorite sci-fi movies.  I'll take its film noir-ish depiction of the future over Star Wars's cartoonish-ness any time.  And after all these years, I finally got around to reading the source material.  When they say that &quot;Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep&quot; only &quot;inspired&quot; the movie &quot;Blade Runner,&quot; brother, they are not kidding.  &quot;Blade Runner&quot; took a story written in Phillip K. Dick's usual absurdist style and gave it flesh and blood.  Dick's writing is quite philosophical and tends to leave you cold as a reader.  Often his characters act in ways that seem to make little sense on a narrative level.  &quot;Androids&quot; is no exception to this.  The concepts are great, but the details are baffling.  For instance, could anyone really live on an Earth mired in the throes of a post nuclear holocaust raidiation cloud?<br />Ultimately, comparing &quot;Androids&quot; to &quot;Blade Runner&quot; is quite unfair to both.  &quot;Blade Runner&quot; represents that rare science fiction film with more brains than brawn while &quot;Androids&quot; is a typical Phillip K. Dick mindbender.  If you like his stuff, you'll like this book.  If you're contemplating reading it just because you liked the movie, don't waste your time.	2001-04-23
2024108:US	51809405	RXIKJK1FWEPEX	0886773687	475852404	Armor	Books	4	10	11	N	N	An unusual and savage adventure	I've read the comparisons of &quot;Armor&quot; to the classic &quot;Starship Troupers&quot; in other reviews and those comparisons do have merit on a superficial level.  But at their core, the two books are fundamentally different.  Whereas &quot;Troupers&quot; argued that conflict was necessary to the advancement of society, &quot;Armor&quot; is wearied by the utter futility of war.  While the battle scenes in &quot;Troupers&quot; are exhilerating, the same scenes in &quot;Armor&quot; are grusome and depressing.  &quot;Armor&quot; has no coming of age feel like &quot;Troupers&quot; and nothing good comes from the battles that are fought in its pages.<br />About one hundred pages in, the book makes an abrupt shift from the third person narrative following the hero (and sole survivor of its first battle) Felix to the first person narrative of adventurer Jack Crow.  The shift is unexpected and abrupt and leaves the reader somewhat disoriented.  It is in fact a high wire act as a plot device that author John Steakley manages to pull off successfully.  Without the Jack Crow section, the Felix portion of the story would be unrelentingly bleak.<br />Overall, this is an excellent novel that is only weak around the margins.  Numerous details are not fully explained and vivid descriptions are not Steakley's long suit.  Nevertheless it is worthwhile example of military science fiction that rates only a notch or so below &quot;Troupers&quot; and &quot;The Forever War.&quot;	2001-04-23
2024955:US	51809405	R2INY6GE3F3MDN	0312858787	906123966	Gun, With Occasional Music: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An imaginative, wacky debut novel	Jonathan Letham's first novel certainly gets top marks for imagination.  The world he has created is one in which enhanced animals and babies act like adults and mood altering drugs are supplied free by the government.  Additionally, asking questions of another person is illegal unles you are a public or private &quot;inquisitor.&quot;  Letham's hero, private inquisitor Conrad Metcalfe, narrates the story like a futuristic Phillip Marlowe.<br />The plot is suitably bizzarre and many of the descriptions are unforgettable.  My only quibble is that the part with the animals and babies comes off primarily as window dressing.  It would not have altered the story much to have these characters portrayed as human adults.  Nevertheless, this is a challenging and entertaining novel for those who like mind bending stories ala Phillip K. Dick.	2001-04-22
2025261:US	51809405	R353DPM6QYQHRI	0380763621	224953303	In the Midst of Death (Matthew Scudder)	Books	4	22	22	N	N	A short but engaging early Scudder novel	Lawrence Block's early Matthew Scudder novels are considerably shorter and less complex than later entries in the series.  Scudder was still drinking during this time period and here he makes his first acknowledgement that it might be getting out of control.  The plot is intriguing, a dirty cop begins cooperating with an anti-corruption probe and is framed for murder.  Scudder must answer two questions who did the frame up and why did the cop suddenly decide to become a rat?  &quot;In the Midst of Death&quot; is one of the bleaker entires in the Scudder series both in terms of its outcome and for what happens in Scudder's personal life.  It is not an essential entry in the series, but it is a good one.	2001-04-22
2025378:US	51809405	R1722SUA8UN3W3	0394758285	849452523	The Big Sleep (A Philip Marlowe Novel)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The classic debut of Phillip Marlowe	Raymond Chandler virtually invented the private eye novel as we think of it today.  Phillip Marlowe is an honest, world weary and compassionate tough guy who is as quick with his mouth as his is with his gun.  Chandler is a master at creating quirky charcters, memorable villians and is as good with a metaphor as any writer has ever been.  That said, &quot;The Big Sleep&quot; set in then-contemporary Los Angeles (circa 1939), reads like a cultural artifact.  Life and investigative work was a lot different back then.  It was a time when a daughter of a wealthy man posing for nude photographs WAS in fact shocking enough to be a potential for blackmail.  Today, no one would think twice about it.<br />Nevrtheless, if you want to see how modern detective fiction as well as modern noir got its start, &quot;The Big Sleep&quot; is for you.	2001-04-22
2041872:US	51809405	RXZ283820B6TO	0395394287	378837343	Every Brilliant Eye (The Amos Walker Series #6)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another solid entry in the Amos Walker series	&quot;Every Brilliant Eye&quot; is the sixth novel in the Amos Walker private detective series.  Walker is a lonely, quick witted and highly principled P.I. who knows his native Detroit inside and out.  In this novel, Walker is trying to locate an old friend he served with in Vietnam and in the process reveals more about his past than he ever had previously.  He also becomes involved with the bewitching book editor Louise Starr, a holdover character from the previous Walker novel, &quot;Sugartown.&quot;  The only negative is that the story's police corruption angle is a bit shopworn.  The Vietnam angle adds considerable weight and the ending is appropriately violent.<br />Look for the i-books vintage paperback edition of this novel to be released sometime in Summer 2001.  The i-books editions of the Walker series are first rate paperbacks with extra goodies added, including an afterword by the author.	2001-04-07
2046392:US	51809405	R17O69M5NHPCPI	0671019473	656612277	PAST TENSE (John Marshall Tanner Mysteries)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A Fairly Dark P.I. Novel	&quot;Past Tense&quot; was the first book that I have read in Stephen Greenleaf's John Marshall Tanner P.I. series.  I read a lot of P.I. novels, and my usual rule is; the darker, the better.  And that is why I found &quot;Past Tense&quot; to be a very engaging novel.  Greenleaf is not a master of metaphor like Raymond Chandler with Phillip Marlowe or Loren Estleman with Amos Walker.  And his Marsh Tanner is not a man battling personal demons like Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder or Andrew Vachss' Burke.  But the story here is worthy of any of those other anti-heros.  One of Tanner's best friends, an honest cop, has suddenly gone on a revenge killing rampage.  In the process, he has cut himself off from everyone who cares about him.  Tanner investigates at first to find an answer to his baffling behavior, and then to try and save his life.  The plot line is a bit convoluted and Greenleaf ends up relying on the old police corruption cliche, but it all leads to one of the more shocking endings I've seen in a P.I. novel.<br />Greenleaf may not be a writer whose style is equal to the masters of the genre.  But with &quot;Past Tense,&quot; he has delivered one quite memorable novel.	2001-04-03
2047664:US	51809405	R1S0X1HSIK2FWT	0375502637	788126984	Going Up the River: Travels in a Prison Nation	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Interesting, but unfocussed	Joseph Hallinan's &quot;Going Up the River&quot; attempts to be a searing indictment of our society's &quot;prison culture,&quot; in which prisons have become big business for both the public and private sectors.  Some of Hallinan's points are valid, such as the folly in giving non-violent drug offenders longer avearage sentences than murderers, for example.  But on others he sounds like the type of bleeding heart that aided and abedded the crime explosion of the 1960s and 1970s.  While it is true that more Americans than ever are being locked up, it is also true that crime rates have taken a dramatic tumble.  Unfortunately, Hallinan refuses to conceed any connection between these two facts.<br />Hallinan's most valid arguments come when he is decrying the rise of private prisons and the profit motive that has come to create dangerous working conditions for those working inside.  Depressed communities have become agressive bidders for prisons as a way of bolstering the local economy and prisons have replaced factories as the primary employers in many towns.<br />Overall, Hallinan's book has many arguments.  How you'll take them will largely depend upon your point of view.  They are strewn haphazzardly throughout the book and there is no logical sequencing.  But there is enough good information to make the book worthwhile for those with an interest in the subject matter.	2001-04-02
2049116:US	51809405	R1U1VCV45T9QSD	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Overreaches a bit but makes a great statement	To use a food analogy, Eric Schlosser throws everything into his book \\"Fast Food Nation\\" but the kitchen sink. The book gives a brief history of how fast food empires like McDonalds and KFC were born and how they came to be the collosal international giants they are today. Schlosser then goes on to describe every possible social evil to which the fast food business is even remotely connected. Some of his points are dead on, like how the fast food industry would rather spend tens of millions of dollars in research to make its kitchen equipment even more idiot proof rather than paying higher wages and training its workforce. At other times, like when he bemoans the rapid growth of America's suburbs and how the national retail chains have made everywhere look the same, Schlosser comes off as a typical leftist with an anti-big business bias. Schlosser would like to blame the ills he describes in his book on \\"heartless corporations,\\" but he forgets that with the rise of 401K plans and mutual funds, a large porportion of the population now has a stake in these big businesses.<br />On balance though, Schlosser's book sounds a warning that needs to be heard. The problem is that the portion of the public most likely to read this book are likely to be those who spend the least amount of time in McDonald's in the first place. Getting the masses to say no to fast food seems about as likely as getting them to turn off their televisions. Schlosser has taken a good shot at the fast food industry, but I doubt that the industry will even notice.	2001-03-31
2053978:US	51809405	R2SH7GYNAW4VI6	1581820801	264052008	Frank and Jesse James: The Story Behind the Legend	Books	3	14	26	N	N	Comprehensive, but not well written	If you are looking for a book that exhaustively documents the entire adult lives of its two outlaw subjects, then this book is for you.  If, however, you are looking for good storytelling befitting the James legend, you should look elsewhere.  Author Ted Yeatman has done all he can to explode the myths surrounding the James Gang and to show them for what they were; namely a group of violent desperados unworthy of the considerable public sympathy and reverance they have received.  Contrary to legend, the James brothers were not forced into banditry by their service as Confederate guerillas.  In fact, that had been pardoned and could have led peaceful postwar lives had they so chose.<br />Overall, Yeatman's arguments and extensive research (there's over 140 pages of notes and exhibits) would go down much smoother if he could write with the touch of a Stephen Ambrose.  As it is, his prose often takes the excitement out of what was a pair of very interesting lives.	2001-03-27
2054103:US	51809405	R3V10EAJ2AY837	0743412931	438489949	Sugartown (The Amos Walker Series #5)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another First Rate Amos Walker Mystery	Loren Estleman writes in the author's notes that follow the story at the end of this i-books edition of &quot;Sugartown,&quot; that the novel was his angriest in the series.  Interestingly, Estleman places the source of his anger as the backdrop for the story.  In the early 1980s, Detroit Mayor Coleman Young made a legally shaky eminent domain deal with General Motors that forced hundreds of long time residents from their homes so that a new assembly plant could be built.  The displaced homeowners got a very raw deal and a historic neighborhood was destroyed.<br />But the story Estleman weaves around these events is actually one of Amos Walker's more lively and fun.  For once he finds a love interest to lighten his dreary existance.  And the two cases he investigates involving Eastern European immigrants lead him in some interesting directions.  Overall, this makes the fifth Amos Walker book the best so far in the series (I've been reading them in order) a fact which was confirmed when the book won the Shamus Award for best private eye novel of 1984.  This i-books edition also includes inaddition to the newly published author's notes, a recent vintage Amos Walker short story at the end.  Think of it as dessert after a fine meal.	2001-03-27
2058548:US	51809405	R3JL3TPJMFEIXT	0440205239	431667439	Shackles	Books	5	6	6	N	N	&quot;Shackles&quot; will leave you feeling unchained!	&quot;Shackles&quot; is the best novel I've yet read in Bill Pronzini's &quot;Nameless&quot; detective series.  Some of the &quot;Nameless&quot; novels tend to be a bit by-the-numbers, but the plot here is truly ingenious.  Namless is kidnapped and chained in a remote mountain cabin and left to slowly starve to death.  His escape and search for the man who imprisioned him make for some of the best detective fiction ever.  As a bonus, Nameless becomes introspective during his imprisonment and confesses much about his childhood and how he became who he is.  This book is a MUST read for P.I. fiction fans.	2001-03-23
2059226:US	51809405	R2BMFNP0UESMAN	0380639173	257813171	Day of Wrath	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the better Harry Stoner novels.	P.I. Harry Stoner is a fine addition to the literary tradition of Phillip Marlowe, Travis McGee and Lew Archer.  He inhabits the street of Cincinnati like a second skin.  This story is one of the better ones in the series and it is also one of the darker ones.  Stoner's adventures are nevr pretty, but they are well worth the ride for fans of P.I. fiction.	2001-03-22
2060363:US	51809405	R3UO8OU57Q11NE	0380728257	12527119	When the Sacred Ginmill Closes (Matthew Scudder Series)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	You'll want to visit this Ginmill	&quot;When the Sacred Ginmill Closes&quot; ranks up there with &quot;8 Million Ways to Die&quot; as one of the best Matthew Scudder novels.  In this book, the freshly rehabbed Scudder recalls a case from the heart of his alcoholic period (circa 1975).  He gets involved in a couple of cases involving his barfly buddies.  One involves extortion, the other a burglary and murder.  In neither instance is Scudder terribly enthusiastic about being involved.  Author Lawrence Block vividly describes the drinking life with the eye of a man who's obviously been there.  The descriptions of self denial and lives slowly being wasted are memorable without being heavy handed.  &quot;Ginmill&quot; is a hardboiled P.I. story from a master author who is on top of his game.  Fans of Chandler-esque fiction should love it.	2001-03-21
2061317:US	51809405	R3FZVEMH4JGSOH	0385296835	255484904	Extenuating Circumstances	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not as good as other Stoner novels	The Harry Stoner private detective series is one of the better ones around.  Stoner is a hardboiled P.I. from Cincinnati who gets involved in some sometime brutally violent stories.  &quot;Extenuating Circumstances&quot; is no exception, but it stretches plausibility a bit too much.  Also Harry's comes off as a rather colorless character in this one.<br />Stoner's never bad, but he's usually better than this.	2001-03-21
2064574:US	51809405	R3612YOT5TUWYQ	0345381114	54671238	Return of the Straight Dope: Still More from the Popular Newspaper Column	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another Fine Collection	If you don't know who Cecil Adams is, its unlikely that you will find yourself purchasing this book.  As the lucky initiated know, Adams has been writing his weekly column, &quot;The Straight Dope&quot; for alternative newpapers for nearly thirty years now.  Adams is a good-natured arrogant know-it-all who uses reader questions both to show off his knowledge and flex his keen sense of humor.  He is at the same time both hilareous and informative.  He also tackles plenty of subjects that mainstream journalists will not touch.  For example, in this book he discusses the little known practice of eating the human placenta.  There is no one quite like Cecil.  And for that we must be thankful.	2001-03-18
2065841:US	51809405	R36D96DI65NJ2T	074340002X	367154061	The Midnight Man (Amos Walker Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another excellent entry in the Amos Walker series	&quot;The Midnight Man&quot; is a bit darker than usual for an Amos Walker novel.  Death hangs omnipresent as the intrepid Walker tries to bring a cop killer to justice before he is killed by the police.  Along the way he encounters black militants, a bounty hunter, a sex-starved cop's wife and more dead bodies than he would care to count.  Author Loren D. Estleman runs his hero through the wringer in this adventure and it is a great ride indeed.  Walker is everything a great P.I. ought to be, tough, sarcastic, somewhat alcoholic and beholden to a his own private code of justice.  He is Phillip Marlowe updated for modern times.<br />This &quot;I-Book&quot; edition features the added bonus of an essay by the author regarding his inspiriations for the novel.  Addtionally, it also has an Amos Walker short story, &quot;Redneck&quot; that comes along at the end like the desert to a fine meal.  Overall a very worthwhile package.	2001-03-17
2066156:US	51809405	R22DQ6687R13Q	0684835444	796453023	A Line In The Sand: The Alamo in Blood and Memory	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Consise, Comprehesive History of the Alamo	The first half of &quot;A Line in the Sand&quot; gives a good overview of the history that led up to the famous siege of the Alamo from both the Mexican and Texas settler perspectives.  The battle itself and its aftermath (the Texan victory at San Jacinto) are given a good overview as well.  Along the way, the authors attempt to portray the battle for what it was, free of either liberal condemnations of the defenders as imperialisist or reactionary attempts to elevate the defenders to God-like status.  The truth lies somewhere in the middle of the elevated rhetoric.  The defenders made a galliant stand against an authoritarian despot, but they did so in defense of slavery among other things.  Whatever else they may have been, the stand of Davy Crockett, Jim Bowie, Colenol Travis and the others remains unassailable as an act of bravery.<br />The second half of the book focusses on the history of the shrine since the battle.  It covers preservation attempts and the lionization of the battle by such 20th Century luminaries as Walt Disney and John Wayne.  The Alamo has become a powerful political symbol, a fact that was emphasized particularly during the Vietnam war.<br />All of this adds up to a fascinating and very well written book.  The only flaw is that covers the first part too quickly, giving more of an overview than an in-depth history.  Nevertheless it is still an informative and enjoyable read.	2001-03-17
2069209:US	51809405	R24FDX8OTUBQM2	0312922132	807030513	Pepper Pike (Mean Streets)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Second String P.I. Fiction	Les Roberts's private detective Milan Jacovich has all the right moves to be great character on the order of a Phillip Marlowe or a Matthew Scudder.  He's wisecracking, lonely, cynical, capable of violence and he spends a lot of times in bars.  He also lives by his own incorruptable moral code.  If author Les Roberts had come up a story worthy of his hero, he'd have a classic on his hands.  Unfortunately, &quot;Pepper Pike&quot; is a fairly pedestrian who-dunnit? closer in spirit to Agatha Christie than Raymond Chandler.  Some of the scenes hardly ring believable, like when Milan roughs up a mob boss and only gets beaten up rather than killed for his trouble.  The story lacks a great villian and Roberts relies on the old knock-on-the-head move a couple too many times.<br />&quot;Pepper Pike&quot; has atmosphere and attitude to burn.  It shows plenty of promise, but is ultimately unfulfilling.	2001-03-14
2069551:US	51809405	R2N7R4SUWQBSIC	067145711X	7859309	The Great Bridge: The Epic Story of the Building of the Brooklyn Bridge	Books	5	8	8	N	N	McCullough's other epic construction project	Before David McCullough wrote his classic epic \\"Path Between the Seas\\" about the Panama Canal, he took on the story of the building of the Brooklyn Bridge. Today we tend to forget what a historic feat the building of the great bridge actually was. At the time of its construction, it was twice as large as the next largest suspension bridge in the world and it used plenty of never before tested construction methods. Hard to believe today, but its huge brick towers were at the time the tallest structures anywhere in New York. McCullough tells the story of the genius immigrant engineer John A. Roebling who designed the bridge and died horribly as the result of an accident during the planning phase. Roebling's son, Washington Roebling, took over his father's grandiose dream and suffered horrible physical torment from a little known ailment that would come to be officially known as \\"Cassion's Disease\\" after the huge cassions that Roebling sunk into the East River to support his bridge. Today we know the malady more popularly as \\"The Bends.\\"<br />McCullough is a first rate history author who knows how to convey his story with all the power of a great novel. Like Stephen Ambrose, he makes history come alive on the printed page. McCullough touches upon every event remotely connected to the bridge's construction, including the politics, backdealing and second guessing that the construction team faced every step of the way. \\"The Great Bridge\\" is a great work of history worthy of its subject.	2001-03-14
2074804:US	51809405	R25E9QZO73GLL1	0743407296	560918984	The Glass Highway (The Amos Walker Series #4)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Walker at his darkest, and best	Amos Walker has one heck of a rollercoaster ride in the third installment of Loren D. Estleman's suberb P.I. series.  Its Christmas in Detroit and our hero gets seduced, beaten up, arrested, threatened; your usual yuletide activities.  Along the way he encouters crooked cops, media hungry politicians, spoiled rich kids and ham-handed Federal agents.  I'd rate &quot;The Glass Highway&quot; a notch above the first two novels in the series (&quot;Motor City Blue&quot; and &quot;Angel Eyes&quot;) because its plot is tighter and more plausible.  Nevertheless, there seems to be no such thing as a bad Amos Walker mystery.<br />As a bonus, this I-Books edition features an afterword from the author regarding his inspirations for the novel.  It also contains an Amos Walker short story, &quot;Cigarette Stop&quot; as the dessert to a very fine meal.	2001-03-09
2075992:US	51809405	RKC8WGZLXCYWZ	0380763656	25198990	Time to Murder and Create (Matthew Scudder)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Not bad early Scudder with a disturbing flaw	&quot;Time to Murder and Create&quot; is the second novel in the Matthew Scudder series.  Like many of the earlier Scudder tales, it is relatively short and not a greatly complex story.  The plotline is clever; an extortionist gets a premonition of his own murder and hires Scudder in advance to investigate if anything happens to him.  The story is well told, and this still being Scudder's drinking period, it is full of plenty of despair and loneliness.  One major flaw exists however.  One of the people the extortionist is blackmailing is politically connected figure who has sex with underage boys.  Scudder's lack of outrage at the man's activity leads to a less than approriate conclusion of the story.  If this had been Andrew Vachss' Burke, the pedophile would have gotten his just desserts.  Overall, this is a fairly conventional mystery by Block standards.  But it does have its moments.	2001-03-08
2076247:US	51809405	R30VNMR5GHVNX5	0380715740	266953215	A Stab in the Dark (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Scudder is losing control	The fourth novel in the Matthew Scudder series shows our hero's drinking starting to spin out of control.  Eventually, this would lead him to AA, sobriety and a more upbeat outlook.  But back in the bad old days, he investigates a compelling mystery in which the supposed victim of a serial killer turns out to have been the victim of a copycat crime.  This is made more complicated by the fact that the murder happened nine years before.  Though the story is relatively brief at a mere 180 pages in trade paperback form, it is well written and contains enough suspense to keep you on edge.  Scudder wasn't a happy guy before he dried up.  And this is one of the best of his early &quot;wet&quot; adventures.	2001-03-08
2077170:US	51809405	R2KZO440SDFV8C	0671039008	410614486	Angel Eyes (The Amos Walker Series #2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The &quot;Eyes&quot; Have it	The second entry into the Amos Walker private detective series is not quite as strong as the debut, &quot;Motor City Blue.&quot;  Still, there is plenty of good stuff for fans of the genre.  Walker is a wise cracking tough guy and Estleman writes with the immediacy and poetry of masters such as Raymond Chandler and John D. MacDonald.  Walker is a much a part of his native Detroit as the Tigers.  This entry in the series takes Walker on a sidetrip to a sleepy bedroom community that adds more fun to the storyline.  Overall, Walker is one of the best hardboiled P.I.s around.<br />A word about the i-books publications that are reprinting Estleman's Walker novels.  These are fine quality paperbacks, each of which features bonus material, in this case a short essay by Estleman about the novel and how he came up with his ideas.  It is like the cherry on a fine dessert.	2001-03-07
2077677:US	51809405	R2G3LLX1TTBGAL	0312965478	179551311	Diamond Head (John Caine Mysteries)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Good start, loses it in the 3rd act	I found the first two-thirds of Charles Knief's &quot;Diamond Head&quot; to be a fairly complelling private eye novel.  His hero, former Navy SEAL John Caine, is a unique tough guy who can both out muscle and out think his adversaries.  The novel is written with considerable wit and style and Knief provides plenty of local Hawaiian color to spice things up.  If Caine is a bit too close in lifestyle and personality to John D. MacDonald's Travis McGee, we can forgive him for the tribute.<br />The problem with the novel starts as the climax approaches and it goes from being a gripping private detective story to reading like the script of a Steven Segal movie.  The violence goes over the top and plausibility goes right out the window.  Knief is hip enough to make Caine's love interest a modern tough woman, but unfortunately he falls into the old girl-taken-hostage-by-the-badguys routine.<br />Overall, not a bad first effort from Knief, but there is considerable room for improvement.	2001-03-07
2077951:US	51809405	R2OVQUKH9Y31YQ	0380793695	472736108	Last Ditch: A Leo Waterman Mystery (Leo Waterman Mysteries)	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Average P.I. Fiction	This was the first novel in G.M. Ford's Leo Watterman private detective series that I have read.  I found Ford to be a decent writer and Waterman to be a moderately interesting character.  But neither can hold a candle to such greats as, say, Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder or the master Chandler's Phillip Marlowe.  The back cover says that Ford is a former creative writing teacher and that figures because his writing is at time a bit too cute in its effort to be entertaining.  The biggest drawback of Waterman's charcater, son of a now deceased prominent politician, is that he's far too happy with his domestic life and too well known in the community to be the classic alienated cynical private eye.  Ford gives a good feel for life in Seattle as a backdrop for Waterman's antics.  Waterman is also properly quick with both his wit and his weapons when need be.  But his continuous run ins with the cops get tiresome after awhile and the story is bloated by about an extra fifty pages or so.<br />Overall, I rank Ford squarely in the middle of P.I. fiction writers.  Though I enjoyed spending time with Waterman on this one occasion, I will not be going out of my way to seek him out again.	2001-03-07
2082269:US	51809405	R3N271UH37UJ75	038076363X	196238931	The Sins of the Fathers (Matthew Scudder)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Scudder's debut is a bit tame	In the mid-1970s, P.I. Matthew Scudder was a lot differnt than the man he would come to be.  In his series debut, Scudder has not yet admitted that he has an alcohol problem.  Lawrence Block introduces us to the man who quit the NYPD because he just wasn't up to being a cop anymore.  Scudder's first case (literary case, anyway) is fairly conventional by the standards of the series.  Scudder is hired by the estranged father of a murdered girl not to find the killer, who is already dead, but so the father can begin to understand her life.  The story is brief, clocking in at only 186 easy to read pages in trade paperback form.  It has little of the narrative complexity that would later serve Block so well.  And, you can see the ending coming well before it gets there.  Nevertheless, it is still stylish noir with the right mixture of loniliness, cynicism and despair.  And as with all Scudder novels, the actual violence is kept to a relative minimum.  Overall, not Scudder's best but worth it for fans of the series.	2001-03-03
2082767:US	51809405	ROTN97UGBDV7J	0671039008	410614486	Angel Eyes (The Amos Walker Series #2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Harboiled Private Detective Story	&quot;Angel Eyes&quot; is the second novel in the excellent Amos Walker private detective series.  Though it doesn't hit with quite as much impact as the series debut, &quot;Motor City Blues,&quot; it still packs a hefty wallop.  Once again, Walker finds himself at odds with the police and mixed up with rough company as he tries to find a stripper who hired him to find her BEFORE she disappeared.  Once again, the bad streets of Detroit are the setting for the story, though Estleman takes Walker on an effective side trip to a sleepy bedroom community.  Walker is just what a great P.I. ought to be; a lonely, cynical, alcoholic who nevertheless cares a bit too much. <br />Walker is one of the best hardboiled P.I.'s working the genre.  Fans of Travis McGee, Matthew Scudder, Harry Stoner and Phillip Marlowe should get themselves acquainted.	2001-03-03
2084522:US	51809405	R329LZNHB0WQC0	0440147905	623885489	Life's Work	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A fine entry in the Harry Stoner Series	Cincinnati's Harry Stoner occupies his domain much the same way as Loren Estleman's Amos Walker occupies Detroit or Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder occupies New York City.  This is one of the better entries in a first mystery series that has Stoner tracking down a missing NFL player.  Hardboiled detective fiction fans will love it.	2001-03-01
2086109:US	51809405	R27N8PN66MEX6Q	0375707433	111859463	Everybody Pays: Stories	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Uneven and not as good as &quot;Born Bad&quot;	I'm a huge Andrew Vachss fan and I loved his first collection of short stories entitled &quot;Born Bad.&quot;  Unfortunately, &quot;Everybody Pays&quot; just isn't as consistent or as good.  By now, Vachss has come to wear his anti-abuse feelings on sleeve so obviously that many of these stories take far too predictable turns.  Many of them are also far too short (some only a couple of pages) to have any real impact.  The &quot;Underground&quot; series is sci-fi that makes little sense.  The &quot;Cross&quot; stories aren't as realistic or satisfying as Vachss' Burke novels.  That said, the book is at least an entertaining read for Vachss fans.  Even when he's not at his best, he is at least interesting.	2001-02-28
2086156:US	51809405	R2CK5TDPGA8MNM	0394521951	961538897	Dancing Bear	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Great Gonzo - What a Mystery!	If the great Dr. Hunter S. Thompson ever took to writing detective fiction, this is how it would most likey read.  Crumley's P.I. Milo Milodragovitch is back from his best written work, &quot;The Wrong Case.&quot;  This story is far more violent and drug addled than the previous Milo adventure, and that weakens it somewhat.  But its still a hell of a fun ride.  Crumley's prose at times remind you of the Dr.'s &quot;Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.&quot;  Given that Milo also haunts the West, this is an apt analogy.  Overall, this is an exellent hardboiled detective fiction novel that is not for the faint of heart.	2001-02-28
2092977:US	51809405	R2FNK5LQ47N0TV	0786889055	817260381	Voodoo River (Elvis Cole Novels)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Calling Elvis	Elvis Cole is an L.A. would be successor to Phillip Marlowe and Lew Archer. Personally, I don't think he's quite in that league.  As a result, I would place \\"Voodoo River\\" squarely in the middle of the pack among private eye novels.	2001-02-22
2093850:US	51809405	R3DSMJDO9WAG1Q	0312252102	340251474	Coyote Nowhere: In Search of America's Last Frontier	Books	3	5	9	N	N	The dark side of the West	If your idea of a great family vacation is to travel to the great outdoors and spend your whole time in overcrowded campsights, ski resorts or tourist towns, then you may want to take a pass on &quot;Coyote Nowhere.&quot;  Author John Holt won't mind since he doesn't like your kind anyway.  Holt spends most of the book extolling the virtures of the pristine and empty West while lamenting that so much of it is being ruined by housing developments, strip mines and golf courses.  Of course, economic development is always a double edged sword, but Holt confines his comments to merely ranting impotently against it.<br />That said, Holt captures some great images and moments in his book.  Most of these are his descriptions of the land and the joys of getting back to nature.  As a storyteller, he doesn't have the touch of a Bill Bryson, and his narrative wanders unfocussed at times and not in chronological order.  Nevertheless, he creates a strong sense of place that is worthwhile for anyone interested in his subject matter.	2001-02-22
2093934:US	51809405	R1PQTIPF3Y513B	0380715732	475482999	Eight Million Ways to Die (Matthew Scudder)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Scudder Descends into the Depths	&quot;Eight Million Ways to Die&quot; is a classic piece of hardboiled detective fiction that represents a turning point in the life of its hero, Matthew Scudder.  Early on in the narrative, Scudder is told frankly by a young doctor after a two-day alcohol blackout, &quot;if you drink, you'll die.&quot;  Scared by the warning, Scudder takes a case he doesn't want in a despearte attempt to distract him from alcohol.  His struggles with the bottle come across very real and are harrowing to behold.  The case is a good one as well with Scudder attempting to track the manaical killer of a hooker who was trying to leave the life.  Death is an ever constant theme, with the book's title being a riff on the old literary saying &quot;there are eight million stories in the naked city.&quot;<br />This book is everything great private detective fiction should be; dark, cynical, violent and lonely.  Frankly, I like Scudder better during this period than later on after he sobers up.  If you agree, you'll love this book.	2001-02-22
2098389:US	51809405	R2IV9CTGEQI2OC	0306460149	1711193	Eye Of The Storm	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Informative but Ho-Hum	&quot;Eye of the Storn&quot; is not nearly as exciting as its cover or title would suggests.  It is essentially a history of storm forcasting going all the way back to Ben Franklin's time.  And while it is informative, it lacks the type of thilling narrative in its weather stories that one would expect.  Most of the stories are taken from other books or magazine/newspaper articles.  And unfortunately, the author makes at least one serious error by repeating the long standing falsehood that meteorolgist Issac Cline rode up and down the beach on horseback to warn residents of Galveston of the approaching 1900 hurricane.  This is a myth, dispelled by the far superior book &quot;Issac's Storm,&quot; that just won't die.<br />Overall, &quot;Eye of the Storm&quot; has plenty of historical information, but the reading is unlikely to have the pulse quickening effect of even a mild spring thunderstorm.	2001-02-18
2098472:US	51809405	R23EPCNBC4Y98O	0805065741	263945445	Inside the Hurricane: Face to Face with Nature's Deadliest Storms	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Interesting topic, uneven text	&quot;Inside the Hurricane&quot; is far more interesting than several other recent weather books (the horrid &quot;Tying down the Wind&quot; and the ho-hum &quot;Eye of the Storm&quot;).  Author Pete Davies provides an exccelent account of Hurricanes Mitch and Floyd and the horrendous damage they wrought.  He also sounds a dire warning about the near certainty that the Gulf or East Coasts of the U.S. will someday experience a catastrophe of epic proportions.  Imagine, writes the author, if Mitch had followed the same storm track as Hurricane Irene, a Catagory 1 storm that deluged Miami not long after Floyd made headlines.<br />A lion's share of author Pete Davies's narrative involves the stories of the forecasters and storm chasers who track these meteorlogical beasts.  And while their stories are somtimes interesting, they don't have the same power as the descriptions of the hurricaines themselves.  Overall however, &quot;Inside the Hurricane&quot; is a decent book for weather-philes.	2001-02-18
2098664:US	51809405	RX9FAKEX0OJU3	0671038982	390778643	Motor City Blue (The Amos Walker Series #1)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Excellent P.I. Series Debut	Loren D. Estleman has talent to burn and it shows in his first novel featuring private detective Amos Walker (originally published in 1980).  Like any good P.I., Walker doesn't work the streets of his native Detroit, he INHABITS them.  Also like any good P.I., Walker drinks a little too much despite his cynicism, cares a little too much and his personal life leaves a lot to be desired.  The plot is more complex than is the norm with such stories, and perhaps it pushes credibility a bit towards the end.  Nevertheless, Estleman has both talent and style to burn.  He is among the best at using metaphors to describe the action.<br />Fans of John D. MacDonald's Travis McGee, Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder, George Pellaconos's Nick Stefanos and Johnathan Valin's Harry Stoner will love Amos Walker.	2001-02-18
2099452:US	51809405	RY60ZNE7N3KRE	0380806045	542432654	A Long Line of Dead Men: A Matthew Scudder Mystery	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Decent Hardboiled P.I. Fiction	I am a huge fan of hardboiled P.I. fiction, and this is the first Matthew Scudder book that I've had a chance to read.  And while I found the book to be a bit on the slow side in terms of action, the plot was so fascinating that I couldn't put it down.  The book's real subject matter is death, and as one character says, man is the only animal who knows he's going to die.  He's also the only animal that drinks.  Somehow, there must be a connection.  Those strictly interested in shoot-'em-ups and continuous action should look elsewhere.  Those who like their P.I. stories on the philisophical side will love it.<br />As a character, I found Scudder interesting, especially his background and his continuous battle with alcoholism.  Like any good P.I., he inhabits the landscape around him (in this case, Manhattan) so well that he becomes part of the scenery.  I also didn't mind the fact that he was involved in a stable relationship (often a weakness in other P.I. serieses.  A classic P.I. ought to be a loner).  His love interest is just quirky enough to add spice to the story and isn't used merely to give him a contrived vulnerability.  Overall, the best compliment I can pay is that I don't expect that this will be my last encounter with Scudder.	2001-02-17
2108443:US	51809405	R11O102HUNG8OA	0446404071	361621952	The Mexican Tree Duck	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Not up to the standards of his best work	James Crumley's &quot;The Last Good Kiss&quot; (1978) and &quot;The Wrong Case&quot; (1975) are two of the best hardboiled detective fiction novels ever written.  With &quot;The Mexican Tree Duck,&quot; Crumley brings back Private Investigator C.W. Sughrue from &quot;Kiss.&quot;  Alas, the results are not nearly as satisfying.  Crumley is quite adept at creating effective moments.  For example, there is a flashback here to Sughrue's service in the Vietnam War in which an officer is killed by a poisonous snake that I will not soon forget.  There are numerous such moments in this book, but not enough to make up for a story that stretches credibility to the breaking point.  The novel also lacks an effective villian, and many of Sughrue's foes here are the type faceless minions you'd expect in a James Bond movie.<br />Overall, &quot;The Mexican Tree Duck&quot; is not a bad novel.  Crumley at his worst is still a literary force who can put to shame a lot of the lightweights writing mystery novels these days.  But I wouldn't recommend this as a first Crumley novel.  Read one of his classics and get familiar with his unique genius first.	2001-02-10
2108579:US	51809405	RAIHTGCUEL7H6	0684853914	247231538	Joe DiMaggio: The Hero's Life	Books	5	4	9	N	N	&quot;Say It Ain't So, Joe.&quot;  The Dark Side of the Hero Game	Richard Ben Cramer's biography of Jo DiMaggio is an indictment of our culture of hero worship.  That an individual so thoroughly despicable could be so idolized and worshiped says a lot about what's wrong with where America puts its values.  No doubt, DiMaggio was one of the greatest atheletes of the 20th century.  He was also a legendary womanizer who cavorted with mobsters and took mob money on the side.  He broke off all relations with his son (who died a victim of his father's fame shortly after he did) and had little to do with his own siblings, two of whom were also major leaguers.  He was a man capable of cutting off frendships that had lasted decades over the tiniest perceived slight.  The only touching aspect of his life was his genuine love affair with Marilyn Monroe, a woman whose life he tried to save even as he physically abused her.<br />Cramer is a first rate journalist and his lively prose makes &quot;Joltin' Joe&quot; come to life for the reader, warts and all.  Cramer manages to get inside the head of the man behind the myth despite the fact that he received no cooperation from his subject.  Cramer has the proper respect for DiMaggio's on field accomplishments and the proper amount of dismay at the bitter, stingy, thoroughly dislikable old man DiMaggio became.  The closing of the book shows DiMaggio as a greedy huckster so willing to cash in on his own name that he was still attempting to autograph baseballs for cash on his deathbed.<br />This is one of the absolute best recent sports biographies.  And if it should happen to cause some people to re-examine their passion for sports memorabilia, so much the better.	2001-02-10
2111616:US	51809405	R15J7H1NWNWZ2F	0380731770	165921690	Brown's Requiem	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Great P.I. Fiction	I am not a James Ellroy fan.  In fact, &quot;Brown's Requiem&quot; is the only novel of his that I have read, because it is the only one of his books I've found that is a straight private detective story.  And as an example of the that genre, this books stands among the best.  Ellroy's hero, Fritz Brown, is everything a good P.I. should be; world weary, cynical, alcoholic and carrying heavy baggage from his past.  He also has plenty of good character eccentricities, like a fascination for classical music.  He is also prone to make that classic P.I. mistake, to fall in love with a woman he knows he probably shouldn't fall in love with.<br />All of this said the book takes some unexpected twists and turns.  Brown ends up investigating his own client, his romantic interest turns out to have a VERY complicated past and his case turns out to be far more elaboarate than it first appears.  All of this leads to a violent and satisfying climax, like any good P.I. novel should.  Fans of P.I. masters such Andrew Vachss, George Pellecanos and yes, Raymond Chandler, out to be right at home with Fritz Brown.	2001-02-07
2111989:US	51809405	REDHU55U9UMSI	0898865492	571414368	Dark Shadows Falling	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Some strong stuff	Joe Simpson starts out his book &quot;Dark Shadows Falling&quot; with an eerie and troubling tale of a mountaineer who was left out in the cold to die within a few hundred feet of his companions tents.  Simpson uses this story to dramatize how far mainstream mountaineering has strayed from its original adventurer roots.  The book's main drawback is Simpson's analysis of the 1996 Everest disaster which has been over reported and covered far more completely by those who were actually there.  Simpson closes the book with an interestting but relatively uneventful recent climb of his own that seems to have little to do with the rest of the book.<br />Overall, Simpson is an important figure in mountaineering and he does have plenty to say.  Those with an interest in the subject should enjoy this book very much.	2001-02-07
2112319:US	51809405	R1XHAXUR14H1PE	0451409353	226354809	Fatal North: Murder Survival Aboard USS Polaris First US Expedition North Pole	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good Polar Exploration/Who Dunnit?	Bruce Henderson manages to combine yet another polar exploration story (been a bunch of those published lately, hasn't there?) with an unexpected twist. He tells the story of the failed first U.S. expedition to discover the North Pole (circa 1870), which was grounded by something far more sinister than the usual mishaps. In fact its commander, the irrepressible Charles Hall, was mostly likely poisoned to death by one of his own shipmates. The story is primarily told through the eyes of Captain George Tyson, the honorable soul who Hall asked to join the mission and who was the unfortunate witness to the tragic and criminal events that took place on board the ship. Later, Tyson survived a harrowing six months drifting on an ice flow before he and eighteen compainions were rescued. That last part of the book deals with the inconclusive inquiry into Hall's death and the loss of the ship.<br />As polar exploration tales go, &quot;Fatal North&quot; is not one of the more interesting because the mission itself was such an abject failure. What is more interesting is Henderson's account of how such a mission can be destroyed by human avarice. Henderson is a fine writer and the prose in the book is crisp and lively. The text checks in at a snappy 290 pages that could be read in a single snow bound day.	2001-02-07
2119896:US	51809405	R1YRY67IAD9AYO	038097763X	482873508	America Afire: Jefferson, Adams, and the Revolutionary Election of 1800	Books	4	27	27	N	N	A well written account of America's early political history	The subtitle of &quot;America Afire&quot; is somewhat misleading.  While it purports to be about &quot;Jefferson, Adams, and the Revolutionary Election of 1800,&quot; not until over two-thirds of the narrative have passed does author Bernard Weisberger begin to discuss the election itself and then for only one chapter.  The book is really a concise political history of the United States from the ratification of the Constitution through the end of Jefferson's first term as President.  The prose is lively and highly readable.  And Weisberger is correct in his assertion that the election of 1800, in which a President who was denied re-election voluntarily relenquished power for the first time, was a monumental if often overlooked event in the early history of the nation.<br />The book actually reads like a series of magazine articles with each chapter covering a separate event.  This may reflect Weisberger's longtime involvement as a contributing editor for &quot;American Heritage&quot; magazine.  At just over 300 pages of narrative, &quot;America Afire&quot; reads like the work of Stephen Ambrose in the way it brings history alive for those who are not academic scholars.	2001-01-31
2124430:US	51809405	R29HS9VMRGIUI5	0399103422	638098276	The Godfather	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Blueprint for a couple of great movies	&quot;The Godfather&quot; is one of the VERY rare examples of a movie (and sequel) that are actually better than the book they are based on.  Upon first release, the book was a massive bestseller, more because it is an easy read than because it is great literature.  What it is primarily useful for now is as a means of filling in details that the first two Godfather films didn't have time to cover even with their considerable length.  Such detail includes the background story of Johnny Fontaine, the Frank Sinatra-esque entertainer who is a loyal Godson.  Also fleshed out are the characters of the loyal hitman Luca Brazzi and of Sonny's mistress, who would become the mother of Michael's eventual successor as Don in &quot;Godfather Part 3.&quot;  There is also more information about Moe Green and the feud over the Corleone move to Nevada.<br />Puzo is an effective storyteller and he keeps things moving along at a snappy pace.  The Don of the book doesn't seem larger than life the way Marlon Brando does in the movie.  &quot;The Godfather&quot; is often described as a &quot;trash&quot; novel, but reading would be a lot more fun if all such novels were as good as this one.	2001-01-28
2124454:US	51809405	R3IIRXME3JF3XR	0345412214	664598597	The Last Don	Books	2	0	0	N	N	The Last Godfather Book	Mario Puzo virtually invented organized crime mythology 30 years ago with &quot;The Godfather.&quot;  What tends to be forgotten in light of the two Best Picture awards won by the movie and its sequel, however, is that the orginal novel was not taken very seriously despite its mass sales.  Francis Ford Coppola was the one who pumped the magic into Puzo's vision and made it a tale for the ages rather than a soon-to-be-forgotten pop phenomenon.  That said, with &quot;The Last Don&quot; Puzo essentially attmepts to do a rewrite of the book that made hime famous.  Unfortunately, he had little in the way of fresh ideas to enliven his old premise.  Like the Don of the title, Puzo was past his prime, though he refused to admit it.  And making Hollywood the center of the plot is a nod to his considerable experience with moviemaking.  One would say that he knows more about filmmaking than about the gangster life.<br />Ultimately, &quot;The Last Don,&quot; is what &quot;The Godfather&quot; would have been without Coppola; a massively popular novel that will be little remembered by posterity.	2001-01-28
2125641:US	51809405	RPKXMC7CXRMDQ	0345330145	428889418	Puppet Masters	Books	2	2	12	N	N	Sci-Fi James Bond	After the gritty realism (relatively speaking) of Robert Heinlein's &quot;Starship Troupers,&quot; &quot;The Puppet Masters&quot; was something of a disappointment.  The story is not nearly as memorable, and the hero seems to have stepped out of a James Bond film.  The old chauvanist James Bond, that is.  Overall, I found the tone of the novel entirely too lighthearted to take seriously.  And it is not remotely scary, which perhaps explains why the horror film of the same name was such a flop.  Unlike the classic &quot;Starship Troupers,&quot; this is science fiction that has not aged well.	2001-01-26
2125738:US	51809405	R3NEQSWM4Q2J7V	0441002056	253345937	Carlucci's Edge	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent Sci-Fi Detective Series	Richard Paul Russo's superior series combines the best of the Science Fiction and Mystery genres into one package.  Detective Frank Carlucci is an honest cop and a good detective in the hopeless corrupt world of the mid-21st century.  He is determined to do the right thing despite the potentially negative consequences.  The real strength of the book is the vivid desciptions of the streets of San Francisco that leave you feeling that it is inevitable that the world will turn out this way.  Any of the books in this series, which include &quot;Destroying Angel,&quot; and &quot;Carlucci's Heart,&quot; are well worth owning.	2001-01-26
2125862:US	51809405	R2M7M5H2FJGL8P	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A classic in the mode of &quot;Starship Troupers&quot;	&quot;The Forever War&quot; is a true science fiction classic that contains all of the best elements of the genre.  It combines plausible science with an intriguing look at the future.  It has plenty of action and certainly plenty of BIG ideas.  Like Robert Heinlein's &quot;Starship Troupers,&quot; it is a military coming-of-age story; the difference being that here the hero is a reluctant  warrior rather than an enthusiastic one.  The storytelling is almost hypnotic in its intenisty.  This version (which is the author's original version) has a couple of minor inconsistancies because of a middle section that was left out of the original publication.  No matter, the restored section makes the story even more fascinating.  Author Joe Haldeman has also created some of the most realistic seeming space battles that I've yet read.  He acknowledges the effects that the vast distances of space would have on warfare rather than ignoring them as inconveniant facts.  He also uses time distortion to a maximum effect.<br />Overall, this is one of the best modern science fiction novels available.  Those who loved &quot;Starship Troupers&quot; in particular should get themselves a copy.	2001-01-26
2125973:US	51809405	R2A40EOW6IT4FT	055357292X	804648943	Heavy Weather	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Not that heavy &quot;Weather&quot;	Bruce Sterling's &quot;Heavy Weather&quot; has an excellent concept that is just not brought off all that well.  A story about a group of post-Greenhouse effect stormchasers going after the BIG one (tornado) should be faster paced and much scarier than this novel.  Sterling also does not give a very coherent view of what the world is like during its period of so-called &quot;heavy weather,&quot; given that all of the action takes place in Texas and Oklahoma.  There is also an evil consortium subplot that makes very little sense.  That said, most of the the main characters are quite likable and very believable.  Their story is just not as remarkable as it ought to be.<br />Overall, I would give this book a marginal recommendation to sci-fi buffs and perhaps disaster buffs.  It moves slowly at times, but there are enough interesting ideas to make it worth your while if you're interested in the subject matter.	2001-01-26
2129668:US	51809405	R2EZW15BPX20WJ	1559705477	111207955	One Day in September	Books	4	26	27	N	N	One Day in Hell	&quot;One Day in September&quot; is a compelling and unblinking account of the Black September raid on the 1972 Munich Olympics that left five Palestinian terroists, 11 Israeli athletes and one German policeman dead.  Reeve shows how Palestinian fanatcism, Israeli defiance and German police incompotence led to the tragedy.  He also gives the background stories of the victims, putting a face to the names of the dead.  The story is played out across a canvass of the Arab-Israeli conflict, of which Reeve gives a good overview for the less informed.<br />The second half of the book, which focusses on the Isreali revenge operation called &quot;Wrath of God,&quot; is not as strong.  Though a vital part of the overall story, the book is too brief to give the proper treatment to the myriad of assassinations that follwed the disaster.  After a while it all starts to run together until both sides seem like a couple of warring mafia families.<br />Overall, Reeve is an excellent journalist and a good writer who knows how to tell a story.  And in this case, he has a sad story to tell indeed.	2001-01-23
2130238:US	51809405	R1F32FAW3BF981	0843947063	311074781	Night Freight	Books	4	1	1	N	N	At times, spooky.  At others, suspenseful.	Bill Pronzini's &quot;Night Freight&quot; was for me an introduction to him as an author.  I guess the best compliment I can pay is that I plan to seek him out again.  This is a collection of short stories published by the author over about a 30 year period.  Perhaps because of the length of time it covers, it is not as consistant as it could be.  Pronzini writes suspenseful mystery tales and some outright horror stories, though the former tend to be more effective than the latter.  As a horror writer he is fairly conventional, without the imaginative flair of say, Stephen King.  Nevertheless, there are some memorable shocks such as &quot;Peekaboo&quot; which are sure to keep you up at night.  The mystery stories are better, particularly the single entry in his &quot;Nameless Detective&quot; series that appears here as well as the almost novella length &quot;Stacked Deck&quot; that kicks things off.<br />Overall, this is a hard collection to categorize, but lovers of both mystery and horror writing should find plenty of nuggets to enjoy.	2001-01-23
2138795:US	51809405	R2MMX3DGRB00IA	0736613641	108668770	Sherman's March	Books	5	19	27	N	N	&quot;Uncle Billy&quot; on the March	Burke Davis is one of America's premeir Civil War historians, and with &quot;Sherman's March,&quot; he provides a well-balanced and highly readable account.  General Sherman was a visionary whose tactics against civilians and infastructure in Georgia and the Carolinas helped speed the war to its conclusion.  Of course, the human cost was high, but not by 20th Century standards in which this type of warfare would become the norm.  Furthermore, the South NEEDED to be whipped as Sherman whipped them to avoid the type of &quot;stab in the back&quot; mentality that showed up in Germany after World War I and led directly to Hitler.  Sherman's March left the South with no illusions about who won the war and about exactly what kind of Hell the war was.  Sherman himself said that &quot;War is misery and you cannot refine it,&quot; and he endeavored to bring that misery to the heretofore relatively untouched deep South.<br />Burke does a good job of showing the grave damage inflicted by the march and holds Sherman accountable for the excesses inflicted by his army.  He also shows how Sherman's tactics contributed greatly to the end of the conflict in part by causing many of the men in General Lee's command to desert.  The march was a work of military genius, and Davis has documented it in fine fashion.	2001-01-16
2144375:US	51809405	R2AZRI32OLAOPG	0786865296	680967816	The Ice Master: The Doomed 1913 Voyage of the Karluk and the Miraculous Rescue of her Survivors	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another harrowing tale of life in the arctic	&quot;The Ice Master&quot; joins the ever growing recent list of polar exploration books that seem to be all the rage these days.  Fortunately, this is one of the better entries in the genre.  Author Jeffiner Niven conducted extensive research, helped by the fact that several of the survivors kept extensive journals during their ordeal.  Though they did not resort to cannibalism to stay alive, they endured most of the other hazzards of becoming stranded far from civilzation.  Starvation, snowblindness, severe frostbite, heartbreaking deaths, the crew of the &quot;Karluk&quot; endured them all.  Niven is a superior storyteller who has the ability to place the reader with the her protagonists.<br />The story has also includes a glimpse into the darker side of humanity.  The &quot;Karluk&quot; became stranded in the first place because of the arrogance and incompotence of the explorer Stefasson, who then proceeded to abandon her and her crew to their fate.  Fortunately, hero Captain Robert Bartlett was able to endure the almost superhuman ordeal of walking out of the wilderness and summoning help.  Even so, near half of the expedition expired in the ice, and some of those who survived behaved far less than honorably.<br />Overall, this is a great book for those interested in exploration or adventure stores.	2001-01-11
2144378:US	51809405	R2666ESZAJVEJE	1852427140	732966612	Nick's Trip	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Nick Ain't Happy	The three Nick Stefanos mysteries (of which this is the second) follow the linear descent of their hero from rebellious career stiff to hard drinking private eye to hopeless alcoholic.  Along the way, Nick bares his soul more completely than do most first person narrative P.I.'s.  His stories are also among the most darkly violent and gritty that I've come across in the genre.  &quot;Nick's Trip&quot; is better than &quot;A Firing Offense,&quot; the first Stefanos book, if only because it is more plausible and more focussed.  Along the way, Nick reunites with an old friend who has become an obnoxious yuppie and whose wife has disappered.  He also manages to lose his girlfriend and become a surrogate father.  The whole book has an overwhelming feeling of lonliness to it, like a late night country song.  It is definately NOT for readers of light mainstream fiction.<br />Overall, a must read for fans of authors such as James Crumley and Andrew Vachss and anyone else who likes their P.I. fiction truly hard boiled.	2001-01-11
2150755:US	51809405	R2D6PNUYF7TWAT	0312867964	708436828	All the Rage (Repairman Jack)	Books	3	5	11	N	N	Jack Gets Overexposed	For fourteen years F. Paul Wilson's classic novel &quot;The Tomb&quot; was his only full length Repairman Jack novel.  Now he has added three more in three years, and as a result his protagonist is becoming overexposed.  The ending of &quot;The Tomb&quot; seemed to imply that Jack was going to die from wounds he sustained battling a supernatural creature called a Rakosh.  Now the creature is back as the centerpiece of an initially clever plot in which a Serbian gangster and some desperate molecular biologists are conspiring to get rich with a new designer drug that is causing mayhem in the streets.  All of this sounds exciting, and it is to a point.  But Wilson ultimately fails to capitalize upon his great setup.  Jack has been reduced here from a tortured soul who moves through the underworld to just another action hero.  And yet again, the holdover characters of Gia and Vicky from &quot;The Tomb&quot; serve absolutely no purpose other than to give Jack a vulnerability that is not especially plausible.  Also, Wilson is becoming increasingly heavy handed with his libertarian conservative political viewpoints.<br />It is unfortunate to say, but with each novel, Repairman Jack becomes less interesting as a character.  Turns out Wilson may have been right initially to be economical about using his best character.  By overexposing him he is in fact devaluing him.	2001-01-06
2152836:US	51809405	R1CFWPFNXZWN5F	1891847007	897651821	No Depression: An Introduction to Alternative Country Music. Whatever That Is.	Books	4	6	6	N	N	This book is Not Depressing	&quot;No Depression&quot; the book is a collection of highlights from the first three years of &quot;No Depression&quot; magazine (roughly 1995-1997), which is the bible of the so-called &quot;Alternative Country&quot; music movement.  Personally, I am a big fan of the music and own CDs by roughly half of the three dozen or so featured artists.  The articles include written snapshots of such alt. country luminaries as Son Volt, Wilco, Blue Mountain, Steve Earle, Bottle Rockets and Whiskeytown.  The articles are reprinted verbatum from the magazine and there are no updates for features written several years before the book was published.  Unlike the magazine, there are unfortunately no photographs.<br />Overall, the writing and reporting are of high quality.  &quot;No Depression&quot; allows you to get to know artists who the mainstream music press have largely ignored.  That said, it is rather limited in its scope.  I would also have enjoyed a CD review section, but all you get instead is a list of the best 101 alt. country CDs of all time as picked by the editors of the magazine.  While the book isn't perfect, it is still a good read for those of us who love the music.	2001-01-04
2153150:US	51809405	R30U18CVLRI5JY	0385496842	228406468	The Circus Fire: A True Story	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Interesting Subject	&quot;The Circus Fire&quot; documents the events surrounding the burning of the Ringling Brothers big top in Hartford, Connecticut, during World War Two that killed 167 people and seriously injured many more.  It is an event that took on new life in the public eye in the 1990s with the supposed identification of a little girl's body who was body never claimed.  This is an exhaustive account, which is one of the book's weaknesses.  Author Stewart O'Nan tells the story from the viewpoints of many different survivors, often shifting perspective from paragraph to paragraph.  And while this style allows many voices to be heard, it is often confusing to the reader.  A myriad of names appear in the narritive and it is easy to lose track of which story you are following.  As a result, the victims tend to blur into a mass of humanity instead of maintaining their own identity.  Additionally, while the accounts of the fire itself is quite riveting, the later chapter focussing on the aftermath are far less so.<br />Overall, this is a good book for disaster buffs, but casual readers are likely to find it less enjoyable.	2001-01-04
2153890:US	51809405	RMBCP01JAJUSP	0671735632	351629865	They Thirst	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Vampires on the Rampage!	Forget Anne Rice and her wimpy &quot;Interview With a Vampire&quot; series, here is a REAL vampire saga.  The undead horde is loose in L.A. and Hellbent on taking over the entire city.  And when an epic dust storm enshrouds the city, their time has come.  McCammon has created a fast-paced nerve tingling story that along with Stephen King's &quot;Night Shift&quot; and Skipp and Spector's &quot;The Light at the End&quot; is among the best of the modern graphic vampire stories.  But be forewarned, this stuff isn't for the faint of heart.	2001-01-04
2165452:US	51809405	RT69YLU7LNUX1	0394735587	996446544	The Wrong Case	Books	5	32	35	N	N	A classic downer	Take it from the title, &quot;The Wrong Case,&quot; is not a happy story.  In fact, private detective fiction seldom gets more hardboiled or as down and dirty as this one.  Crumley's &quot;hero,&quot; the recently unemployed private snoop Milo, is a man shattered by a terrible upbringing and by alcohol.  But despite his cynical and distrustful nature, he takes a case he knows will be a loser in a last ditch effort to both redeem himself and to find love.  The results are about what you would expect.<br />Milo is a completely different character than Crumley's other private detective hero C.W. Sughrue, the party animal star of &quot;The Last God Kiss&quot; among others.  Milo has been scarred far deeper by life and fully expects to lose himself to his addictions at some point.  His best friends are homeless winos with one foot firmly planted in their graves.  Brooding, violent and with a perfectly shocking ending, &quot;The Wrong Case&quot; is one of THE great hardboiled detective novels.	2000-12-25
2172937:US	51809405	R2BL0Q2IU7LDHC	0195038630	345581260	Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era	Books	5	48	51	N	N	Best Political History of the Civil War	James McPherson's &quot;Battle Cry of Freedom&quot; is the best work on the politics of The Civil War available.  For example, McPherson spends nearly the first three hundred pages of the book on the events, political and otherwise, leading up to the firing on Fort Sumter.  As a result, his book gives the war a proper context that is lacking in many other works.  His descriptions of the battles themselves tend to be brief overviews rather than extensive studies.  But there are countless other volumes by other authors available for those whose interest primarily lies with the shooting war itself.  McPherson would rather focus on why the North ans South decided to fight it out and once they did, how the war evolved slowly from an attempt to put down an insurrection to a holy quest to end slavery.<br />No other period in American History has seen as many political changes of earthquake proportions as The Civil War.  This fact often gets lost in the tales of epic battles, almost mythical generals and incredible sacrifice.  What McPherson has done is place the great painting of the war in a proper frame to give one the whole picture.  As such, it is vital reaading for anyone interested in the War and its effect on American History.	2000-12-17
2173269:US	51809405	R1ADXXATUNLMDI	0812571991	127371808	Legacies: A Repairman Jack Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Jack is Righteous!	The second novel in F. Paul Wilson's Repairman Jack series has a complex and occasionally violent storyline worthy as a sequel to the great 1984 novel &quot;The Tomb.&quot;  Unlike the former novel, however, this one does not take a supernatural turn.  Instead it unfolds like a highly unconventional private detective tale, with plenty of twists and turns along the way.  As a tarnished white knight operating on the wrong side of the law, Jack is similar to Andrew Vachss's classic character Burke.  My only quibble with the novel is that the characters of Gia and Vicky, the mother and daughter Jack saved in &quot;The Tomb&quot; are held over here but add little if anything to the story.  With all that he's been through, Jack ought to be far too emotionally shattered to ever form a stable relationship.  This aspect of the novel goes nowhere, other than to provide Jack with some highly unlikely domestric tranquility.<br />Nevertheless, fans of &quot;The Tomb&quot; will find plenty to like, especially in the unique ways that Jack finds to defeat his adversaries.  As such, it is another winner for Wilson.	2000-12-17
2181125:US	51809405	R8YKB8QSGNKEX	0812533348	889610152	Wolf And Iron	Books	2	11	27	N	N	Utterly Wimpy Apocalypse Fiction	Let me start out by saying that this was the first Gordon Dickson book I've ever read, so if you're a fan you won't like my review.  It will also be the last of his books I ever read.  I am an ardent fan of end-of-the-world fiction, from &quot;On the Beach&quot; to &quot;The Stand,&quot; and this is one of the worst I've read.  If Dickson wanted to write a book about a symbiotic relationship between a man and a wolf, why did he have to &quot;destroy&quot; civilization to do it?  This book crawls at a snail's pace.  There is little of the epic descriptions of society's breakdown that make the best of the genre so good.  In fact, this story is SO conventional that it is almost laughably quaint.  Not to mention the fact that the doomsday scenario (a house-of-cards financial collapse trigged by the failure of an international banking conglomorate) has since been proven by the Lippo Group failure to be unrealistic.<br />Fans of Dickson, you can have him.  Apocalypse fiction fans should look elsewhere.  I'd start with &quot;Lucifer's Hammer&quot; myself.	2000-12-10
2181146:US	51809405	R3BZ3U5JMT7739	1585420603	4939317	Tying Down the Wind: Adventures in the Worst Weather on Earth	Books	1	8	14	N	N	Meandering, Misleading and Factually Inaccurate	Don't be fooled by the title.  Pinder's book claims to be &quot;Adventures in the worst weather in the world.&quot;  Actually, its a description of the weather he personally experiences as an observer on Mt. Washington, which is only interesting to a point.  The rest of the weather stories are second hand and poorly told at that.  Linder has the annoying habit of repeating himelf and his narrative wanders without any logical progression.  But the worst thing I caught was his perpetuating the totally false myth that meteorologist Issac Cline rode up and down the beach on horseback to warn Galveston residents about the approach of the 1900 hurricane.  I would have thought that the excellent bestseller &quot;Issac's Storm&quot; had laid that blatantly false story to rest once and for all.  For someone whose life is supposed to be weather, this glaring inaccuracy made me question the validity of Pinder's entire book.<br />Even weather-philes should be wary of this poorly written work.  It simply is not what it purports to be.  For me, it was a HUGE disappointment.	2000-12-10
2181465:US	51809405	RS1652WD409I1	0394759893	518668665	The Last Good Kiss	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Overlong, but still a great read	The first hundred or so pages of &quot;The Last Good Kiss&quot; are as good as any harboiled detective fiction ever written.  Crumley's vivid detail, down-and-out characters and brief bursts of violence make his story as vivid as a Hank Williams tune.  His hero, C.W. Sughrue (&quot;Sugh&quot; as in &quot;sugar&quot; and rue as in &quot;rue the goddamned day&quot;) is everything a hardboiled detective ought to be; alcoholic, rebellious, cynical and beholden to no code of honor but his own.  The mystery itself unfolds in a bizarre and complex manner, leading to a payoff that you know won't be pretty.  It may take Crumley a bit too long to get there, but its a fun trip while it lasts.<br />Overall, a flawed but classic novel that fans of Andrew Vachss, George P. Pelecanos, Jonathan Valin and John D. MacDonald in particular ought to enjoy.	2000-12-10
2194732:US	51809405	RS8O2GOB02SB1	0385017138	146508684	Goebbels: The Man Who Created Hitler	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A brief biography	Viktor Reimann's biography of Joseph Goebbles is informative and readable, but ultimately lacking.  Reimann brings a German perspective to Goebbles, but ultimately fails to really penetrate the legend on the man.  Checking in at only 326 pages, and including many of Goebbles's speeches and writings verbatim, it leaves the reader with only a skeletal sketch.	2000-11-28
2200832:US	51809405	R2T44R2MQRB8J8	0345314123	250476241	The Thousand-Mile War	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent account of WW II in the Aleutian Islands	Garfield's &quot;Thousand Mile War&quot; is an excellent historical account of the often overlooked battle for Alaska in which Japan occupied two Aleutian Islands.  The campaign was costly for The Rising Sun and may have helped contribute to its defeat at Midway.  Garfield presents the story as an epic clash, which in deed it was.  This is a first rate military history book.	2000-11-23
2206773:US	51809405	R1EZGZEO7LT7I5	1852427159	50954136	A Firing Offense (A Five Star Title)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Nick's First Case	&quot;A Firing Offense&quot; introduces us to Nick Stefanos, a man who just turned thirty and is unhappy with his life's choices.  Perhaps as a way of rebelling, he stumbles on a new profession, private detective.  Stefanos inhabits those potions of Washington D.C. that tourists never see.  The seedy neighborhoods, the wild club scene and the party culture.  Though the scene he describes has changed quite a bit since this book was first published (the clubs he mentions are for the most part long gone and WHFS radio has gone from hip to coporate bland), the prose is riveting and immediate.  Nick and his friends are people with problems, and just like real life, things are not going to turn out all right.  The violent climax is explosive; and then there's a slow fade, like the aftermath of a love act.<br />Overall, this is a fine introduction to a gritty private detective series that, so far, unfortunately only includes three novels.	2000-11-17
2206784:US	51809405	R1EMLTNT40B5J6	007135526X	121491740	The Ship and the Storm	Books	4	11	17	N	N	The even more &quot;perfect&quot; storm	Jim Carrier's &quot;The Ship and the Storm&quot; blatantly tries to cash in on &quot;The Perfect Storm&quot; phenomena, but so what?  His story is very similar, a bunch of hardworking mariners (in this case the crew of a cruise ship rather than a fishing boat) who get caught at sea by a rare freak-of-nature storm that causes them to vanish virtually without a trace.  Carrier tells their stories as the tragedy unfolds.  He also gives a good account of the power of Hurricane Mitch, the second deadliest storm ever in the Western Hemisphere and the fourth most powerful hurricane ever recorded.  Carrier also provides a good account of the destruction of Honduras, which suffered catostrophic flooding and over 18,000 deaths.  In fact, if the book has a weakness it's that the story of the cruise ship get a bit too much preference over the greater disater that occurred on shore.<br />Carrier knows how to tell a story and his prose is riveting.  He places the reader right with his unfortunate protagonists.  And like &quot;The Perfect Storm,&quot; the book describes a unique seafaring way of life.  Fans of the other &quot;storm&quot; will love it.	2000-11-17
2209187:US	51809405	R3LY1T5GKWTYNB	1852427167	68627565	Down by the River Where the Dead Men Go (A Five Star Title)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A classic of the genre	Hardboiled P.I. fiction doesn't get much better than this.  Pelacanos's hero, P.I. and bartender Nick Stefanos, is an alcoholic which is dramatically demonstrated by his harrowing bender as the book opens.  In his stupor he sort of, kind of, witnesses a murder and becomes obsessed about solving it.  Though not obssessed enough to quit drinking.  Along the way, he hooks up with fellow P.I. Jack LaDuke, who has a mess of psychological problems of his own.  The two form an unlikely pair, and as Pelecanos's riventing story unfolds, you know the ending will not be pretty.<br />This was my first book in this series, and I definately plan to read more.  Fans of Andrew Vachss's Burke series, in particular, should eat this stuff up.	2000-11-15
2215377:US	51809405	R1PJIX5P2KO92T	0345396871	710921780	Chain of Fools (Harry James Denton Mysteries)	Books	1	3	6	N	N	Hardboiled Lightweight	I should preface this review by saying that I LOVE hardboiled P.I. fiction.  That said, this is one of the sorriest examples I've run across.  Though the subject matter is appropriate (teenage girl disappears into the world of underground flesh markets and ends up involved in a grisly murder), the hero, Harry James Denton, just ain't up to the material.  For example, would any self-respecting hardboiled P.I.:<br />1).  Nearly pass out from the sight of dead body?<br />2).  Describe a strip joint like a prude?<br />3).  Put up with a girlfriend bugging him to have a baby?<br />4).  Use politically correct terms like &quot;African American?&quot;<br />5).  Have THREE names, for crying out loud?<br />Not to mention the fact that the story, while told with some grusome detail, reads like an episode of &quot;Spencer For Hire.&quot;  The characters are stock and you can see the &quot;big secret&quot; coming about a hundred or so pages before the hero does.  Forget this one.	2000-11-10
2217128:US	51809405	R3JF0HZAPLWAWK	0060195436	207910478	In Siberia	Books	2	21	32	N	N	Disappointing	Colin Thubron's book could hardly fail to be interesting given its subject matter.  Thubron travelled the Trans-Siberian railway and made other detours through Russia's &quot;Wild Wild East.&quot;  What he found mostly was a people who are perservering despite living in an immense scarcely populated land that seems cursed by history and memories of the gulags.  Some of Thubron's images are riveting and tragic.  But unfortunately, his prose leaves a lot to be desired.  He often writes in an off-putting second person, and he sometimes lingers on subjects that are just not that interesting.  He also provides little context for his journey.  He makes little mention of what compelled him to go to Siberia at this particular time, nor does he give any buildup for his travels or reflect on what it means to him.  Worse yet, at the end of the book you get no sense of a journey completed.  Instead, Thubron simply stopped writing.<br />Overall, this book was a great disappointment.  I would recommend searching out Benson Bobrick's superior history of Siberia, &quot;East of the Sun&quot; instead.	2000-11-08
2217805:US	51809405	R35JNN1QH3DWLS	0553095021	782641067	Super Casino: Inside the "New" Las Vegas	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Out with the Wiseguys, In with Wall Street	Pete Earley is an excellent journalist whose books are quite readable and informative.  With &quot;Super Casino,&quot; he tracks the careers of men like Steve Wynn and Bill Bennett, whose vision helped transform the Las Vegas Strip from a haven for mobsters and high rollers to literally an adult Disneyland suitable for the whole family.  While one might question the morality of the casinos, one has to admire the audacity of the entreprenuers who keep building them ever larger and more grand.  Earley shows how over the last quarter century gambling (or gaming, as its now called) has lost a lot of its negative stigma and how big time investment bankers have pushed the mob out of the casino racket.  Earley also makes some attempts to show a balanced account of the downside of legalized gambling on a massive scale.  Like any good journalist, he lets the reader make the moral judgements.<br />Overall, the is an interesting and well-written book that will captivate anyone drawn to this subject matter.	2000-11-08
2237886:US	51809405	R2JI496QDSA4LM	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hard Edged Historical Fiction	Caleb Carr's superb novel &quot;The Alienist&quot; brings history alive by using it as the backdrop for an expertly told murder mystery.  Set in New York City just before the turn of the twentieth century, the novel features such historic figures as Theodore Rossevelt and J.P. Morgan as supporting characters.  Also presented are the dawn of modern psychoanalysis and the birth of the notion of the serial killer.  All of this narrative fabric is expertly woven by Carr, who perfectly captures the feel of life in the Big Apple at the turn of the last century for all of its modernistic glory and all of its decadence.  Anyone who loves a great mystery should read and savor this fine novel.	2000-10-21
2243293:US	51809405	RIE8JG5VT0PB5	0140231706	502785255	Berlin Noir: March Violets; The Pale Criminal; A German Requiem	Books	5	76	77	N	N	Phillip Marlow meets Herman Goering	It's been awhile since I've read a mystery series that has grabbed me with the intensity of Phillip Kerr's Berlin trilogy.  Right from the start, his writing reminds you of Raymond Chandler, though more vivid and descriptive.  But Phillip Marlowe never had to worry about ending up in a concentration camp and that threat gives the first two novels in this series even more of an edge.  Kerr creates a dead on accurate feel for what it was like to live in Nazi Germany before the outbreak of the war.  Like all good historical fiction, famous names grace the pages as minor characters, including Goering and Renhard Heydrich.  Their appearances give the books weight, but Kerr is careful not to overdo it.  Fans of Caleb Carr's superb novel &quot;The Alienist&quot; in particular should love this series as well as anyone with an interest in Nazi Germany.	2000-10-17
2246421:US	51809405	R2EOEAL0XJL5FK	0375411216	694000010	Dead and Gone: A Burke Novel (Burke Novels)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Burke Inaction	I've read all of the Burke novels and am a loyal follower of the series.  But the latest was a bit of a disappointment.  Vachss was apparently aiming for a dramatic change in the series.  But unfortunately after a great opening in which Burke is shot, feigns amnesia in the hospital and makes a life-threatening escape, the book slows down, way down.  On the plus side, the attempt on his life causes Burke to do some serious soul searching, which provides more insight into his damaged psyche.  Unfortunately, the great set up fails to pay off on its high expectations.  The story slows to a crawl during the search, and never really gets going again.  Burke's latest femme fatale, the Cambodian Gem, is an interesting character but only about average for the series.  The climatic confrontation, usually the strength of any Burke novel, is disappointing.<br />Overall, I rank this entry in the Burke saga near the bottom with &quot;Down in the Zero&quot; and &quot;Footsteps of the Hawk.&quot;  It isn't bad, but it isn't as good as it should have been.	2000-10-14
2246743:US	51809405	RMPLJEFB5KIM7	0671768468	229807052	Dream City: Race, Power, and the Decline of Washington, D.C.	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Needs a Sequel	\\"Dream City\\" compares with Mike Royko's \\"Boss\\" as an excellent expose on urban politics. But while Royko's protagonist, Mayor Richard Daley of Chicago, at least had his city's best interests in mind despite the shortcomings of his political machine, Marion Barry only cared about one thing, Marion Barry. That this vulture perpetuated his own power on the backs of the powerless who were his strongest supporters is sickening and fascinating at the same time. \\"Dream City\\" was published in 1994, right before the leech Barry returned to the Mayor's office to do four more years of damage to the capital city. Under Daley, Chicago was \\"The City That Works.\\" Under Barry, DC was the city that didn't.	2000-10-14
2247020:US	51809405	RQAWPE8DSIUQT	0679764100	936565463	Sacrifice	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Burke Descends into Hell	&quot;Sacrifice&quot; is the darkest novel in the Burke series.  It is also a turning point.  Since each Burke novel builds on its predecessors, Burke's figurative descent into hell at the end of the book was bound to have a traumatic effect on him.  &quot;Satan's Child&quot; is arguably the most disturbing creation that Author Vachss has created in the entire series.  I've read all of the Burke novels, and by and large I prefer the earlier books to the later entries.  Overall, I would rank &quot;Sacrifice&quot; somewhere in the middle.	2000-10-14
2259323:US	51809405	R8MMTE1L4OAKW	0679752986	865862753	A Maze of Death	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Maze-ing	This is the first Phillip K. Dick book I have read, and based  upon the experience, I intend to seek out others.  This is possibly the most unique science fiction I've ever come across.  It is impossible to say much about the book's &quot;alternate reality&quot; theme without giving away too much of the plot.  In fact, before the plot began to turn, I wasn't sure I was enjoying it.  Once it did, I was amazed because I had absolutely no idea where Dick was headed.  Dick may not exactly be a household name among science fiction writers, but he has found himself a covert.  My only regret is that I wish I had discovered him while he was still among the living.	2000-10-04
2262145:US	51809405	R25JDNWPDMMEGG	038097746X	450837062	An Honest President: The Life And Presidencies Of Grover Cleveland	Books	3	9	10	N	N	An Brief Overview	H. Paul Jeffers's biography of Grover Cleveland is readable, but I found myself thinking of the famous Walter Mondale phrase, &quot;Where's the Beef?&quot;  Checking in at a brief 350 pages, made all the shorter by the interspersion of photographs throughout the text, this book is a good bare bones account of Cleveland's life in which the reader never really gets to know the man.  Cleveland is a vastly underrated President, mostly because didn't serve at a time of great national crisis.  So the recent interest in him (no less than two biographies published in 2000) is a good thing.  Jeffers's book did much to enlighten me, but left me wanting more.  I also found a couple of glaring factual errors.  Overall, Jeffers's book is a good introduction to its subject, and that's probably all most casual readers will want to know.	2000-10-02
2265358:US	51809405	R21UG5S1OW3CMU	0133144763	593731887	55 days: The fall of South Vietnam	Books	4	10	11	N	N	First rate journalistic account of the end of the War	Alan Dawson is an excellent journalist who covered the fall of Saigon from the city itself.  Not surprisingly, he is highly critical of the U.S. leadership that failed to get a large number of its Vietnamese employees out during the chaotic evacuation.  He is also highly critical of the corrupt South Vietnamese regime that squandered billions of dollars in American aid and ultimately sacrificed their country to the communists almost without a fight.  I would recommend this book over &quot;The Fall of Saigon&quot; which is far less readable.	2000-09-29
2271803:US	51809405	R2F7ST330MJAOL	1891620401	670475841	Black Mass: The Irish Mob, The FBI and A Devil's Deal	Books	3	3	5	N	N	The real life &quot;Sopranos&quot;	&quot;Black Mass&quot; is the story of a big time Irish gangster, James &quot;Whitey&quot; Bulger, and how he turned informant for the FBI.  Unlike other instances where this has occurred, however, Bulger managed to corrupt his FBI handlers as they aided and abetted his twenty year crime spree.  Authors Lehr and O'Neill know this story well, having covered it for many years with the local Boston newspapers.  It is a good lesson in what can happen to anyone, especially a law enforcement officer, when little indescretions lead to major breaches in ethics.  What the book does not have enough of, unfortunately, are first hand descriptions of the mobsters plying their trade.  There is some of it in the book, but most of the stories are second hand.  Unlike other notable recent mob stories, like &quot;Wise Guy&quot; and &quot;Underboss,&quot; the focus is not on mob life itself.  Overall, I found the book to be about a hundred pages or so too long, though still an interesting read for anyone who like real life crime stories.	2000-09-25
2271830:US	51809405	RGEOIWOBUZ900	0375700749	372254916	Safe House: A Burke Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	You're Safe with Burke	&quot;Safe House&quot; sets the tarnished hero Burke in pursuit of a stalker with a neo-Nazi bent.  Anyone who has read previous Burke novels knows that this type of work is right up his alley.  Along the way he hooks up with another exotic femme fatale in Crystal Beth, one of Burke's more interesting leading ladies.  Andrew Vachss's writing reads like broken glass and barbed wire with its sharp cutting edges.  He also knows how to keep you on the edge of your seat.  His stories are hardboiled rather than fast paced and they have a strong moral center that would not be obvious to the average square.  Vachss is simply one of the best &quot;detective&quot; fiction writers working today.	2000-09-25
2275647:US	51809405	R3O0ZDQCG5VK5U	0446605204	634595939	The Dark Side of the Game: My Life in the NFL	Books	2	12	20	N	N	The Lightweight Side of the Game	Though it professes to be a frank tell-all expose of the NFL, Tim Green's &quot;Dark Side of the Game&quot; is nothing of the sort.  Green is a third-tier broadcast analyst for NFL games on television and he is clearly still far too indebted to the league to be truly critical of it.  Every time you thinks he's strating to get to the good stuff, he pulls his punch and lets the league off the hook.  The result is a wishy-washy mish-mash of some gossipy dirty laundry being aired without any information truly damaging to the league's powers that be.  And might I add this; as a writer, Green is a lightweight.  Rarely in this book does his prose rise above the level of the barely compotent.	2000-09-21
2280245:US	51809405	R10P9383IIHPLZ	0446516503	64640404	Mad As Hell: Revolt at the Ballot Box, 1992	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good Book for Politics Junkies	Germond and Whitcover carry on the tradition of Theodore H. White's  &quot;Making of the President&quot; series with their recap of the 1992  election.  Theirs is the most complete recap available of the campaign that  put Bill Clinton in the White House.  They are experienced and vetran  reporters who have seen many campaigns and are able to capture every nuance  in a complete and readable manner.	2000-09-17
2290398:US	51809405	R33T1N1PCEV1YZ	1891620088	893798538	Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story Of American Submarine Espionage	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good book for military history buffs	&quot;Blind Man's Bluff&quot; is an entertaining and occasionally riveting  account that tracks the history of U.S. submarine espionage operations  during the Cold War.  The authors uncover a number of excellent tales about  the committed spooks and blue collar sailors who were truly on the front  lines during this period.  Their missions, including tailing Soviet subs,  tapping Soviet undersea cables and monitoring Soviet nuclear tests rode the  fine line between bravery and foolhardiness.  Throughout the book the  question keeps popping up, were some of these outlandish tactics worth the  benefit to our national security?  The authors, to their credit, are  content to let the reader decide.<br />The best recommendation for the book I  can give is from a friend of a friend who is a sub commander.  He  recommended it when asked how one might begin to understand the mindset it  takes to do what he does.	2000-09-08
2294416:US	51809405	R2VGTW35SSVKD	0517208776	856898113	Lighthouses (Photographic Tour (Random House))	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Great lighthouse photos	This is a great book for those who love photographs of lighthouses.  There  are some stunning examples in this collection, which focuses exclusively on  American lighthouses.  There is little in the way of text and the book is  only a modest 65 pages.  But it is value priced and worthy of a lighthouse  lover's collection.	2000-09-05
2299845:US	51809405	R2EJ5HTMU2KSSY	1567311180	356513040	Himmler	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A fine work of biography and history	Peter Padfield's biography of Heinrich Himmler captures the evil genius of the Reichsfurer SS in all of his demonic glory.  The story is at once  compelling and terrifying.  The only knock on the book is that Padfield  pads his narritive by including many events in Nazi Germany that did not  necessarily involve Himmler.  But though a more concise biography might  have been more readable, this is still a riveting account for those with an  interest in Nazi Germany.	2000-09-01
2304989:US	51809405	R2T6B19FOFA9S7	076790382X	213092180	I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America After 20 Years Away	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Bryson at his most political	This book is a collection of newspaper articles that author Bill Bryson  wrote for a British newspaper concerning his thoughts upon returning to  America after 20 years of living in Britain.  As such, the quality of the  book varies greatly with the quality of the articles.  The best usually are  the intenionally humorous pieces about topics as varied the death of  drive-in movie theaters and the joys of American junk food.  The worst  articles come mostly when Bryson takes to his soap box and goes on one of  his left wing tangents.  The political ideas he exposes are those of a  standard liberal bleeding heart and are not at all original.  And for him  to put Kennedy on his list of our greatest Presidents and leave out Truman  is laughable.  Overall, there is some good Bryson material here, but the  whole is inconsistent.	2000-08-28
2305154:US	51809405	R2DLQPZI33HVWN	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Walk on the Funny Side	Bill Bryson has that rare ability to make you laugh even as he tells you  something you didn't know.  His travel writings remind me of a left wing  P.J. O'Rourke.  Of the three books of his I have read, &quot;A Walk in the  Woods&quot; is easilly the best because it is by far the most humorous and  it has the best subject matter.  Bryson's attempt to walk the whole of the  Appalachain Trail may have been a fool's errand on his part, but it makes  for a great adventure tale.  Along the way, Bryson describes much what is  best (and worst) about America.  His self-deprecating style keeps things  light, even when he occasionally gets up on his soapbox.  This book should  be read by anyone with an interest in the outdoors.	2000-08-28
2317127:US	51809405	R1YBJGSW4G88VE	0515095540	944163696	I Don't Want to Hear About It, Beetle Bailey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An excellent collection of Beetle	This is a fine collection of Beetle Bailey strips that is sure to please  any fan.	2000-08-18
2317137:US	51809405	R23W8O2W8WJ6N6	0441052649	84353781	Beetle Bailey on Parade	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fine selection of older Beetle	This is an excellectent selection of Beetle Bailey strips from the early 1970s.  The highlight is when creator Mort Walker &quot;desegregated&quot;  the strip by adding the first black character, the flamboyant Lt. Flap.  Any fan of the strip will greatly enjoy this selection.	2000-08-18
2317174:US	51809405	R3RTOHWF97XC71	051509384X	847078072	At ease, Beetle Bailey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another great Beetle collection	This is another fine collection of Beetle Bailey strips that is sure to  please any fan.	2000-08-18
2317324:US	51809405	R3HUQBZ3699CW4	0515100005	828376549	About Face, Beetle Bailey	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another fine seletion of Beetle	This is an excellecnt collecton of Beetle Bailey strips that is sure to  please any fan.	2000-08-18
2317449:US	51809405	RUBIZXN2DP44C	0685101118	217881078	The Best of Beetle Bailey	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Best Beetle book ever	Published not long after the 30th aniversery of the strip and featuring highlights going back to its early days as a college-oriented rather than  military themed strip, &quot;The Best of Beetle Bailey&quot; is a must own  for fans.  It features autobiographical material of creator Mort Walker as  well as the best bits from the strip's 60s and 70s heyday.  This is a vital  book for understanding the history of the strip.	2000-08-18
2317485:US	51809405	R2SF3TZ0IA4B66	0812514351	77524812	Beetle Bailey: Take ten	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fine collection of Beetle	&quot;Take Ten&quot; is a good collection of older Beetle Bailey cartoons for those who love the strip.	2000-08-18
2317613:US	51809405	R3OR4SWGUP2Y0A	051509529X	261091335	Beetle Bailey: Behind the Eight Ball Again!	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A lesser selection of newer Beetle	Newer Beetle Bailey strips just aren't as consistently funny as the  earlier classics.  Nevertheless, this book still should appeal to ardent  fans.	2000-08-18
2317751:US	51809405	R174FOGDTMTM01	0448173379	676188445	Beetle Bailey: I Thought You Had the Compass	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fine collection of Beetle	This is an excellent collection of Beetle Bailey cartoons that ought to satitisfy any fan of the strip.	2000-08-18
2317821:US	51809405	R1TNOBWORQLO9S	051510406X	833533309	Beetle Bailey: Another Request for Furlough	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Newer strips, not quite as good	This is a lesser selection of newer Beetle Bailey strip that should still appeal to the ardent fan.	2000-08-18
2317829:US	51809405	R3VLOB5CQL1JBI	0553278746	957987582	The Postman	Books	3	35	46	N	N	So-so apocalypse fiction	I love end-of-the-world fiction.  My picks for the best of the genre include &quot;The Stand,&quot; &quot;On the Beach,&quot; &quot;The Day of  the Triffids&quot; and &quot;Lucifer's Hammer.&quot;  Unfortunately,  &quot;The Postman&quot; just isn't up to the standards set by these works.  For one thing, the narrative ark takes some twists and turns into some  unusal, but not at all together satisfying directions.  For another,  several key moments in the plot are based on non-too-plausible scenes of  the hero overhearing conversations of his adversaries.  Some of the action  scenes are not terribly believable, and the ending of the book reads like a  cliched Western.  Nevertheless, Brin does pack his novel with a number of  interersting ideas and notions that at least make it worth reading for  those with an interest in this particular genre.	2000-08-18
2317860:US	51809405	R23KZD6FW74QHZ	0515094226	221750461	B Bailey 04/i Dont (Beetle Bailey)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An excellent collection of older Beetle strips	Older Beetle Bailey is better Beetle Bailey as this collection of strips  shows.	2000-08-18
2317920:US	51809405	RC3UHUV008PZZ	0441052983	780553988	You're All Washed Up, Beetle Bailey	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fine collection of Beetle	This is an excellent selection of older Beetle Bailey strips that should  appeal to the ardent fan.	2000-08-18
2318013:US	51809405	R3JA01YDZVLAXI	0812560868	676188445	Beetle Bailey: You Crack Me Up!	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another good selection of Beetle	This is another good selection of Beetle Bailey strips that is sure to  please any fan.	2000-08-18
2318116:US	51809405	R3RFZFTCU0F29L	0448168960	847078072	Beetle Bailey at Ease	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fine collection of older Beetle Bailey strips	This is a collection of stips from the heyday of Beetle Bailey that is  sure to please any fan.	2000-08-18
2318177:US	51809405	R1QB1PNUA3EKKA	0515093327	199136155	Lookin' Good, Beetle Bailey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Beetle Bailey looks good	This is another fine collection of Beetle Bailey strips that is sure to  please any fan.	2000-08-18
2318226:US	51809405	R8QEQK6P7Q3RX	0836218442	958314437	Beetle Bailey Celebration	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Selection of newer, lesser Beetle	Beetle Bailey as a strip has shown a hardening of the arteries over the years, as evidenced by this selection of strips from the 1980s.  It is not  nearly as consistently funny as classic Beetle fron the 60s and 70s, which  were the strip's best decades.  Still, there are sill enough good strips to  make it worth owning for the ardent fan.	2000-08-18
2318275:US	51809405	R3HSGNTME38N6K	0441052576	378532945	Shape Up or Ship Out, Beetle Bailey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Beetle has landed!	This is another fine collection of Beetle Bailey strips that is sure to  please any fan.	2000-08-18
2318368:US	51809405	R3Q5AR03KMLEKP	0448173042	86031495	Peace Beatle Bailey	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fine Beetle Bailey collection	This is a good collection of Beetle Bailey strips that is sure to please  any fan.	2000-08-18
2318471:US	51809405	R32XYTFXEN7WEP	0515084166	63420389	Like I Was Sayin'	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Royko was the best	&quot;Like I Was Sayin'&quot; is another collection of great Mike Royko newspaper columns, these drawn from the 60s, 70s and early 80s.  Royko was  the best newspaper columnist in America because of his humor and his strong  nose for justice.  Any of his collections of columns are a must read for  those interested in journalism.	2000-08-17
2318909:US	51809405	R7PT9O8L6E0TK	0525248137	709872633	Dr. Kookie, You're Right!	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another great collection of Royko strips	The late Mike Royko was the best newspaper columnist in America, largely because he was funny and because he used the power of his column to  champion causes no one else would touch.  He had a strong sense of justice  and fair play that shines through in his written words.  &quot;Dr.  Kookie&quot; is the last of the original books collecting his columns and  covers the latter half of the 1980s.  His was a voice of moral conscience  during that go-go money-making period.  Anyone with an interest in  journalism should read this book and take a lesson from the master.	2000-08-17
2319406:US	51809405	R1LWZZOWCYXO72	0385470819	883917886	A Time to Kill	Books	1	20	66	N	N	Not only bad, but dangerous	&quot;A Time to Kill&quot; is not only poorly written, like most of Grisham's stuff, but it is sick and entertains dangerous notions as well.  The action hinges on the a father taking revenge after his preteen daughter  is raped.  This is a disgusting enough theme, but then the reader is made  to believe that such vigilantism is not only justified but perfectly  acceptable!  At the end of the book, a court ruling is made based on the  threat of mob violence.  If that isn't enough to chill your blood, all of  this is in service of a weak story with cliche characters and an overall  lack of imagination that is startling.  The reviewer below says reading  this book is better than watching television.  Much as I love books, I  respectfully disagree.  Most television shows don't insult the intelligence  nearly as badly as this does.	2000-08-17
2319516:US	51809405	R1CB9OFHWZAJD6	038504738X	398849659	Killerbowl	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Entertaining Science Fiction	I agree with the review below.  I too read this book as a junior high schooler in the late 1970s and found its ultra violent football theme  similar to movies such as &quot;Rollerball&quot; and &quot;Soylent  Green.&quot;  Sci-fi was a lot more downcast in those days.  Anyway, I  remember the book as an exciting read (with a flashlight under the blanket,  for it was past my bedtime) that I had a hard time putting down.  Actually,  its media dominated big brother theme recalls &quot;Farenheit 451&quot; and  &quot;1984.&quot;  For that, its worth searching out.	2000-08-17
2319991:US	51809405	R1WTFGRCF9BR2E	0688075185	718292588	Pacific Passions: The European Struggle for Power in the Great Ocean in the Age of Exploration	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Outstanding History Writing	Frank Sherry's account of the European exploration and mastering of the Pacific Ocean is an excellent and well written work of history that has  somehow been overlooked.  Lovers of great tales of exploration and nautical  history should seek out a copy.  It is WELL worth the effort.	2000-08-16
2321501:US	51809405	R2B46CA2T2FAMA	0553278274	957420140	A Night to Remember	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Bare Bones Account	Walter Lord is one of the best historical authors of the 20th Century.  His storytelling talent shows through in his classic account of the sinking  of the Titanic.  The book's only flaw is its brevity.  The narrative  portion is only 135 pages in small paperback form and starts just as the  ship is about to hit the iceberg.  There is no background story to give the  reader perspective of the ship's construction or of the passengers whose  stories it follows.  Also lacking is much detail about the aftermath of the  sinking.  The actual sinking is retold in riveting first person accounts  that detail those fatal final moments and all of their tragedies and  ironies.  In fact, Lord's account was good enough to make me want to seek  out a more complete history of the disaster.	2000-08-16
2327063:US	51809405	RHX2Y15VJODVU	1557507392	209802884	Disaster on the Mississippi: The Sultana Explosion, April 27, 1865	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Recounting a forgotten disaster	The sinking of the steamboat Sultana was the deadliest maritime disaster in U.S. History.  Strangely, even though it occurred at the end of the  Civil War and most of the dead were returning Union POWs, it is an almost  forgotten event.  Author Salecker recalls the bureaucratic bungling and  corruption that helped lead to the diaster as well as a harrowing account  from the survivors.  This is a good history book that sheds light on the  memories of the dead and the survivors.	2000-08-11
2328968:US	51809405	R2LMGNLM1UKDES	0898863058	260598087	Antarctica: Both Heaven and Hell	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A great adventurer, but not a great writer	The story of Reinhold Messner's walk across Antartica might have been more  interesting had it been written by a professional author.  Messner's first  hand accounts, while interesting, do not make for especially good reading.  However, there is a huge number of color photographs included that in and  of themselves almost make the book worthwhile.  Messner is perhaps the most  accomplished extreme sportsman in the world.  But he would do better  letting someone else tell his fantastic stories.	2000-08-10
2329213:US	51809405	R3EVS9E8JRJS8V	0151005354	847523501	The Snakebite Survivors' Club: Travels among Serpents	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Creepy, but a bit disjointed	Those who either love snakes or are scared to death of them will be  enthralled by Jeremy Seal's travels in search of survivors who've been  bitten by the world's deadliest snakes.  Seal's adventures take him to  Africa in search of survivors of the notorious Black Mamba, to India in  search of the King Cobra, to Austrailia which has the world's deadliest  snake in the Taipan and to Appalachian U.S., where Holiness Church members  handle live rattlesnakes as part of their services.  The most memorable  sequences are the horrifying experience of a preacher's wife whose husband  tried to murder her by forcing her to put her hands in a rattlesnake cage  and the graphic descriptions of the effects of Taipan poison as recounted  by a lucky survivor.  The only knock on the book is that Seal chooses to  break each segment up into about five parts which are interspersed  throughout the book.  This makes the stories sometimes hard to follow.  Nevertheless, it is compelling reading that might have you checking under  your bed before turning out the light at night.	2000-08-10
2331888:US	51809405	RZSMXRO2Q90KP	0446355607	255366888	Fletch and the Man Who	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fletch for President	In this installment, Fletch goes to work for an American Presidential candidate after a murder in his campaign hotel.  Along the way we get a lot  of unique Fletch insights into the political process.  This book would have  made a much better sequel for the original Fletch movie than the idiotic  &quot;Fletch Saved.&quot;  Overall, an excellent entry in the Fletch saga.	2000-08-08
2331925:US	51809405	R1F2BJRK0BUH7P	1555216757	882805579	Lighthouses of New England: From the Maritimes to Montauk	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Great Pictures, Good Stories	&quot;Lighthouses of New England&quot; is a large coffee table book with  many satisfying pictures of just about every picture along the New England  coast.  Along with the photos is much information and history about the  lights.  This is a great book for lighthouse lovers.	2000-08-08
2332049:US	51809405	R1L64YYR05FGIH	048625576X	470723635	America's Lighthouses: An Illustrated History (Dover Maritime)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	History of Lighthouses	F. Ross Holland's book is one of the most historically complete books on  lighthouses in America.  He covers all of the most well known lights and  recounts the history of lighthouses in general as well as of many of the  individual lights.  One chapter, entitled &quot;The Keepers Life,&quot;  takes some of the romance out of that long lost profession and presents the  real life drudgery of those who kept the flame.  Holland's book has  numerous archetectural drawings and maps of lighthouse locations, but it  does not have much in the way of good photographs.  All of the pictures, in  fact, are in black and white.  Still, Holland's book is a great place to  start to begin to understand the history of lighthouses.	2000-08-08
2332050:US	51809405	R20VCJM0BI377E	1561387886	686049111	American Lighthouses: A Pictorial History	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A fine photographic collection	Jill Caravan's book has some of the best photographs I have seen of  lighthouses from all across the United States.  It is a large coffee table  book, which adds to the effect of the photos.  What it does not have is  much in the way of either information or history about the lights.  Still,  its a good book for lighthouse lovers.	2000-08-08
2332342:US	51809405	R2REMZXBYQKN8M	0380017644	14550259	Flynn	Books	4	6	8	N	N	First novel in the &quot;Flynn&quot; series	This is the first novel featuring &quot;Francis Xavier Flynn,&quot; a  Boston police inspector who investigates some most unusual cases.  This  novel is typical Gregory McDonald, fast paced, often funny and a good  mystery.  Fans of his &quot;Fletch&quot; series, in particular, should  enjoy it.	2000-08-08
2332396:US	51809405	RW9L58F908TQI	0471143871	668516362	Great American Lighthouses (Great American Places Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Comprehensive Lighthouse Guide	Holland's book is the best available for those who plan to visit American  lighthouses.  It is the most comprensive guide available, featuring  directions to each lighthouse and a little blurb about each one.  What it  does not have is great pictures.  Most are quite small and all are in black  and white.	2000-08-08
2332406:US	51809405	R26HNE1PMJKU54	1567992013	287198959	Lighthouses (Great Architecture)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Good Lighthouse Coffee Table Book	This is a large coffee table book with appropriately stunning photos of  lighthouses from around the world.  F. Ross Holland is one of the most  informed writers on lighthouses and he provides plenty of easy reading  history to go with the pictures.  An informative and visually satisfying  book for lighthouse lovers.	2000-08-08
2332409:US	51809405	R2RUWBN67FEJS7	0445208643	960333790	Flynn's in	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Flynn's 2nd	I can't figure out why Gregory McDonald's &quot;Flynn&quot; series has  paled in comparison to his much more well known &quot;Fletch&quot; novels.  Flynn has his own share of fast paced, funny and interesting mysteries.  In  this case, he investigates a murder among the political elite of his native  Boston.  Those of you who are Fletch fans, I urge you to give Francis  Xavier Flynn a chance.	2000-08-08
2332515:US	51809405	R2K87QVEQZ3ER6	0380006456	835531493	Fletch	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Much better than the movie	&quot;Fletch&quot; the novel is much darker than the Chevy Chase movie it subsequently became.  Yes, the title character is working undercover on the  beaches of L.A. when a millionaire asks him to kill him.  But the story  goes in a much different (and more believable) direction.  The book also  has far more tension than the movie as well as a much grittier edge.  Recommended especially for fans of private detective fiction.	2000-08-08
2332619:US	51809405	R3LVOXM3GEWR3C	0762703253	86105603	Legendary Lighthouses (Lighthouses (Chelsea House))	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great Lighthouse Photo Album	Ray Jones is among the best lighthouse photographers working today.  He  provides some of his best photos for a book in which writer John Grant  provides a good narrative and history of lighthouses in general.  This book  strikes a good balance between information and photography.	2000-08-08
2332754:US	51809405	R316DGF4EQFV4J	0910923744	918683730	Guide to Florida Lighthouses	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A fairly good lighthouse guide	Elinor De Wire's &quot;Guide to Florida Lighthouses&quot; contains all the  information you need for a sightseeing trip of the beacons of the Gator  state.  It has some good pictures, features a couple of pages of  information about each one as well as directions for how to get there.	2000-08-08
2332791:US	51809405	R3O5IDVT150DI6	080505992X	913453045	George Washington: A Life	Books	3	1	2	N	N	George the President gets shorted	For the most part, Willard Sterne Randall's biography is fairly readable  and presents a good overview of his amazing life.  Still there are some  problems, like the flubbing of some basic facts (as basic as, for example,  getting the name wrong of fellow patriot George Mason's home, which is  today a National Historical Site).  The other major flaw I noted was that  Randall gives only about 30 pages of text to Washington's presidency, while  his pre-Revolution military career gets something on the order of three  times the space.  I don't know whether this reflects a lack of research on  Randall's part, but Washington's two terms get only a bare bones treatment.  Nevertheless, I always judge historical biographies by how much the teach  me about their subject and I did learn a lot.  Enough, in fact, to wonder  how much the author may have left out.	2000-08-08
2332807:US	51809405	RAI76OMD8QR2Y	0345336909	417024167	The Buck Passes Flynn	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The best of the &quot;Flynn&quot; series	McDonald's hero &quot;Flynn&quot; is not as popular as his &quot;Fletch&quot; series, but &quot;The Buck Passes Flynn&quot; is the  best of the series and every bit as good as a Fetch novel.  The theme, that  someone is making random $100,000 deposits on the doorsteps of every home  in small communities around the country and creating havoc in the process,  is quite fascinating (though admittedly dated, it would probably be about  $250,000 today).  It is a mystery worthy of the great Inspector Flynn, and  is told in a humorous style for which McDonald is known.  Overall, a great  book for fans of detective fiction.	2000-08-08
2332881:US	51809405	R11WUBYA9DBIT4	0380008149	87848420	Confess, Fletch	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fletch and Flynn come together	McDonald brings the heros of his two great detective series, Irwin M.  Fletcher and Francis Xavier Flynn together for their only joint appearance  on the printed page.  The result is a quite satisfying story in which  someone attempts to fram Fletch for murder.  Fans of either series will  love this fine entry into both of them.	2000-08-08
2332902:US	51809405	R1U8FR8GJRRDBK	0446391174	484260691	Adventures in the Screen Trade: A Personal View of Hollywood and Screenwriting	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Interesting &quot;Inside&quot; account of Hollywood	Give William Goldman credit for having the nerve to write this expose on  screenwriting and moviemaking while still actively working in Hollywood.  His unflattering portrait of how movies get made probably angered more than  a few of Hollywood's elite.  Nevertheless, the book is weakened by his  inclusion of THE ENTIRE SCREENPLAY that he wrote for the movie &quot;Butch  Cassidy and the Sundance Kid,&quot; all 150 pages of it.  He presents a  critique of the screenplay as well for the aspiring screenwriter.  Nevertheless, as a non-aspiring screenwriter, the screenplay had no value  to me.  Nevertheless, though a bit dated, Goldman's book is essential for  anyone interested in how Hollywood works.  It is not, as you might expect,  a pretty picture.	2000-08-08
2334906:US	51809405	R21GG3SLFBLNFR	1892129035	880166033	Total Baseball: The Official Encyclopedia of Major League Baseball (Total Baseball, 6th ed)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	All you could ask for	For babseball statistics nuts, &quot;Total Baseball&quot; is as good as it  gets.	2000-08-06
2334936:US	51809405	R18O1GCGF3VPSK	080651969X	550761431	Rating the Presidents: A Ranking of the U.S. Leaders from the Great and Honorable to the Dishonest and Incompetent	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An interesting exercise	&quot;Rating the Presidents,&quot; basewd upon a wide ranging poll of  historians, is an interesting exercise for those who love Presidential  history.  It should be noted that when the polls for this book were taken,  Bill Clinton fourth from the bottom for &quot;Character and  Integrity,&quot; and this was BEFORE the Monica scandal broke.  The  opinions rendered may be debateable, but they are well reasoned and  authoritative.	2000-08-06
2335019:US	51809405	R1JQTH4IEKIYHH	0394721071	441130833	The New Rolling Stone Record Guide	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A great resource	I bought &quot;The New Rolling Stone Record Guide&quot; when it first came  out in 1983 and still have my original dog eared copy.  What makes the book  so excellent is the incisive, witty and often biting commentary on the  albums reviewed.  I must have purchased over one hundred albums through the  years based upon its recommendations.  If you can find a copy, it is WELL  worth the effort.	2000-08-06
2335054:US	51809405	R3NJVTKN2P7M9S	0394548442	150142267	Hiroshima	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A stern warning from history	John Hersey's account of the aftermath of the first atomic bomb stands as  a warning for all time.  The vivid and sickening first person accounts  should cause any reader to question whether resorting to nuclear force is  ever justified.  In my mind, the bombs dropped on Japan WERE justified  because of Japanese war atrocities, the tremendous casualties the allies  would have suffered from an invasion of the Japanese home islands and  because before the Hiroshima bomb was dropped, no one knew for sure what it  would do.  The horror of Hiroshima and Nakasaki is partly responsible, I  think, for the fact that no atomic weapons have been used in warfare since  then.  The images in this book will stay with you long after you've put it  down.	2000-08-06
2335202:US	51809405	R31COG98GTJCD2	0316853283	452042655	Out of the Storm: The End of the Civil War, April-June 1865	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A good historical account	&quot;Out of the Storm&quot; is a good account of the last months of the  Civil War, that is unfortunately eclisped by Burke Davis's superior  &quot;The Long Surrender,&quot; which covers much of the same ground, but  provides a better historical perspective.  Andre Trudeau focusses on the  three month period April-June 1865, carrying the narrative of the War from  the fall of Richmond to the last skirmish in Texas (a Confederate victory).  Along the way, he retells many important stories that seem lost to  history, like the Sultana explosion, the deadliest naval disaster in U.S.  history than claimed the lives of nearly 1700 people, most of them  returning Union POWs.  Overall, this is an interesting historical account  that should appeal to those with an interest in the Civil War.	2000-08-06
2335215:US	51809405	R1A12HWTG3Z7YZ	0671640771	218018168	Wired: The Short Life and Fast Times of John Belushi	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The life and death of Bluto	Bob Woodward's account of the life of John Belushi is an excellent piece  of journalism in that it is a quite believable story that is vivid in the  telling.  Unfortunately, it ultimate is pretty depressing.  That an  intelligent guy like Belushi could fail to see where he was headed and  waste his tremendous talent is good lesson about the hazards of fame.  &quot;Live fast die young and leave a good looking corpse,&quot; so the  quote goes.  Belushi wasn't the first or last show-biz star to live his  life by that mantra.  And his story is probably fairly representative of  stars from Jim Morrison to River Phoenix.<br />One note:  the book  &quot;Wired&quot; is far, far superior to the travesty of a movie it later  became.	2000-08-06
2335347:US	51809405	R3TRUOR8QA9S3B	0380521830	79559742	The Brethren: Inside the Supreme Court	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Unfortunately, a dull read	After the riveting &quot;All the President's Men,&quot; one would expect  that when Bob Woodward sharpened his journalistic pencil to take after the  Supreme Court that more fun would follow.  Alas, it is not to be.  &quot;The Brethren&quot; is a fairly conventional by-the-numbers account of  the Nixon-Ford era Supreme Court that tries to drum up tension from such  incidents as the movement to impeach the aged Justice William O. Douglas,  but ultimately fails.  The secretive world of the court would be difficult  for any journalist to penetrate, and here Woodward and his cohort Armstrong  prove themselves not to be up to the task.<br />A word about this book's  availability.  I frequent a lot of used book stores and I've come across it  on a regular basis.	2000-08-06
2335385:US	51809405	R3E92850ATRIAW	0671038796	911075349	Knockdown : The Harrowing True Story of a Yacht Race Turned Deadly	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A harrowing adventure story	&quot;Knockdown&quot; is a tale of death and rescue at sea inthe tradition  of Sebastian Junger's &quot;The Perfect Storm.&quot;  Author Martin Dugard  recounts the disaster that befell the 1998 Sydney to Hobart yacht race that  is the &quot;Superbowl&quot; of yachting in Ausrailia.  Every year since  the end World War Two, the bravest (and foolhardiest) of Austrailia's  sailors set out on this epic race on the day after Christmas.  Prior to  1998, there had luckily been few fatalities.  Unfortunately, that year the  racers' luck ran out and an unexpected hurricane strength storm (a  &quot;weather bomb&quot; as the author describes it) descended on the race,  killing six people.  The storm left an aftermath of wrecked boats and  caused the largest seas rescue effort in Austrailian history.  That more  sailors didn't perish was simply a matter of pure luck with some assistance  from modern technology.<br />The only drawback of this book is Dugard's  sometimes overly dramatic prose which diminishes rather than enhances his  story.  Otherwise, anyone with an interest in real life sea adventure  stories will love this book.	2000-08-06
2335418:US	51809405	R2XVQ425FO6TS1	0671894412	221450502	All the President's Men	Books	5	28	32	N	N	One of American Journalisms Finest Hours	What is largely forgotten is that in the summer of 1972, Bob Woodward and  Carl Berstein were two young but complete nobody reporters assigned not to  political reporting but the Washington Post's Metro section.  When they  were assigned to cover a &quot;fourth rate burglary&quot; at the Watergate  Hotel, it changed the course of their careers and of American History.  It  is no exaggeration that had more conventional Washington political  reporters been assigned to the Watergate story, it might never have been  exposed in enough detail to bring down Richard Nixon.  This book is an  American classic.  Though it lacks historical perspective on the Watergate  affair, it is vital to anyone who wants to understand the greatest American  political crisis of the Post World War Two era.	2000-08-06
2335482:US	51809405	R179XPJ50WLGCB	0844665509	260143252	A Stillness at Appomattox (Army of the Potomac, Vol. 3)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Catton Follows the Army	The third book in Bruce Catton's history of the Army of the Potomac takes  the narrative from the time Grant assumed command until the end of the war.  This was the bloodiest period of the army's history, with more than half  of all of its casualties occurring with the last year of the fighting.  Catton recounts all of the great battles that helped end the war, from The  Wilderness through the tragedy of Cold Harbor to the siege of Petersburg  and finally to Appomattox Court House.  Along the way, he documents the  military genius of Ulysses S. Grant, with whom the Army of the Potomac  finally had a commander with the ability and the perserverance to win the  war.  Catton is one of the best Civil War historians, and this is the  author at his finest.	2000-08-06
2335565:US	51809405	RDUIMJT4Q7YD2	0684814374	765793358	The Trouser Press Guide to 90's Rock: The All-New Fifth Edition of the Trouser Press Record Guide	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent guide to &quot;alternative&quot; music	The Trouser Press record guide is the best rock music guide available in  terms of its writing and the thoroughness of its reviews.  Of course, it  only reviews so-called &quot;alternative&quot; rock (whatever that means  these days), but it is very comprehensive in covering non-mainstream  artists.  The only drawback to this edition is that it only covers the  1990s, and hence drops many great reviews of 80s artists and albums found  in previous editions.	2000-08-06
2335820:US	51809405	R3W3048T9A2ENY	0380714582	809134265	Munda Trail	Books	3	5	6	N	N	An epic struggle, blandly retold	Nothing against the brave American soldiers who fought and died in the New  Georgia campaign against Japan.  Theirs was an epic and costly struggle  that was a vital step in America's ultimate victory in the Pacific theater.  Unfortunately, &quot;Munda Trail,&quot; while an excellent historical  document of what transpired, is a fairly dry read.  Author Eric Hammel just  doesn't bring the battlefield to life in the manner of a Stephen Ambrose or  a Cornelius Ryan.  This book is fine as a work of history, but nor such a  great casual read.	2000-08-06
2335833:US	51809405	R1WZMRLBYEPDQC	031285451X	796410717	Wake Island: The Heroic Gallant Fight	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Heroic Gallant Fight	Duane Schultz's &quot;Wake Island,&quot; is an excellent account of the  lost cause that bought American forces in the Pacific a little breathing  space in the immediate aftermath of Pearl Harbor.  Like the battle of the  Alamo, the fate of the American defenders of Wake Island became a rallying  cry during subsequent encounters.  This is not an epic work, checking in at  just over 200 pages.  But it is exciting and well written military history  in the fine tradition of Stephen Ambrose and Cornelius Ryan.  It is also an  excellent tribute to the brave Americans who fought vallantly against  hopeless odds to stem the tide of the enemy in the Pacific.	2000-08-06
2335911:US	51809405	R3MSTUFWA3C1KM	0671536702	786558935	The BATTLE OF LEYTE GULF	Books	5	11	15	N	N	First class military history writing	In the tradition of Stephen Ambrose and Cornelius Ryan, Thomas J. Cutler's  &quot;The Battle of Leyte Gulf&quot; is excellent military history writing  that lets the reader expirence the battle instead of just reading about it.  It is a must read for anyone who likes great stories about World War Two.	2000-08-06
2337461:US	51809405	R3GZZ7O20BZQ94	0553260561	581918103	The Cleanup	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good street level horror story	Skipp and Spector, who are decent horror writers, come up with a unique  twist for &quot;The Cleanup.&quot;  A street vigilante is invaded by  supernatural powers and becomes a hero to be feared.  Good stuff, though  not as good as their best novel, &quot;The Scream.&quot;	2000-08-04
2337665:US	51809405	R21IUGMWFUMZ23	0553267981	348448144	The Scream	Books	4	4	5	N	N	You may never go to another rock concert	Skipp and Spector are rock and rollers at heart and this is their rock and  roll horror novel (with a nod towards heavy metal).  Like the music, it  assualts your senses and in the end you know you've had one heck of a ride.  This is the boys at their best.	2000-08-04
2337833:US	51809405	R3HCOGENI4DEW8	0843924837	716520915	Spawn of Hell	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A fair horror novel	Lets see...two strangers visit a small town and soon come face to face  with an evil presence that is killing off the locals.  Where have we seen  this plot before?  In plenty of other horror novels, of course.  To be  fair, &quot;Spawn of Hell&quot; isn't any worse than those made for TV  horror movies you often see on Sci-Fi channel.  In fact, it was probably  the inspiration for a few of them.	2000-08-04
2338548:US	51809405	R3FGNPQV9Z5S4N	0843924233	993893782	Bride of Satan	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Beware of this Bride	William Schoell is a mid-level horror writer who produced a number of  decent King-esque novels back in the 1980s, of which &quot;Bride of  Satan&quot; is one of the better ones.  The premise of the book is that an  evil force invades people's minds and turns them into murders.  Yes, King  has done better with this basic premise than Schoell does here (notably in  &quot;Needful Things&quot;), but if you're a horror fiction fan you could  do worse.	2000-08-04
2338600:US	51809405	R826SSHYOJ0AE	0553254510	309721087	The Light at the End	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good vampire gross out	With &quot;The Light at the End,&quot; Skipp and Specter create a down and dirty vampire story on the streets of the big city.  Though not as good as  King's &quot;Salem's Lot&quot; or Robert McCammon's &quot;They  Thirst,&quot; it still beats Anne Rice's wimpy interview with a vampire  series by a mile.  Gross and engrossing, this is not your grandfather's  vampire story.	2000-08-04
2338771:US	51809405	R3AUJ9WQYONRPR	0843926074	949567187	Shivers	Books	3	3	3	N	N	It'll Give You the &quot;Shivers&quot;	William Schoell put out a number of King-esque horror novels back in the 80s.  &quot;Shivers&quot; features a hideous creature stalking the  underworld of a city which has the ability to kill merely by the virulence  of its thoughts.  Overall, it is a horror novel of average interest to  those who love horror fiction.	2000-08-04
2339196:US	51809405	R23UGM61I5JI64	1564409848	431065415	Mid-Atlantic Lighthouses (Lighthouse Series)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Great Picture Book for Lighthouse Lovers	Bruce Roberts is one of the best lighthouse photographers working in the  U.S. today.  He and his partner Ray Jones produce great lighthouse travel  guides.  For each lighthouse featured, you get a great picture from  Roberts, a little historical story from Jones and directions of how to get  to the lighthouse.  Lighthouse lovers could scarcely ask for more.	2000-08-03
2339351:US	51809405	RMAPUW21FK2XQ	1570360561	407419487	75 Seasons: The Complete Story of the National Football League, 1920-1995	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A fine book for the football fanatic	&quot;75 Seasons&quot; is a coffee table book for the football fanatic.  Chocked full of great pictures and stories, it also features the NFL's 75  year all time greatest team, position by position.  It is a great gift book  for any football fan.	2000-08-03
2339426:US	51809405	R161041BNWDACU	0762701838	908772072	Gulf Coast Lighthouses (Lighthouse Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Roberts and Jones are the best	Bruce Roberts and Ray Jones produce the best lighthouse travel guides  available.  This one is no exception.	2000-08-03
2339589:US	51809405	R2ORWSYPUAWUSM	0892042133	320492467	Countdown to Cobb: My Diary of the Record Breaking 1985 Season	Books	2	1	2	N	N	A middling first rate account	This book is Rose's day by day account of his record breaking 1985 season.  The most unintentionally funny moment is when he mentions being tempted to  go to the dogtrack while on a road trip but ultimately containing his  urges.  Yeah, right!	2000-08-03
2339814:US	51809405	R1U1S9BB442FLP	156440899X	520609110	Eastern Great Lakes Lighthouses (Lighthouse Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great picture book for lighthouse lovers	Bruce Roberts may be the best lighthouse photographer working in America.  Any of the books by him and his partner Ray Jones are well worth owning.  They include great lighthouse photos, a little story from Jones about each  one and directions as to how to get to them.  The lighthouse lover could  scarcely ask for more.	2000-08-03
2340000:US	51809405	R1XL6K5XOIOTQ	067166834X	595058146	The Korean War	Books	4	49	54	N	N	A good overview	British Historian Max Hasting's gives the &quot;forgotten war&quot; the  kind of good overall one volume treatment that it deserves.  For some  reason, Korea has just never registered with Americans the way World War  Two or Vietnam has.  But the stakes were high as America rushed its  untrained Pacific army from Japan to the Korean peninsula in a desperate  attempt to forestall a communist takeover of the South in 1950.  The  heroism of those first soldiers cannot be understated.  Hastings captures  the whole saga of the war as a horrible tragedy and as the first test of  the West's determination to literally fight the spread of communism.  Ultimately, as Hastings points out, the sacrifice of the allied troops was  not in vain.  That democracy exists today in South Korea is a testement to  those who fought and died to preserve the country's freedom.	2000-08-03
2340088:US	51809405	R1OKKA02HOX9U3	0762700823	53385915	Pacific Northwest Lighthouses (Lighthouse Series)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A Great Lighthouse Travel Guide	Bruce Roberts is one of the best lighthouse photographers working in the  U.S. today.  In this book, he and his partner Ray Jones give you an  excellent photograph of each lighthouse featured, a short historical story  from Jones and directions of how to get to the lighthouse.  Lighthouse  lovers could scarcely ask for more.	2000-08-03
2340213:US	51809405	R20YVSIFZ5ADM6	0965124010	824545947	The New Madrid Run	Books	1	16	21	N	N	A sophomoric effort	I love end-of-the-world novels, from &quot;Lucifer's Hammer&quot; to &quot;On the Beach&quot; to &quot;The Stand,&quot; I've read all I can get  my hands on.  But this reads like it was written for a junior college  creative writing class.  The characters are cliches, the action isn't  terribly compelling and the apocalypse scenario at the beginning of the  book is a total snore compared to others in the genre.  An early example of  the book's inadequacy as a story has the hero, a mere moments from seeing  everything and everyone he knows destroyed in the Florida Keys, thinking  about he's going to escape to the Arkansas mountains where a he and a  friend bought land anticipating exactly the scenerio he finds himeself in.  If he and his friend were so smart, what were they doing living in the  Florida Keys in the first place?  Overall, a very poorly written book that  failed to hold my interest until even the halfway mark.	2000-08-03
2340349:US	51809405	RYEVTDVA8Q0PO	0393301982	376038690	The Battle for the Falklands	Books	4	39	45	N	N	A comprehensive account of a largely forgotten war	&quot;The Battle for the Falklands&quot; is a good overall narrative of  the history of the brief war between Britain and Argentina over the  disputed islands.  It delves into the politics that led to the war, the  U.S. attempt at mediation between its two allies and, of course, the actual  fighting.  The whole affair seems a bit surreal as it also must have to the  British soldiers who fought there.  The Falklands themselves, as remote and  windswept as it is possible for any inhabited location on Earth to be, were  hardly worth all the trouble.  But for both Britain and Argentina, national  pride and honor were at stake.  The irony is that by invading the islands,  Argentina's military leadership made it less likely that the country will  ever gain possession of them.  This book is a good tribute to the men who  fought what will probably be the last colonial war, and it is well written  historical account.	2000-08-03
2340351:US	51809405	R2J05G9HU64D0X	0698109937	697040356	The Winds of December: The Cuban Revolution of 1958	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The answer in blowing in the &quot;Winds&quot;	&quot;The Winds of December&quot; is an excellent journalistic account of  Castro's takeover of Cuba.  Focussing in on the final month before the  fall, this book is indispensible for anyone who wants to understand how it  happened.	2000-08-03
2340406:US	51809405	RITJDS4474IDK	1564409449	389438366	New England Lighthouses: Bay of Fundy to Long Island Sound (Lighthouse Series)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Great picture book for lighthouse lovers	Bruce Roberts may be the best lighthouse photographer working in the U.S.  today.  The books by him and his partner Ray Jones are really lighthouse  travel guides.  For each lighthouse featured, you'll get a great picture  from Roberts, a little historical story from Jones and directions of how to  get there.  The lighthouse lover could scarcely ask for more.	2000-08-03
2340677:US	51809405	RVFN85QPCKY73	0802137016	750275710	Holidays in Hell: In Which Our Intrepid Reporter Travels to the World's Worst Places and Asks, "What's Funny About This" (O'Rourke, P. J.)	Books	4	26	31	N	N	P.J. is the man	&quot;Holidays in Hell&quot; was the first book to collect the travel  writings of P.J. O'Rourke for Rolling Stone magazine.  Though a bit dated  taday (these stories were from the mid 1980s) it is still quite funny and  full of classic P.J.  He establishes his mantra here, basically that if you  really want to know whats going on in a country you should never interview  its politicians who will never tell you the straight story.  In this book,  P.J. travels to Poland, Lebanon, Panama and Heritage U.S.A. among other  places.  But the best essay is called &quot;Through Darkest America: Epcot  Center&quot; that is an absolutely dead on drubbing of the so-called Magic  Kingdom.  Through it all O'Rourke reminds me of a more political and  funnier Bill Bryson.  This book is well worth a read.	2000-08-03
2340711:US	51809405	RVMHO9497KBXS	0312040490	407926621	Route 66: The Mother Road	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Good as history and a travel guide	&quot;Rout 66: The MOther Road&quot; is a good coffee table book that  serves as both a travel guide and as a history of America's most famous  highway.  Chocked full of pictures both old and new, it is sure to fill you  with the desire to hit the road.	2000-08-03
2340717:US	51809405	R2NA14NTVJX2F	0684803291	320650512	Last Battle: The Classic History of the Battle for Berlin	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This is the way Berlin fell	Cornelius Ryan is one of the best World War Two historians.  &quot;The Last Battle&quot; is every bit as compelling as &quot;The Longest  Day,&quot; his classic account of D-Day.  Ryan looks at the capture of  Berlin from both the Russian and German point of view.  He focusses on the  few heros on the German side (including Albert Speer) who did their duty  while attempting to save their country from Hitler's mad scheme of total  destruction.  Ryan vividly recounts the battle scenes through the eyes of  eyewitnesses.  Through it all is a mood of the utter hopelessness of a  people who knew they were beaten but were unable to make themselves stop  fighting.  Freed from the Cold War controversy of whether the U.S. forces  should have tried to beat the Russians to Berlin, this story can now be  enjoyed as a classic, and tragic, tale of an epic battle.	2000-08-03
2341276:US	51809405	R9HH3THRZD0Y4	1891620606	688523952	This House Has Fallen: Midnight in Nigeria	Books	3	5	7	N	N	An informative book that could have been better	Karl Maier has spent a lot of time in Nigeria over the past decade or so (for this alone he deserves some kind of award).  &quot;This House has  Fallen&quot; is his journalistic account of the slow disitegartion of sub  Saharan Africa's most populous country.  Maier document's the country's  struggle to shrug off military dictatorship, its economic collapse, its  environmental catastrophes, its ethnic and religous violence and its  hopeless corruption.  Particularly surprising was the fact that a country  that is the world's sixth largest oil producer has to import gasloine  because of damage to its refineries and has experienced massive gasoline  shortages.  Maier also throws in a lot of historical material to provide  perspective.  The problem with the book is that he spends most of his time  interviewing various political and religous leaders (almost at random, it  seems, which makes the book confusing).  What I wanted more of was  descriptions of day to day living conditions in the country and interviews  with more average citizens.  As political travel writer and humorist P.J.  O'Rourke once said, you'll never find out what's really going on in a  country by interviewing its politicians.  Overall, this is an informative  book, but it is not as compelling a read as it should be given its subject  matter.	2000-08-02
2341354:US	51809405	RRR4PEEUY26RF	0517584808	157084250	Crapshoot: Rolling The Dice On The Vice Presidency	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Man Who Would Be Number Two	Jules Whitcover's examination of how vice presidents have been selected  over the course of American history was written as a response to the  disaster that was Dan Quayle.  While acknowledging that it is difficult to  convice worthy candidates to agree to run for the office that was once  described as &quot;not worth a bucket of warm spit,&quot; Whitcover argues  that Presidential candidates have a duty to the country to try and select  the best available individual.  Unfortunately, political considerations  often stand in the way, as was the case with Qualye.  Whitcover's book is  informative and very enlightening.  It is also quite relevant as another  Presidential campaign heads for the home stretch.	2000-08-02
2342856:US	51809405	R1VUMC3H11TWQA	0345410017	383457570	Fahrenheit 451 (A Del Rey book)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A bit dated, but still compelling	I just read &quot;Farenheit 451&quot; for the first time recently, and found many of the observations about censorship quite relevant.  However, as a science fiction story, what may have been riveting in the early 1950s  seems a bit tame by today's standards.  Particularly interesting is  Bradbury's vision of the evolution of television, which of course was still  in its infancy at the time he wrote the story.  The idea of a room in which  the visual image surrounds you on all sides sounds a projection screen TV  owner's fantasy.  Bradbury's vision of a totalitarian society is as scary  as anything out of &quot;1984,&quot; but ultimately Bradley was mistaken in  believing that television could pacify the masses for totalitarianism.  In  fact, instant communications has made a totalitarian government, which  relies on total control of information, less likely.  The book is brief,  checking in at a quickly read 160 pages.  And this edition features a  couple of scenes Bradbury wrote later on that were not featured in the  original novel.	2000-08-01
2346004:US	51809405	R2ZUY9GTUKCYYI	0812535073	794321354	Planet of the Damned (Brion Brandd)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Classic Science Fiction	This was the first science fiction book I read as a kid (too many years ago than I care to count) and it stimulated my  interest in the genre.  &quot;Planet of the Damned&quot; is classic science fiction and a coming of  age story.  The hero, Brion, is a young man given his first opportunity to  prove his worthiness by trying to save Dis, a horrible planet that seems  hell bent on self destruction.  Harrison's imagination fills the page with  sweeping scenery, even though the book checks in at a relatively snappy 160  or so pages.  It is proof that epic science fistion does not need to go one  for many volumes ala L. Ron Hubbard.	2000-07-30
2346787:US	51809405	R1PXP36Z83HTPG	0671669311	679664374	Alice in La-La Land	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dark P.I. Fiction	Had Phillip Marlowe been working his L.A. beat in the 1980s, he might have been a bit like Robert Cambell's Private Investigator Whistler.  Whistler works the underbelly of the city in much the same way Marlowe did.  But  L.A. has become even more corrupt and morally bankrupt than in Marlowe's  day.  The sort of human predators that Whistler runs up against are a  product of our modern media age.  &quot;Alice in La-La Land&quot; is a  solid entry in the Whistler series and a good read for anyone who likes  detective fiction.	2000-07-30
2347211:US	51809405	R2NT8O1YJLWBCF	1885283083	399926886	Alive: The Story of the Andes Survivors (Adventure Library)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Survival Through Cooperation	The story of the Andes plane crash and rescue has become world famous becuse the survivors ed on the bodies of the dead for over two months until two of them managed tho hike their way out of the mountains to alert  rescuers.  But what is striking about this story is the amazing amount of  mutual cooperation among the survivors, most of whom were in their late  teens and early twenties.  That they managed for the most part to retain  their civilized natures in the wake of utter hopelessness and through  working together devised a workable plan to effect their own rescue is  nothing short of remarkable.  Nearly three decades have passed since the  crash, but the compelling nature of this story has not diminihed in the  slightest.	2000-07-29
2348355:US	51809405	R7XVMCSGJBXZP	0061057274	137727085	Distress	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Unconventional Science Fiction	Greg Egan's &quot;Distress&quot; is a most unusual work of science fiction.  Most of the story takes place on Earth in the middle of the next century, but on an artificially created island called &quot;Stateless&quot;  that is diplomatically shunned by most of the rest of the world because of  how it was created.  On the island, a convention is gathering to decide on  the new &quot;Theory of Everything&quot; which is supposed to be as  revolutionary as the Theory of Relativity.  Lurking in the background is a  new psychological malady named Distress, which is somehow linked to these  events.  Egan is a good storyteller and &quot;Distress,&quot; like most of  the best science fiction, is brimming with unusual ideas.	2000-07-29
2349467:US	51809405	R1FC2X87U5NEPR	0804109990	99157464	Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets	Books	5	50	53	N	N	First Rate Journalism	I've always felt that the main problem with the TV show version of &quot;Homicide&quot; is that, good as it is, it just can't match the gritty realism of the book it is based on.  Journalist David Simon spent a year as  a fly on the wall observing the Balitimore Police Homicide Unit, and  dutifully recording everything he saw by and large without editorial  comment.  The result is absolutely indespensible for anyone with an  interest in law enforcement.  Being a homicide detectives is a tough job  both emotionally and professionally with many hours of tedium that can  often result in the frustration of an unsolved case.  Particularly poignant  is the story of a unsolved child murder case that haunts one of the  detectives to the point of endagering his mental well being.  The value of  this book to the nation's hard working law enforcement professionals simply  cannot be understated.	2000-07-28
2349704:US	51809405	R3VAPQC8D6TJHV	0375501770	90327779	Newjack: Guarding Sing Sing	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Life inside	Ted Conover (as he states in his book) is an anthropologist by trade rather than a journalist.  And he deserves our admiration for subjecting himself to a year spent as a corrections officer in one of the country's  most notorious prisons.  In doing so, he reveals that being a corrections  officer is one of the toughest and most unappreciated jobs around.  The  damage the job does to the psyche of the men and women who do it as well as  the disruptions in their personal lives is starkly documented in his  account.  The author also make an excellent point in wondering why we are  filling our prisons with so many non-violent (primarily drug) offenders.  My only quibble is that Conover occasionally goes a bit to far afield with  his liberal comments.  By and large, violent offenders are undserving of  our sympathy no matter what horrific environment may have helped to create  them.  Nevertheless, the book presents for the most part a balanced view of  the life of a corrections officer.  For that it is a valuable read for  anyone interested in criminology.	2000-07-28
2349720:US	51809405	R2ZU21I8PS5C37	0440223164	730116907	Making of a Detective, The	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A first rate law enforcement book	David Simon's outstanding piece of journalism &quot;Homicide&quot; is the first book I would recommend to anyone with an interest in law enforcement.  This would be the second.  Like Simon, Harvey Rachlin makes a strong  effort to get the story right as he follows a New York City police officer  as he is chosen to be elevated from the uniform ranks to breathe the  rarified air of the detective's squadroom.  Detective Dave Carbone deserves  cresit for allowing Rachlin to scrutinize him so closely.  Like Simon,  Rachlin is mostly interested in how law enforcement professionals do what  they do.  Also like Simon, after reading Rachlin's account you'll have a  much greater appreciation for those who try to keep our streets and  neighborhoods safe for the law abiding.	2000-07-28
2349957:US	51809405	R2RM0N5U060QN	067179227X	926409967	Den of Thieves	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Greed ain't so good	James Stewart's expose on the Wall Streets scandals of the go-go 80's reads like the Oliver Stone film come to life.  The stories of such high flying white collar crooks as Ivan Boesky and Michael Milken and how they  met their downfall is nothing short of fascinating.  These were guys whose  genius made them wealthy beyond most people's wildest imaginations, but for  whom enough was never enough.  Stewart is a first rate journalist and  having worked for the Wall Street Journal, he came to be intimately  familiar with the particular villians and the heroic agents and prosecutors  who caught them.  Anyone with an interest in criminology or a few bucks  invested in a high risk stock ought to read this.	2000-07-28
2350419:US	51809405	R1JSZSYAEBWD08	0836217357	633357154	The Days are Just Packed: A Calvin and Hobbes Collection	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Another outstanding collection	Caliv and Hobbes is truly a strip for everyone, which both parents and children can enjoy.  This is another outstanding collection of strips, and  you really can't go wrong with any of them.  Bill Watterson was a comic  genius whose presence in the funny pages has been missed since his  retirement.  My &quot;Days&quot; are less packed now that he's gone.	2000-07-27
2350780:US	51809405	R1VDBLJ55MD38V	0836217691	770400434	Homicidal Psycho Jungle Cat: A Calvin and Hobbes Collection	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Back from hiatus and back in the groove	This book represents the first strips published by Bill Waterson after he returned from a long hiatus.  Though it does not contain any sequence of  strips as memorable as the classic &quot;Attack of the Deranged Mutant  Killer Snow Goons,&quot; it is still another excellent collection of Calvin  and Hobbes cartoons.  Starting with this book, the collections got larger,  with color for the Sunday strips.  For that alone, its worth the price.	2000-07-27
2351184:US	51809405	R166KY6844EDOE	0836213122	347480714	There's Treasure Everywhere--A Calvin and Hobbes Collection	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This one is a &quot;Treasure&quot;	The title of this book is a perfect metaphor for being a kid.  Calvin can  entertain himself all day with nothing more than a stuffed tiger and a  cardboard box.  This is another outstanding collection of strips from Bill  Watterson, whose comic genius has been sorely missed in the funny pages  since his retirement.  This is yet another of his books that should be  guarded like a treasure.	2000-07-27
2351199:US	51809405	R10U16P15YBNMX	0836221362	160173314	It's A Magical World: A Calvin and Hobbes Collection	Books	5	10	10	N	N	First you laugh, then you cry	This is another outstanding collection of Calvin and Hobbes cartoons that are, as always, humorous as well as being little works of art on their own.  When you come to the end, however, there's that sad feeling of knowing  that its the end of the line as far as the strip is concerned.  The same  drive that made Bill Watterson perhaps the most brilliant cartoonist ever  caused him to pull the plug on his beloved creations when he thought that  he had given it all he could give.  It is a rare thing for anyone in the  entertainment business to know when to call it quits.  Perhaps, instead of  being sad, we should say, &quot;hats off.&quot;	2000-07-27
2351821:US	51809405	R2FYMB77NOLKNM	0836218663	854922838	The Revenge of the Baby-Sat	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Get your &quot;Revenge&quot;	The title of this book refers to the classic sequence of strips in which Calvin plots revenge on his &quot;demonic&quot; babysitter by kidnapping  her homework and threatening to flush it down the toilet.  Hobbes, wisely,  tries to opt out of the operation.  This is another outstanding collection  in the Calvin and Hobbes series.  Bill Watterson is a comic genius whose  presence in the funny pages has been sorely missed since his retirement.	2000-07-26
2351926:US	51809405	R10K72UZVU7S8B	0836220889	667860921	Calvin and Hobbes	Books	5	11	14	N	N	The very first Calvin and Hobbes	This is the first Calvin and Hobbes collection, which is clearly obvious  when you flip through the first few cartoons and seen that our heros look a  little less polished than they would later on.  Nevertheless, Bill  Watterson's genius was clearly evident from the start.  He wastes little  time introducing his characters, and merely assumes that we understand that  Hobbes will only appear as a real tiger while Calvin is alone.  Watterson  is a comic genius whose reclusive presence has been sorely missed on the  funny pages since his retirement.  All we have left are his books.  And  this is the first of a fantastic series.	2000-07-26
2352310:US	51809405	R6U7GT4PNUPO3	0836218620	414160819	Weirdos from Another Planet!	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Buy these &quot;Weirdos&quot;	The title of the book represents a truly classic series of strips in which Calvin first uses his cardboard box as a space ship to travel to Mars.  What he finds is that the &quot;Weirdos from Another Planet&quot; are him  and Hobbes!  This is another first rate collection from the strip that was  THE highlight of the comics page during its newspaper run.  Bill Waterson's  genius has been sorely missed ever since he decided to retire.  This is  another fine collection in an outstanding series of books.	2000-07-26
2352659:US	51809405	R5T191NBUCL7O	0836218353	539351132	Yukon Ho!	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Take it to the Yukon, or anywhere else	The title of &quot;Yukon Ho&quot; referrs to a classic series of strips in which Calvin decides he doesn't want to put up with the &quot;strict&quot;  rules of living at home and that he and Hobbes should run away to the  Yukon, where they can ride their sled all day.  Surprised that his mother  doesn't raise much of a fuss when he announces his intentions, Calvin  prepares for the journey ahead.  This is another outstanding collection in  the Calvin and Hobbes series.  Bill Watterson is a comic genius whose  presence on the funny pages has been sorely missed since his retirement.	2000-07-26
2352709:US	51809405	R3M0C1KSAUYM4T	0836218833	508924803	Attack of the Deranged Mutant Killer Monster Snow Goons (Calvin & Hobbes)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	This may be the best &quot;Calvin&quot;	All Calvin and Hobbes books are great.  But this one, in which Calvin imagines that he has brought a demonic snowman to life, may be the best of  the bunch.  The sequence of strips in which Calvin is sure that the snowman  and his friends are out to kill him may be the most brilliant of Bill  Watterson's career.  He is an absolute comic genius whose presence in the  funny pages has been sorely missed since his retirement.  &quot;Snow  Goons&quot; is Watterson at his finest.	2000-07-26
2352796:US	51809405	RGT9CHEHDIU6E	0836218787	432605012	Scientific Progress Goes 'Boink':  A Calvin and Hobbes Collection	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Keep on &quot;Boink&quot;-ing	The title of this book refers to the classic sequence of strips in which  Calvin first uses his (cardboard box) duplicator to make a copy of himself  that he hopes will do all the unpleasant things he has to do (like go to  school).  However, because the duplicate IS Calvin, he has his own ideas.  This is another classic collection in the Calvin and Hobbes series.  Bill  Watterson is a comic genius whose presence in the funny pages has been  sorely missed since his retirement.	2000-07-26
2353350:US	51809405	R2SGWQ1V6WYKV	0836218256	320881582	Something Under the Bed Is Drooling	Books	5	4	5	N	N	&quot;Something&quot; is making me laugh	This was the book that first hooked my on &quot;Calvin and Hobbes&quot; back when I was in college and the strip did not yet appear in our local  paper.  The artistry of the drawing and the quality of the comic writing is  immediately apparent.  Bill Watterson is a comic genius whose presence has  been sorely missed on the funny pages since his retirement.  What is really  remarkable is the consistency of his work.  Any Calvin and Hobbes  collection is a treasure, and this one is no exception.	2000-07-26
2353539:US	51809405	R1TH9NXJZQN4US	0767903854	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	4	70	78	N	N	Very informative and quite funny	Bill Bryson has an excellent way with words, especially with his descriptive writing.  For a travel writer, I suppose this is a must.  He's also a humorist, and I laughed out loud on at least a half a dozen  occasions while enjoying his adventures down under.  Particularly amusing  were his descriptions of a Cricket match, of a particularly bad hotel in  Darwin and and of a drunken night in the Outback.  He also gives a fine  overall view of Austrailia, of which he covered much, but alas not nearly  as much as he wanted.  Though some might gripe that he spends too much time  ruminating over the poisonous wildlife and looking for a cold beer, overall  this is an exceptionally fun book to read.  He includes many historical  facts about Australia and even devotes some space to the unfortunate  condition of the Aborigines.  But not too much to spoil the fun.  Bryson's  travel writings remind me of an apolitical P.J. O'Rourke, and for that he's  worth a read.	2000-07-25
2354055:US	51809405	R7V7X36T967RZ	9997519086	191900870	The Heckler	Books	5	21	22	N	N	First Bow for the Deaf Man	&quot;The Heckler&quot; is the 87th Precinct Mystery which features the first appearance of the elusive and recurrent McBain villian known only as the Deaf Man.  In this installment, you learn why this mastermind of evil  has a particular affinity for the &quot;boys of the 87th,&quot;  particularly Detective Steeve Carella, who excells at thwarting his  nefarious schemes (but never quite catching him).  This is one of the best  examples of early 87th Precinct writing from McBain.  For those who love  police procedurals, there are none better.	2000-07-25
2354308:US	51809405	R2XWWOUIEE85FC	0517293161	94927324	Marathon: The Pursuit of the Presidency 1972-1976	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Whitcover pulls a Teddy White	Theodore H. White's &quot;Making of the President&quot; series set the  standard for campaign books.  White ended his string after the 1972  campaign, and it is from there that Whitcover picks up the torch.  Witcover  is a excellent journalist and a fine writer.  He chronicles the chaos of  the 1976 campaign on the Democratic side and shows how a determined  darkhorse named Jimmy Carter was able to outlast his many rivals in part by  getting an early jump start on them.  He also documents the bitter  nomination fight between Ronald Reagan and Gerald Ford that almost tore the  Republican party apart.  Lastly, there is the general election in which  Carter started with a huge lead and blundered his way into winning by the  closest margain of any election since 1960.  This is an excellent book for  politics junkies.	2000-07-25
2354520:US	51809405	RDN66LQHCXYRL	0451118545	584908979	Blood Relatives	Books	4	7	8	N	N	False Accusations	&quot;Blood Relatives&quot; is another fine installment in Ed McBain's 87th Precinct series.  In this episode, Detective Steve Carella attempts to track down a psycho who has killed the cousin of a fifteen year old girl  right in front of her eyes.  Just when Carella thinks he has a positive ID,  it turns out to be the wrong guy!  This book is typically of earlier period  McBain. It is short, sweet and to the point, describing matter-of-factly  how a murder investigation works.  It is not the most memorable of McBain's  works, but will satisfy any fan of the 87th Precinct series.	2000-07-25
2354960:US	51809405	RI41PZD7HV6XF	0451156099	401217597	Hail, Hail, the Gang's All Here (Signet)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Come Together	With this book (first published in 1971), McBain brings the varied crew of the 87th Precinct togther in one story at the same time.  This is the format that all later period 87th Precinct books would follow.  There are a  total of four plots in this one, each investigated by a different detective  from the precinct.  A murder, a suicide, a jewel heist and a bombing each  get their due treatment.  This is one of the better entries in the 87th  Precinct series and a must read for any McBain fan.	2000-07-25
2357717:US	51809405	R2FUAMVPV8QD7S	0394463889	378333606	George Washington and the American Revolution	Books	5	8	9	N	N	George wins the war	George Washington is such a mythic figure, that any honest account of his life and career brings both surprises and a reaffirmation of just what a great man he was.  Burke Davis is a first rate writer and historian and  focusses here on Washington the General who led America to military victory  in the Revolutionary War despite long odds and much personal hardship.  Just keeping his ragtag army together was enough of a challenge.  To  actually win battles such as Trenton and Yorktown and survive the treachery  of Benedict Arnold makes him all the more remarkable.  It is a shame that  the Revolutionary War evokes little of the passion in Americans today that  the Civil War does.  Washington's military feats dwarf those of Grant, Lee  and Sherman.  With this book, Washington the military commander gets his  due.	2000-07-22
2357796:US	51809405	R15XIBJH2AAWK0	0312193033	841140230	Mussolini: A Biography	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A good introduction to the &quot;Duce&quot;	Jasper Ridley's biography of Mussolini does a good job of retelling the life of this ambitious but fatally flawed leader.  Mussolini was no Hitler.  Even had he desired it, he could never have established totalitarianism in  Italy as the temperment of the Italian people simply would not have allowed  it.  Instead he was sort of like the neighborhood bully elevated to power.  Threatening yes, but not truly evil.  Had World War Two not happened, his  fate probably would have been more similar to Spain's Franco, whose regime  died of natural causes with him.  The most interesting aspect of  Mussolini's life was his transistion from socialism to fascism, but even  this can be viewed as opportunism from a man with no real political  convictions other than obtaining and maintaining power.  Overall, this is a  good introdution to the man who in the end got what he deserved from his  own people.	2000-07-22
2357836:US	51809405	R1RK22DRVZTLXO	0671748742	835514862	Left to Die: The Tragedy of the USS Juneau	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Kurzman's other Nautical disaster	Dan Kurzman followed up his excellent account of the sinking of the USS Indianapolis (&quot;Fatal Voyage&quot;) with another tragic sinking of an American warship, this time the USS Juneau.  The Juneau disaster is  probably best known because among the many deaths were five brothers who  had joined the navy at the start of World War Two and insisted that they be  assigned to the same ship.  Only one of the brothers survived the initial  sinking, and he tragically succcomed to dehydration and delirium while  frantically searching for his siblings on the open ocean amidst the oil and  debris from the wreck.  Equally compelling is the story of how the  commander of The Juneau's task force made a life and death decision to  leave the survivors behind in the water lest he put his other ships at  risk.  As a result only a mere handful of sailors ultimately survived.  Their story is as haunting as anything I've read.	2000-07-22
2357928:US	51809405	R3LEW4MHO6RXOX	0312168160	869864955	The Decline and Fall of Soviet Empire: Forty Years That Shook The World, From Stalin to Yeltsin	Books	4	2	4	N	N	How Lenin ended up in the Tomb	David Remnick's &quot;Lenin's Tomb&quot; remains THE definitive account of the fall of the Soviet Union.  Fred Coleman's book is much more abstract, focussing on root historical causes rather than reports from the field as  events happened.  Coleman's main argument in the book, that the West could  have forced the collapse of the Soviet Union through a more agressive  foreign policy as early as the mid 1950s, is the most controversal argument  he makes.  Coleman believes that Hungary and later Czechoslovakia could  have been freed from Soviet clutches in 1956 and 1967 respectively had the  West only shown a willingness to flex its military muscle.  Coleman argues  that the Soviet military was always a paper tiger and that Soviet leaders  were merely bluff an bluster.  The only problem with this argument is that  had the West followed Coleman's course of action, nuclear anihilation may  have resulted.  Still, this is a worthwhile book for those interested in  the Cold War and how the Soviets lost it.	2000-07-22
2357963:US	51809405	R3LVP7YN6QYH6W	055325992X	725523175	The Arms of Krupp	Books	4	5	6	N	N	When big corporations go bad	Ralph Nader never took on a big corporation even remotely as evil as the Krupp company was during World War Two.  Germany's leading arms manufacturer used slave labor to keep the nation's armies supplied, and  didn't particularly care whether the slaves lived or died.  The conditions  were atrocious.  If a worker died on the factory floor, the body was  carried out and another slave put in its place.  They were starved, beaten  and ultimately had no hope of survival short of Germany's defeat.  The most  surprising thing is that Alfred Krupp, the President of the company during  this period, was not only released a mere three years after his conviction  at Nuremburg, but given his fortune and company back!  This has to rate as  one of the worst miscarriages of justice that occurred because of the Cold  War.  Manchester's book is lengthy, but very readble.  Overall, it shows  the profit motive at its most reprehensible.	2000-07-22
2357965:US	51809405	R335EVRCN3DEW2	0140088377	12083122	All Fall Down: America's Tragic Encounter With Iran	Books	1	10	20	N	N	This book isn't abot Iran	I expected that Gary Sick's &quot;All Fall Down&quot; was going to be an exciting account of the Iranian revolution and the hostage crisis.  Instead, it was a boring account of the Carter administration's reaction to  the Iranian revolution and the hostage crisis.  Sick worked for Carter when  the revolution helped turn the president's foreign policy program on its  head.  The hostage crisis more than any other event, contributed to  Carter's defeat in 1980.  Unfortunately, none of this makes for terribly  interesting reading.  The Iranian revolution is one of the most important  events in World History of the last quarter century.  But you would never  know that from reading this book.	2000-07-22
2358096:US	51809405	R4CPWNYD1KTDL	0881840327	75525730	Justice at Nuremberg	Books	5	56	56	N	N	A very thorough account	For those who enjoyed TNT's Nuremburg movie and would like to develop a more complete understanding of the trial, &quot;Justice at Nuremburg&quot; is for you.  Author Robert Conot does a lot more than just recount the  trial of the leading Nazis.  He gives a full portrayal of their crimes and  details their actions while they were in allied custody both before and  during the trial.  Conot also gives the background on the leading allied  prosecutors and judges as well as detailing the increasing Cold War  friction that surrounded the trial.  The Nuremburg trial set the standard  for international war crimes tribunals as we know them today.  Many  precedents were established that are still with us.  But it is the  fascinating (and revolting) stories of the defendant's themselves that make  this book so compelling.	2000-07-22
2358126:US	51809405	R3EQ94U1ULKA29	0814731325	447965003	Chechnya: Calamity in the Caucasus	Books	4	5	8	N	N	An account of the first phase of the conflict	As of the writing of this book, the Chechnyans had successfully repelled the Russian army and achieved a de facto independence that was not recognized by the rest of the world.  Subsequent events have shown that  Russia was not through with Chechnya by a long shot.  This is a fascinating  and grusome account of how Russia first attempted to pacify its rebellious  province and how the Chechnyan hatred of the Russians goes back well over a  hundred years.  Stalin deported the entire population of the area to  Central Asia during World War Two, cementing the Checnyans hatred of  Moscow.  That the West has allowed the slaughter in Chechnya to continue  without more than a peep of a protest is shameful.  This is a compelling  book that deserves a wider audience, as well as a sequel.	2000-07-22
2358199:US	51809405	R3G1MDG0O2FO0Z	0449219771	679377355	The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich	Books	5	140	160	N	N	The definitive account of Nazi Germany	William L. Shirer's classic &quot;The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich&quot; is the most complete single volume account of the history of Nazi Germany ever written.  Shirer was a journalist, not a historian and  the advantages of this show in his very readable prose and his vivid  descriptions (for example, often referring to Herman Goering as &quot;the  fat Field Marshall&quot;).  The book starts with the birth of the Nazi  party and how it found a spokesman early on in an ex-serviceman named Adolf  Hitler.  The narrative continues through until the end of the war, Hitler's  suicide and the final few days under Admiral Doenitz.  The only warning to  the casual reader is that the book's length exceeds 1100 pages and it is  crammed to the brim with facts.  Also, it should be noted that the book was  published over forty years ago and does not include more recent information  that has come to light from, for example, the former East German archives.  Nevertheless, this is still a classic work of jornalistic history.	2000-07-22
2358343:US	51809405	R2CIJ2QEBOXP8N	0671739980	133206690	Fatal Voyage: The Sinking of the USS Indianapolis	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Quint couldn't have told it better	The best scene in the movie &quot;Jaws&quot; is when captain Quint, played by Robert Shaw, recounts the horrors of having been a survivor of the USS Indianapolis disaster.  In Dan Kurzman, this event is given a storytelling  treatment worthy of the man who would soon become shark bait himself.  The  Indianapolis story is a horror not only because of what the survivors of  the sinking endured (dehydration, delirium and, of course, shark attacks),  but because of the bureaucratic bungling that caused them to be left in the  water for many days beyond when the sinking was first reported.  Granted  the war was in its last stages and important things were happening (the  Indianapolis was returning from having delivered the Atomic bomb that was  dropped on Hiroshima) but the neglect the ship's survivors received was  inexcusable.  Kurzman is an excellent journalist and writer.  This book and  &quot;Left to Die&quot; his account of the sinking of the USS Juneau, are  first rate accounts of nautical disaster.	2000-07-22
2358581:US	51809405	R3ATO23XN2W4NA	0394520831	29929684	The Long Surrender	Books	5	33	33	N	N	This is how the war ended	Most people think the Civil War ended at Appomattox with Lee's surrender to Grant.  Actually, the fighting carried on for a couple more months and included many events, including General Joseph Johnson's surrender,  Lincoln's assassination, the flight of Jefferson Davis, a steamboat tragedy  on the Mississippi River, the final land battle in Texas (ironically, a  Confederate victory), the escape through Florida of several Confederate  political leaders including John Breckinridge and the continued plundering  of Union merchant shipping by a Confederte raider well into the fall of  1865.  Burke Davis chronicles all of this as well as Jefferson Davis's post  Civil War life as an unreconstructed rebel.  It is a fascinating read for  those interested in the Civil War.	2000-07-22
2358706:US	51809405	R1TZ85UU61N6MI	0553275569	678579754	The Right Stuff	Books	5	28	34	N	N	An absolute classic	As good as &quot;The Right Stuff&quot; is as a movie, the book is even better.  Thomas Wolfe's account of post war American test pilots and the first American astronauts is frank, amusing, moving and ultimately  triumphant.  Wolfe humanzies the cocky heroes that made America's space  program successful.  He punctures the myths that have grown up around such  legendary men as Chuck Yeager, John Glenn and Alan Shepard and portrays  them honestly, warts and all.  The test pilot sequences and the onerous  astronaut training are the best parts, but the whole book is utterly  fascinating.  &quot;The Right Stuff&quot; may very well be the best  aviation story ever written.	2000-07-22
2359082:US	51809405	R1I5MVC8W9CPW5	0679720197	551664662	The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers	Books	4	7	13	N	N	Better as history than a predictor of the future	Paul Kennedy's &quot;Rise and Fall of the Great Powers&quot; is partially a victim of the unexpected end of the Cold War.  Published in 1987, Kennedy was trying to sound the alarm that a great power such as the United States  puts its future economic livelyhood at stake when its defense costs become  too burdonsome.  In the case of the Soviet Union Kennedy was right on the  money, so to speak.  But the American economy has proven much more  resiliant than anyone might have expected during the 80s.  Kennedy's book  is best read today for its account of how innovation as the result of  constant warfare helped propel the West to supremacy in the world.  Overall, this is a vital political science book that was required reading  for a foreign policy class at my university ten years ago.  I should check  back to find out if it still is.	2000-07-21
2359327:US	51809405	RDATUDPBE3M4J	0898865905	571414368	Dark Shadows Falling	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Into Deadly Air	Having once almost died himself in a mountaineering accident, Joe Simpson's &quot;Dark Shadows Falling&quot; attempts to sound the warning for amature climbers who might have missed the message in Jon Krakauer's  hugely popular &quot;Into Thin Air.&quot;  Elite mountains (such as the  Himilayas) should be left to the elite climbers, and even they should take  pause before tackling the world's toughest climbs.  That is the Simpson's  message and he dramtizes it with various accounts of mountaineering  tragedies and triumphs.  There are also light moments, such as the photo of  a Sherpa lifting up three granite blocks with his, ahem, scrotum.  Overall,  this is an excellent read for anyone interested in mountaineering.	2000-07-21
2359356:US	51809405	R289IWF6AWFDLL	0394758358	123960473	Waltzing with a Dictator	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Dancing with the Devil	Okay, since the end of the Cold War nobody's terribly interesting in reading accounts of America cozing up to reprehensible slimeball dictators like Ferdinand Marcos anymore, right?  Too bad, since Raymond Bonner's  account of American involvement in the Phillippines is one of the best  examples of the genre.  Bonner follows Uncle Sam's footprints on the  archipelago from the granting of independence after World War II until the  inglorious fall of Ferdinand and his revolting wife Imelda.  Bonner raises  the legitimate question as to if such support was necessary for American  security.  Such questions may be moot now, but they still make for  fascinating reading.	2000-07-21
2359498:US	51809405	REGUMPIP8A1VD	0156409461	254056432	Hitler	Books	4	36	46	N	N	A fairly good biography	The life story of Adolf Hitler is so compelling that it is hard to imagine a book about it ever being boring.  Fest's account is thoroughly researched and and meticulously detailed and was a best sellerin West Germany before  being published in the U.S.  Though not as readabled as Robert Payne's  superior &quot;The Life and Death of Adolf Hitler,&quot; it still paints a  fairly complete portrait of the man.  If the book has any drawback, it is  that it does not spend enough time on Hitler's pre-World War I activities.  Payne much more thoroughly documents the humiliation and disappointment in  Vienna that searled Hitler's soul and helped turn him into a monster.  Nevertheless, Fest's &quot;Hitler&quot; remains one of the defining  biographies of the 20th century's most evil figure.	2000-07-21
2360017:US	51809405	R2N3HSD0FLE2OB	006013514X	541136724	The Palace Guard	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Watergate's Twin Towers	&quot;The Palace Guard&quot; is the story of the two most powerful underlings in the Nixon Administration, H.R. &quot;Bob&quot; Haldeman and John Ehrlichman.  Together, they rose to the pinacle of success by  shielding their paranoid boss from all those with whom he did not wish to  associate.  And together they fell, both resigning on the last day of April  1973 as the heat from the Watergate scandal began to scorch the second term  President who had been reelected by a landslide only months before.  Rather  and Gates's account, while lacking historical perspective, is fascinating  in how it depicts two power hungry men who moved largely in the shadows.  They served their boss well, even to the end when it was hoped that by  their sacrifice he would be saved.  Political junkies will love their  story.	2000-07-21
2360022:US	51809405	R243Z579G6P4DK	0679743987	138303776	Sheridan: The Life and Wars of General Phil Sheridan	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The horseman cometh	Phillip Sheridan's importance to the Union effort in the Civil War cannot be overstated.  His place as a general in blue ranks behind only Sherman and Grant.  His best moments were at Winchester where he stemmed a Union  defeat and turned it into a smashing vistory, and at Five Forks where he  routed a derelict George Pickett and ended the stalemate around Petersburg.  He also led a fascinating life in the military both before and after the  war, eventually becomming the army's commanding general late in his life.  Morris's book is well written, but it lacks the drama of say the recent  biographies of Grant and Sherman.  I think this is because the stories of  those two generals, who both overcame much adversity in both their personal  and professional lives, are much more compelling.  Sheridan was a great  general, but not a tragic or epic figure.  But at least he has a biography  that does his memory justice.	2000-07-21
2360036:US	51809405	R3EHXSY1720EF4	1566198402	606369487	The Life and Death of Adolf Hitler	Books	5	5	10	N	N	A great biography	I've read both &quot;The Life and Death of Adolph Hitler&quot; and Joachim Fest's &quot;Hitler,&quot; both of which are cited by historians as among the best Hitler biographies.  I must give the nod to this book as the  better of the two.  It is more readable and gives a better overall account  of the tortured mind that led many millions to their deaths.  Payne's  account is particularly strong in following Hitler's Vienna period, when he  ended up as a homeless vagabond.  He eventually spent several years in a  men's shelter where he earned a living painting postcards and spent time  entertaining his companions with his occasional ranting outbursts.  Particularly surprising is that Hitler displayed no documented traces of  anti-semitism before World War I.  Don't expect detailed portraits of other  Nazis.  This is Hitler's story and his alone.  As Payne points out, without  him there would have been no other Nazis.	2000-07-21
2360554:US	51809405	R2U2PBM38IE9NX	0679722378	580129421	Generation of Swine: Tales of Shame and Degradation in the '80's (Gonzo Papers, Vol. 2)	Books	2	14	29	N	N	What a long, strange trip its been	Before he burned himself out on drugs, Hunter Thompson was perhaps the best and certainly most vicious humor writer in America.  Unfortunately, by the time the 1980s rolled around, Thompson had lost a few miles-an-hour off  his fastball and could no longer knock 'em dead like he used to.  Though  you can still delight at the occasional potshot at those in power (like his  description of George Bush senior as &quot;the mean, preppie vice  president&quot;), overall he fails to consistently produce the kind of  cutting satire that he could in his prime.  It was almost as if he had come  to personify the &quot;Uncle Duke&quot; character by which Gary Trudeau had  been lampooning him for all these years.  Sadly, we must use his own words  to report that the master has &quot;cashed his check.&quot;	2000-07-20
2360845:US	51809405	R1J3VQ0Y6O09W6	0306806118	614323379	A Dreamer Of Pictures: Neil Young: The Man And His Music	Books	3	1	1	N	N	An unauthorized bio is better than none	&quot;A Dreamer of Pictures&quot; is a fairly by-the-numbers account of the life of the great Neil Young.  It makes for interesting reading if only because the reclusive Young is such a fascinating fuiure and there simply  are no other comprehensive biographies of his life.  The most interesting  fact that I did not know was that Young's first professional band included  the one and only Rick James!  Young obviously offered author Downing no  assistance in putting this biography together, and it shows.  Maybe someday  Neil will get the proper treatment that his place in rock music history  deserves.  Until then, we'll have to be satisfied by this  &quot;Dreamer.&quot;	2000-07-20
2360912:US	51809405	R252RUGFLEE7LW	0140263233	855761717	Blood Money: The Incredible True Story of David Morris And the Tragedy of Somalia	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The U.N. follies	&quot;Blood Money&quot; is a tragic example of how, as the old saying goes, &quot;the road to Hell is paved with good intentions.&quot;  New Zealander David Morris went to Somalia with the idea of making some money  as a contractor for the U.N. as the U.N. tried to save the country from  starvation and anarchy.  While the U.N. fed the people, Morris's company  fed the U.N.  As chronicled by fellow countryman and reporter Trisha  Stratford, somewhere along the way Morris decided to do what he could to  help the Somali people.  For his trouble and due in part to U.N. bungling,  he ended up dead.  In the context of the greater disaster that was the U.N.  mission to Somalia, Morris's death might seem only a small part.  But the  trouble he and his company had with the World body are lessons that need to  be learned if the U.N. is ever going to be an effective force for  international intervention.  This book is an excellent journalistic account  of bureaucratic failure.	2000-07-20
2364158:US	51809405	R3DQXMXPS833L4	0380720256	742127538	New Emperors: China...	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A book that needs to be read by more Americans	Let's face it, China is rapidly replacing Russia as the chief rival of the U.S. in world affairs.  And anyone who wants to begin to understand modern China must start with this book.  Harrison Salisbury is an excellent  journalist and writer who chronicles the tragic history of China from the  beginning of the communist regime through the early 1990s.  He focusses on  the two leaders, Mao and Deng, who guided China into the modern era,  causing at least as much if not far more destruction to their country the  good that came from modernity.  The irony is that while Mao was an  egomaniacal madman, Deng was at heart a decent man who rebounded from being  jailed and humiliated by the Cultural Revolution only to ruin his more  benevolent legacy at Tianamen Square in 1989.  Salisbury's account is  readable and insightful and is essential for anyone with an interest in the  country.	2000-07-18
2364511:US	51809405	R2JTW8BSCHENW5	067975833X	289325498	Confederates in the Attic: Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Civil Wargasm	&quot;Confederates in the Attic,&quot; ranks with H.G. Bissenger's &quot;Friday Night Lights&quot; as one of the best pieces of &quot;Americana&quot; writing in the 1990s.  Like Bissenger, Horwitz uses a  familiar subject, Civil War remeberance, as a canvas on which to paint his  verbal portraits of what's happening in (particularly rural) America.  He  does this with writing that is at times funny, moving and tragic.  Horwitz  deserves a purple heart for accompanying &quot;harcore&quot; reenactor  Robert Lee Hodge (pictured on the book's cover) on his crazy one week 1000  mile rememberance quest called, fittingly, &quot;The Civil Wargasm.&quot;  Anyone with an interest in the Civil War should read this masterful book  for thought provoking insight as to why the war continues to fascinate and  haunt many Americans.	2000-07-18
2364783:US	51809405	R1BLI3NNRAPRGH	0393308278	573188488	The Wars of Watergate: The Last Crisis of Richard Nixon	Books	5	29	35	N	N	Watergate as History	Most books on Watergate were written not long after the scandal broke by either journalists or by the participants.  Stanley I. Cutler is one of the first to look at the scandal from a &quot;historical&quot; perspective.  He  does an excellent job of presenting the events in the proper historical  context, removed as they now are from the political passions that bolied  over at the time.  Nixon then was a discraced figure with a core of ardent  supporters.  He managed to partly rehabilitate himself before his death by  outlasting many of his enemies.  This book shows, in all grim detail, why  Nixon should never be allowed to complete his quest for rehabilitation.  It  shows clearly the dangers of electing a President willing and able to  deliberately misuse his power.	2000-07-18
2364796:US	51809405	RMVTBQN616ERS	0517593106	14993076	Ribbentrop: A Biography	Books	5	12	15	N	N	The banality of evil	There were Nazis with far more blood on their hands the the bumbling foreign minister Joachim Ribbentrop (he &quot;purchased&quot; the noble title &quot;von&quot; in an act that caused him much scorn and derision).  But few were more mediocre or more completely dedicated to Hitler.  Ribbentrop's stunning ineptness was quite apparent long before he assumed  the foreign ministry portfolio.  He was so heavilly mocked by the British  when he served as Ambassador to London before the war (once even giving the  &quot;Hitler salute&quot; to the the King) that he developed a fierce  hatred for the country whose language he spoke fluently.  Bloch scarcely  conceals his utter contempt for the man who may be the most fascinating  Nazi other than Hitler.  That such a buffoon could rise to such heights and  literally stumble his way into becoming a major war criminal would be  humorous if it were not in fact so terrifying.	2000-07-18
2368648:US	51809405	R220K0YHMG87OQ	1565049195	862008531	The Earth Strikes Back: An Anthology of Ecological Horror	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Uneven collection short ecological horror stories	&quot;Earth Strikes Back&quot; is a colection of short horror fiction stories that vary widely in quality.  My favorite is &quot;I Remember Me,&quot; a chilling tale that envisions the end of the world in the form  of a disease that slowly robs every human being of his or her memory.  This  is a good read for those who like horror fiction.	2000-07-15
2368651:US	51809405	R1FFAPXV3BUSDM	0812580370	713206696	The Tomb (Adversary Cycle/Repairman Jack)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Reads like detective fiction	F. Paul Wilson is a horror writer and &quot;The Tomb&quot; has some supernatural elements to it.  But the book reads more like detective fiction.  Repairman Jack is one of the more appealing and memorable  fictional characters I've come across and his &quot;profession&quot;  reminded me of John D. MacDonald's Travis McGee.  And like any good hero of  detective fiction, Jack's psyche is haunted by dark and troubling events  from his past that WIlson covers in detail.  This is an exciting book that  should be read for the quality of its storytelling alone.	2000-07-15
2368797:US	51809405	RHD6IN13TNMAQ	0843923199	45695139	Late at Night	Books	4	1	3	N	N	You'll &quot;Scream&quot; over this one	William Schoell's &quot;Late at Night&quot; is a clever little horror story the plot of which you'll recognize if you've seen the movie &quot;Scream.&quot;  A bunch of different characters are drawn into an old  mansion where they find a book that features a bunch of people just like  them getting killed off one by one!  I don't know if this book was the  inspiration for &quot;Scream,&quot; but it should have been.  Its a good  read for lovers of horror fiction.	2000-07-15
2368864:US	51809405	R1IO2U7OLFR6E4	0394560345	708740967	Who Killed CBS: The Undoing of America's Number One News Network	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The trouble with network news	&quot;Who Killed CBS&quot; is a dated but still relevant expose of how the network which was once unsurpassed for the quality of its news division sunk during the 1970s and 1980s to the depths of mediocrity.  How the  modern evening news came to resemble tabloid shows like &quot;A Current  Affair&quot; and &quot;Hard Copy&quot; is plainly evident in Boyer's  descriptions of how CBS executives came increasingly to see television news  as &quot;entertainment.&quot;  As news consumers, we are all worse off for  this unfortunate development.	2000-07-15
2369064:US	51809405	R1XVC61MLVC2MV	0679749896	269467708	Sherman: A Soldier's Passion for Order	Books	5	9	13	N	N	A Misunderstood Hero	John Marszalek's book is a relatively concise biography of the man who is perhaps the most misunderstood of the Civil War General's.  It is ironic that Sherman is villified by many in the South today.  True, he waged war  on the civilian population, but he did so in order to minimize battle  deaths on both sides (his soldiers plundered the civilians, but they rarely  killed any of them).  And his belief in a &quot;soft peace&quot; and his  anti-reconstruction views caused many in Dixie to tout him as a  Presidential candidate after the war.  Marszalek brings these and many  other surprising facts to life.  He also manages to get inside the head of  the great but insecure soldier who first and formost sought order in his  life.  Overall, this is a first rate biography.	2000-07-15
2369066:US	51809405	R16RZL1ZAQFOZM	0803279027	479248303	A Time to Stand	Books	5	31	32	N	N	The Alamo as epic adventure story	As a writer, Walter Lord has written the history of some of history's most epic stories, from the sinking of the Titanic to the American victory at Midway.  It seems the better the drama, the better his prose.  He retells  the story of the battle for Texan independence from Mexico the treatment it  deserves, in the process seperating fact from myth.  The story of the Alamo  is of course exciting, but I found Sam Houston's victory over Santa Anna at  the battle of San Jacinto even more interesting.  This is a great history  book from one of the best history writers of the 20th century.	2000-07-15
2369305:US	51809405	R1XN09E1MLB3DT	0380554429	821825556	Lime Pit	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The first and best Stoner novel	The first entry in the Harry Stoner detective series is also the best.  Harry tries to track down the whereabouts of a teenage hooker who has gotten herself involved with a ring of snuff film makers.  The case takes  Stoner through the underworld of his native Cincinnati, and never have the  streets of the Queen city seemed so ominous.  The climax is befittingly  brutal and bloody.  This book is for lovers of down and dirty detective  fiction.	2000-07-15
2369601:US	51809405	RLOQK1YNDC3XZ	1580800599	642382954	Incredible Victory: The Battle of Midway (Classics of War)	Books	5	41	42	N	N	Great storytelling	Walter Lord presents the Battle of Midway as an epic adventure story in &quot;Incredible Victory.&quot;  His writes like a journalist rater than a history professor and this helps make the compelling story of the battle  all the more readable.  Lord shows the battle from the perspective of each  of the participants and he emphasizes how the overwhelming American victory  was the result of gritty determination combined with sheer luck.  This is  an excellent tribute to the brave men who fought perhaps America's most  desperate major battle.	2000-07-15
2369604:US	51809405	R73IMB7N7K5DM	0440210321	179091770	Final Notice	Books	4	2	3	N	N	One of Harry Stoner's better adventures	Valin's Harry Stoner detective novels, though very similar in tone to Travis McGee or Phillip Marlowe, are vastly underrated.  &quot;Final Notice&quot; is one of the better entries in the series as Stoner chases  down a beleivably menacing killer and falls for a plucky and likeable  heroine.  Stoner occupies his home base of Cincinnati much like McGee  occupies Ft. Lauderdale.  A fine example of detective fiction, if you can  find it.	2000-07-15
2369688:US	51809405	R21LTMWWSB1NFP	0449224600	473764357	Pale Gray for Guilt (Travis McGee Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An excellent early McGee	Many of Travis McGee's 1960s adventures seem a bit dated today.  In his earlier incarnation, McGee was less cynical but more of a hedonist.  He became a more appealing hero the more world weary he beacme.  Nevertheless,  &quot;Pale Gray for Guilt&quot; is the best of the earlier books because it  has a classic McGee story that could be the plot of an old west movie.  Bad  guys kill the hero's friend and the hero sets out for revenge.  Only with  McGee, you know the revenge won't be conventional in nature.	2000-07-15
2369849:US	51809405	R37TDHU8KSE00C	0312925603	744466714	Natural Causes	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A lighter Stoner	This is one of the lighter toned books in the Harry Stoner detective series as Harry leaves his native Ciccinnati and goes to Los Angeles to investigate the murder of a soap opera writer.  The Hollywood types Stoner  matches wits with here just are not as menacing as the street toughs he  usually tackles in Cincinnati.  Nevertheless, as with all Stoner books, you  get a first rate detective story in the bargain.	2000-07-15
2369853:US	51809405	R2CDMRBSFF3632	0425105334	122553244	The Talisman	Books	2	2	10	N	N	Bloated and Dull	Whenever a Stephen King book approaches or surpasses the 1000 page mark, the reader should beware (the exception is the uncut version of &quot;The Stand&quot;).  What you're in for is a lot of unnecessary bloat, and  &quot;The Talismen&quot; is no exception.  King's stories are better the  closer to plausible reality he keeps them and this books best parts don't  take place in the mythical otherworld created by King and Straub.  Part of  the problem here might be that each author may have been too polite to ask  the other to trim his sections of the writing.  The fate of the book  resembles that of many rock'n'roll supergroups; a mediocre effort not  worthy of the reputation of the participants.	2000-07-15
2373398:US	51809405	R38P4EO9E3RVY2	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A tragic story -- as told by one who understands	After researching his story, Jon Krakauer came to understand why the subject of his unforgettable book &quot;Into the Wild&quot; hiked into oblivion in the first place.  Krakauer understands the mentality of a  foolish youth who would risk life and limb in the hopes of great adventure.  He understands, as he relates, because he once was that youth.  Krakauer  is a master storyteller whose prose evokes vivid images not only of the  last two years of Chris McCandless's life, but also of that strange breed  of person who is drawn to Alaska to get as far away as possible from the  constraints of life in the lower 48.  McCandless's story is fascinating and  Krakauer does a great service to his memory.	2000-07-12
2373442:US	51809405	RCGA65OEGKXH5	039545185X	43688145	Landslide: The Unmaking of the President, 1984-1988	Books	4	31	37	N	N	The Dark Side of Ronald Reagan	This book explores the underside of the Reagan Presidency.  The surprise is not that Reagan was not in control of underlings like Oliver North, but that he was so out of touch that incoming Chief of Staff Howard Baker  actually considered whether the constitutional provision for removing an  incapacitated President might have to be invoked!  Mayer and McManus write  with the sharp eye of crack investigative reporters.  While the results may  not be as compelling as &quot;All the President's Men,&quot; they still  present an unsettling account of what goes on in the corridors of power.	2000-07-12
2373577:US	51809405	R484W5HBRBVG8	0807121134	433533141	The Politics of Rage: George Wallace, the Origins of the New Conservatism and the Transformation of American Politics	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Wallace -- for good and evil	George Wallace was not an evil man, just an opportunist.  He was a liberal on racial issues until he lost his first race for the Alabama governorship because of race baiting.  Carter relates these surprising facts and documents how Wallace's brand of  conservatism became adopted by mainstream candidates such as Ronald Reagan  and also how an assassain's bullet pushed him toward that path of asking  for redemption from the very people he had previously villified.  Carter is  an excellent biographer, and &quot;The Politics of Rage,&quot; is well  worthy of its subject.	2000-07-12
2374597:US	51809405	R3V4YBNYVS51UG	0385413726	244095611	From Beirut to Jerusalem	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Essential for a better understanding of the Middle East	Those who know little of the Middle East and want to know more are advised to start with Thomas Friedman's classic &quot;From Beirut to Jerusalem.&quot;  Friedman spent the tumultuous 1980s as a reporter for the  New York Times in both of the title cities.  As a Jew, his heroism in  remaining in Beirut during the abduction period cannot be understated.   Also, given his ethnicity, his  appraisal of Israel and its conflict with  the Palestinians is frank and eye-opening.  Friedman is an excellent writer  and reporter and he presents his images and insights with sharp clarity.   Though the events he reports may be over a decade past, they are still  quite relevant today.	2000-07-12
2376526:US	51809405	R71YLAAIF6WLQ	0679457526	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mount Everest Disaster	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A classic of the genre	By now, the events chronicled in &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; have passed into the popular culture and books have appeared from just about every climber who survived the events on Everest in 1996.  But it  was Krakauer's  incredible storytelling that popularized the story in the first place.   Krakauer is a good climber, and an even better writer.  That he seemingly  possesses little of the cockiness often associated with mountaineers is a  big plus.  He was truly devastated by what happened on Everest that year  and writing this book was obviously theraputic for him.  As a reader, you  find yourself thankful that if the trajedy had to occur, that at least a  first rate journalist was there to witness it first hand.  This book is  destined to be a long-remembered classic.	2000-07-11
2376527:US	51809405	RCG7JWYCFDXXY	037550303X	271057063	The White Death: Tragedy and Heroism in an Avalanche Zone	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A fairly good read	Don't expect another page-turning suspensful classic like &quot;Into Thin Air.&quot;  &quot;The White Death&quot; chronicles the deaths of five young climbers due to avalanche in Glacier National Park in 1969.  Because no one  on the expedition survived, there is not much in the way of a first hand  account of the trajedy.  The rescue effort that became a body search is  interesting and gives the reader a sense of how potential resucures are  also potential victims.  The highlights of the book are author Jenkins's  descriptions of what it is like to be caught by an avalanche.  This is  chilling stuff, indeed.  The book's main drawback is that the central story  can't fill its  relatively brief 220 pages, which forces Jenkins to relate  many other historical avalanche stories, some of which are more interesting  than the book's main subject.  Overall, it is not a bad read and will be of  particular interest to those wholike mountaineering stories.	2000-07-11
2376679:US	51809405	R1V2KI9PA3JWDP	0446385166	795362268	Seven Summits	Books	3	9	15	N	N	Money can't buy happiness - but it doesn't hurt	&quot;Seven Summits&quot; is for the most part an entertaining read, though anyone who isn't wealthy enough to follow in Dick and Frank's footsteps will probably have difficulty truly rooting for them in their  quest.  Two points beg to be made here.  First, climbing the seven summits  (the tallest mountains on each continent) is by the standards of true  mountaineers not a terribly impressive feat.  Second, Dick and Frank are  exactly the types of &quot;amatures&quot; who got caught on Everest and  died or were horribly maimed during the events chronicled by &quot;Into  Thin Air.&quot;  This book, unfortunately, may have served as the  inspiration for people who have no business attempting the world's highest  peaks.  Nevertheless, it is a fun read for those interested in  mountaineering.  But its no &quot;Into Thin Air.&quot;	2000-07-11
2380959:US	51809405	RH26RCKFC3X2A	0385477139	309626697	Cracking the Show	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Boswell is the best baseball writer in America	The title of my review is not hyperbole, as you will find if you read any  of Thomas Boswell's fine baseball books (&quot;Craking the Show&quot; is  the latest).  The book features essays about players, teams, stadiums,  season, statistics and Boswell's own unique perspective on the game.  For  example, Boswell is of the belief that Ted Williams did more damage to the  art of hitting than any other player because of his insistance that batters  should not swing at the first pitch.  Boswell provides ample statistical  proof to show that batters who do hit better!  This is a great book for  anyone interested in the national pastime.	2000-07-09
2381572:US	51809405	RK3XS07SF5RVP	0878336087	38143927	The Bob Verdi Collection (Contemporary American Sports Writers)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Verdi is an excellent sports columnist	Bob Verdi of the Chicago Tribune is the best sportwriter working in the  Windy City.  This book is a collection of his best columns from over the  years.  There are many here to treasure, from all the major sports.  Ther  downside is that the book was published in 1988, and there has been no  follow up edition including Verdi's more recent columns.  Nevertheless,  this is a book that is well worth searching out.	2000-07-09
2393138:US	51809405	R3O05NGQQZ4N5D	0553577387	499408577	Aftermath	Books	1	8	13	N	N	Bad Apocalypse Fiction	I love end-of-the-world stories, from &quot;On the Beach,&quot; to &quot;Lucifer's Hammer,&quot; I've read most of them.  And this is one of the worst I've come across.  The characters are not interesting, the  disaster scenarios are not believable and quite frankly, I stopped reading  it about halfway through.  These types of books are supposed to challenge  your imagination, not put you to sleep.	2000-07-01
2393415:US	51809405	ROI8CEH2BMH60	0451192575	75882587	Donnie Brasco: My Undercover Life in the Mafia - A True Story by FBI Agent Joseph D. Pistone	Books	5	31	37	N	N	Better than the movie	&quot;Donnie Brasco&quot; the movie, while compelling, contains numerous glaring inacuracies that will jump out at you while reading the book.  Two of the most galling are that Pistone (Donnie) cared what happened to Lefty  (Al Pacino's character), when in fact Pistone never lost sight of the fact  that Lefty was a bad guy.  Also, the movie makes it seem as though  Pistone's superiors interfered with his operation and did not appreciate  him.  The book clearly dispells this distortion.  Pistone's account of life  in the mafia compares with Nicholas Pillegi's &quot;Wiseguy&quot; as  compelling reading.  And it will dispell any remaining notions that mob  life is glamorous.  Lefty's memorable movie scene in which he prepares to  meet his death is at least one moment in which the movie keeps to the  spirit of this great book.	2000-07-01
2394227:US	51809405	R2YY1K6CF15B2W	0671900153	807545000	Gangland: How the FBI Broke the Mob	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A balanced account of Gotti's downfall	&quot;Gangland&quot; is the best and most balanced account I've seen of the life and downfall of John Gotti.  Amazingly, the reprehensible Gotti actually has his apologists.  The atrocious HBO biographical movie of  Gotti, for example, would have you believe the ridiculous notion that Gotti  didn't want the neighbor who was unwittingly responsible for the death of  Gotti's son harmed.  Instead, the movie portrays Sammy &quot;The Bull&quot;  Gravano as pulling off the murder in order to get on Gotti's good side!  Keep in mind that Sammy barely knew Gotti when this happened, and Gotti  wasn't the boss yet.  Blum's account shows all of Gotti's ugliness,  including the incredible arrogance that led to his downfall.  He also  chronicles the heroic efforts of the FBI team that would not rest until  Gotti was behind bars.  It is an exciting and well written account that  should appeal to anyone with an interest in criminology.	2000-07-01
2396191:US	51809405	R1IQ1CALETKQX6	0345359828	435360868	The Last Ship	Books	4	2	2	N	N	This is the way the world ends	William Brinkley's &quot;The Last Ship&quot; features one of the most plausible end-of-the-world scenarios that I've read.  If his storytelling were as crisp as his imagination is sweeping, he'd have a masterpiece on  his hands.  Alas, it can be very slow going at times as his narrator, the  captain of the fateful ship, describes in painstaking detail every single  thought that goes through his head!  Nevertheless, if you have the patience  you will find this a very rewarding and thought provoking book.  The ending  begs a sequel, though I don't think one has ever appeared.	2000-06-29
2418308:US	51809405	R1OLB9V3LWCAIR	0679750460	99845192	After Tet: The Bloodiest Year in Vietnam	Books	4	7	9	N	N	An interesting historical account	&quot;After Tet&quot; is a well written and informative account of the turning point of American involvement in the Vietnam War.  Spector lacks the storytelling touch of a Stephen Ambrose, but he still presents a full  account of what was actually the bloodiest year of the war.  Many  historical accounts of the War show a strong bias toward the period up  until Tet and neglect what came after.  This book is part of the attempt to  correct that deficiency in our historical record.	2000-06-17
2418399:US	51809405	R378E2JUQQ7WIR	0553572393	710568866	Green Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	5	1	5	N	N	The link between Red and Blue	The Martian colony has been established and a war has erupted between those who want to preserve the planet in its pristine state and those who want to continue to transform it into another Earth.  This is the premise  of the second book in the Mars triliogy.  Along the way it extends the  stories of the myriad of characters from the first book.  &quot;Green  Mars&quot; is every bit as good as its predecessor, though I warn you not  to partake it the series if you like your SF writing fast and action  filled.  Those who like to have their imaginations challenged will love it.	2000-06-17
2418425:US	51809405	R1DELZ54RHCLIY	0060975768	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once... and Young: Ia Drang--The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	2	2	N	N	How the war might have been won	Reading retired Lt. General Harold Moore's account of the early days of American intervention in Vietnam, one cannot help but feel a bit of frustration.  Though the misguided &quot;search and destroy&quot; that  characterized America's initial efforts in Vietnam led to the near disaster  that was the battle of Ia Drang, it was Moore's remarkably effective  leadership that prevented the battle from being an American disaster.  The  irony is that the battle taught some very important lessons that the top  American leadership failed to learn until after the Tet offensive.  By  then, they had exhausted the goodwill that had previously existed on the  home front.  Moore's account of the battle is riveting and is one of the  most compelling accounts to come out of the war.  Anyone with an interest  in military history should read it.	2000-06-17
2418508:US	51809405	R3OWRYJRFQJE78	0912006838	250476241	Thousand-Mile War: World War II in Alaska and the Aleutians (Classic Reprint Series)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	An excellent account	Though little remembered in the public consciousness today, the Aleutian islands campaign was an epic struggle that featured some of the fiercest fighting in the Pacific theater of World War II.  Garfield's account shows  how the American efforts there were hampered because military strategests  were slow to recognize the strategic importance of Alaska.  The Japanese  invasion was belatedly countered by an intense American effort to save  Alaska from becoming a Japanese base for operations against the mainland.  The ensuing struggle was fought in perhaps the worst weather conditions of  any campaign in the entire war.  Garfield is an excellent writer and this  book has the page turning quality of a suspense novel.  This is yet another  moving tribute to the &quot;Greatest Generation&quot; in action.	2000-06-17
2418513:US	51809405	R37DLPB252X8B7	0679785892	58271710	Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Truly Gonzo	Hunter S. Thompson's &quot;Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas&quot; is so far out it alomost defies criticism.  Needless to say, if you are a square or a raging conservative, you will HATE Thompson's warped vision of modern  America.  If however, you appreciate the Thompson style of &quot;Gonzo  Jornalism,&quot; then this classic of the style, while fictional, is a must  read.  The plot ceneters on Thompson's alter ego, Raul Duke, and his Samoan  &quot;attorney&quot; driving to Las Vegas to ingest as many drugs and party  as hard as they can.  What happens there is...well let's just say you've  got to read it for yourself.  Funny, outrageous and compellingly readable,  this is a book that simply cannot be ignored.	2000-06-17
2418548:US	51809405	RHRJYXNVQVZ97	0316739928	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A masterpiece	&quot;All Quiet on the Western Front&quot; deserves a place alongside &quot;The Red Badge of Courage,&quot; as perhaps the two best first person military fiction books ever written.  Remarque's descriptions of the  terrible trench warfare of the Great War is so authentic it is hard to  believe that the events did not happen exactly as he desribed them.  One  can measure the accuracy of this book in the fact that when Adolf Hitler  came to power in Germany, this was one of the first books banned by the  Nazi regime.  No book that vividly portrays the horror of war had a place  in Hitler's militaristic Germany.  Never preachcy, the book instead uses  its simple desciptions to show how war truly is hell.	2000-06-17
2418550:US	51809405	R2NOZSAM7X0AOL	0679745580	990777880	In Cold Blood	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A groudbreaking classic	Today, there are so many written works that purport to get into the mind of mass murderers that such works almost seem trite.  Truman Capote's &quot;In Cold Blood&quot; was the first (and best) of the genre.  Capote's  account tracks the mass killing of a Kansas family through the arrest and  trial of their killers to the execution of the two men responsible.  Along  the way, he provides an unforgettable account of a truly henious crime and  its aftermath.  The surprise twist towards the end would have seemed  contrived had it been part of a novel and shows the fallacy of assuming we  know what motivates a killer.  This book is a must read for anyone with  interest in criminology.	2000-06-17
2418593:US	51809405	R4QW2P179F8DV	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The end of the world as high farce	End-of-the-world fiction is probably my favorite fiction genre, and I found Vonnegut's &quot;Cat's Cradle&quot; to be by far the most bizzare addition to my library in this area.  My interpretation is that it is  suppose to be taken in the same vein as Stanley Kubrick's black comedy film  &quot;Dr. Strangeglove.&quot;  Not only was it written around the same time  at the height of the Cold War, it has the same high farce tone about it.  Vonnegut's ultimate fate for the world is sheer genius, though when it  finally happens, it seems almost like an afterthought.  Vonnegut's book is  a challenging read and one that is not for everybody.  Nevertheless, you'll  find yourself thinking about it long after you've put it down.	2000-06-17
2418641:US	51809405	R3G8GHQ1NJ4GLE	0553560735	710568866	Red Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Read &quot;Mars&quot;	Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars trilogy, of which &quot;Red Mars&quot; is the first, is classic epic science fiction writing that is compelling and quite plausible.  Don't expect to get through it quickly, as the whole series  consists of nearly 2000 pages.  Those who like their SF writing fast and  action packed should look elsewhere.  Robinson's writing is literally  bursting with ideas and his descriptions of the political developments  among Martian colonists who as time goes by have less and less in commom  with the Earth the left behind rings absolutely true.  Warning, read  &quot;Red Mars&quot; only if you intend to complete the series for you'll  find yourself unable to avoid it.	2000-06-17
2418793:US	51809405	R3UW4NPNXZBOKC	0393310892	105290666	The Killing Zone: My Life in the Vietnam War	Books	5	116	119	N	N	A harrowing personal account	This book belongs on a short list including Phillip Caputo's &quot;A Rumor of War&quot; and Lt. General Harold G. Moore's &quot;We Were Soldiers Once...and Young,&quot; as one of the best first person narratives to come  out of the Vietnam War.  Downs was a fresh faced platoon leader who, like  &quot;Born on the Fourth of July&quot;'s Ron Kovic, looked forward to the  opportunity to prove his mettle under fire.  Like Kovic, Downs came back  from the war with a shattered body and a psyche that was deeply affected by  what he experienced.  Down's account of Vietnam is simple and  straightforward.  He is also an excellent writer and his book is a  compulsive page turner.  This is not a book that should be missed by those  with an interest in America's most tragic war.	2000-06-17
2418926:US	51809405	R111THXAIONBX8	0061096644	861222021	Underboss	Books	5	3	3	N	N	What Sammy sez is no bull	&quot;Underboss&quot; takes its place along with Nicholas Pillegi's &quot;Wiseguy&quot; and Joseph D. Pistone's &quot;Donnie Brasco&quot; as one of the best insider accounts of life in the mafia ever published.  Unlike those other two books, however, &quot;Underboss&quot; presents the  life from the perspective of a mafia leader, in this case the notorious  Sammy &quot;the Bull&quot; Gravano, who was the number two to the  reprehensible John Gotti in the Gambino crime family.  Sure, Sammy's the  rat who brought Gotti down, but to hear him tell the tale, he only did so  because Gotti insulted Gravano's notions of &quot;honor among  thieves.&quot;  As a reader, one should keep in mind that this account is  solely Sammy's version of events.  Nevertheless, as told by the masterful  Peter Maas, his is one trully fascinating story indeed.	2000-06-17
2418947:US	51809405	RZLUSYDOO1E32	0060194804	57293859	The Terrible Hours: The Man Behind the Greatest Submarine Rescue in History	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A tribute to an American Hero	Though ostensibly about the first successful deep water submarine rescue in American History, &quot;The Terrible Hours&quot; is really the heoric story of Swede Momson, the dedicated U.S. Naval officer who overcame reams  of red tape and mountains of bureaucratic ineptitude to develop the  equipment that allowed the successful operation to take place.  His story  is an inspiring one for any American.  Author Peter Maas first reported on  Momsen's story nearly thrity-five years ago, and this project was a labor  of love for him.  His account of the sailors aboard the trapped submarine  is quite harrowing.  And the rescue is detailed with the right amount of  white knuckle suspense.  Overall, this well-written book is an excellent  and informative piece of reporting.	2000-06-17
2419002:US	51809405	R2J8SDA6KEMIW5	0679753362	102669499	Born Bad: Collected Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Streetwise horror stories	Andrew Vachss is a mystery writer whose work often times reads more like horror.  Therefore, it is not surprising that his collection of short stories has the punch of classic short horror fiction.  These are dark  stroies dredged up from the depths of Vachss's fertile imagination.  Usually, they deal with the worst impulses of man, especially the sexual  predator.  They are not for the faint of heart, but are powerful in their  own way.	2000-06-17
2419053:US	51809405	R3UAUQ9DAJRRW4	0679735259	135528120	Dispatches	Books	5	5	5	N	N	War IS hell	It is not the content the distinguishes Michael Herr's &quot;Dispatches,&quot; it is the delivery.  Herr is an excellent reporter who risked life and limb to cover the Vietnam War.  The book is his account  of what he saw there.  What he saw was young American soldiers, far from  home fighting a war few of them understood against an frustratingly elusive  enemy.  If this sounds like the subject matter for many Vietnam books, it  is.  But Herr's writing is so evocative ans so powerful that many of his  descriptions will stay with you for a long time after you've put it down.  Along with Phillip Caputo's &quot;A Rumor of War,&quot; and Fredrick  Downs's &quot;The Killing Zone,&quot; this is one of the best personal  accounts of the Vietnam War available.	2000-06-17
2419154:US	51809405	R14QTMBZM0E06C	068482535X	799300305	Lincoln	Books	5	92	99	N	N	&quot;Honest Abe&quot; comes alive	David Herbert Donald's biography of Abraham Lincoln is an outstanding work that emphasizes his most important aspect, his humanity.  Lincoln came to the presidency with one of the skimpiest political resumes of any  non-General in American History.  Donald shows how this Washington outsider  had to grope his way around at first, but then used his remarkable skills  to find the political center, which was vital though he often seemed to  stand alone.  Donald's book focusses on Lincoln's life through Lincoln's  eyes.  He does not go into great detail about Civil War battles or anything  else that Lincoln did not personally witness.  The result is a biography  that is as thorough as it is readable and that, like its subject, will  stand the test of time.	2000-06-17
2419222:US	51809405	R3VSJ3I48YL8N8	0941968081	735597759	The Fall of Japan: The Last Blazing Weeks of World War II	Books	5	69	73	N	N	An epic account of the end of the war	William Craig is an excellent and in my view  underappreciated military historian.  His book &quot;Enemy at the Gates,&quot; is an appalling account of the battle of Stalingrad that captures the abject horror of that  campaign.  In &quot;The Fall of Japan,&quot; he gives us the end of World  War Two from the perspective of both the Japanese and American  belligerants.  The writing is crisp and he brings the story alive through  the eyes of those who lived it.  Particularly well described is effect of  the Atomic bombs and the decision by the Japanese emperor to overrule  custom and insist that the war be ended.  With this book, Craig deserves a  place alongside such excellent military historians as John Toland and  Stephen Ambrose.	2000-06-17
2419264:US	51809405	R2HSL88P44V4YT	0061012149	524482798	Serpico	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Still relevant today	&quot;Serpico&quot; is a powerful piece of reporting by Peter Maas, one of the best true crime writers in America.  Hard to believe that the events of this book occurred thrity-odd years ago.  The tales of corruption in the  New York City police department could have come from the headlines of any  big city newspaper today.  Maas's genius is how he puts you with his  subject to the extent that you are not even aware that he's guiding you  through the story.  Anyone with an interest in law enforcement should read  this book and take it for what it is, a warning against the temptations of  the job.  As such, it is far from comforting.	2000-06-17
2419324:US	51809405	R3TKCYDGTHJ23L	080504695X	713778363	A Rumor of War	Books	5	6	8	N	N	One of the best personal accounts of the war	Phillip Caputo's &quot;A Rumor of War&quot; takes a place along with Fredrick Downs's &quot;The Killing Zone&quot; and Lt. General Harold G. Moore's &quot;We Were Soldiers Once...and Young&quot; as one of the best  first person accounts to come from the Vietnam War.  Caputo was not  grievously wounded like Downs or Ron Kovic of &quot;Born on the Fourth of  July&quot; fame.  His scars were more of the psychological variety.  He  served his country faithfully and for his efforts he was nearly  court-martialed.  Caputo is an excellent writer (he became a journalist  after the war) and his descriptions are among the war's most vivid.  Not a  heroic tale, unless you consider that every man who went to Vietnam and did  his duty rather than following the example of our current  commander-in-chief is in his own way heroic.	2000-06-17
2419642:US	51809405	R27ULEA854B70B	0395656680	1817676	Landscape Turned Red: The Battle of Antietam	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The first &quot;Gettysburg&quot;	While the battle that took place in Pennslyvania nearly a year later looms much larger in the popular mind, the battle of Antietam (Sharpsburg to the Rebels) looms almost as important.  Had not General Lee's battle plans  fallen into the hands of the Union (which the dithering General McClelland  almost failed to take advantage of) President Lincoln would have been  unable to issue the emancipation proclamation and the European powers might  have officially recognized the Confederacy, therby permanently splitting  the United States.  Author Sears's account brings the battle to life in all  of its terrible glory.  Anyone with an interest in the Civil War should  read this book.	2000-06-17
2423745:US	51809405	R3LQ90L1PSSC0N	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	5	2	3	N	N	These are the real &quot;Troopers&quot;	Forget the travesty of a movie that &quot;Starship Troopers&quot; became a few years ago.  The book is the real deal.  Amazingly, though written over forty years ago it has aged very well.  The most effective scenes are in  the military training, which ring quite authentic to anyone who has served.  The battle scenes evoke a vivid imagination that the movie version simply  could not capture.  What this novel really portrays is the society that  Heinlein obviously wished he lived in.  It is a much more honorable,  ordered and duty-bound society than our own.  Some might call his vision  fascist, but ask yourself, is it really any worse than Bill Clinton's  America?	2000-06-14
2423888:US	51809405	R3VWH7PGGE28Z1	0345311485	12581581	On the Beach	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A classic worthy of its reputation	Nothing much happens in the way of action in &quot;On the Beach.&quot;  The bombs have already dropped and the human survivors are mearly waiting for the end.  As a reader, you know they are all going to die, which makes  them even more compelling.  This is apocalypse fistion at its finest.  Shute doesn't cop out and give the story an artificial happy ending.  I  first read this book while in high school nearly two decades ago and the  ending still haunts me.	2000-06-14
2423953:US	51809405	R8V8495OPBEHG	1572972440	149841073	Trigger Effect	Books	1	0	3	N	N	Forget it	Don't know about the book, but the movie was HORRIBLE.  Since the book is based on the movie, you can draw your own conclusions.	2000-06-14
2424441:US	51809405	R24E0F648RF3JH	038531387X	40474853	Deliverance (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Like the movie?  You'll love the book.	As good as &quot;Deliverance&quot; the movie is, the book is even better.  It goes into more detail about the motivations that led each character to the fateful canoe excursion.  Unfortunately, I read it after having seen  the movie numerous times, so I kept picturing Bert Reynolds, John Voight,  Ned Beatty and Ronny Cox in my mind.  Author Dickey is a great storyteller  at the top of his game.  That the novel also conatins a greater social  significance is also a given.  Mostly though, it is a fine exploration of  the modern American male and how dealing with his testosterone urges can  get him into trouble.	2000-06-14
2424499:US	51809405	R1U1CSB0UMGSB5	0345328175	823106538	Day of the Triffids	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The day the earth stood still	As if the concept of a strange meteor shower blinding all but a very few members of the earth's population wasn't scary enough, author Wyndham menaces the sightless survivors with a malignant breed of man-eating  plants.  This book oozes with suspense and excitement with every page.  Surprisingly, though it is almost fifty years old, it has aged very well.  If you like end-of-the-world fiction, this is one of the best of the genre.	2000-06-14
2424568:US	51809405	R1RSZRWBG2OX5N	0449208133	868223008	Lucifer's Hammer	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The hammer falls on a great book	This book deserves its place with Stephen King's &quot;The Stand&quot; and Robert R. McCammon's &quot;Swan Song&quot; as one of the best pieces of end-of-the-world fiction released in the last quarter century.  Authors  Niven and Pournelle develop some interesting and sympathetic characters and  them pit them against an earth shattering disaster.  The scenes of the  comet striking the earth are worth the price alone.  If the movie  &quot;Armageddon&quot; had had one-tenth of the imagination shown here, it  would have been one great film indeed.	2000-06-14
2425210:US	51809405	R1M90DQBR5EBSB	0449213013	750649906	Earth Abides	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A classic in the genre	Though it feels a little dated having been written over four decades ago, &quot;Earth Abides&quot; deserves its place with great 1950s era end-of-the world books like &quot;On the Beach&quot; and &quot;Day of the  Triffids.&quot;  The scenario is similar to the one Stephen King used in  &quot;The Stand&quot; though the plague wipes out a much larger number of  people and there is little spiritualism here.  What affected me most was  the latter part which shows the years passing in the life of the main  survisor.  I rarely get emotional while reading, but this story did it to  me.	2000-06-14
2425840:US	51809405	R3IFGLG0WNZ4H	0446601470	273086589	He Who Hesitates (87th Precinct)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	An unusual McBain	This is the most unusual novel in the great 87th Precinct detective series in that instead of being told in the third person like the rest of the books, it is narrated by one of the perpetrators.  The perp in question is  also one of the more interesting and psychologically tormented of the  entire series.  This is not the 87th Precinct novel to start with, but if  you are a fan of the series, you'll love this one.	2000-06-14
2426168:US	51809405	RC18P1JQFPKN7	0446603406	220062601	The Grid	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Hi-tech suspense silliness	I didn't believe the premise of &quot;The Grid&quot; for one minute, and yet I found it immensely enjoyable.  It reads like a Stephen King horror novel and treads some of the same ground.  The horror is a malevolent  computer that takes over a newly constructed building and proceeds to kill  the humans trapped inside in an increasingly grisly manner.  Author Kerr  makes all this quite exciting as long as you don't take it too seriously.	2000-06-13
2426480:US	51809405	R3HXL69KJJKYJ	037575220X	696465736	Ulysses S. Grant: Soldier & President (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Tales of Great Ulysses	I greatly enjoyed this one volume account of Grant's life, though I found the flippant prose to a little unsettling for a work of history.  Author Perret is genearlly sympathetic to his subject (even Grant's presidency,  which he concludes was no worse than numerous others from the nineteenth  century).  In a few spots, I found Perret's generalizations to be a bit too  general.  Nevertheless, the writing is lively and highly readable.  For  that I would recommend this book to anyone with a general interest in  American History, especially the Civil War period.  Grant remains a  somewhat misunderstood figure.  This book at least helps to provide his  memory with some clarity.	2000-06-13
2427046:US	51809405	R2H7R4P44R0Q2Y	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A harrowing 19th disaster story	Philbrick's book reads a lot like Sebastian Junger's &quot;The Perfect Storm.&quot;  Like Junger, he details life in a fishing community and documents a seafaring trajedy that shook the town.  Similar to Junger's  description of drowning, Philbrick provides a graphic description of death  by dehydration to emphasize what the fishermen were experiencing as they  drifted for three months in open whaleboats on the vast Pacific Ocean.  The  main difference between Philbrick's account and Jungers is that some of  Philbrick's fisherman lived to tell the tale.  Philbrick is an excellent  storyteller who brings his subject alive.  Anyone with an interest in  either the sea or a good adventure story will love this book.	2000-06-13
2461247:US	51809405	R3MXKQCBPYHO0I	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great historial fiction mystery	This book compares to Robert Harris's excellent &quot;Fatherland,&quot; in the way it sets a muder mystery upon a sweeping historical landscape that the author seems to know as if he lived there.  Inserting Theodore  Roosevelt into the proceedings (in small doses) was a masterstroke.  And  the mystery itself is as compelling as the backdrop.  Also featured, the  first steps toward using psychological profiles to track a serial killer.   This is a superior  work of historical fiction.	2000-05-25
2465911:US	51809405	R1V6CDHZEOR0DR	0671747584	528393041	Eisenhower: Soldier and President (The Renowned One-Volume Life)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Ambrose's labor of love	Dwight Eisenhower helped make Stephen Ambrose's career as a historian after reading the author's biography of the obscure Henry Halleck.  Ambrose repays the debt in spades with this well written authoritative account of  Eisenhower's life.  This is history writing at its most readable.  Ambrose  portrays Ike as a genuine American hero, but does not ignore the negative,  such as his suspected affair during World War.  Most importantly, this is a  book for readers who do not want to get bogged down in the minutia  surrounding every event in Eisenhower's life.  What you get is a good  overview, detailed enough to give a good portrait of the man behind the  legend.	2000-05-22
2466536:US	51809405	R3V8CMZNN45YBY	0671799320	635706820	The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money, & Power	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This book hits a gusher	While &quot;The Prize&quot; purports to be the history of oil, it could just as easily be in part a history of every major human undertaking of the last century or so.  As Yergin stresses, little that has been achieved in  the 20th century could have been achieved without it.  Starting with the  initial discoveries during the mid-nineteenth century and culminating with  the Gulf War, this is a sweeping story in the mode of David McCullogh's  &quot;The Path Between the Seas.&quot;  Yergin is a insightful and talented  writer and the book reads like an adventure story.  Along the way, he very  much gives an important history subject its due.	2000-05-22
2466570:US	51809405	R26KHKH014PHH3	0871138042	255087586	Barrow's Boys	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An excellent adventure anthology	&quot;Barrow's Boys&quot; reads like an anthology collection of great exploration stories.  From the darkest depths of Africa to the coldest reaches of the arctic, Barrow sent British naval officers in search of  geographical truth for almost forty years.  The stories of these  expeditions are expertly told by Fleming, who adds to his narrative  insightful commentary and a sense of humor.  What is striking is just how  many of these adventures ended in death and failure--with no deterrent  effect!  Anyone with an interest in the history of exploration will love  this well written provacative book.	2000-05-22
2466613:US	51809405	R3GXTGIWFV0PHT	0385479662	122786926	Crazy Horse and Custer: The Parallel Lives of Two American Warriors	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Two excellent biographies in one book	Stephen Ambrose is a military historian, so it is notsurprising that he focusses on the talents of his two protagonists asleaders both on and off the battlefield.  Along the way he draws comparisons between them that are quite striking.  Both held considerable power in their societies at a relatively young age, were disgraced and yet were able to overcome.  Both also met a tragic end, though Crazy Horse's was far more so than Custer; who at least died doing what he enjoyed.  Also appreciated is Ambrose's take on the forcible relocating of the Plains tribes to reservations that is an honest assessment free from any &quot;liberal guilt.&quot; This is an important work from one of America's best history authors.	2000-05-22
2467220:US	51809405	R2K20O4QMBSKW0	0788151398	393370672	East of the Sun: The Epic Conquest & Tragic History of Siberia	Books	5	8	8	N	N	How the East was won	There are a lot of parallels between the conquest of Siberia by Russia and the taming of the American West.  For starters, there is the way each country treated the indigenous population as it conquered them.  Compared  to your avearge Cossack, George Armstrong Custer was a weeping  humanitarian.  This book follows the epic history of Siberia from the  sixteenth century through the Bolshevik revolution that turned the  countryside into a massive prison colony.  Bobrick is an excellent  storyteller and his history is as entertaining as it is informative.	2000-05-22
2467631:US	51809405	R1A6GGYSZ5Z4BZ	0451170113	722345215	Night Shift (Signet)	Books	5	107	112	N	N	King's best book	I've read over two dozen of Stephen King's books, and this one is his best.  King's short story writing is what allows him to be mentioned in the same sentence with the likes of Poe as one of the best horror writers ever.  There are so many King classics in &quot;Night Shift&quot; it is scary.  &quot;Graveyard Shift,&quot; &quot;The Mangler,&quot; &quot;Children of the  Corn,&quot; &quot;Trucks,&quot; &quot;Gray Matter,&quot; &quot;Quitters  Inc.,&quot; the list goes on and on.  Many of these were made into inferior  movies, but the stories themselves are are among the scariest things he's  written because they reduce fear to its most basic elements.  This is one  King book that qualifies as a &quot;must&quot; read.	2000-05-21
2467875:US	51809405	RZWNGB0UV43Y3	0451168615	717487152	Skeleton Crew	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The shorty story is--this is King at his best	As popular as Stephen King is as a novelist, he is actually at his best and scariest writing stort stories.  The medium reduces his ides to the initial visceral horror that inspired them.  On &quot;Skeleton Crew,&quot;  (his second short story collection after the superb &quot;Night  Shift&quot;) he starts out with a novella, &quot;The Mist,&quot; which is  one of his best ever ideas.  The rest of the  stories are almost uniforly  excellent, but the best are probably &quot;The Raft,&quot;  &quot;Beachworld&quot; and &quot;Mrs. Todd's Shortcut.&quot;  This is a  book that allows King to be mentioned with the likes of Edgar Allan Poe and  one of the best horror writers ever.	2000-05-21
2467932:US	51809405	R3063EBKINLEMM	0451191935	321732450	Bachman Books: 4 Early Novels by Richard Bachman, Author of The Regulators	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Bachman -- King in overdrive	Richard Bachman was a much more concise writer than Stephen King, an that's a good thing.  The four &quot;Bachman Books&quot; read like the superb King novella collection &quot;Four Past Midnight.&quot;  &quot;The  Running Man,&quot; not to be confused with the campy over-the-top sci-fi  movie it became and which it bears little resemblance to, is chilling.  As  are the &quot;The Rage&quot; (precurser of Columbine High School?) and  &quot;The Long Walk,&quot; which is a King horror story at its most basic.  &quot;Roadwork,&quot; is not quite as good as the rest, but it is still  worth a read.  Overall, this is one of King's best collections of stories.  Thank you, Mr. Bachman.	2000-05-21
2468018:US	51809405	RUQDX7FUPBV8O	0451170385	887327600	Four Past Midnight (Signet)	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Past midnight, King is at his best	The shorter Stephen King keeps his stories, the better they often are.  &quot;Four Past Midnight&quot; is very effective because he doesn't have room for unnecessary flourishes and simply sticks to the story.  The first  of the four stories, &quot;The Langoliers,&quot; is one of his most  imaginative and all time best.  The other three stories are also quite  good.  Frankly, King would be an even better writer if he told all of his  stories with the economy of words that he gives the tales in &quot;Four  Past Midnight.&quot;	2000-05-21
2468176:US	51809405	R3JU76H2B38OMS	0451167317	877287899	The Dark Half	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Too long by &quot;Half&quot;	&quot;The Dark Half&quot; suffers from the same problem of many of King's later novels, the suubject matter does not justify the length.  King is a masterful storyteller with a seemingly unlimited imagination.  The problem  is that he often takes story ideas that might make a good novella and  stretches them on for six or seven hundred pages.  The concept of &quot;The  Dark Half&quot; is a clever one.  Had it been given a more concise  treatment, it would have been very effective indeed.	2000-05-21
2468178:US	51809405	R2GSIUP10MPWNH	0451184963	179012025	Insomnia	Books	2	9	26	N	N	Will not keep you up at night	&quot;Insomnia&quot; is a negative example of the problems with later period Stephen King novels.  A passibly scary story idea worthy of perhaps a novella length treatment in a &quot;Four Past Midnight&quot; type  collection, instead stretched out for seven or eight hundred pages until as  a reader insomnia is one of the last of your problems.  Once again, King  creates a decent setup that loses effectiveness as many pages crawl by with  little or no action.  This is not one of his best or in the end even all  that scary.	2000-05-21
2468247:US	51809405	R19T52ZBCOFHCM	0451188462	562576523	Desperation	Books	1	5	10	N	N	King's getting desperate	Let's see...an isolated small town under siege, a small group of survivors who have their own psychological hang ups, where have we seen this before?  From many unfortunately far more superior Stephen King stories, I'm afraid.  The biggest problem with &quot;Desperation&quot; is that the evil  protagonist is not one of King's more memorable.  Is it possible he has  tapped out his fertile imagination?  This book has the  &quot;Desperation&quot; of a once hot shot pitcher who has lost a few  miles-an-hour off of his fastball and is just trying to hang on.	2000-05-21
2468254:US	51809405	R2564QGDY02G7L	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	2	16	31	N	N	Someone should have edited &quot;It&quot;	Stephen King now has so much power as a bestselling author that I guess no editor has the nerve to tell him that his stories would be much more effective is he just cut out, oh, say three hundred pages or so.  &quot;It&quot; isn't by far King's  only example of literary bloat, just  one of the more unfortunate.  His pure horror works have become  increasingly erratic over the years, though this was actually one of his  scarier concepts.  Unfortunately, it takes so long to get to the payoff  that by the time it comes you scarcely care.  King's biggest fear these  days seems to be the &quot;Horror of the Black Marker.&quot;	2000-05-21
2468410:US	51809405	R3VM1KM3SLZ2YW	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	King's best long work	Usually, when a Stephen King book tops the 1000 page mark, the reader is in for a lot of unnecessary bloat.  That is not the case with his sweeping, epic end-of-the-world novel &quot;The Stand.&quot;  For once, the subject  matter is worthy of the extended length and the uncut version just adds to  the book's pleasures.  The best part is still the first two hundred and  fifty pages or so, which feature King's descriptions of the world being  destroyed by the powerful flu.  The survivors' journey and battle in the  decimated wasteland of America is also very strong.  While some may knock  the underlying spiritualism, nobody can deny that this is a fantastic  adventure story, expertly told.	2000-05-21
2468520:US	51809405	R2KNSNVHEOJE1Y	0451167538	734693861	Different Seasons (Signet)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A somewhat different Stephen King	Two of the four stories in &quot;Different Seasons&quot; ended up as the movies &quot;Stand By Me&quot; and &quot;The Shawshank Redemption,&quot; perhaps the two best movies ever made from King's written work.  That  should serve as notice just how good this collection is.  These are not  horror stories, but instead highly effective charachter studies and well  told in their own right.  &quot;Different Seasons&quot; shows what kind of  writer King might have been had not horror been his first love.  This is  one of his best books.	2000-05-21
2468552:US	51809405	R1ECCCFOUDLCIH	0451180232	825628928	Nightmares and Dreamscapes	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Short stories worthy of a King	Though this collection may not be quite as consistent as &quot;Night Shift&quot; or &quot;Skeleton Crew,&quot; there are still plenty of chills to keep you up at night.  Stories like &quot;The Night Flier,&quot;  &quot;Chattery Teeth,&quot; &quot;Dolan's Cadilac,&quot; &quot;The Ten  O'Clock People,&quot; and &quot;Rainy Season&quot; are among the best and  scariest that he's written.  King works best in the short story format that  presents his inexhaustable supply of ideas at their sharpest and most  visceral.  This collection is no exception.	2000-05-21
2468711:US	51809405	R2IHL087M8HSLL	0451162072	639916239	Pet Sematary (Signet)	Books	2	3	8	N	N	One of King's lesser works	&quot;Pet Semetary&quot; starts out very spooky, and then about half way through it loses its way and becomes kind of a freak show.  The plot turns on extended action by one character (the father of the dead child) that  just does not seem convincing.  After seeing what the semetary does to the  unfortunate creatures buried there, I found it unlikely that even in his  profound grief the father would try to resurrect his son.  King has written  some great books, but this one simply doesn't measure up.	2000-05-20
2468767:US	51809405	R15ER7ZM69YLAI	0451161351	381306153	Cujo	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Sacry yes, but overlong	The last half of &quot;Cujo,&quot; when the mother and son are trapped in the car by the rabid title beast, goes from being frightening to being tedious.  &quot;The monster is out of my closet,&quot; little Tad tells his  mommy.  Unfortunately, the monster does not do much of anything for a  couple of hundred pages after that except keep Tad and his mother trapped  for no real good reason.  Too bad, because &quot;Cujo&quot; starts off very  well, slowly weaving its fabric of terror.  After the disease apocalypse  and town destroying vampire hordes of some of King's previous works, this  one just doesn't measure up.	2000-05-20
2468826:US	51809405	RLSOBX2NCC26J	0451155750	497098217	The Dead Zone (Signet)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	King's political horror story	The lead character of &quot;The Dead Zone,&quot; the tragic hero Johnny Smith, is one of the most memorable that King ever created.  This is not a pure horror story, it reads more like the anti-&quot;Its a Wonderful  Life.&quot;  Smith has a near fatal accident, spends years in a coma an  awakes with the ability to see the future (or at least, the bad things).  He becomes convinced that a rising politician will one day set off global  armageddon and tracks him across a mid-1970s landscape which even brings  him into contact with a startled dark horse Presidential candidate named  Jimmy Carter.  Even though it may lack the gutteral horrors of some of his  other novels, this is still one of King's best.	2000-05-20
2469105:US	51809405	R27ZE548UUQBME	0451168089	165977133	Salem's Lot	Books	5	4	4	N	N	King wants to suck your blood	This is Stephen King's take on the vampire genre, and with it he completely whips Anne Rice's wimpy &quot;Interview With a Vampire&quot; series.  No pretentious airs of aristocracy with King's vampires.  They are  mean, bad and on the march in the unfortunate town of Jerusalem's Lot.  Their leader, &quot;The Master,&quot; doesn't go in for Armani suits.  He's  bald, ugly and will suck you dry in a nanosecond, in the process turning  you against you former friends and neighbors.  Overall, this is one of  King's absolute best and certainly scariest novels.	2000-05-20
2469108:US	51809405	R3T4Y08R00GPOE	0451156609	803978188	The Tommyknockers	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Far Out -- Way Far Out	The farther that Stephen King's books stray from plausible reality, the weaker they often are.  In addition to being WAY too long, &quot;The Tommyknockers&quot; suffers from a second half that stretches believability  to the breaking point.  The setup is effective, of course at this point the  reader has no idea what is causing the increasingly horrific events in the  town.  The answer, as it unfolds, is a bit of a disappointment.  Also, few  of the many characters engender any sympathy.  This is not one of King's  better novels.	2000-05-20
2470362:US	51809405	R1J8M3WWOBTO77	0679742018	162743212	Give War a Chance: Eyewitness Accounts of Mankind's Struggle Against Tyranny, Injustice and Alcohol-Free Beer	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Give P.J. a Chance	P.J. O'Rourke is a humorist and one of the most eloquent mainstream advocates of Libertarianism around.  O'Rourke believes the Jefforsonian axiom that government is best that governs least.  In pursuit of that  truth, he travels around the world looking for examples that prove his  point.  All of that, however, is secondary to the fact that he's a damn  funny writer who enjoys tweaking liberals, which he does with the very  title of this book.  Regardless of your polictical opinion on the Gulf War,  you will find O'Rourke's take amusing and informative.  And as for the  alcohol free beer?  Well, some things are better left unsaid.	2000-05-19
2470927:US	51809405	R29IG0A6B0A5PG	0871136112	786465583	All the Trouble in the World: The Lighter Side of Overpopulation, Famine, Ecological Disaster, Ethnic Hatred, Plague, and Poverty	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Around the world with your libertarian guide	Like him or hate him you must admit that P.J. O'Rourke's writing is always outrageous and never boring.  A spokesperson for wealthy, satisfied,  middle-aged white guys everywhere, P.J. travels around the world and along  the way makes you happy you're an American.  His amusing takes on the  planet's trouble spots are actually quite informative.  There is a lot of  truth in pieces like &quot;All Guns, No Butter,&quot; which gets to the  heart of starvation in Africa, for example.  P.J. is one of the few writers  who actually makes conservatism fun (even if you aren't one).	2000-05-19
2471292:US	51809405	RO6SUKK8DW0RL	0871137607	565870539	Eat the Rich: A Treatise on Economics	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Economics made funny	Finding humor in economic principles in and of itself should qualify P.J. O'Rourke as one of the best satirical writers of our time.  Of course, being P.J., he's going to come at it from a libertarian perspective.  And,  being P.J., he's going to travel around the world to check out his  &quot;theories&quot; first hand.  His prose reads like a much more  controlled Hunter Thompson and his intellectual ideas do deserve some  merit.  And as for those rascally liberals he's always tweaking?  Give 'em  hell, P.J.!	2000-05-19
2472182:US	51809405	R2K5Q71PW1KYGT	0684848015	340472252	Citizen Soldiers: The U. S. Army from the Normandy Beaches to the Bulge to the Surrender of Germany	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Soldiers's Stories	Stephen Ambrose may very well be the best writer of military history working today.  &quot;With Citizen Soldiers,&quot; he is certainly on top of his game.  His compelling narrative about the American Army in Europe is  a reminder of just how much the Western world owes to &quot;The Greatest  Generation.&quot;  Ambrose relates the soldiers's accounts of battle with  painstaking precision and the gift of a master storyteller.  If all history  books were this good, history would be a very popular subject indeed.	2000-05-18
2472377:US	51809405	R3J7LSQ0ZSB6IP	068480137X	705619047	D Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Saving Memories of D-day	For those who loved &quot;Saving Private Ryan,&quot; this is the book to provide a more complete understanding of June 6, 1944.  I never thought any book could top Cornelius Ryan's &quot;The Longest Day&quot; about this  subject, but Ambroses's acoount is even more compelling.  Ambrose is  America's foremost military historian and this is one of his best works.  A  great read for anyone who wants to truly appreciate the &quot;greatest  generation.&quot;	2000-05-18
2473117:US	51809405	R20Z3SRAC9UBG6	0805035001	818450560	Empire by Default: The Spanish-American War and the Dawn of the American Century	Books	5	7	9	N	N	An excellent and informative read	Despite its length, &quot;Empire by Default,&quot; is a very well written book that is worth reading.  Musicant's account is a straightforward narrative history, but his talent as a writer keeps it from being draggy or  boring.  Particularly good are his accounts of the battles which have  narrative excitement and give a good overall view of tactics and strategy.  Musicant covers all aspects of the war, both geographically and  politically.  Knowing only what I had learned in school about this episode  in history, I appreciated this thorough account.	2000-05-18
2475764:US	51809405	R2VFP6K7VMWS4Z	0679760660	410251791	Down in the Zero	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Burke in the 'burbs	I have read all of the Burke novels, and this is not one of the better ones.  I guess after the absolute horror at the end of the previous book, &quot;Sacrifice,&quot; it is understandable that Burke had to back off a  bit.  But his adventure in suburban Connecticut just isn't terribly  compelling and leads to perhaps the least satisfying climax of the whole  series.  Who would have thought that Burke's legendary &quot;Zero&quot; is  situated among the strip malls and housing developments!  Burke beginners  should start elsewhere (I recommend &quot;Flood&quot; or &quot;Blue  Belle&quot;).  This one's for hard core fans only.	2000-05-16
2475986:US	51809405	R1R8YPQ8LVTNAN	0679764097	75483092	Strega	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Watch out for the witch	The opening scene of &quot;Strega,&quot; in which Burke stallks a stalker, is as effective as anything he's written.  The climax is so good, the rest of the book is almost a letdown.  But never fear, beyond the opening Vachss  sends Burke in pursuit of the subject closest to his heart, a child being  sexually abused.  You know that Burke is going to find and confront those  responsible.  How he gets there, with the help of the &quot;witch&quot;  Strega, is well worth the price of admission.  This is one of Burke's best  adventures.	2000-05-16
2476099:US	51809405	RBLV8LF5LWU34	0679772936	737120725	False Allegations: A Burke Novel	Books	4	10	14	N	N	More truth to &quot;False&quot;	After two mediocre entries in the great Burke series (&quot;Down in the Zero&quot; and &quot;Footsteps of the Hawk&quot;) Vachss starts to breath life back into his main charachter again.  Burke is reenergized and back at  what he does best, dealing with abused children and borderline psychotic  females.  Vachss's early Burke novels (&quot;Flood,&quot; &quot;Blue  Belle,&quot; &quot;Blossom&quot; and &quot;Hard Candy&quot;) remain the  best of the series.  But with &quot;False Allegations&quot; he begins a  revival which has carried him through the two most recent novels.  Thankfully so.  A world without Burke would be a duller world, indeed.	2000-05-16
2476102:US	51809405	R3IFZ6TDUH57T4	0679761683	758179399	Blue Belle	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of Burke's best	I have read all of Vachss's Burke novels and this one is one of my favorites.  The &quot;Belle&quot; of the title is one of Burke's more interesting leading ladies.  And the threat, in the form of the Ghost Van,  is one of the more horrific.  The climax is also one of the more memorable  in the Burke series.  Vachss is one of the best crime writers working  today.  Perhaps it is because his working with abused children brings him  so close to the dark side that he is able to capture it so well on the  written page.  &quot;Blue Belle&quot; is one his darkest and one of his  best.	2000-05-16
2476608:US	51809405	R1QPIAWW19UQS	0679781293	222744857	Flood	Books	5	8	8	N	N	This is the place to meet Burke	&quot;Flood&quot; is the first novel featuring the anti-hero Burke, and the best place to get to know him and his crew.  Especially since later novels build one on top of the other more than is usual for a  &quot;detective&quot; series.  Burke is not a happy man.  He survives  despite the vast emptiness he feels inside.  Emptiness that he calls  &quot;The Zero.&quot;  Abandoned as a child, he grew up hard in the system.  Only now as he approaches middle age has he developed any sort of wisdom.  When the femme fatale &quot;Flood&quot; comes into his life with her own  tragic background, she does the worst to Burke, she begins to make him  feel.  In addition to being the first Burke novel, this is also one of the  best.	2000-05-16
2477007:US	51809405	R3M5PQ5A012IMV	0061006629	388121391	Fatherland	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Reads like historical fiction	Robert Harris's &quot;Fatherland&quot; feels so authentic, you believe it really COULD have happened.  Harris knows the intricaces of Nazi Germany inside and out.  He sets up a murder mystery for a burned out Gestapo  detective to solve.  Predictably, the case leads to the darkest secrets of  the Nazi regime, secrets which are still secrets.  The fun is in how Harris  gets you there and his vision of Nazi society in the Cold War era.  The  small details make this book a treasure.  History buffs in particular will  appreciate this well written page-turner.	2000-05-16
2477124:US	51809405	R3JT1FXYEQ7ZRG	0679761691	917928537	Hard Candy	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Vachss at his darkest	The most compelling character in the Burke &quot;detective&quot; series, the assassain Wesley, is the star of &quot;Hard Candy,&quot; one of the best books in the Burke series.  Wesley is a killing machine, and no one  can stop him, not even the mob.  When the mob takes Wesley on, he plays cat  and mouse with them...and litters the streets with bodies.  The book also  features Candy, a woman from Burke's childhood and through her Vachss  provides more insight into his title charachter's psyche.  Because it relys  so heavily on the reader's knowledge of the background of the charachters,  this is not the Burke novel to start with.  But it is quite a satisfying  read for the initiated.	2000-05-16
2477423:US	51809405	R29BNGX1T0VFFV	0399144978	29321292	Father/Land: A Personal Search for the New Germany	Books	4	1	4	N	N	A well-balanced look at modern Germany	As an American of German descent who has spent little time in the &quot;Fatherland,&quot; I greatly appreciated Kempe's journalistic account.  Kempe wrestles with the demons conjured by the spectre of one of his own  relatives having been a brutal Nazi thug and along the way shows how the  country is still struggling to deal with its past.  The accounts of German  soldiers having been used outside the country's borders for the first time  as peacekeeprs in Bosnia was a good first step toward the  &quot;normalizing&quot; of the German nation.  But as Kempe shows, Germans  psychologically still have a long way to go.	2000-05-15
2479070:US	51809405	R3446WT18BCPPE	0374235422	726598910	A Portrait of Egypt: A Journey Through the World of Militant Islam	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Sounding a warning	Mary Anne Weaver's account of life in modern Egypt leaves you wondering if the country will soon succumb to a fundamentalist revolution aka Iran.  Interesting that this would be a concern at a time when Iran is trying to  moderate the effects of its own revolution.  This book is most valuable as  a snaphot of Egypt that can be compared to life in the country thirty years  ago before Islamic militancy began to take hold.  It is also a good  overview of political events in the country during the interveaning years.  I found it well written and an informative journalistic account.	2000-05-15
2479117:US	51809405	R1DNV6WSH4MIB	1559705078	12372636	Cambodia: Report From a Stricken Land	Books	4	10	10	N	N	An informative account	Henry Kamm's book provides a good overall view of events in Cambodia of the last thirty years.  If you are looking for an in depth account of the  Khmer Rouge genocide, look elsewhere.  Kamm's book covers the events that  led up to the Khmer Rouge takeover, covers their brief rule and their  attempts to regain power and finally the downfall of Pol Pot.  Along the  way Kamm describes the tragedy of a poor country trying overcome the  horrors inflicted upon it by its own people.  A very well written and  readable book by an author who knows his subject well.	2000-05-15
2479226:US	51809405	R3TQ2JLFJL7S5E	0060929839	106345183	Out of the Ashes: The Resurrection of Saddam Hussein	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A compelling case for finishing the job	The strongpoint of &quot;Out of the Ashes&quot; is the compelling argument it makes for the US/U.N. to have &quot;finished the job&quot; in 1991 and driven Saddam Hussein out of power.  However, the authors in addition to  portraying the human cost for not having done so, present the argument for  why it couldn't be done in deference to our Arab &quot;allies.&quot;  The  rest of the book chronicles life in 1990s Iraq under an isolated dictator  who was responsible for the physical destruction of his country.  The  battle over U.N. inspections also features prominently.  This all makes for  very compelling reading and the authors have told their story well.	2000-05-15
2480726:US	51809405	R3LSJ5GC7C6O4B	0679772650	947627531	Once Upon a Distant War: David Halberstam, Neil Sheehan, Peter Arnett--Young War Correspondents and Their  Early Vietnam Battles	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Journalists as unlikely heros	This book is a great companion piece to the more popular &quot;A Bright Shining Lie&quot; by Neil Sheehan.  Sheehan (along with David Halberstam and others) and his experiences in Vietnam during the advisor period  (1962-64) are the subjects of this book.  With it you gain perspective of  how Sheehan and the others fought an incompotent and deceiptful American  and South Vietnamese government establishment that fought efforts to get  the truth (that the war was being lost) to the American people.  The  relationship between the young reporters and Lt. Colonel John Paul Vann  (the subject odf Sheehan's book) also features prominently.  The accounts  are harrowing and sometimes enraging.  This book serves as an effective  reminder that the press are not always the bad guys.	2000-05-13
2480851:US	51809405	R1Q6W41VTO9AIG	0679724141	821994534	A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam	Books	4	55	58	N	N	The folly of Vietnam through the eyes of a tragic hero	&quot;A Bright Shining Lie&quot; is a brilliant, if flawed, masterpiece.  Journalist Neil Sheehan first made a name for himself as a reporter in part thanks to the enigmatic American Hero, John Paul Vann.  Vann's story is  both fascinating and tragic.  His military career was seemingly derailed by  his attempts to tell the truth about the war during the advisor period  (1962-64), but in fact it was his personal indiscretions that did him in.  The book was the work of a lifetime for Sheehan (taking him many years to  complete) and it shows.  The only problem is that Vann's later career in  Vietnam as a civilian advisor (1967-1972) gets the short shrift.  Sheehan  uses Vann's combat death in 1972 as a metaphor for American involvement in  Vietnam.  But in fact, by 1972 Vann truly believed that the South  Vietnamese were winning the war and had they not been abandoned by their  American allies, they might have.  Nevertheless, this is a vital book for  anyone who wants to understand America's lost war.	2000-05-13
2481019:US	51809405	R385SHRCJRGXY9	0671695347	54048304	About Face: The Odyssey of an American Warrior	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The anger of an American Hero	Lt. Colonel David Hackworth has truly EARNED the right to be critical of his government and the American military establishment.  He fought in two unpopular foreign wars, won the highest military honors, and became so  disillusioned that he became an expatriot for many years.  How lucky we are  that he is back.  This book is part a recounting of his war experiences,  and part an indictment of the modern United States military in which  careerism and politics have destroyed effective leadership.  Were Hackworth  not an accomplished product of the system, his critique would not carry  nearly as much weight.  This is a vital book for both veterans and  non-veterans alike and a wake up call for us not to get too complacent with  our security.	2000-05-13
2481732:US	51809405	RQP4SGWSKF6BC	0671723227	892474008	Wiseguy	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The banality of evil	As great as &quot;Goodfellas&quot; is as a movie, &quot;Wiseguy&quot; is as the book it is based on.  At least by his own account, Henry Hill wasn't the baddest, most clever or most successful gangster ever, but he was  certainly one of the most pathetic.  Not because he was incompotent, but  because when the gig was finally up he turned in his closest associates  before they could do him in.  Pileggi's account of Hill's activities is  more detailed than the film and provides some important perspective.  Pileggi is an excellent writer, and &quot;Wiseguy&quot; is one of the best  true crime books ever written.	2000-05-12
2481832:US	51809405	R35YX4TZ2V7RMP	0679751254	697517913	Lenin's Tomb: The Last Days of the Soviet Empire	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The definitive account of the collapse of the Soviet Union	&quot;Lenin's Tomb&quot; is the best and most complete account available of the remarkable transformation of Soviet Russia.  David Remnick is an insightful reporter and a tremendous writer who witnessed these events  first hand.  From Remnick's descriptions, you will know what it was like to  be a Russian in the heady days that included Glastnost, the conservative  backlash, the fateful coup and the final demise of Mikhail Gorbachev.  Remnick brings the story to life in a way that does it justice.  This is  absolutely essential reading.	2000-05-12
2481994:US	51809405	R36ON3GQJCOXR7	0312253648	104824053	4,000 Days: My Life and Survival in a Bangkok Prison	Books	5	0	3	N	N	A rare account from the inside of hell	One might be tempted to discount Warren Fellows's account of the decade plus he spent in a Bangkok prison.  After all, he deserved to be arrested and imprisoned for his actions as a drug smuggler.  What he did not deserve  was to spend time in the hell on earth that is the Thai prison system.  The  first hand accounts of the conditions are startlingly brutal and ring  absolutely true.  Forget about the exploitative Hollywood film made about  this subject last year.  This is the real deal in the same vein as  &quot;Midnight Express.&quot;	2000-05-12
2482523:US	51809405	R2CBL1G0XIUAGI	0671244094	917728591	The Path Between the Seas: The Creation of the Panama Canal, 1870-1914	Books	5	215	224	N	N	History writing at its best	David McCullough makes the epic story of the building of the Panama Canal come to life in a way that few authors could.  Throughout the long history of tranportation across the Central American isthmus (first railroad, then  canal) McCollough focusses on fascinating characters like the brilliant but  enigmatic Frechman Ferdinand de Lesseps, who built the Suez Canal but whose  career crashed and burned in Panama.  McCullough's skill as a storyteller  simply cannot be understated.  The book will leave you with a true  appreciation of just how Herculean an undertaking the canal was.  This book  is simply one of the best works of history to appear in the last quarter  century.	2000-05-12
2482672:US	51809405	RNL64Z93PY0NW	0375750231	880915462	Resurrection: The Struggle for a New Russia	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An excellent sequel	Author David Remnick continues where he left off from his masterpiece &quot;Lenin's Tomb&quot; by following events in Russia first hand as the country struggled with the advent of democracy and capitalism.  Particularly fascinating is Boris Yeltsin, who is as central to this story  as he was to life in Russia in the century's last decade.  Yeltsin's tragic  encounter in Chechnya is particularly poignant.  This is a book that will  fill you with concern, but also hope for Russia's future.  Perhaps no  Westerner knows Russia better than Remnick.  His works are absolute must  reading on the subject.	2000-05-12
2482878:US	51809405	R2DUI3J852E4UD	0060974060	859939862	Friday Night Lights: A Town, a Team, and a Dream	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Life imitates sports	Like all great books about sports, &quot;Friday Night Lights&quot; is really about life.  Specifically life in a football-crazed small town in Texas.  But before any of us outsiders start feeling superior, we should  reflect that the book is really about America and the way we overvalue  athletic ability.  The people of the town felt betrayed when they realized  that author H.G.Bissinger was going to tell the whole story, warts and all.  But he has written a masterful social history and one that has many  implications beyond the gridiron.	2000-05-12
2482981:US	51809405	R26YC54XQVSG0S	0671207148	488116612	The Johnstown Flood	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An early triumph for McCullough	David McCullough, along with Stephen Ambrose is one of the absolute best history authors working today.  &quot;Johnstown Flood&quot; is one of his early works, and already his incredible talent shows on every page.  The  story may not be as epic as his accounts of the  building of the Panama  Canal or the Brooklyn Bridge, but it is nevertheless a fascinating account  of what can happen when man becomes arrogant enough to believe that he can  master nature.  Like the story of the Titanic and the Galveston Hurricane  is shows how easilly nature can have the last word.	2000-05-12
2483064:US	51809405	R1Q5PR9EB0JBMA	0679737898	248860003	Parliament of Whores: A Lone Humorist Attempts to Explain the Entire U.S. Government	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Humor and the Libertarian perspective	Full disclosure: I am a government employee.  Nevertheless, I loved this book.  O'Rourke, despite being a humorist by nature, is also one of the most eloquent mainstream advocates of Libertarianism, a concept alien to  most Americans.  While I disagree with the degree to which O'Rourke would  cut government programs, I do agree with his fundamental notion that much  of what the government does should be reexamined to determine if the  government should in fact be doing it.  This book is a rarity--it will make  you laugh and think at the same time.	2000-05-12
2483083:US	51809405	R31ZTEB8WUL83X	0452261678	776701620	Boss:  Richard J. Daley of Chicago	Books	5	24	30	N	N	A great civic lesson	Royko's &quot;Boss,&quot; lamentably the only book-length work of his brilliant career, is also one of the absolute best books ever written about urban politics.  Royko knew Chicago.  The city was in his blood.  As such,  he knew Mayor Daley the elder better than anyone who was not a family  member or a member of his administration.  Royko shows how the  since-deceased Democratic machine ran Chicago, both for the good and the  bad.  Read it, and you will understand the likes of Congressman Dan  Rostenkowski, who ended up in jail because he continued to practice machine  politics long after the machine had died.  Hats off to Mike Royko.  This  book is his masterpiece.	2000-05-12
2483174:US	51809405	R3MO9HDKLLAI5P	0316278246	459851363	A Civil War: Army Vs. Navy a Year Inside College Football's Purest Rivalry	Books	5	3	4	N	N	More than just a sports story	John Feinstein is, with the possible exception of George Plimpton, the most pompous sportwriter in America.  Having said that, he has written the best sports book of the late 1990s.  &quot;A Civil War,&quot; is about much  more than just the Army-Navy game.  It is about life in the service  academies and how a special group of recruits truly do play just for the  love of the game.  Feinstein lucked out a chose a (very) rare season in  which both Army and Navy made it to bowl games.  The Army-Navy game itself  that year was also a heartbreaker.  There are so many good individual  stories among the players that you will swear he made some of them up.  This is sportswriting at its absolute best.	2000-05-12
2483294:US	51809405	R1NDUY21STJL1L	044021145X	438349301	The Firm	Books	1	8	25	N	N	John Grisham REALLY stinks	I know I'll get flamed for this, but I just have to get it off my chest.  After reading &quot;The Firm&quot; and &quot;A Time to Kill&quot; I have come to the conclusion the Grisham is one of the worst writers ever to top  the bestseller list.  &quot;The Firm&quot; starts out plausibly, but then  goes totally haywire at about the two-thirds mark with an ending as  believable as your average romance novel.  If Grisham was as good an  attorney as he is a writer, there'd be a lot more people on death row.	2000-05-12
2483381:US	51809405	R2YZR5VW9HKUFC	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great Historical Fiction	I am not much of a fan of historical fiction, but I make an exception for this book.  Shaara is so effective at recreating the battle of Gettysburg that you often forget that its a novel.  The authenticity is absolutely  amazing.  The book was used as the basis for TNT's superior film  &quot;Gettysburg,&quot; and it is easy to see why.  Shaara's descriptions  are so vivid, they're like screenwriting just waiting to be filmed.  Just  like the movie, Union Colonel Joshua Chamberlain is the most memorable  character.  His story, like this book is for anyone who wants to know what  it truly means to be an American.	2000-05-12
2483743:US	51809405	R3QCTRSMWEM19I	0446313645	777201587	Fear and Loathing: On the Campaign Trail '72	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Richard Nixon's favorite journalist--NOT!	Hunter Thompson HATED Richard Nixon with all of his capacity to loathe.  Nixon represented to him everything that was wrong with America.  So for Thompson to have been covering Tricky Dick during the fateful events that  ensured his downfall is a delicous irony indeed.  This book is akin to  Thompson's &quot;Hell's Angels&quot; in that he is reporting about real  events, albiet through his own warped perception.  The book is a reminder  that once upon a time, Thompson was a very capable reporter, before he  turned his mind into mush and became a caricature of himself.  Politics  junkies will find this book to be great comic relief.	2000-05-11
2483884:US	51809405	RRZ9R7VIR2OQJ	0684840022	864239842	Rising Tide: The Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 and How it Changed America	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Those who forget the past -- ought to read this.	The great Mississippi Flood of 1927, one of THE greatest disasters in American history, is now largely forgotten despite the social upheavals it caused.  What is eerie about &quot;Rising Tide&quot; is the parallels  between the events of 1927 and the floods of 1993 and how the lessons of  the past follies in flood control have been largely forgotten.  Of course  the 1993 floods caused no major social upheavals and that is at least as  important to the story.  At least we've evolved as a society to the point  where a small clique of power brokers could never be allowed to  deliberately flood a poor parrish to save their own homes.  At least, I  hope.  This is a highly readable and very informative book for history  buffs.	2000-05-11
2483886:US	51809405	R3TL2ZFDW3H6WZ	0345340159	20600825	Boys on the Bus	Books	5	17	18	N	N	The scoop on those who provide the scoop	Crouse's groundbreaking book on the 1972 Presidential campaign was reveolutionary in the way it covered the reporters who covered the election.  This was the first step in to turning these reporters into  &quot;stars&quot; in their own right.  Who can doubt today that the  visibility one gets from being a reporter on a successful Presidential  campaign can transform you into a highly paid and visible &quot;talking  head.&quot;  Crouse's book is well written, informative and quite amusing,  which is appropriate since he spent the campaign hanging out with the  immortal Hunter S. Thompson.  A must for political junkies.	2000-05-11
2484094:US	51809405	R2PH0VXXLPERVZ	0345410084	674408845	Hell's Angels: A Strange and Terrible Saga	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A masterpiece of underground journalism	Written before Thompson freaked out on drugs and went truly Gonzo, &quot;Hell's Angels&quot; is instead a great piece of reporting.  The Angels were a fairly new phenomenon in the public mind when Thompson went  riding with them and recorded all that he saw.  It is a fascinating account  of what has become one of America's most notorious criminal enterprizes.  Thompson's description of an LSD rush (taken when the drug was still legal)  is worth the price alone.  For all his troubles, the Angels beat him half  to death.  This is a must read for anyone ineterested in criminology.	2000-05-11
2484542:US	51809405	RXMKD0AW8MGKK	0312243359	601276911	We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will be Killed With Our Families: Stories from Rwanda	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I Wish to Inform You -- This is a Great Book	Along with Iris Chang's &quot;Rape of Nanking,&quot; this is an extroadinarily well written account of a modern genocide.  The events in Rwanda in 1994 are so chilling as to be almost beyond imagination.  To add  even more heartbreak to this story is the accounts of how after the mass  killings the U.N. came in and provided aid--to the killers!  Gourevitch's  book should be read by anyone interested in what the &quot;New World  Order&quot; is really all about.  A masterpiece of responsible journalism.	2000-05-11
2484801:US	51809405	RFXDZSCH9ZDC2	1568491433	409760275	The Making of the President, 1960	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A revolutionary classic	With this book, Theodore White reinvented how Presidential campaigns are covered.  Never again could a major candidate engage in a primary campaign with only a single reporter following him around.  White's success ensured  that every event and public conversation in a campaign, however minor,  would be duly reported.  Like many groundbreaking classics, it may seem  trite today to readers accostomed to knowing every little detail of a  candidate's life.  But White invented this type of journalism, and if read  with that in mind this is still a spellbinding book.  It reads like a  suspense novel, and is a compulsive page turner right to the end.	2000-05-11
2484904:US	51809405	R3KMFCBZHETHT9	0679452435	9869873	Hearts Grown Brutal:  Sagas of Sarajevo	Books	5	11	11	N	N	THE definative account of the Bosnian war	The destruction of Yugoslavia is not the easiest of subjects to fully comprehend.  Cohen's informative and excellently written narrative is the best place to start.  Cohen does more than just describe the events, he  attempts to get beneath the surface to understand the psychology behind the  unspeakable atrocities committed during the various wars.  The trajedy of  Yugoslavia cannot be understood without a recounting of the atrocities  committed there during World War II, atrocities that largely went  unpunished.  All of this and more are recounted by Cohen in his very  readable account.  It is must reading for anyone interested in recent  European history.	2000-05-11
2484961:US	51809405	R1Q9OZ1IWNFIZI	0689105533	26307263	The Making of the President, 1972: A Narrative History of American Politics in Action	Books	4	6	9	N	N	White underestimates Watergate	Those who complain that Theodore White was too deferential to JFK in his groundbreaking classic &quot;The Making of the President 1960&quot; should read this book.  Here, White is not nearly as hard on Richard Nixon for  Watergate as subsequent events have proven he should have been.  Nevertheless, this is still an informative account of the 1972 election,  which was much more exciting than the final result would indicate.  The  inepitude of George McGovern's campaign alone provides plecty of  entertainment.  An excellent book for political junkies.	2000-05-11
2485935:US	51809405	R28QCAELUQ2JDJ	0684808528	618712393	CHIEF JUSTICE: A Biography of Earl Warren	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A great biography that does him justice	Earl Warren was one of the greatest Americans of the 20th Century, and Cray's biography does justice for him.  Warren led the Supreme Court from 1953-1969, perhaps the most turbulent period in American history outside the Civil War.  His rulings have shaped modern jurisprudence and, despite  their controversial nature when they were issued, have repeatedly shown  their wisdom since.  The author also spends a lot of time on Warren's early  political career as a District Attorney, Governor of California and failed  Vice Presidential candidate in 1948.  Overall, this is a fascinating and  well-written biography.	2000-05-10
2486514:US	51809405	R3W4O9TQEEO7WN	067080889X	102398027	Empire Express: Building the First Transcontinental Railroad	Books	3	10	10	N	N	As long as its subject	&quot;Empire Express&quot; is a very informative account that unfortunately gets bogged down with too much detail.  Author Bain just doesn't have the touch of a David McCollough (&quot;The Path Between the Seas&quot;) to make his lengthy narrative consistantly interesting.  Still,  there is plenty of good information and the fourteen years Bain spent  researching and writing this book is a testament to what a labor of love it  was for him.  Overall, serious history buffs will probably find the most  enjoyment but the average reader is likely to become bored with it.	2000-05-10
2486724:US	51809405	R1WMMSLGTCZGR5	0375400524	841119426	The First World War	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A good historical account	This is a well researched and very inclusive book, but the author is no Stephen Ambrose in that his account is often dry and not that readable.  This book is best for those who want an overall narrative about the war that includes every aspect (the section on the Gallipoli campaign is  particulary enlightening).  Keegan also does a good job in documenting just  how much World War I has shaped subsequent historical events.  Overall, a  good read for history buffs but probably not for the average reader.	2000-05-10
2487150:US	51809405	RVUDRKMSF3UZK	0415921988	44711383	Me Against My Brother: At War in Somalia, Sudan and Rwanda	Books	5	23	25	N	N	An appaling account of modern genocide	Peterson does a great job of documenting the trajedies of Africa that simply doesn't seem to interest most Americans.  With Sierra Leonne in the news recently, this book takes on even more urgency.  Peterson deserves  credit for sticking it out in the destitute war zones, even after nearly  losing his life in Somalia (and seeing close friends butchered by the mobs)  He is (justifiably) highly critical of the U.S. and UN efforts there, but  he also assigns the blame for the famine where it belongs, with the  warlords.  This is an excellent and informative book that will  unfortunately never find as big an audience as it deserves.	2000-05-10
2487443:US	51809405	RG8WOP2SOTVM1	0375400869	203371491	The Last Campaign: How Harry Truman Won the 1948 Election	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Readable and Informative	Karabell's &quot;The Last Campaign&quot; is a great book for political junkies and history buffs.  The title refers to 1948 being the last presidential campaign waged before televison began to have a  &quot;shrinking effect&quot; on campaigns.  The book explodes some of the  myths about the election and shows how Truman used &quot;lowball&quot;  tactics against Dewey, who refused to respond.  This was also the first  campaign to be affected by the emerging Cold War, which helped torpedo the  hopes of the Progressive candidate, Henry Wallace.  It also saw the  beginnings of the civil rights backlash in the South personified by  candidate Strom Thurmond.  Overall, this is a well-written history book  that is very readable.	2000-05-09
2487777:US	51809405	R3RI3L09FNYOZI	0374157065	503232720	Flu: The Story of the Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and the Search for the Virus That Caused It	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Not good history	For a book purpoting to be about the 1918 influenza epidemic, Kolata spend little time describing the events of 1918.  Instead she focusses on the search for the virus, a far less interesting subject.  She also jumps around and talks about other epidemics in other places without much reason.  If you are looking for a good historical account, pass on this book.	2000-05-09
2488103:US	51809405	R2P9NFSJIP4VTQ	0517597667	62415483	Reelecting Lincoln: The Battle for the 1864 Presidency	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lincoln the Politician gets his due	Often overlooked in the popular imagination concerning our greatest President is the fact that he was an adroit and skilled politician.  That America could have an election at all in the midst of a Civl War was astonishing.  Equally amazing is that the re-election of Lincoln, which  seems like it would have been a no-brainer, was actually very much in doubt  until a series of military vicories, including the fall of Atlanta, late in  the campaign.  This is an excellent piece of history weiting that brings  the story and the characters alive.  It is a book worthy of the Lincoln  legacy.	2000-05-09
2488321:US	51809405	RVQ8FLC76QJ4O	0226730727	444428225	One More Time: The Best of Mike Royko	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Royko was the best	Mike Royko was the best American newspaper columnist ever.  Like Johnny Carson did for late night television, Royko DEFINED what it means to be a columnist.  Even if you do not reside in Chicago, your heart cannot help but be moved by the columns in which he tried to help the little people  against whatever force (bureaucratic, criminal or otherwise) that was  trying to trample them.  Sometimes humorous, sometimes disdainful, but  always full of life, a Royko column was always a treasure.  His loss is  much lamented and this book is a fitting tribute.	2000-05-09
2488611:US	51809405	RHM9TSWH4Z0HH	0140277447	803730078	The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II	Books	5	71	78	N	N	A Haunting account of WW II's &quot;other Holocaust&quot;	Unlike Germany, Japan as a nation has never fully accounted for its sins of the Second World War.  &quot;The Rape of Nanking&quot; shows in graphic detail that the country has plenty for which to be sorry.  Chang details the grusome carnage that followed Japan's takeover of the city that was  then China's capitol.  The Japanese were so brutal in fact, that the top  local Nazi official on the scene was horrified.  Chang is a gifted writer  whose personal involvement in this story (her parents are survivors of the  Sino-Japanese War) is clearly evident.  This is a book that DEMANDS to be  read.	2000-05-09
2488925:US	51809405	RIL0K5SZFFBSO	0375702296	993234858	King of the World: Muhammad Ali and the Rise of an American Hero	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A classic story - expertly told	David Remnick's &quot;King of the World&quot; is one of the best sports biographies ever written.  Rarely has an athelete done as much to define his generation or been more controversial than Ali.  Hard to believe today, with all of the adoration heaped upon Ali, but he was once a hated figure.  This book chronicles his rise up until the time he refused to be drafted  for the Vietnam War.  Most surprising are the details about his involvement  with the Nation of Islam and how that involvement both ruined his first  marriage and caused him to turn his back on his great friend, Malcolm X.  This book is for sports fans and anyone else interested in reading about an  extrodinary life.	2000-05-09
2492749:US	51809405	REPV0E3CPB5BE	0395933498	707625807	A First-Rate Tragedy: Robert Falcon Scott and the Race to the South Pole	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Very readable account of the Scott expedition	The story Robert Scott's ill-fated polar expedition is well told by author Diana Preston.  She chronicles the numerous mistakes and other factors that led to Scott's frozen fate.  For example, Preston argues that had the  expedition consisted of one fewer member, it might have had enough food to  complete the return journey.  The book is also an excellent character study  of Scott, who was a brilliant but flawed commander whose shortcomings  contributed to the disaster.  Overall, a well written book worthy of its  subject matter.	2000-05-06
2492820:US	51809405	RQ3ZTTVVGXK97	0679772618	345460598	Blossom	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Burke hits the road	Vachss takes Burke away from his crew and into the Midwest in &quot;Bloosom,&quot; and in the process comes up with one of the best Burke novels.  Some readers may miss his crew, but instead we get a lot of  insight into Burke's history recounted as he strives to help out an old  prison buddy.  The title character is Burke's most interesting leading lady  since Flood walked out of his life after the first novel.  Overall, an  exciting read pumped full of the philosophy of life by Burke.	2000-05-06
2492883:US	51809405	R1REIWOAF1HFE8	0375406476	545631555	Choice of Evil: A Burke Novel (Burke Novels (Hardcover))	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A chilling and suspenseful tale	In &quot;Choice of Evil&quot; Vachss cleverly uses the ghost of his most memorable supporting charachter, the assassain Wesley, to fuel his best Burke novel since &quot;Hard Candy&quot; (not coincidentally, the one that  killed Wesley off).  Vachss's knife edge prose is as hardboiled and  authentic as any modern detective fiction.  This novel also keeps up with  the evil we see in today's headlines.  Overall, one of the better entries  in the Burke series.	2000-05-06
2492956:US	51809405	RV8JAF3XWEXJF	0399145761	539869630	What if...?	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An entertaining read by some of our top historians	&quot;What If&quot; is a reminder that we are blessed in this era to have so many gifted historians who know how to write in such a way that does not put the reader to sleep.  Counterfactual history here leads to an even  greater understanding and appreciation for what did happen.  The essays are  very readable and are quite concise.  The scope is from ancient times to  modern and a couple really make you think about how fundamentally different  our world could be today (imagine a world without Judaism, Christianity and  Islam, for example).  Overall, a fascinating and stimulating book.	2000-05-06
2493428:US	51809405	R2B2CLGE93IS8C	0440216869	254731013	The Music Lovers: A Harry Stoner Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The reviewer below is crazy -- Valin is great!	If you love detective fiction and can find any of Valin's Harry Stoner novels, buy them.  I own them all and love every one of them.  Stoner is one of the most authentic P.I.'s out there, in the mold of the great Travis  McGee.  Valin makes good use of his Cincinnati locations.  Overall, one of  the better writers in a genre that recently has produced way too many bad  ones.	2000-05-06
2493731:US	51809405	R1X8OIF8WLJA0W	1890988006	244247258	Deceived: The Story of the Donner Party	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A terrifying true story	The horrifying true story of the Donner Party is given its just treatment in author Limburg's fascinating book.  Limburg brings the characters to life, which makes it all the more horrible when they start to die their  grusome deaths.  The books reads like a journalistic account and for me was  a thrilling page turner, even though I already knew the outcome.  This is  history writing at its absolute finest.	2000-05-06
2496287:US	51809405	RY5FR6H8LXZAI	0399145893	424668577	Ghosts of Cape Sabine: The Harrowing True Story of the Greely Expedition	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A harrowing true story	Bureaucratic ineptitude plays a large role in the disaster that befell the Greely expedition, which at the time was America's most sucessful polar venture.  That any of the expedition, let alone their leader, survived is nothing short of miraculous.  Guttridge's compelling, page turing narrative  presents a fascinating story that has been often overlooked.  Most  interesting is Greely himself, whose long and dedicated government career  was blemished only, if at all, by the disaster that befell his expedition.  Despite his trials and tribulations, Greely was in the end a true American  hero.	2000-05-04
2496352:US	51809405	R1FN3O2MW6WP0V	0684854848	919570880	Blind Eye: How the Medical Establishment Let a Doctor Get Away with Murder	Books	5	1	1	N	N	So good, its scary	&quot;Blind Eye&quot; haunted me for quite awhile after I read it.  The book portrays a classic example of evil being assisted by bureaucratic ineptitude.  Stewart makes his case that Dr. Michael Swango may be the most prolific serial killer in U.S. history.  His case is a compelling page  turner that reads like fiction.  Even scarier is that Swango is due to be  released THIS YEAR.  One caution, do not read this book if you are planning  to be in the hospital any time soon.  You will not find it comforting.	2000-05-04
2502739:US	51809405	R2OAIINGMO3YTL	0471377902	746286426	Ice Blink: The Tragic Fate of Sir John Franklin's Lost Polar Expedition	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An interesting if not entirely fulfilling account	There has been a flurry of Polar exploration books published recently.  (Personally, I recommend &quot;The Ghosts of Cape Sabine&quot; by Leonard  Guttridge).  &quot;Ice Blink&quot; isn't bad, but it could have used some  more meat on its bones.  There is a lot of speculation by the author, which  figures given that there are no survivor accounts of the Franklin  expedition.  The book is well written, and particularly facinating is  Cookman's descriptions of how botulism poison came to contaminate the  expedition's canned food.  Overall, I wish Cookman had gone into a bit more  detail, but I still found the story fascinating.	2000-05-01
2503437:US	51809405	R16VKNCM7MG61J	0375406395	574735145	The Last Great Revolution: Turmoil and Transformation in Iran	Books	4	12	17	N	N	An informative account of modern life in an Islamic state	Wright's book is valuable for its first hand reporting of the current situation in Iran, both politically and culturally, as the country struggles to overcome the setbacks of the revolution.  Iran seems to figure  very little in the conciousness of the average American.  But as Wright  makes clear, America still holds both fascination and revulsion to the  average Iranian.  Wright's interviews with numerous Iranians and her  extensive travels around the country provide a vivid narrative that will  surprise the average reader.  Overall, a very good read that provides lots  of insight into where Iran is and where it might be headed.	2000-05-01
2509111:US	51809405	R1ZBDDEGSQYCWE	0060977477	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Exciting Drama in the &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; Mode	I read this book almost immediately after &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; and was immediately taken by the similarities.  Again, I found myself asking why anyone would risk such a potentially hideous death.  Of course, there  is a huge difference between rough hewn fisherman trying to eek out a  living and the bored noveau rich out looking for a thrill.  Junger builds  the suspense very well and his first hand description of drowning is  absolutely riveting.  As with Krakauer's book, this is great non-fiction  that reads like an adventure story.	2000-04-27
2509294:US	51809405	R39R46VUK85QNW	0688144772	607150831	Fire on the Mountain: The True Story of the South Canyon Fire	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A harrowing true story of some genuine heros	Like &quot;The Perfect Storm&quot; and &quot;Into Thin Air&quot;, Maclean's book is a modern tale of young physically fit people whose lives are snuffed out by the forces of nature.  This time, however, the victims  engaged in the risk in order to help others, which makes their deaths all  the more tragic.  Maclean's account reads like a novel and it is obvious  that he knows this material well.  His moment by moment description of the  firefighters' attempted escape as the flames bore down on them is  breathtaking.  Overall, an excellent and heartbreaking true adventure  story.	2000-04-27
2509335:US	51809405	R2D9IIUN1B3PFY	0684826976	646280776	Undaunted Courage:  Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of the best American History books ever written	Not to be hyperbolic, but Stephen Ambrose has written a history book that should be required reading in every American high school.  He brings the Lewis and Clark story to life with such vibrancy that the book reads like  adventure fiction.  Surprises abound for those only marginally familiar  with the Lewis and Clark story.  One simply cannot underestimate their  contribution to their country.  Most fascinating is Ambrose's critique of  them as military commanders, which they were.  Simply put, an outstanding  and monumental historical work.	2000-04-27
2509728:US	51809405	RF0HMYXXUTZXL	0670885517	700763528	The Battle of New Orleans: Andrew Jackson and America's First Military Victory	Books	5	3	7	N	N	A first rate historical account	Nobody knows &quot;Old Hickory&quot; like Robert Remini and with this short but very enjoyable book, he recreates the high point of Jackson's military career.  Little remembered by history is just how important this  battle was, not only because it restored American pride after a war gone  badly, but because it prevented the British from establishing hegemony over  the Mississippi River and with it America's heartland.  The battle scenes  are well described and the heroism of the American leader is well  chronicled.  This is a great history book just begging to be made into a TV  miniseries.	2000-04-27
2509921:US	51809405	R17CJJ73C5UX2F	0375409335	27895627	Isaac's Storm: A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History	Books	5	4	4	N	N	History as Adventure Story	Larson's book is a masterpiece of historical storytelling.  Rather than a dry retelling of the events surrounding the 1900 Galveston hurricane, Larson personalizes them by focussing on Isaac Cline, the meteorologist who  in the tenor of the times was arrogant enough to think that man had  mastered the weather.  Larson's account of the destruction of Galveston is  particularly riveting.  Also interesting is his his history of weather  forcasting before 1900.  A classic piece of history writing that contains  both a moral and and a warning.	2000-04-27
2510234:US	51809405	R1HYHOS4FXYWK6	0465017363	801178064	Duel: Alexander Hamilton, Aaron Burr, And The Future Of America	Books	5	9	12	N	N	History Truly Comes Alive	Thomas Fleming has written a great piece of history than reads almost like a novel.  Burr and Hamilton come alive with all of their virtues and their many faults.  One of my favorite ancedotes is Fleming's account of how  during the revolution, when Martha Washington named the tomcat she kept  &quot;Hamilton,&quot; after her husband's military aide, because of the  cat's amorous ways.  The biggest surprise in the book is the recounting of  the large contributions Burr made to an idependent judicary by thwarting  Jefferson's attempt to have Justice Samuel Chase impeached.  This occurred  AFTER Burr killed Hamilton.  &quot;Duel&quot; stands with Ambrose's  &quot;Undaunted Courage&quot; as one of the best American History books of  the last five years.	2000-04-27
2510402:US	51809405	R2ZHPV07AITT2B	0465015700	620865067	Ocean's End Travels Through Endangered Seas	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A warning from one who has seen the future	Woodard's book does for the oceans what Mark Herstgaard's &quot;Earth Odessy&quot; did for the rest of the planet.  It sounds the alarm of environment degredation.  Lie Herstgaard, Woodard does not just sit around  and speculate, he travelled to the world's environmental trouble spots and  reports what he saw.  Particularly chilling is his description of the  &quot;death&quot; of the Black Sea and how a similar fate might befall the  Gulf of Mexico.  Like Herstgaard, Woodard offers solutions for the  environmental crises he describes, however unlikely that they might ever be  enacted by world governments.  For the most part, this is quite a  compelling book.	2000-04-27
2510458:US	51809405	RVPCV2OHAAELS	0684844184	69350065	When Pride Still Mattered: A Life of Vince Lombardi	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Outstanding Biography	This is a book for more than just sports fans.  Actually, it might be even more valuable for those who want to know how to lead people.  Lombardi was a master at getting what he wanted from others, especially on the football  field.  Surprises abound, however.  Lombardi was a lifelong Democrat, very  progressive on racial issues and a learned man who studied four different  foreign languages.  Even his famous &quot;Winning isn't everthing...&quot;  quote was in fact quoted incorrectly and its meaning was misconstrued.  Maraniss's book does great justice to a towering and misunderstood cultural  icon.	2000-04-27
2510660:US	51809405	R2SAZAR1E19HOT	0385314213	220640963	Lost at Sea	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good follow-up to &quot;The Perfect Storm&quot;	If you couldn't get enough of Sebastian Junger's &quot;Perfect Storm,&quot; along comes this somewhat less compelling but still very readable account of another fishing trajedy.  This one was man made rather  than natural, however.  Dillion's account of the hazards of fishing off  Alaska's wild coastline is the highlight of this book.  People who love the  sea or enjoy a good adventure should give this story a read.	2000-04-27
2510816:US	51809405	RPXTSJQEJBC6Q	0684846179	306559860	Big Trouble: A Murder in a Small Western Town Sets Off a Struggle for the Soul of America	Books	3	4	9	N	N	A far too big &quot;Trouble&quot;	This is a classic case of overkill.  Had Lukas just stuck to the story at hand and recounted it in three hundred or so pages, he would have had a classic on his hands.  Instead, he attempts to include every little detail  and historic figure in the America of the last century's first decade.  The  story itself is quite powerful; a former governor assasinated by labor  activists and the subsequent attempt to railroad union leaders.  Too bad it  drowns in a turbulent ocean of unnecessary detail.	2000-04-27
2510860:US	51809405	R2A4S05VOLQAVH	0767900596	949485021	Earth Odyssey: Around the World in Search of Our Environmental Future	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An environmental travelogue  with a somber warning	Hertsgaard's book, while sounding the alarm about global environmental degredation, for the most part avoids the dogmatic rhetoric of the environmental movement.  His method is simple  but effective.  He travelled  around the world and witnessed environmental disasters first hand.  Particularly chilling is the chapter on China.  He is also realistic,  acknowledging that the biggest environmental crisis consists of  billions  of third world citizens who aspire to a first world lifestyle and the  environmental damage this would cause.  Hertsgaard also offers solutions,  however unlikely that they might be implemented any time soon.  A very  worthwhile book.	2000-04-27
