50868:US	51917998	R2FYITB4YYBKVK	006258653X	582569909	The Five Foot Road: In Search of a Vanished China	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Some trip!	This book documents a journey across China and Burma commemorating the 100th year anniversary of George Morrison's walk over the same route in 1893.  McDonald, an Australian journalist, photographer, and adventurer had become fascinated with Morrison's life and expeditions after stumbling across his books in a library.  After walking across Australia and taking a near disastrous detour in Papua New Guinea as a youth, Morrison had gone on to spend the greater part of his career as a statesman in China. On his journey across China, Morrison had met up with a Danish photographer named Jensen, who provided a collection of black-and-white images to illustrate Morrison's book, \\"An Australian in China.\\" McDonald was particularly enamored with Morrison's journey on foot across China, and determined to recreate the journey as much as possible 100 years later.  He also gave himself the goal of recapturing the scenes provided by Jensen by determining as best as possible Jensen's exact vantage points for the original photographs and reshooting the scenes as they appear in the late twentieth century.  These pictures, some juxtaposed with Jensen's originals, as well as many other twentieth century scenes, are included in this book.<br /><br />Jensen is a skilled traveler.  He knows how to negotiate public transit in China, and he's not afraid to stray far from the beaten path.  He meets a number of interesting characters along the way, and many help him in his quest to locate the buildings or scenery from Jensen's photographs. McDonald seems to revel in the quest-Morrison's epic provided an excuse to do some hard traveling, and the backbone of a route to follow.  Although the book provides some interesting information and analysis about the peoples and cultures of the region, the book isn't so much about China and Burma as it is about McDonald's personal challenge to follow in Morrison's footsteps.	2005-09-16
51097:US	51917998	R2MT71ARB1N4HE	0380699591	90824086	Passage Through El Dorado: Traveling the World's Last Great Wilderness	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Adventures on the Frontier	This book takes us on a journey through the frontier zones of Latin America during the 1980s.  Kandell, a journalist who was raised in Mexico and based in Buenos Aires, set off to document the state of development in the interior parts of the South American continent.  For the most part, he follows the path of a transcontinental road proposed by Peruvian Fernando Belaunde, of which only a few sections had actually been built by the time Kandell wrote this book.  Kandell begins his trip in Iquitos, Peru, where he interviews American oil men sent to develop possible oil fields in the Peruvian jungle.  He visits Rondonia in Brazil, where he meets newly arrived settlers come to farm lands that had belonged to Indian tribes.  He talks to ranchers and visits cocaine growing regions on the great plains of Bolivia.  He also describes the economic boon for Paraguay of the Itaipu hydroelectric project.  The book contains maps, but no illustrations; there is an index.<br /><br />The book is very engaging and well researched.  In addition to interviewing local people about their thoughts concerning development, Kandell provides extensive historical accounts of the regions, pointing out details which continue to influence the direction of development today.  The one area in which his descriptions seem a little lacking is that of the environmental impact of development in these areas.  While interviewing settlers in the Brazilian frontier, again and again, Kandell brings up the overcrowding and lack of opportunity in the areas where the settlers came from.  He describes how the settlers are clearing land and establishing farms.  But he doesn't discuss how productive the farms are, and he says little about how long the soil is expected to last or what will happen to the Indians who had lived on the lands for generations.  Today, we often hear reports that this clearing of the Brazilian rain forest is contributing to global warming, and that the agricultural potential of the land is quite limited anyway.  It's hard to tell whether Kandell was unaware of these issues, or deliberately avoiding them in order to report the development as objectively as possible, without coloring the facts with his own opinions about whether the development would be worth the environmental costs.  This book is more about the character of the frontier lifestyle.  Kandell explores whether rugged individuality, bravery, and lawlessness are inherent to the people who choose to inhabit the frontier, or whether the conditions on the frontier bring out these characteristics in people.s quite limited anyway.  It's hard to tell whether Kandell was unaware of these issues, or deliberately avoiding them in order to report the development as objectively as possible, without coloring the facts with his own opinions about whether the development would be worth the environmental costs.  This book is more about the character of the frontier lifestyle.  Kandell explores whether rugged individuality, bravery, and lawlessness are inherent to the people who choose to inhabit the frontier, or whether the conditions on the frontier bring out these characteristics in people.	2005-09-16
51343:US	51917998	R2NUOYVCKMJBFE	0943173531	857972319	The Blind Palmist: Being an Often Humorous Account of an American Teacher's Year in China	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Look Before You Leap	This book documents the year-long teaching sojourn of Lawrence Tyler and his wife Mary.  The Tylers both had extensive university teaching careers before the travel bug bit and they decided to take off for an adventure in China.  They were offered teaching positions in the foreign languages department of Guangxi University in Nanning, a large city in southern China.  In this book, Tyler describes some of their experiences in China, including their initial arrival in Nanning, the classroom environment, their responsibilities as teachers and `foreign guests', and dealing with the Chinese medical system.  For others who might dare to follow in their footsteps, Tyler adds an appendix filled with a list of very useful tips-everything from what to pack to how to deal with Chinese bureaucrats.<br /><br />While one year is hardly long enough to become experts on Chinese civilization, the Tylers still manage to learn quite a bit about the local culture during their stay.  They made valiant efforts at learning the language, and managed to achieve some degree of fluency during their stay. Tyler's writing style is light rather than academic, and he is a skilled humorist, able to make some of the more dire circumstances seem hilarious in retrospect.  Because of the extensive information about the working conditions and expectations from students and employers, I would recommend this book to anyone considering a teaching post in China.	2005-09-16
51468:US	51917998	R3OYV3NJXH40QW	1556704399	24018447	Where Every Breath Is a Prayer: A Photographic Pilgrimage in the Spiritual Heart of Asia	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Awesome	This book is a visual exploration into the heart of Eastern religions.  It begins in the high Himalayas, juxtaposing the fantastic mountain scenery with images of local temples and local life.  From the Himalayas, it moves on to the Ganges, with scenes of celebrations and funerals along the river.  The collection of photographs goes on to show religious people, temples, and scenery in South and Southeast Asia from India to Bali.  The accompanying text provides a concise explanation of some of the basic tenets of Buddhism, as well as some information about the beliefs of the Hindus.  The photographs are spectacular-some of the best that I've ever seen.  I found myself thinking as I looked through the photographs, \\"Wow, I'd love to have that one hanging on my wall!\\" only to find that the one on the next page to be even more breath-taking.  This is a book to read slowly, to savor again and again.	2005-09-16
51483:US	51917998	RI2JSQTHLL8G0	0375404945	281434626	Lindbergh	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Interesting Story	This book tells the story of Charles Lindbergh, one of the most colorful people in the history of the Twentieth Century.  Berg takes us back to rural Little Falls, Minnesota, where Lindberg's parents first met.  He describes Lindberg's childhood, marked by frequent moves and family discord.  He describes how Lindberg first became fascinated with planes and decided to become a pilot.  He details Lindberg's historic trans-Atlantic flight and its aftermath.  Berg also describes Lindberg's relationship with Anne Morrow, who later became his wife, and devotes much space to the infamous kidnapping of their first child.  Berg also explains Lindberg's isolationist views of the 1930s, why Lindberg felt we should not enter the war in Europe.<br /><br />The book, with its detailed descriptions of Lindberg's feats and political views, provides an informative perspective of this extremely interesting person.  Berg does not confine his descriptions to just Lindberg himself however-he also delves into Anne's concerns as expressed in her numerous letters and diaries.  Through reading this book, I feel I have a much greater appreciation for the roles that both of these people played in American history.	2005-09-16
77453:US	51917998	R3S6KKH7XH0X3L	0060131322	761160643	Too Many Tomatoes, Squash, Beans and Other Good Things: Cook Book for When Your Garden Explodes	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great Gardener's Cookbook	This book is a treasure-trove of ideas about what to do with your garden bounty.  It goes far beyond tomatoes, with recipes for everything from asparagus to zucchini. The book has a chapter for each common garden vegetable, and the chapters are in alphabetical order for easy reference.  At the beginning of each chapter is a brief description of the vegetable, notes for growing and harvesting, descriptions of yield, storage, freezing, and cooking instructions, and suggestions for complementary herbs.  Then come about 15 recipes for each vegetable, including soups, appetizers, salads, main dishes, side dishes, and desserts.<br /><br />The authors are obviously great and creative cooks.  The recipes use basic ingredients, and do not call for processed or convenience foods.  There aren't many recipes in this book for fancy occasions-most are for simple good home cooking type of meals that don't take a lot of elaborate preparations or require exotic ingredients.  The gardening advice isn't quite up to the level of the cooking notes, however.  For example, the authors instruct readers to discard the entire cabbage plant after harvest, but you can actually get some baby cabbages by leaving the plant in the ground and cutting an X across the stalk.  Alternatively, one way to store cabbages is to pull the entire plant up by the roots and hang it in a cool, dry place.  In the corn chapter, the authors recommend extending the corn season by planting corn with different maturation dates.  However, corn is wind pollinated, and it is one plant where this year's harvest will be affected by mixing varieties, so if you're going to try to grow several kinds of corn, you need to keep them at least 100 feet apart.  That's kind of hard to do in a backyard garden.  In short, this is a great cookbook, but for gardening advice, you'd do better to look elsewhere.	2005-09-02
77746:US	51917998	R1Y1BCLOK9DZFF	0788158368	403592734	THE FATEFUL PEBBLE: AFGHANISTAN'S ROLE IN THE FALL OF THE SOVIET EMPIRE	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Political Details of Late USSR Foreign Policy	This book details the political forces in play as the USSR was heading for collapse.  Arnold begins his book with a quote from George Stewart, \\"A dead-tired man may stumble over a pebble and fall; but his weariness, rather than the pebble, is the cause.\\"  In this book, Arnold, a retired CIA political analyst, argues that the war in Afghanistan was the pebble that brought down the weary man, the USSR.  He analyzes the political quagmire in the USSR during the 1970s that led to the invasion of Afghanistan.  He then explains how the negative worldwide political response to the invasion weakened the confidence in the government, and lessened the fear of the KGB amongst the people of the USSR.  When the war dragged on, the country found its resources overextended, and without public support for the government or the war, there was no hope of establishing stability within Afghanistan.  Indeed, the draw on resources for the war hastened the decline in public confidence for the government of the USSR, eventually leading to the coup attempt and collapse of the communist government.<br /><br />Sources of the material are varied, from newspaper articles to published interviews, all cited with endnotes that appear following each chapter.  There is also an extensive bibliography at the end of the book, and an index, as well as a much needed list of acronyms and abbreviations.  Many readers will find this list essential, since the text is similar to official Soviet style in being filled with acronyms, often used without explanation.  It probably would have been more useful to put the list at the beginning of the book so that readers could know that it was available for reference before slogging their way to the end of the text unassisted.<br /><br />The book was written in the early 1990s, and covers events through early 1992, so there is no mention of the Taliban or the nightmare that was still to come for Afghanistan.  Although the book includes a few chapters about the Afghan government before and during the Soviet invasion, most of the book is about the political forces in the USSR during the same time period.  The text is rather dry, written mostly for those interested in an analysis of the political history of the USSR.  I had picked up the book after reading Rashid's excellent account of the Taliban years, entitled \\"Taliban\\", where he notes that the Muslim world considers the fall of the Soviet Union a victory due to their efforts in supporting the Afghan resistance.  Arnold's take is a little different.  He acknowledges that the losses in Afghanistan were the final blow for the Soviet government, but argues that the political situation in the USSR was so bad that if the Afghan war hadn't happened, something else might have achieved the same results, and that the Soviets never would have entered Afghanistan at all if the political situation in the USSR hadn't been so desperately out of touch with reality.  In any case, this is very much a book about the USSR, and not about Afghanistan or Afghan resistance efforts.Afghan government before and during the Soviet invasion, most of the book is about the political forces in the USSR during the same time period.   The text is rather dry, written mostly for those interested in an analysis of the political history of the USSR.  I had picked up the book after reading Rashid's excellent account of the Taliban years, entitled \\"Taliban\\", where he notes that the Muslim world considers the fall of the Soviet Union a victory due to their efforts in supporting the Afghan resistance.  Arnold's take is a little different.  He acknowledges that the losses in Afghanistan were the final blow for the Soviet government, but argues that the political situation in the USSR was so bad that if the Afghan war hadn't happened, something else might have achieved the same results, and that the Soviets never would have entered Afghanistan at all if the political situation in the USSR hadn't been so desperately out of touch with reality.  In any case, this is very much a book about the USSR, and not about Afghanistan or Afghan resistance efforts.	2005-09-02
78572:US	51917998	RE9OUFBMEPD7O	0872862704	47118694	Amazon Dream	Books	2	2	2	N	N	A Shopping Trip	This book details the experiences of a New York artist shopping for tribal pottery in the Amazon region of Peru in the late 1980s.  Allen starts off from Iquitos, spends time in Belen, and Callao, before reaching Pucallpa where she wishes to visit members of the Shipibo tribe to observe their work and purchase pottery bowls from them.  She had always been fascinated with the rain forest since she was a small child.  But once she arrived in the towns near the jungle, she found herself overwhelmed with the Third World conditions.  She hired guides to take her up the rivers to visit villages and see wild life.  Not everything worked as planned, and sometimes the guides weren't willing to go, or sometimes she wasn't ready mentally to face the hardships on the river.  In the end, though, she finally makes it to some Shipibo villages, buys a few pots, and returns home again.<br /><br />Allen acknowledges her New York sensibilities, noting how careful she is about letting her guard down.  One part of the motivation for her trip seems to be the thrill involved with leaving behind the stable, predictable life in the big city to descend into the unknown, uncomfortable and poverty stricken surroundings of the Third World, if only for a few weeks.  In the trip described here, which seems to have lasted no more than about two months, she meets no one other than guides and First World tourists like herself. Her dealings with the guides are confined to work related duties, and she holds herself aloof from the other tourists.  Most of her interactions seem to be inside her own head.  Although she seems to have traveled in the area before, she's not what you might call a seasoned traveler.  For instance, on an expedition to a remote area, she finds herself so dirty that she feels compelled to bathe with the group's drinking water, much to the dismay of the guides and other tourists.  In this book, Allen doesn't devote much space to vivid descriptions of the scenery.  She also never gets around to telling us about the unique characteristics of the Shipibo art.  All in all, this is simply a travel journal covering the superficial events of a journey in the Third World.gets around to telling us about the unique characteristics of the Shipibo art.  All in all, this is simply a travel journal covering the superficial events of a journey in the Third World.	2005-09-02
89772:US	51917998	R3RU6W1QQ6SBD7	053435582X	167486629	Gender: Crossing Boundaries	Books	2	8	8	N	N	Gender with an Attitude	This book is an introductory textbook about many facets of gender.  Topics covered include: the definition of gender, theories of gender, gender and the body, gender and development, gender and relationships, gender as social performance, gender and sexuality, gender and education, gender and work, gender and health, gender and the media, and gender and power.  At the beginning of each chapter is an outline of section headings, followed by a list of learning objectives.  Immediately before the main text of each chapter is a short anecdote for thought or discussion involving the topic featured in the chapter.  Interspersed in the text are boxes with \\"Critical Thinking Challenges,\\" designed to get readers to stop and ponder claims or issues more deeply.  There are also feature boxes with short articles about specific topics in more depth or across cultures.  Technical terms appear in bold print in the text and are defined at the bottom of the pages on which they appear. At the end of each chapter is a summary section, with main points listed as bullet statements, and suggestions for using the InfoTrac online subscription resources.  The chapters do not have study questions or suggestions for written exercises.  End material includes references (50 pages!), a name index, and a subject index.  The book is illustrated with numerous graphs, illustrations, and photographs.<br /><br />The depth and quality of research that went into this book are highly commendable.  The author summarizes an enormous quantity of research, providing both a historical perspective and an update on current developments, and synthesizing the varied results into coherent chunks for those who are just beginning to explore the field.  Some topics are presented more evenly than others, however, and in the area of development of gendered behavior, Galliano seems to be strongly in the camp of those who claim that such behavior is mostly learned through cultural practices rather than due to genes and hormones.  In general, Galliano comes across as having a very strong feminist agenda that drives her manner of presenting the research, rather than striving towards a more objective approach.<br /><br />I'm glad that I wasn't required to read this book for a course, because Galliano's style, particularly in the opening chapters, is excruciatingly condescending, to a degree that I have never seen before in a textbook.  She starts off the text by arguing to readers that they don't know anything about gender, and what they do know is wrong.  While that may be true to some extent, a more positive pedagogical approach would be to focus on what the readers actually do know, and build up from there, rather than tearing their self-confidence apart from the beginning.  The style of writing is uneven-in some chapters, the text is very matter of fact, simply reporting the research and synthesizing the results in a professional manner.  In other chapters, Galliano slips into informality, denigrating both the research and the readers, as for instance, when noting inconsistent experimental results, she writes \\"Uh-oh! At this point you may need to transform that rigid safety helmet [which she has earlier warned readers that they will need when reading about this research] into a more flexible critical thinking cap.\\"  As a mature reader, I find such comments particularly off-putting, and I suspect teenage readers might find them even more so.<br /><br />In addition to these stylistic problems, the text also contains a number of inaccuracies, or possible typos.  For example, the text states, \\"gonadal development in males is affected whenever an X chromosome is present.\\"  Well, that's true, since an X chromosome is virtually always present (except in 0Y males).  Perhaps what was meant here was a second X chromosome, but that's not clear from the text.  Galliano goes out of her way to include material about cultures beyond American borders for this text, but she is not entirely familiar with the cultures, since she has comments such as \\"Under Islam, women lost the right to choose their own marriage partner, to manage their own property, and in some societies, the right to obtain divorce.\\"  A little more research into the history of Middle Eastern cultures would show that women didn't lose these rights under Islam, since they never had them in that region of the world before Islam.  In fact, Islam expanded rights for women living in this region beyond what the pre-Islamic culture allowed them; for example, under Islam, women were given the right to turn down perspective marriage partners, and to inherit at least some property.  Hopefully, such mistakes will be corrected in any future editions.<br /><br />In sum, while the coverage of material in the book is extensive and presented well in some places, in other places, the bias in presentation is inappropriate.  If you are looking for a textbook to use for an introductory course on gender, this one might make a potentially good resource to dip from, as long as you avoid the more heavily biased chapters (unless, of course, your intent is to present that bias as fact).  And if this book has been assigned reading for a class, take it with a large grain of salt.familiar with the cultures, since she has comments such as \\"Under Islam, women lost the right to choose their own marriage partner, to manage their own property, and in some societies, the right to obtain divorce.\\"  A little more research into the history of Middle Eastern cultures would show that women didn't lose these rights under Islam, since they never had them in that region of the world before Islam.  In fact, Islam expanded rights for women living in this region beyond what the pre-Islamic culture allowed them; for example, under Islam, women were given the right to turn down perspective marriage partners, and to inherit at least some property.  Hopefully, such mistakes will be corrected in any future editions. <br /> <br />In sum, while the coverage of material in the book is extensive and presented well in some places, in other places, the bias in presentation is inappropriate.  If you are looking for a textbook to use for an introductory course on gender, this one might make a potentially good resource to dip from, as long as you avoid the more heavily biased chapters (unless, of course, your intent is to present that bias as fact).  And if this book has been assigned reading for a class, take it with a large grain of salt.	2005-08-26
90387:US	51917998	RZWJWIJJEAWR2	0132337193	96126841	Economics of Women, Men and Work	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Economic theory of work and gender	This book is an overview of how gender and race play into neo-classical economic theory.  The authors discuss both macro- and micro-economic models, and how differences in gender and race can be explained using the models.  Topics covered include: gender roles and economic development (in the US), division of labor within the family, allocation of time between the household and the labor market, consequences of women's employment for the family, differences in occupations and earnings, joblessness, and sex differences in other countries.  The discussion is confined primarily to the US economy, although the theoretical aspects should be applicable elsewhere, and there is a brief section at the end of the book examining a few economic aspects of gender in developing countries, the U.S.S.R, and Sweden.  Although the text generally focuses on gender differences, racial differences are also discussed with almost every topic.  For the most part, the book examines only the economics of married heterosexual women, and women who are single or partners in same-sex unions fall outside the scope of the discussion.  More in-depth explorations of theoretical issues are provided in appendices which follow several of the chapters.  Each chapter includes a brief list of suggested readings.  End material consists of an author index and a subject index.<br /><br />The authors strongly advocate for women engaging in the labor market rather than restricting their work to household activities.  They argue that this will likely maximize household income both in the short run and the long term, and provide a much better chance of financial viability for a woman and her children in case her marriage dissolves through divorce or widowhood.  They also point out national policies, such as limited subsidies for childcare, that tend to make working in the labor market less attractive for American women.  They point out that the families of women who take part in the labor market do not suffer adversely, and that the benefits for the family outweigh the costs.<br /><br />Rather than simply reporting the facts about gender differences relating to economics, the authors seek to explain motivations and behaviors through economic theory.  The book is filled with charts of supply-and-demand-type \\"indifference curves\\", designed to show how a typical person feels about participating in the labor market, and at what point he or she will join or leave the market according to possible financial returns.  These charts are used both to explain labor market statistics, and to argue the authors' point that women should participate in the labor market.  I found the explanatory approach interesting in its attempts to provide a theoretical basis for observed gender differences. However, I'm not entirely convinced that the assumptions that the theory is based on are correct.  For example, the authors assume that couples will strive to maximize their income, but is this the real goal that couples are working towards?  What about couples who seek to maximize their satisfaction in their family relationships, or their children's development, or those whose financial goal is only to earn \\"enough\\" and not to spend a single superfluous minute in the labor market?  And what about those who participate in the labor market solely for the joy of it, and not for the financial returns?  The possibility that some individuals might have different goals that would affect their participation in the labor market would probably complicate the models found here so much as to make them unworkable.  The models must be made simple in order to work, but since the real world is more complex, it's not clear how relevant the simple models are for the real world.  In general, the authors tend to overlook or downplay cultural factors that may have stronger effects on economic behavior than the theoretical economic factors that they discuss.  Nevertheless, the book provides an interesting starting pointfor analyzing gender differences in economic behavior, and it also provides an excellent overview of research on women's labor market participation in the US through the 1980s.int for analyzing gender differences in economic behavior, and it also provides an excellent overview of research on women's labor market participation in the US through the 1980s.	2005-08-26
90814:US	51917998	R32GWMH5WVJ9O7	067179695X	738400357	The State of the U.S.A. Atlas: The Changing Face of American Life in Maps and Graphics	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The US at a Glance	This book presents a graphical portrait of US demographics and political issues in the 1990s.  Specific topics covered include population, immigration, manufacturing, the environment, labor, income, taxes, health, marriage, literacy, gay rights, crime, punishment, religion, and military spending. The main portion of the book is organized into two-page spreads, consisting of a color-coded map of the US adorned with graphical symbols showing where the topic under discussion is widespread or highly popular.  On the margins of the pages are further graphical representations of related subtopics, and the legends for the main maps (which can sometimes be hard to find).  Following the map section is a shorter section of tables, summarizing the same data from the maps state-by-state in numerical form.  The last quarter of the book is devoted to presenting notes and sources in a manner similar to an annotated bibliography, where the order of presentation corresponds to the topics found in the map section.<br /><br />The graphical presentation of information in this book is very creative as well as highly informative.  Readers can learn a tremendous amount of information about the culture of the US through studying these maps, and have much to discuss.  (For this reason, the book would make an excellent background text for an intermediate or advanced ESL discussion course.) With the 2004 election on my mind, I kept looking for patterns in this book that would correlate with the infamous red and blue states.  No, the distribution of personal income, taxes, and health do not correlate at all with the old red and blue.  There is one map that is close, the one showing states with civil rights laws for gays.  From this matching, we can surmise that it was indeed the liberals who voted against Bush in the 2004 election.  It would have been much more fun to find some more correlations, say in the area of literacy or crime, but that's all there is.  In general, the book, while slightly dated at this point, is very well designed, and well worth reading.htly dated at this point, is very well designed, and well worth reading.	2005-08-26
91306:US	51917998	R2NGGTOR8QT71Q	B0006QO6WG	519628179	The Morses: The history of a Vermont farm family	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting Bit of Local History	This book is a short account of the history of the Morse family of Calais, Vermont, and of maple sugaring in New England.  The book begins with the history of the Morse family, from their first ancestor in America (Samuel Morse, who arrived in 1635), to the first to settle in Vermont (James Morse, born 1782, and settled in Calais in 1814).  It continues through Harry Morse, who founded the Morse Farm sugar shack and store in East Montpelier, and his son Harry \\"Burr\\" Morse, who runs the Morse Farm today.  It also provides a brief overview of developments in the maple sugaring industry, from Native American traditions of slashing the trees with axes to modern practices using permanently installed plastic tubing.  Much of the book focuses on Harry and Dorothy Aiken Morse and their early lives together.  Harry describes daily life when he was a child growing up in Calais, and Dorothy relates how she trained as a schoolteacher and met Harry while teaching in Maple Corner, a village of Calais.  At the end of the book is a short section of recipes featuring maple syrup and other Vermont delicacies.  The book is illustrated with a selection of black-and-white photographs and drawings.<br /><br />The book is an easy read, providing an interesting insight into the history of a prominent local family, as well as an idea of everyday life in rural Vermont during the early part of the Twentieth Century.  The recipes include some Vermont classics such as raised doughnuts (for sugar on snow) and sour cream maple pie.  While the book describes the procedure for making bean-hole beans, unfortunately, Dorothy wasn't quite willing to part with her secret recipe for bean-hole beans in this book! Guess we'll just have to get our bean fix at the annual Morse Farm bean hole dinner.	2005-08-26
91470:US	51917998	R1KSL4BU4MKXNT	1561003875	623146318	The Kennedy Women	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Story of a Dynasty	This book relates details of the lives of the many Kennedy women, from Bridget Murphy Kennedy, born in Ireland, through Caroline Kennedy, John F. Kennedy's daughter.  Leamer describes the rise of the Kennedy family from the hard luck tales of newly-arrived Irish immigrants through the dynasty years in Hyannisport.  While the book presents many of the historical events of the lives of political Kennedys, the viewpoint is always that of the women, and how these events affected their lives.  We hear about the Kennedy women's efforts in John's political campaigns, or how the stress of campaigning contributed to Jacqueline's miscarriages.  Leamer includes both women born as Kennedys and women who became Kennedys by marriage.  Much of the book, however, focuses on two women who married into the Kennedy family, Rose Kennedy and Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.  The book is also about the family structure of the Kennedy's and portrays some of the sinister aspects of Joseph Kennedy as well as the positive traits.<br /><br />Many times I've heard the Kennedy family referred to as a \\"dynasty\\".  However, it has never been clear to me why an American family would be called a dynasty.  In this book, Leamer describes why this group of people is more than simply a family.  He describes the relations between Joseph Kennedy's children, and how Joseph and Rose's parenting style contributed both to their children's closeness and competitiveness, and how their own aspirations were realized in the accomplishments of their children.  He also relates the difficulties that Jacqueline had as an outsider in establishing a position in the family.  The book provides a unique viewpoint on the political events of the 1950s and 1960s whose legacy continues to permeate our society.	2005-08-26
102763:US	51917998	R2CCEMH0CYT42H	0917102126	403544176	A Guide to Preserving Food for a 12 Months Harvest: Canning, Freezing, Smoking, and Drying; Making Cheese, Cider, Soap and Grinding Grain; Getting the Most from Your Garden (Ortho book series)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Decent Brief Guide	This book is a concise collection of ideas for gardening and preserving food for year-round food self-sufficiency.  It includes chapters on garden planning, canning, freezing, drying and smoking, juicing, cheese making, grinding grains, gathering wild fruits, camp foods, decorative drying, and kitchen planning.  There are quite a number of interesting and useful recipes, from rose petal syrup to candied cactus to acorn bread.  In addition to recipes, the authors provide instructions for canning and for building special equipment like a food dehydrator, or a fruit press.  The book is illustrated throughout with color photographs.  End material includes a glossary and index.<br /><br />Although the book includes some tips from a grower in Michigan, much of the material comes from families in California, so there is quite a bit of advice for mild climate Western gardeners, and not much information for gardeners who face extremely cold conditions.  The gardening advice seems mostly sound, although it doesn't stick to strictly organic methods, and includes a few recommendations for chemical applications.  The food preservation techniques focus on canning, freezing, and drying, and barely mention root cellaring.  Nevertheless, if you only have room on your shelf for one slim volume about food preservation, this is a good choice because it includes information on such a wide variety of topics.	2005-08-19
103104:US	51917998	R2SRSLJ7JKCH2	0375402004	285087058	Killing the Dream: James Earl Ray and the Assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.	Books	4	1	6	N	N	James Earl Ray's Story	This book outlines the events leading up to the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., together with the subsequent investigations and controversies.  Posner, trained in law, has hunted down the details of the case used as evidence in the various legal hearings over the years.  He explains why King happened to be in Memphis that fateful day, and describes who King had been with and what they had been discussing in the minutes before the assassination.  He also provides an extensive profile of James Earl Ray, from his parents' stormy marriage, to Ray's first arrests and incarcerations, to his jail break and attempts to flee the country prior to murdering King.  Posner traces Ray's movements, both those substantiated through independent records and witnesses, as well as Ray's own accounts, written to fulfill media contracts to pay for his legal defense.  Posner goes on to describe the various legal proceedings concerning Ray and the King case, and the development of conspiracy theories regarding the King assassination. He makes it clear, however, that any reasonable examination of the evidence points to Ray as the sole assassin.<br /><br />A particularly disturbing aspect of King's assassination is that from the time of Ray's first detention in England following the murder, Ray's defense lawyers were to receive their compensation from the sale of Ray's story.  Thus, Ray and his lawyers had every motivation to develop a sensational story to explain the damning evidence.  Indeed, the more sensational, the better, since increased sales of the story would mean higher fees for the defense team.  Posner describes here how the lawyers who agreed to defend Ray on these terms also had little motivation to provide a strong defense once the matter of the fees had been settled, and how this led to the decision to push for a plea bargain instead of a jury trial.  From Posner's telling, it's unclear whether Ray was a schizophrenic who believed in his own tales, or a pathological liar who was especially skilled at weaseling out of crimes with preposterous stories.  What is clear, though, is that Ray was extremely racist, so full of hate for Blacks, that while serving a prison term prior to shooting King, he wouldn't accept a transfer from a high security prison to the lower security prison farm because it would mean having to live and work with Blacks for the first time in his life.  With this in mind, it is unfathomable that Ray was able, through construction of his stories, to convince members of the King family and other prominent African Americans of his innocence.  Aside from the King assassination itself, that's the real tragedy of this story.<br /><br />Posner does a remarkable job of uncovering what really happened in the case and pointing out the inconsistencies with Ray's claims.  Posner details some of the more recent claims of conspiracy theorists, showing how they are completely unsubstantiated by military records and interviews with supposed witnesses.  In some cases, Posner overstates himself, declaring that certain of Ray's actions are \\"clear evidence\\" when, at best, they might \\"strongly suggest\\" his motivations.  Nevertheless, the story is well told and provides an informative account of this important episode in American history.cal liar who was especially skilled at weaseling out of crimes with preposterous stories.  What is clear, though, is that Ray was extremely racist, so full of hate for Blacks, that while serving a prison term prior to shooting King, he wouldn't accept a transfer from a high security prison to the lower security prison farm because it would mean having to live and work with Blacks for the first time in his life.  With this in mind, it is unfathomable that Ray was able, through construction of his stories, to convince members of the King family and other prominent African Americans of his innocence.  Aside from the King assassination itself, that's the real tragedy of this story. <br /> <br />Posner does a remarkable job of uncovering what really happened in the case and pointing out the inconsistencies with Ray's claims.  Posner details some of the more recent claims of conspiracy theorists, showing how they are completely unsubstantiated by military records and interviews with supposed witnesses.  In some cases, Posner overstates himself, declaring that certain of Ray's actions are \\"clear evidence\\" when, at best, they might \\"strongly suggest\\" his motivations.  Nevertheless, the story is well told and provides an informative account of this important episode in American history.	2005-08-19
103403:US	51917998	ROPMA5QFQCLT3	1400013976	234822966	Fodor's Hawaii 2005 (Travel Guide)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Good for Drivers	This book is a decent guide for trip planning in Hawaii.  For each island, there is a general introduction to geography, climate, and history, a map, and a listing of greatest places to visit.  Next come suggested itineraries for varying lengths of times, for example, 1 day, 3 days, or 8 days.  The main section of each chapter consists of specific suggestions for things to do and places to stay and eat for localities on the island, together with more detailed maps.  Relative measures of costs for the recommended hotels and eateries are noted, as well as addresses, phone numbers, and web sites where available.  Notes about sports, theater, and shopping are also included.  At the end of the chapters are more tips about such topics as airport arrivals, transfers, and transportation, car rental, and sight-seeing tours.<br /><br />At the end of the book is a collection of articles covering more general information about the state.  This section includes a brief overview covering topics from geology, to mythology, to fashion (the famous Aloha shirt).  Next is a listing of books and films to enjoy before you visit, then a historical chronology, some general travel information about Hawaii (business hours, car rental rules, what to pack, safety tips, taxes, climate, holidays, etc.).  There is also a introduction to Hawaiian phrases, a menu reader, and an index.  Metric conversion tables are printed inside the back cover, and vacation checklists inside the front cover.  There is a set of color plates covering all the islands at the very beginning of the book.<br /><br />One of the particular strengths of this guide when compared to others is that it often provides estimated driving times for routes across the islands or to particular attractions.  This can be incredibly helpful for trip planning, since it gives you a gauge of what activities might be possible to fit into a single day, or how long to allow to get from one place to another.  The suggested itineraries are also quite useful-even if you don't plan to follow them, they do provide a starting point for planning your own itineraries.  While this guide book doesn't specialize in pointing out the cheapest places to stay and eat, there are some possibilities listed for all budgets, and including the web addresses is quite useful.also quite useful-even if you don't plan to follow them, they do provide a starting point for planning your own itineraries.  While this guide book doesn't specialize in pointing out the cheapest places to stay and eat, there are some possibilities listed for all budgets, and including the web addresses is quite useful.	2005-08-19
104229:US	51917998	RCCFT7E1HAKWT	0375405658	190088526	The Greatest Generation (Tom Brokaw)	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Ordinary Heroes	This book is a collection of short biographies of ordinary and famous American who came of age during World War II.  In his introduction, Brokaw explains that he developed an enduring respect for people of this generation upon visiting battle sites of the Normandy invasions with American veterans.  He wrote this book as a tribute to all members of the World War II generation, both those who served their country in uniform, and those who supported the war efforts at home.  Included are profiles of veterans wounded in the war, describing how they learned to deal with their handicaps once they returned home.  Also included are stories of war widows and women who entered the workforce during the war, as well as stories of African American soldiers who served in segregated units and Japanese Americans who were interned in camps in the Southwest.<br /><br />Brokaw explores the concept of \\"hero\\", noting that it is so often ordinary people who perform heroic acts, and that to him, all of the people profiled here are heroes.  (Perhaps for that reason, all of the stories told here are success stories, and Brokaw doesn't delve into what happens when ordinary people find themselves unable to deal with the extraordinary stresses of war.  In this book, the veterans all came back and led settled family lives, without seeming to suffer inordinately from psychological traumas, without divorce, alcoholism, or physical abuse.)  What comes through clearly is that this was a unique generation, who shared a common experience of crisis of immense magnitude with their peers around the world that no generation before or since has had to face.	2005-08-19
109107:US	51917998	R273I2JAYT0S2X	0394509870	716310743	Falkland Road: Prostitutes of Bombay : photographs and text	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Documentation of an Unimaginable World	This book contains a collection of photos of ordinary life on Falkland Rd, the redlight district of Bombay in the late 1970s.  Mark introduces the book with a brief text describing some of the difficulties that she had to overcome in order to take the pictures.  Like any tightly-woven neighborhood residents were reluctant to let an outsider take their pictures while they were engaging in aspects of their daily life.  Before Mark could begin to get some candid shots, she needed to approach the residents and earn their trust.  Because she took the time to get to know her subjects, she is able to portray them not as sex objects, but as people with emotions, desires, hopes, and needs.<br /><br />Mark portrays many aspects of the prostitutes' world.  She includes photos of the transvestite prostitutes as well as the female prostitutes, their children, their husbands and other family members.  In her photos, we see the range of prostitutes from the lowest price girls in the cages at street level to the ones working in \\"luxury\\" accommodations far above the street.  Mark relates some of the heart-rendering stories of the prostitutes, how they were kidnapped or sold into prostitution by desperate parents; others were born into the business.  This is a remarkable book not only for its photographs capturing the soul of the human condition, but also for its documentation of the sex industry in one corner of the developing world.	2005-08-16
128553:US	51917998	RSH2BWU1K4OSK	0553529013	633811695	Lazy B: Growing Up on a Cattle Ranch in the American Southwest	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Ranch Stories	This book contains the childhood memoirs of Justice O'Connor and her brother, H. Alan Day.  They grew up on a ranch in Arizona in the 1930s and 1940s where their lives revolved around cattle, horses, and water.  In this book, they describe what ranch life was like during those times.  They tell stories about the cowboys who worked on their ranch, the roundups they participated in, and some of their favorite animals.  Growing up on the ranch entailed a lot of hard work, and their father, a perfectionist himself, kept very high standards for his help and his children.<br /><br />O'Connor and Day begin the book by tracing the history of the ranch, how it came into their family, and how their family developed it over the years.  A central issue in the book is water, how they established and maintained their wells, how water sources were used in determining grazing rights on public lands, and how they managed water use over the years.  Towards the end of the book, they discuss the changes brought about by the mushrooming of land use regulations.  They were quite disturbed by seeing the offices of land management, once staffed by 2-4 people, eventually being filled by hundreds of employees, all needing tasks to engage in, and many lacking practical experience on the land.  As they describe it, the overstaffing and over-regulating of the land management agency made it much more difficult for ranchers to make ranching pay in the Southwest.<br /><br />The stories of ranch life are absolutely fascinating for the window they provide on this part of American history.  This is very much a book about cowboys and cattle, and not a book about O'Connor's professional life, so there is very little material included about her higher education or career.  Instead, we come to see her as a simple ranch girl, married in a barn, with seating on hay bales covered with canvas.  Who would have thought that a kid growing up on a ranch an hour from town, who had no running water or other amenities, would eventually find herself serving as a justice on the Supreme Court?  While the book is quite engaging, it can be a little repetitive in places, perhaps because of the dual authorship.  The political commentary about the land management agency can also be a little heavy-handed, given the general nature of the rest of the book.  In general though, as a storehouse for memories of cowboy life, this is a great resource coming from a somewhat unexpected source.amenities, would eventually find herself serving as a justice on the Supreme Court?  While the book is quite engaging, it can be a little repetitive in places, perhaps because of the dual authorship.  The political commentary about the land management agency can also be a little heavy-handed, given the general nature of the rest of the book.  In general though, as a storehouse for memories of cowboy life, this is a great resource coming from a somewhat unexpected source.	2005-08-05
128920:US	51917998	R3OFYBMHC2157T	087451259X	121407339	The Quest for Eternity: Manners and Morals in the Age of Chivalry. [Orig. pub. as The Age of Chivalry.]	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Medieval History	This book is a history of Medieval Europe.  It is divided into 4 sections: a prologue covering the formation of Medieval Europe following the collapse of Roman Civilization, a section on daily living conditions for peasants, aristocracy, and the church at the time of the Millennium, a section on the agriculture revolution and the changes it made possible following the invention of the heavy plow, a section on later Middle Ages and Crusades, and an epilogue covering the period just before the Renaissance.  Sources are cited in end notes.  Additional end material includes a list of dates, a bibliography, and an index.<br /><br />While the book does include material about the living conditions for different types of people, including commoners, the subtitle, \\"Manners and Morals in the Age of Chivalry\\" is a bit overstated.  Most of the book consists of a straightforward historical account of the Middle Ages in Europe, including major political and technological developments.  Wood does explain how some of the rules of chivalry evolved, but this is not the central material in the book. Overall, the book is quite informative and well researched, although the prose can be a little dry in places.	2005-08-05
128946:US	51917998	RKFLZXZ9BSFF1	0930356136	597186826	Putting It Up With Honey: A Natural Foods Canning and Preserving Cookbook	Books	4	37	39	N	N	Natural Food Preservation	This book is a guide to preserving fruits and vegetables while avoiding processed sugar.  Although the book refers to honey in the title, not all the recipes use honey, but they all seek to preserve food in natural ways, without sugar or other questionable additives.  The book begins with a short introduction describing canning methods and equipment.  Then there are chapters on jams, preserves, butters and conserves, canned fruits, pickling,  and dried foods.  An appendix contains useful charts with amounts of food to be grown and canned for a family of six, a calendar showing which produce items are likely to be in season when, and some tips for canning.  Specific canning tips for different techniques are also included in each of the chapters.  There is an index.<br /><br />I've tried several of the recipes in this book and found them to be straightforward to follow, and the end results have been tasty.  Geiskopf includes a nice selection of berry recipes and some for rhubarb as well.  Her recipes for dips to be used with dried foods as alternatives to sulfur preservation are particularly useful. However, the introductory material about canning can be a bit confusing.  The explanations and instructions are a little hard to follow.  Fortunately, clear descriptions of canning methods can be found in numerous other books, so if you use this book just for the recipes and get your canning information elsewhere, you should have no problems.	2005-08-05
129867:US	51917998	R3JG5X7BOIJV9U	0394586530	587730741	Preserving Today (Knopf Cooks American)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Reference	This book contains hundreds of recipes for jams, conserves, and pickles.  The book begins with a short introductory section covering canning, freezing, and storing preserves.  It also includes a market guide, with tips on how to select the best fruits and vegetables for canning.  The following chapters cover jams, jellies, and marmalades, fruit butters and spreads, pickles and relishes, chutneys and condiments, sauces, and recipes using preserves.  There is also a short chapter on making fruit-flavored alcoholic beverages.  Interspersed with the recipes are short informative or whimsical quotes from classic cookbooks or literature, as well as some very useful tips. End material includes a glossary, a source list, a bibliography, and an index.<br /><br />Lesem points out that with today's smaller families, nobody wants dozens of jars of anything anymore, so her recipes are designed to create small batches with a minimum of fuss.  Where feasible, she includes microwave instructions as well as stove instructions, and notes which method makes more sense for the recipe.  Each recipe includes suggestions for the best method of storage (freezing, refrigeration, or canning, and for how long).  Lesem also notes which recipes are easily doubled or halved, and what kinds of substitutions or variations work well.  In addition to recipes for standard fruits such as strawberries and tomatoes, she also includes many recipes for lesser known fruits, such as quinces and guavas.  Lesem states that her recipes use far less sugar than usual; she recommends only the minimum required for safe food preservation so that the flavor of the fruit remains sharp.<br /><br />Lesem's goal is to achieve superior taste and/or produce preserves that cannot be (easily) purchased.  Thus, she focuses on small yields using small amounts of fruit, which can often be found in the grocery store or farmer's market.  The book is clearly not aimed at home gardeners trying to deal with massive amounts of produce all coming ripe at once.  Nevertheless, by doubling (or even quadrupling) her recipes, or by trying several different recipes for the same ingredients, you should still be able to preserve your bumper crops with this book.  Overall, I've found her recipes to be easy to follow, and her tips about individual recipes to be invaluable.roduce all coming ripe at once.  Nevertheless, by doubling (or even quadrupling) her recipes, or by trying several different recipes for the same ingredients, you should still be able to preserve your bumper crops with this book.  Overall, I've found her recipes to be easy to follow, and her tips about individual recipes to be invaluable.	2005-08-05
142135:US	51917998	R36KG6YGSNGDNE	0786702494	343980705	Working Sex: An Odyssey into Our Cultural Underworld	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Observations of a Voyeur	This book contains notes, observations, and anecdotes that Macy collected in her research  pushing the limits of accepted sexual behavior in America.  Topics include escort services, masturbation, pornographic film stars, strippers, dominatrixes, and transsexualism.  The book includes a short section of black-and-white plates, mostly professionally-produced PR photographs of people interviewed in the text.  End material includes a short list of sources and suggested readings and an index.<br /><br />Reading the book jacket, I expected the book to be about the sex industry.  I figured that Macy would describe the lives of prostitutes, how they got started, the risks they take, and their attitudes toward their work, as well as the customers.  I'm just guessing, but I would think that a demographic division of the sex industry might show prostitutes comprising the majority, with strippers and others as smaller sub-groups.  But Macy doesn't go near any admitted prostitutes.  Instead, she confines her exploration into prostitution to the relatively safe areas of escort services and the sideline work of strippers.  She does this because her main method of research is to enter the world of the sex industry as an undercover reporter.  She doesn't want to actually engage in any sex work herself, so she has to satisfy herself with the information she can glean from being interviewed to work at an escort service, or from interviewing interviewers from the escort services.  To get material about strippers and transsexuals (a topic that isn't exactly relevant for a book on the sex industry), she befriends stars or neighbors, attending many strip clubs and even a support group meeting for transsexuals.<br /><br />Macy pushes the limits of acceptability in more ways than one.  In social science research, credible researchers follow the doctrine of informed consent.  Before collecting any material, no matter no how innocuous, they first ask permission from subjects and inform them how the information will be used.  As a reporter, Macy seems never to have been exposed to such practices.  Instead, she takes the undercover approach, which may be appropriate for exposing unknown or hidden social issues, but is very questionable when dealing with people's private (or so they thought) behavior.  She describes collecting material for her \\"research\\" while hiding under a dominatrix's bed during a D&S session, terrified that the customer might discover her presence, and how irate a customer became when he had told his fantasy to her under the guise of her being a dominatrix's apprentice when she was later introduced to him as a writer.  Although Macy attempts to make her observations more credible by citing a few academic writers, her general research method is entirely beyond the pale.<br /><br />Macy's style of writing is, on the whole, incoherent.  Instead of sticking to a story or pushing an argument to its conclusion, she jumps around from anecdote to topic, sometimes hinting at what happened rather than telling the facts.  Her first chapter, about escort services, never actually reports her findings, but rather presents a disjointed tale of doing the research and publishing it in a magazine.  Perhaps her intent was not to actually report research on the sex industry, but to titillate and turn readers on.  If so, the text also fails in this respect.them how the information will be used.  As a reporter, Macy seems never to have been exposed to such practices.  Instead, she takes the undercover approach, which may be appropriate for exposing unknown or hidden social issues, but is very questionable when dealing with people's private (or so they thought) behavior.  She describes collecting material for her \\"research\\" while hiding under a dominatrix's bed during a D&S session, terrified that the customer might discover her presence, and how irate a customer became when he had told his fantasy to her under the guise of her being a dominatrix's apprentice when she was later introduced to him as a writer.  Although Macy attempts to make her observations more credible by citing a few academic writers, her general research method is entirely beyond the pale. <br /> <br />Macy's style of writing is, on the whole, incoherent.  Instead of sticking to a story or pushing an argument to its conclusion, she jumps around from anecdote to topic, sometimes hinting at what happened rather than telling the facts.  Her first chapter, about escort services, never actually reports her findings, but rather presents a disjointed tale of doing the research and publishing it in a magazine.  Perhaps her intent was not to actually report research on the sex industry, but to titillate and turn readers on.  If so, the text also fails in this respect.	2005-07-29
142154:US	51917998	RNTUOOWGA7DOH	0674654633	247041110	Paris Sewers and Sewermen: Realities and Representations	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Symbolism of the Sewer	This book is a history of the Paris sewer system, replete with the symbolism entailed by the sewer through the ages.  It is divided into 3 parts: the sewers and their development, sewermen, and the sewermen's union.  Reid traces the development of the sewer system from the times when waste collected in open pools, through the draining of the pools into the Seine and the eventual laws requiring private buildings to connect to the sewers.  From almost the very beginning, the sewers needed workers to clear the sediment away and keep the sewage flowing, and Reid explains how the work of the sewermen, as the laborers in the sewer are called, changed over the course of time.  Reid also discusses the sewermen's union and the efforts they made not only to assure the security and well-being of the workers, but also to take care of the workers' family members.  The book is illustrated throughout with black-and-white photographs and drawings.  Sources are referenced through extensive end notes.  There is also an index.<br /><br />For Reid, the history of the sewer is found not only in the tunnels themselves and their dates of construction, but also in literature, particularly Victor Hugo's Les Miserables, and other similar works where the sewer has powerful symbolic meanings.  While the book is quite interesting from the point of view of public health and city planning, it can be hard to follow at times for those who are not fluent in French, or not thoroughly familiar with Eighteenth and Nineteenth Century French literature and history.  Reid leaves many quotes and key terms untranslated from French, assuming that the reader will be able to understand their meanings precisely.  He often dates developments not with specific years, like 1825 or 1840, but by referring to such and such a date of the Second Republic, which is fine for those who have a good grounding in French history, but not always accessible to the general reader.  Overall though, the book provides a very interesting perspective on an area of history that is often overlooked.resting perspective on an area of history that is often overlooked.	2005-07-29
142812:US	51917998	R1YGZN591XGN33	0262620936	310425535	The Sexual Brain (MIT Press)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	One Long Argument	This book summarizes research on sexual behavior and the brain for general readers.  Topics covered include: why most organisms use sex for reproduction, pre- and post-natal hormones and sexual development, brain structure, hormones and sexual behavior, instinct and courtship behaviors, hormones and behavior during pregnancy, sexual dimorphism in behavior and brain structures, sexual orientation and genetics, and gender identity and hormones. Research cited in the book involves a variety of organisms, from yeasts to birds, from rats to humans. End material includes sources and suggestions for further reading, a glossary and an index.<br /><br />LeVay's style is informal to the point of being flippant.  For example, in a discussion pointing out the importance of a mothering practice amongst rats for future sexual behavior (licking the anogenital region to promote urination), LeVay launches into a discussion of whether the practice is uncouth, contributing to our feelings of revulsion towards rats.  He goes on to point out that even attractive animals can have unattractive behaviors, such as koala mothers who feed their offspring feces.  In a book of this nature, considering a normal animal behavior in a subjective light such as this is inappropriate, and emphasizing it by going off the topic to an unrelated behavior in another animal, that isn't even related to the main topic at hand (sexual behaviors) is going way overboard.  LeVay may consider such an approach humorous, but it takes away from the credibility of the remaining material.<br /><br />Rather than present a simple collection of facts about hormones, behaviors, and the brain, there is a central, underlying argument, and each chapter builds toward this argument, that there is a hormonal, if not genetic explanation for homosexual behaviors in humans.  The evidence of hormonal effects on animal behavior is very clear, and the examples that LeVay provides are quite interesting.  I still come away from the book with the feeling however, that I would have preferred LeVay to present his argument more explicitly from the beginning of the book rather than taking such an implicit (and almost sneaky) approach.e book with the feeling however, that I would have preferred LeVay to present his argument more explicitly from the beginning of the book rather than taking such an implicit (and almost sneaky) approach.	2005-07-29
142886:US	51917998	R10K8UT05XSP3I	0375402810	408123412	Still Me	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Story	In this book, Christopher Reeve recounts the events his life both before and after his accident that left him paralyzed.  He takes through the events that led up to him entering into the horse race, his preparations on the day of the race, and the accident itself.  He describes his long recuperation in the hospital, where he had to struggle to learn to breathe and most importantly, to look at life differently.  He also looks back on his life, tracing the main incidents in his acting career, from teenage amateur roles through starring on the big screen.<br /><br />Reeve reveals much about his inner feelings during the period of adjustment following his injuries.  He tells us how became aware that he would have to start relying on the help of others just to accomplish the bare necessities of life, such as breathing, and how it was the love of friends and family that pulled him through.  He touches on varied topics, from near-death experiences to health insurance reform to the relationship between father and son.  I gained a lot of respect for Reeve after reading this book-anyone can play a role in the movies, but it takes a real superhero to accomplish all that he did after such a devastating accident.	2005-07-29
152794:US	51917998	R145K8P516S67N	0395641691	584892597	Spell of the Tiger: The Man-Eaters of Sundarbans	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Biology and Mythology	This book relates some of the what the author learned about the tigers of the Sundarbans in her visits to the area in the 1990s.  The Sundarbans is the remote forested region lying across the Bangladeshi-India border where the River Ganges flows into the Bay of Bengal.  In this region, the Ganges is not a distinct river body with a single flow of water, but rather a river delta, with islets and branches that seem to change course almost daily.  This changing water flow is not the only reason why this region, located in one of the most populous areas of the world, remains virtually free of human habitation.  As the author describes, the tigers of the Sundarbans seem to protect the forests from human habitation or exploitation with their mythic ferocity.  Unlike tigers anywhere else in the world, these tigers actually seem to prefer hunting humans, whose senses are retarded, flight is slow, and defenses meager.  As a result, only the truly desperate or foolhardy venture into the forests where these tigers roam.<br /><br />In this book, Montgomery describes what she found during several visits to the Sundarbans looking for tigers (mostly on the Indian side of the border, with a few excursions into Bangladesh).  She was not only interested in seeing tigers however, but also in talking to local residents about their experiences and beliefs about the tigers.  Indeed, this book is as much about folk-beliefs as it is about tigers.  Montgomery describes age-old practices of tiger worship, and interviews people who had witnessed or survived tiger attacks.  In the book, she travels extensively with a man who makes his living in the forest, whose family members gather honey or cut wood.  Through her association with him and his family, Montgomery is able to peer into their world of beliefs about the tiger.  She describes how people not only fear but respect the tiger, and consider it the protector of the forests.<br /><br />Several years ago, I traveled on a large private tour boat that meandered south from Khulna to the Bay of Bengal through the Bangladeshi Sundarbans.  Of the twenty people on the tour, most were Bangladeshi professionals working overseas, who had returned to their homeland for vacation.  On deck, we were treated to breathtaking vistas of wild landscapes, filled with alligators, snakes, and eagles but no people.  At a research station on the Bay of Bengal, we disembarked to walk amongst the mangroves and watch the knee-high barking deer gather around a watering hole.  We also took journeys on a country boat, a small fishing boat that can be paddled or poled by a single oarsman up and down the small creeks.  We hiked through the forest reserve and marveled at the fresh tiger prints shown us by our guide.  Never once, even while we were in the narrow creeks on the country boat or walking in the tall grass at the reserve were we afraid of tigers.  Then we met a group of 50 college students on a trip from Khulna in the reserve.  Walking through the forest, they had armed guards posted both in front and at the back of the group.  We were more afraid of the guards, with their lackadaisical attention to their loaded weapons, than of any tigers!<br /><br />Had we read this book before leaving on our trip, however, we might have been more concerned about tigers.  From Montgomery's descriptions, the tigers are always waiting in the forests, able to snatch off anyone at any moment, able to swim silently and attack passengers even on large launches.  Our guides, however, told us that it was all a myth, that we were in no danger from tigers.  But the local people, the college students, would not venture into the forests without armed guards.  Montgomery seems to have done a good job of portraying local beliefs about the tigers, but are the tigers truly this ferocious?  Or were we, as affluent foreign tourists told not to worry just to keep us content and make us want to return?  The mystery of the Sundarbans endures...our boat that meandered south from Khulna to the Bay of Bengal through the Bangladeshi Sundarbans.  Of the twenty people on the tour, most were Bangladeshi professionals working overseas, who had returned to their homeland for vacation.  On deck, we were treated to breathtaking vistas of wild landscapes, filled with alligators, snakes, and eagles but no people.  At a research station on the Bay of Bengal, we disembarked to walk amongst the mangroves and watch the knee-high barking deer gather around a watering hole.  We also took journeys on a country boat, a small fishing boat that can be paddled or poled by a single oarsman up and down the small creeks.  We hiked through the forest reserve and marveled at the fresh tiger prints shown us by our guide.  Never once, even while we were in the narrow creeks on the country boat or walking in the tall grass at the reserve were we afraid of tigers.  Then we met a group of 50 college students on a trip from Khulna in the reserve.  Walking through the forest, they had armed guards posted both in front and at the back of the group.  We were more afraid of the guards, with their lackadaisical attention to their loaded weapons, than of any tigers!   <br /> <br />Had we read this book before leaving on our trip, however, we might have been more concerned about tigers.  From Montgomery's descriptions, the tigers are always waiting in the forests, able to snatch off anyone at any moment, able to swim silently and attack passengers even on large launches.  Our guides, however, told us that it was all a myth, that we were in no danger from tigers.  But the local people, the college students, would not venture into the forests without armed guards.  Montgomery seems to have done a good job of portraying local beliefs about the tigers, but are the tigers truly this ferocious?  Or were we, as affluent foreign tourists told not to worry just to keep us content and make us want to return?  The mystery of the Sundarbans endures...	2005-07-22
153216:US	51917998	R17LCDLSVWUO1K	0395684005	858502326	Groundwork: A Gardener's Ecology	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Gardening Basics	This book contains a collection of gardening essays by biologist and gardener Roger Swain.  The book is organized around the theme of planting and maintaining a healthy garden.  Topics covered include: landscaping by deletion, fertilizing with compost and mulch, irrigation, erosion, plastics and the garden, noise pollution and hearing damage, seed saving, dealing with pesky mammals, root cellaring, and gardening education.  End material includes a list of resources and references about the topics mentioned in the text and an index.<br /><br />Swain writes in an accessible and informal style.  The essays are both informative and interesting.  For instance, in his chapter on fertilizing, he compares the relative values of adding chemical fertilizers, animal manure or mulch hay to the soil.  I was pleasantly surprised to find out that mulch hay, which is easily obtainable in my area, not only adds organic matter, building soil structure, but also has significant fertilizing value of its own.  Other essays include useful information about such topics as gray water, recycling plastic seedling planters, and constructing fences to keep woodchucks out of the garden.	2005-07-22
153496:US	51917998	R1SFU7O2OFTS97	0198577400	135029416	The Study of Instinct	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Ethology Classic	This book is a review of scientific understanding of animal behavior circa 1950.  Tinbergen was the leading animal behavior researcher of the times, and he prepared this general summary of scientific research on instinctive behavior in animals originally as a set of lectures given at Columbia University in 1947.  Topics covered include: ethology, behavior as a reaction to external stimuli or internal factors, and the development, adaptiveness and evolution of behavior.  Tinbergen was well known for his research on herring gulls and stickleback fish, and he uses many examples from his research on these species in this book.  The other animals featured are mainly fish, birds, and insects, with very few mentions of mammals.  Tinbergen purposefully steers clear of human behavior, since human behavior so often involves learning, which he classifies as a higher process, a secondary modification of innate mechanisms, which cannot be understood until the primary innate mechanisms have been studied in humans.  The book is illustrated throughout with black-and-white drawings and photographs, often reproduced from the original scientific works cited in the text.  End material includes an extensive bibliography, an author index, and a subject index.<br /><br />Tinbergen's style can be rather dry, but he does a masterful job at tying in many different research results to construct a coherent picture of the broader topic.  With behaviorism at its peak in the 1950s, this book must have been highly influential.  Many of the behaviors that Tinbergen describes would be ideal examples for the behaviorism school: an animal is exposed to a stimulus and reacts automatically in a predictable fashion.  Even some apparently random behaviors can be predictable given the genetic program of the animal.  Where the book differs from strict behaviorism is that Tinbergen does not claim that all behavior can be explained by stimuli of some sort.  He takes great care to point out that higher processes, such as learning displayed by humans, cannot even be studied (let alone explained by behaviorists) until all innate behaviors are well understood.  Not only does Tinbergen review research results in this text, but he also provides some pointers for how to conduct behavioral research.  For example, he warns researchers not to focus on the question of \\"What can I do with this method?\\", but rather on \\"What method is best suited for studying this behavior?\\".  Although the research in this book is dated, the book is still well worth reading for developing a background understanding of early research on instinctive behaviors in animals, as well as understanding some of Tinbergen's approach to research in ethology.sses, such as learning displayed by humans, cannot even be studied (let alone explained by behaviorists) until all innate behaviors are well understood.  Not only does Tinbergen review research results in this text, but he also provides some pointers for how to conduct behavioral research.  For example, he warns researchers not to focus on the question of \\"What can I do with this method?\\", but rather on \\"What method is best suited for studying this behavior?\\".  Although the research in this book is dated, the book is still well worth reading for developing a background understanding of early research on instinctive behaviors in animals, as well as understanding some of Tinbergen's approach to research in ethology.	2005-07-22
153880:US	51917998	REKS98P5RC2C8	155821321X	819772448	Earthly Pleasures	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Light reading for gardeners	This book is a collection of essays by Roger Swain, biologist and gardener.  The essays all originally appeared in Horticulture magazine during the late 1970s and early 1980s.  They are loosely arranged around the gardening calendar year, from maple sugaring season to ripening of tomatoes to mistletoe.  Other topics covered include parsnips, classification of species, insect seed dispersal, tree bark, shade-loving plants, roadsalt, woodchucks, dung beetles, attracting wild bees, duckweed, lightning, night-blooming plants, fungus and roots, sauerkraut, squirrels and nuts, fungus and food rot, and snow cover.  End material includes suggestions for further reading and an index.<br /><br />The essays are short and written in very informal style-in fact, the entire book can be read cover-to-cover in a few hours.  Mixed in with Swain's personal experiences in the garden are some tidbits of useful information, like how to maximize the sugar content in one's parsnips, or the nutritional value of duckweed.  Altogether, it makes for light yet worthwhile reading.	2005-07-22
153927:US	51917998	R1A8S8KGG2MX4X	0553526618	818206855	On Mexican Time: A Home in San Miguel	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Refuge in Mexico	This book describes how Cohan and his wife Masako became attached to a small town in the Mexican hills.  Cohan and his wife had been living in Los Angeles, a world so devoid of reality as Cohan describes it, that as a novelist, he felt he could invent any world he cared to and it would fit equally well on the landscape.  He and his wife were tired of the tension of 24-hour security systems and drive-by shootings in their neighborhood in LA.  They took a vacation in a Mexican town called San Miguel that had no airport, and which they could only reach by bus.  In San Miguel, that found themselves opening up once again to life and each other.  They returned to San Miguel again and again, soon spending more time there than in LA.  Before long, they sold their house in LA and relocated to San Miguel permanently.  In San Miguel, they rented accommodations at first, but eventually purchased an abandoned house near the center of town and fixed it up to suit their tastes.  In this book, which spans the course of almost 15 years, Cohan describes how he and Masako were drawn in by the spell of Mexican village life, and why they choose to make their life so far from the land of their births.<br /><br />As a novelist, Cohan enriches his text with descriptive phrases.  Instead of describing buildings and plazas as they lay on the ground, he also tells us stories about the people who populate the village.  He takes us to visit the marketplace and local festivals.  The essential tension of the book is provided by the home remodeling chapters-home remodeling in Mexico, as in any other location in the world, is a long, dirty, noisy, expensive process, not to be undertaken lightly.  It's great to read how Cohan and his wife have found a community where they can feel at ease and a sense of belonging.  But did he really have to go across the border to find this, though?  While it may be hard for long-term denizens of LA to believe, there are also places in the US where real life goes on, where people play an active role in developing their communities.  While these places may not provide the exotic adventure of dealing in an unfamiliar language and with unknown cultural practices, they may be filled with innumerable characters worth meeting, and they have the advantage of being easier to adjust to.  One also need not worry about \\"ruining\\" them with too much immigration of outsiders and having to move on as a result.on, where people play an active role in developing their communities.  While these places may not provide the exotic adventure of dealing in an unfamiliar language and with unknown cultural practices, they may be filled with innumerable characters worth meeting, and they have the advantage of being easier to adjust to.  One also need not worry about \\"ruining\\" them with too much immigration of outsiders and having to move on as a result.	2005-07-22
154010:US	51917998	RJX09VC0CS62F	0674485254	628445870	Journey to the Ants: A Story of Scientific Exploration	Books	5	58	59	N	N	All About Ants	This book is an exploration into all aspects of ant life, written for general readers.  Holldobler and Wilson, who wrote the massive scientific reference volume, The Ants, felt that there was also a demand for a less formal book about ants that ordinary readers might enjoy reading from cover-to-cover.  In this book, they describe not only the lives of ants and ant colonies, but also how their own interests in ants developed.  The book covers such topics as the dominance of ants, the life and death of the colony, the colony as a superorganism, ant communication, relations between ants within and between colonies, ancient ants, ant parasites, army ants, and ants and the environment.  They also include a brief section on how to study ants.  The book is illustrated both black-and white photos and sets of color photographic plates.  There is an index, but surprisingly, there is no bibliography or recommendations for further reading; presumably, their main recommendation would be to consult their reference volume, The Ants.<br /><br />The first chapter in the book, The Dominance of Ants, stood out the most for me.  In this chapter, the authors note that ants are overwhelmingly the dominant species on earth.  By weight, the world ant population equals the world human population, and represents half or more of the world's insect biomass.  These ten thousand trillion creatures are spread throughout the world's habitats, from the Amazon to Finland, from deserts to rain forests.  With that in mind, the study of ants is clearly well-worth taking up.  Why are ants so populous and successful?  As the authors argue, one reason is their social nature.  They put the survival of the colony above their own individual survival.  Nevertheless, through quirks in their reproductive behavior, this cooperative behavior still maximizes the potential for their own genetic material to be passed on to future generations.  Just because they are social, however, doesn't mean that all is peaceful within the colony between individual ants, as Holldobler and Wilson point out.  These topics and many others are described in language that is very accessible to general readers.  I found myself not only better informed about ants after reading this book, but also with a much greater sense of respect for such remarkable creatures.l within the colony between individual ants, as Holldobler and Wilson point out.  These topics and many others are described in language that is very accessible to general readers.  I found myself not only better informed about ants after reading this book, but also with a much greater sense of respect for such remarkable creatures.	2005-07-22
154144:US	51917998	R2TNUW4YLIDDZG	0553525204	632913221	Under the Tuscan Sun	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Bonding with a Place	This book describes how Mayes bonded with an old house in Cortina, Italy.  Mayes grew up in the Southern US, where the bonds to place are strong.  Nevertheless, she found herself living in San Francisco where she had work and friends, but lacked a strong sense of place.  She was in the habit of spending her long vacations from her academic job in Italy.  At first, she traveled throughout Italy, but eventually found herself drawn to Cortina, a small town in Tuscany.  It was here that she fell in love with an old villa and farm on the outskirts of town.  In this book, she describes how she and her husband restored the villa and made a second life for themselves on the farm.<br /><br />Much of the first part of the book describes how Mayes found the villa and struggled to restore its beauty and bring the water, electrical, and heating works up to date.  Mayes also begins to learn what it means live in the country, how water does not magically come out of the faucet in inexhaustible supply.  Once the remodeling is finished, she is free to travel once again, and she describes some of the other sights around Tuscany.  She describes typical scenes of daily life, from village festivals to the yearly olive harvest.  Mayes is very fond of good food and cooking, so interspersed through the text are menus and recipes of great food that she enjoyed on her estate.	2005-07-22
154157:US	51917998	R26D1TQ0RKCECI	0395500915	239719429	Ruth Page's Gardening Journal	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Light Reading	This book is a collection of essays by Ruth Page, gardener, editor, and radio personality.  Page prepared countless of these gardening essays for her radio program \\"The Gardening Journal\\".  In her three and a half minute slots, she would describe a topic and get listeners fired up with a new solution or a new way of looking at their gardens.  In this book, many of her early essays have been collated, edited, and loosely organized around the gardening year, extending from seed catalogs, to flowering trees, from vegetable varieties to Christmas cactuses.  Topics covered include: starting seeds indoors, repotting house plants, planting trees, fertilizing, buying transplants, choosing flowers such as perennials or aromatic flowers, herbs and potpourri, insect pests and benefactors, saving seeds, harvest time, putting foods by, bulbs, extending the season, and fall garden cleanup.  Since this is an informal book, there are no references or index.<br /><br />I've been a great fan of Page's for years.  Her enthusiasm for gardening that one can hear in her voice on her radio spots is absolutely infectious.  However, I was a little disappointed to see that the essays, at least the ones included in this collection weren't as substantial as I thought they would be.  Her general approach to gardening, with its emphasis on organic techniques, is sound.  But in some places, she seems to recite old beliefs instead of checking the facts.  For instance, in her section about spinach, she refers to eating the \\"iron-rich leaves daily\\".  But a check with a nutritional guide would reveal that spinach, while it contains some iron, isn't the most iron-rich green she could grow.  In addition, the high oxalic acid content of spinach interferes with the absorption of calcium.  She would be better-off growing amaranth, with twice the iron content as spinach, and no oxalic acid.  Even butter-head lettuce and watermelon have more iron than spinach.  In another section of the book, she cites a Cornell University study noting that pepper transplants seem to produce more peppers if they don't have peppers or flowers on them when transplanted.  Hmmm...that may be true in the Ithaca area or in Page's zone 5 region where there is a relatively long growing season.  But here on the zone 3-zone 4 border, things seem different.  I started pepper seedlings from seed in early March, and transplanted them outdoors on June 1.  Now it's mid-July and there's still no sign of flowers on my seedlings.  Fortunately, I also purchased some pepper seedlings in June that already had flowers and tiny peppers on them.  We've already enjoyed 3 peppers from these plants, and more peppers are on the way.  As for my own seedlings, I'll be very lucky to get a few egg-sized peppers from them by first frost in late August-early September.  It's clear that peppers need to be much more mature in this zone than those started in March in order for them to produce at all, and having or not having buds or peppers on them is less important than their overall maturity at transplant time.  Real world gardening seems to be more complex than the simple summary Page has portrayed in the essays.Cornell University study noting that pepper transplants seem to produce more peppers if they don't have peppers or flowers on them when transplanted.  Hmmm...that may be true in the Ithaca area or in Page's zone 5 region where there is a relatively long growing season.  But here on the zone 3-zone 4 border, things seem different.  I started pepper seedlings from seed in early March, and transplanted them outdoors on June 1.  Now it's mid-July and there's still no sign of flowers on my seedlings.  Fortunately, I also purchased some pepper seedlings in June that already had flowers and tiny peppers on them.  We've already enjoyed 3 peppers from these plants, and more peppers are on the way.  As for my own seedlings, I'll be very lucky to get a few egg-sized peppers from them by first frost in late August-early September.  It's clear that peppers need to be much more mature in this zone than those started in March in order for them to produce at all, and having or not having buds or peppers on them is less important than their overall maturity at transplant time.  Real world gardening seems to be more complex than the simple summary Page has portrayed in the essays.	2005-07-22
154297:US	51917998	R3C83IY1QRXML6	0451089073	479080317	The Complete Book of Pickles and Relishes	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Pickling Compendium	This book is a virtual encyclopedia of information about homemade pickles.  Levinson, a comedy writer, was passionate about pickles.  He grew up not far from the Heinz pickle factory in Pittsburgh, and spent his youth touring the factory in order to get the free samples at the end of the tour.  This book represents almost 10 years of gleanings of information about making pickles and a large collection of recipes.  The book begins with a 60-page section of introductory material covering a variety of pickle lore.  The material includes a reprint of an article Levinson published in the Coronet, July 1957 about the history of pickle manufacture in America.  It goes on to cover commercial pickle terminology, sizes of pickles, liquid content of pickle jars, pointers for home picklers, equipment needed, a list of weights and measures for garden fruits and vegetables, a description of ingredients (cucumbers, salt, sugar, water, vinegar), a list of states with the best and worst water for pickling, and a dictionary of seasonings.<br /><br />Following the introduction are recipes.  These are organized in sections including: herbed and spiced vinegars, marinades, curing (cucumbers, sauerkraut, olives, other vegetables), quick process recipes, dill pickles, mixed pickles, mustard pickles, relishes, sweet pickles, fruit pickles and spiced fruits, pickled vegetables, pickled eggs, meat and fish, catsups, bottled sauces, chutneys, mince meat, fruit butters, refrigerator pickles, diet pickles, international pickles, and recipes using pickles or relishes as ingredients.  At the end of the book is a short section with pointers on showing your pickles at fairs and agriculture competitions.  There is also an index for those desperate to find a pickling recipe for an overly-abundant garden vegetable.  And just to keep the text on the light side, humorous news articles involving pickles are interspersed in the text.<br /><br />The variety of pickle recipes in this book is absolute amazing.  Not only are there dozens and dozens of recipes for pickling cucumbers, and just about every other common garden vegetable, but Levinson has even found not one but two recipes for Jerusalem artichokes.  The recipes are clearly written, and each includes specific instructions for the most appropriate packing and sterilization method.  My only complaint is that in the tips and pointers section at the beginning of the book, Levinson has collected tips from a variety of sources, and sometimes these tips are contradictory.  Instead of trying the tips for himself and deciding which source is correct, he seems to have simply reprinted the tips and it is up to the reader to decide which ones to follow and which to ignore in case of contradictory advice.  But overall, it's hard to imagine a more in-depth and complete book on the topic for the home pickler.amazing.  Not only are there dozens and dozens of recipes for pickling cucumbers, and just about every other common garden vegetable, but Levinson has even found not one but two recipes for Jerusalem artichokes.  The recipes are clearly written, and each includes specific instructions for the most appropriate packing and sterilization method.  My only complaint is that in the tips and pointers section at the beginning of the book, Levinson has collected tips from a variety of sources, and sometimes these tips are contradictory.  Instead of trying the tips for himself and deciding which source is correct, he seems to have simply reprinted the tips and it is up to the reader to decide which ones to follow and which to ignore in case of contradictory advice.  But overall, it's hard to imagine a more in-depth and complete book on the topic for the home pickler.	2005-07-22
165800:US	51917998	RMYDLRS9WVIYW	0393041182	859689918	In a Desert Garden: Love and Death Among the Insects	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Story of a Front Yard	This book relates some of the observations that Alcock made when he converted his grassy lawn in front of his Arizona house from grass to desert flora.  In his neighborhood, residents dutifully maintained wide swaths of green grass through continuous fertilizing, watering, cutting, and trimming.  They controlled pests and weeds through spraying, but if they missed one chemical treatment or watering, unwanted species would begin to take over.  When Alcock first moved to the area, he went along with local custom for several years.  Finally, he asked himself why he was working so hard to maintain grass at such high economic and environmental costs, when it was really the desert surroundings that he enjoyed.  It took some effort to kill his lawn and replace it with a yard filled with thriving desert species, but maintenance eventually became much easier and cheaper once he had landscaping fit for the local environment.<br /><br />As an entomologist, Alcock greatly enjoys observing the insect life in his new yard.  In this book, as well as describing how he transformed his yard, he also describes such insects as ladybugs, praying mantises, earwigs, desert termites, paper wasps, bees, grasshoppers, inchworms, whiteflies, mayflies, and aphids.  The book is arranged into chapters by topic, including chapters on insects that control pests, compost lovers, insects that sting, camouflage experts, alien insects, and migrating insects.  In reading the book, I was struck by how fascinating the lowly insect species can be.  The book is written in an informal style appropriate for general readers.  It is illustrated with black and white drawings by Turid Forsyth.  Scientific sources are listed in a bibliography at the end of the book (but not referenced directly in the text), and there is an index.	2005-07-14
165933:US	51917998	R1SRPMKAL6P3EC	0801493153	84768915	Wasp Farm (Cornell Paperbacks)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Little-Known World	This book provides an informal introduction to some aspects of wasp observation.  The author, Howard Evans, was an entomology professor at Cornell University.  While working at Cornell, he lived on a small farm outside of the town of Ithaca and spent much of his spare time in the summers observing wasp behavior at his farm.  In this book, Evans describes some of his findings during his observations.  The book is presented in the form of short essays around various topics of wasp life.  The essays cover such information as the wasp family, wasps and evolution, egg-laying, wasp nests, wasp prey and methods of transporting prey, attracting wasps, spider wasps, great wasps, sand wasps, bee wolfs, and social wasps.  The book is illustrated with plates of black-and-white photographs.  Suggested readings for further information appear at the end of each chapter, and there is an index.<br /><br />When I first picked up this book, I expected to learn all about the pesky wasps that construct paper nests in our woodshed.  Evans explains that these are social wasps, and while he does provide a chapter about social wasps, his main interest is in the different types of solitary digger wasps, which the majority of the book is about.  Evans seems to see them everywhere, not only on his farm in Ithaca, but also when he was growing up in the Midwest, and in the desert as well.  Although they are quite common, I had never noticed them before reading this book, and I certainly knew nothing of their particular feeding and egg-laying behavior.  Evans book is quite informative, although I wish in places it had gone into greater detail and been a little less informal.	2005-07-14
166572:US	51917998	RWCTY4YLGZ38Q	1879371626	599805840	Case Closed	Books	5	12	21	N	N	Fact after Fact	This book provides an interesting excursus into 1960s history.  Posner takes us through the facts of the JFK assassination, with the purpose of convincing us that Oswald was the sole killer and that there was no conspiracy.  He begins with an in-depth biography of Oswald, from his parents' stormy relationship, through his military service, his defection to the USSR, and his return to the US with his Russian wife.  He explains how Oswald was a crack shot with quite a few screws loose.  Oswald's wife was afraid of his violent nature and knew he had already attempted an assassination before Kennedy was shot.  Posner traces every detail of the last few days of Oswald's life, noting how Oswald got his rifle into the book depository and managed to elude capture during the first few hours after the assassination.  Posner also traces Jack Ruby's life and his whereabouts just before he murdered Oswald.  He discusses ballistics, acoustic, and medical evidence, noting how in the end, it is all consistent with Oswald as a single shooter.<br /><br />As I first started reading this book, I found some of the attention to detail a bit annoying. \\"Why is he weighing the story down with such petty details?\\" I wondered.  But later, Posner introduces some of the conspiracy theories, which are refuted by the seemingly petty details.  If you're not an expert at all of the conspiracy theories, you may likewise find some of the details tedious, but they do become useful in the end.  Overall, the book is very well researched and provides a detailed accounting of the Kennedy assassination.	2005-07-14
175748:US	51917998	R14Z637NO6VPD9	0743505271	792383442	Dalai Lama My Son Unabridged	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Long Ago and Far Away	This book relates some of the details of the life of Diki Tsering, the mother of the Dalai Lama.  It begins with her childhood in early Twentieth Century Tibet, where she was born into a peasant family.  She tells stories of her life as a child, explaining the special relationship she had with her grandparents, and describing the festivals in great detail.  She describes her wedding ceremony as a 17-year-old bride, and her new life as stranger and household worker in her husband's family home.  As a peasant, Diki Tsering was not rich, but she also was not from the bottom rungs of society, since her family always had a few servants or paid laborers working for them.  When one of her children, Lhamo Dhondup, was recognized as the Fourteenth Dalai Lama, her life changed dramatically.  The family was moved to Lhasa, were they became acquainted with aristocratic society and were given large land holdings and servants.  As the mother of the Dalai Lama, she was then able to live the life of an aristocrat and travel widely.  However, she was also subject to the dangers of Tibetan and international politics, which eventually led to her flight from Tibet in 1958.<br /><br />The beginning of the book is quite fascinating, with its descriptions of customs and peasant practices in rural Tibet.  Her later descriptions of life in Lhasa and travels are not quite as detailed or engaging, but they do provide interesting documentation of Tibetan history at a crucial point in time.	2005-07-07
176118:US	51917998	R1EBBGA0RQA323	0743521099	920202523	Losing my Mind: An Intimate Look at Life with Alzheimer's	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Terrifying Insight	This book recounts the downward decline of the mental state of an Alzheimer's sufferer.  At the age of 57, DeBaggio was a successful businessman who ran a plant nursery out of his home.  Some annoying problems recalling scientific details of his plants led him to ask his doctor if there might be something wrong with his brain.  He consulted with a neurologist who subjected him to a battery of tests, which all pointed to early onset Alzheimer's.  In this book, DeBaggio describes his diagnosis, treatment, and losses of mental acuity.  One aspect of Alzheimer's is that memories from childhood return with new vividness, so interwoven in this story are the memoirs of DeBaggio's life, from the meeting of his parents to his birth, childhood, and earlier career as a journalist.  Juxtaposed with these details are descriptions of his present mental state, his meetings with doctors and struggles with daily tasks, as well as lengthy informative quotations about Alzheimer's research.<br /><br />The prose floats from one time period to another, repeating itself often with slight variations.  But instead of being tedious, this comes across as being an extremely honest portrayal of a person with failing memory who is struggling to communicate.  DeBaggio's life story in itself is fascinating and very well-told.  The insights the book provides on what it is like to live with Alzheimer's are most informative and riveting.	2005-07-07
176228:US	51917998	R2QJHFF77JFV5P	0671678094	742065760	Ravens in Winter	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Exploration in Ethology	This book provides an introduction into how questions of animal behavior are asked and answered.  Heinrich, a professor of zoology and naturalist noticed that crows seemed to call others to join them when they discovered large animal kills in the winter.  Such behavior would seem to be against the crows' best interest, since an individual crow could perhaps have more food if it kept it all for itself.  This set Heinrich's curiosity afire, which impelled him to embark on a multi-year study of crow behavior so that he could determine why the crows seem so eager to share their bounty.  In this book, presented as a daily journal, Heinrich details his project, from the original posing of the question through final publication of the results.  He describes how he gathered downer cows, transported them to the study site, and how he observed crow behavior for hours and days on end at feeding sites.  He also describes how he trapped and banded crows so that he could record the behavior of individuals over time.  In the end, he builds a very solid case for the idea that juvenile crows recruit others to overwhelm resident crows who would otherwise defend their territory (and food) from outsiders.  The book is illustrated with a set of black-and-white drawings done by Heinrich.  End material includes appendices with numerical and graphical analyses of the study data, an extensive bibliography, and an index.<br /><br />What takes this book beyond simple ecological description is Heinrich's careful inclusion of his methodology.  He is very much a teacher, so he takes great care to explain how he came up with his hypotheses about the recruiting behavior, which in the beginning numbered not one but nine.  He discusses scientific methodology, the right way and wrong way to observe natural phenomena, as well as background material about ravens.  He also notes how any one piece of data or type of data do not in themselves lead to a conclusion, but that the final result in this type of research must be constructed by examining all the data, and seeing how they all point in the same direction.  I found one comment particularly fascinating.  Somewhere along the way, I had been told that animals do not have the mental capacity to experience emotions, or that if they do experience emotions at all, such emotions are simple and limited.  But Heinrich states \\"Birds are primarily emotional beings, and their responses to emotional drives are probably much more direct than ours are, since human reactions are tempered by reason.\\" When one considers animal behavior in this light, much becomes clear, yet many more questions arise.of research must be constructed by examining all the data, and seeing how they all point in the same direction.  I found one comment particularly fascinating.  Somewhere along the way, I had been told that animals do not have the mental capacity to experience emotions, or that if they do experience emotions at all, such emotions are simple and limited.  But Heinrich states \\"Birds are primarily emotional beings, and their responses to emotional drives are probably much more direct than ours are, since human reactions are tempered by reason.\\" When one considers animal behavior in this light, much becomes clear, yet many more questions arise.	2005-07-07
176797:US	51917998	R30GDUQBCWWQ3M	0375405038	504166475	All Over But the Shoutin'	Books	3	10	22	N	N	Giant Chip	This book contains some of Bragg's experiences on his way to winning the Pulitzer Prize.  Bragg was born into a poor family in rural Alabama.  His father was an abusive drunk, which eventually led his mother to take shelter in her parents' small house, where she raised her three sons.  Bragg describes how these early experiences of deprivation and abuse colored his view on life, giving him the drive to strive for professional success as a means of proving to the world that it had not defeated him.  He gives all credit for what he has become to his momma, who sacrificed her own dreams to help him survive.  Bragg also recounts details of his career, which took him from Alabama to Haiti to Harvard University and the New York Times and finally to the Pulitzer Prize.<br /><br />Much of Bragg's story is his struggle to build a self-image that he can be satisfied with.  He describes the painful miseries of class, and of the prejudices shown to those who come from the wrong side of the tracks.  He tells how he grew up ashamed of his identity and background, and how he often wished he could be somebody else.  Although parts of the story are engagingly told, many parts of the book do not resonant with me.  Being born into a poor family does not in itself make one a member of the lowest class.  Attitude and upbringing play very important roles.  My grandfather was a career hod carrier-that is, when he could find work.  Frequently drunk and verbally abusive, he raised his four children in Skunk Hollow, as the rich folks in town referred to his run-down neighborhood.  But he never missed an opportunity to remind his kids that \\"You're just as good as anybody else.  It's not how much money you have or how you're dressed but who you are that counts.\\"  The kids all took this message to heart and went on to make something of their lives, never embarrassed about their background or feeling subordinate in any way to others, and certainly never asking for pity.  Bragg's family, especially his father's relatives, based their pride on racism, on putting others down, which seems like a very weak foundation for building a self-identity.  Bragg comes across as having a huge chip on his shoulder, of wanting to parade his miserable childhood in front of others as a means of eliciting sympathy and perhaps guilt from those who started off with more privileges.  In Haiti, he began to get an inkling of how many luxuries his early life actually had, when judged on a global scale.  But he's still struggling to incorporate these lessons into his outlook.ally his father's relatives, based their pride on racism, on putting others down, which seems like a very weak foundation for building a self-identity.  Bragg comes across as having a huge chip on his shoulder, of wanting to parade his miserable childhood in front of others as a means of eliciting sympathy and perhaps guilt from those who started off with more privileges.  In Haiti, he began to get an inkling of how many luxuries his early life actually had, when judged on a global scale.  But he's still struggling to incorporate these lessons into his outlook.	2005-07-07
182589:US	51917998	R3JTBZNMD49IT	0723200084	861755853	Wayside and Woodland Fungi (Wayside & Woodland)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Nice Pictures	This book is an introduction and guide to mushroom identification geared towards British readers.  It begins with 6 short chapters that provide a general introduction to the subject, covering fungi and man, nature and naming of fungi, amateur mycology, collection and identification of fungi, ecology and habits of fungi, and classification of fungi.  At the end of this section are two keys for identification, one focusing on spore color and the other on microscopic characteristics.  The remainder of the book is organized according to the first key, with separate chapters for each group of fungi. Within this section, individual species receive a short textual description, about a paragraph in length.  The descriptions generally include information about where the fungus can be found, size, shape, smell, and taste.<br /><br />The descriptions refer to the color plates featuring watercolors by Beatrix Potter, who was an avid amateur mycologist in her day.  Indeed, Findlay notes in the introductory material that Potter painted these pictures with the hope of someday illustrating a reference book such as this one, but never managed to complete the project herself. Findlay was so taken with the illustrations that he determined to use them in this book so that they could be appreciated by a wider audience.  Of course, not all of the species described in the book are illustrated, and Potter's collection of polypore illustrations was not as rich as her illustrations of mushrooms, so they are supplemented with black-and-white photos in the polypore chapter. End material for the book includes a bibliography, a glossary, and an index.	2005-07-02
182609:US	51917998	R18H3X7EFC4DIV	0671045199	635179965	Accordion Crimes	Books	3	1	2	N	N	An Exercise in Character Development	This book describes the life of a single accordion and all the people who came to own and play it over the years.  At the end of the Nineteenth Century, an Italian accordion maker fashioned the accordion with his own hands.  He brought it to the US when he immigrated in search of the good life.  In the years that follow, the accordion becomes the property of musicians from a wide variety of ethnic groups, including African Americans, Germans, Mexicans, Poles, French Canadians, Cajuns, and Basques.  Each episode in the life of the accordion is treated in a free-standing short-story or novella.<br /><br />In this book, Proulx works with character-development.  She builds from the stereotype of each ethnic group, filling out the details to make a character and story.  Unfortunately, none of the characters (with the exception of the accordion itself) are very sympathetic, and it can be a relief in some cases to see them meet their demise.  And the details of the demise can be overly gruesome.  Her musical descriptions, on the other hand, are very engaging.	2005-07-02
182611:US	51917998	R9CZ4PZBKYDDE	1558001123	997521973	They Made a Monkee Out of Me: Davy Jones Reads His Autobiography	Books	3	11	23	N	N	Hey, Hey, It's a Monkee	This book tells the story of Davy Jones, the first Monkee.  Jones was born into a working-class family in Manchester, England.  He wasn't fond of studying, but his talent for acting was obvious from a very early age.  Having failed the entrance exams for further education, he left school at the age of 15, which was common at the time.  His interests were then divided between a career as a horse jockey or as an actor.  It wasn't long though, before he got a chance to play the part of The Artful Dodger in Oliver.  When the cast was asked to tour the US, he went along.  After the run of Oliver, he was still in demand for various acting jobs, and it wasn't long before he was signed up to appear in Don Kirchner's concept for a new TV show featuring an up-and-coming rock group.  In this book, Jones details some of the behind-the-scenes stories of how the Monkees was conceived and what became of the group in later years.  He also describes how the fame and fortune that came with becoming a TV and music star affected his personal life.<br /><br />Jones is a great story teller, but he does miss some of the big picture.  He describes how, from the start, the Monkees were intended to be a commercial phenomenon, getting publicized on TV, and serving as a musical front for selling albums whose material, written by best-selling song writers, was carefully selected for its commercial viability and performed by top session artists.  Apparently, once the group began achieving the expected levels of success, they forgot that they had been auditioned and hired to act in a role written by someone else.  They had dreams of actually becoming a rock group rather then simply playing the role of one, and they wanted to take over creative control of their music.  Once they had wrested creative control from the studio, their popularity plummeted, their albums didn't sell, and they lost their TV show.  Even Jones doesn't quite seem to comprehend what happened-in response to critics who complained that the Monkees didn't play on their first album, he argues that TV doctors and lawyers aren't expected to actually perform operations or argue cases.  But then, those same TV doctors and lawyers don't open and run clinics in their name or pretend to provide services to actual clients, whereas these actors, who were portraying musicians on TV, had their names on a musical product that was sold to fans as if they had actually created the music themselves.  Nevertheless, for Monkee fans, this story is well-told, and can be an engaging diversion.  But the song included in the audio edition of this book is definitely NOT destined to be a hit single.ned that the Monkees didn't play on their first album, he argues that TV doctors and lawyers aren't expected to actually perform operations or argue cases.  But then, those same TV doctors and lawyers don't open and run clinics in their name or pretend to provide services to actual clients, whereas these actors, who were portraying musicians on TV, had their names on a musical product that was sold to fans as if they had actually created the music themselves.  Nevertheless, for Monkee fans, this story is well-told, and can be an engaging diversion.  But the song included in the audio edition of this book is definitely NOT destined to be a hit single.	2005-07-02
182664:US	51917998	R35UXBF748APN8	0898151694	554388595	Mushrooms Demystified	Books	5	62	62	N	N	Nicely Done	This book is an essential desk-reference for mushroom enthusiasts.  The extensive introduction includes articles on \\"fungophobia\\" (fear of eating wild mushrooms), mushroom biology, mushrooms and the environment, scientific names and classification, mushroom collecting, mushroom identification, directions on how to use keys, mushroom FAQs, LBMs (little brown mushrooms), habitats, and a list of 70 distinctive mushrooms.  This material is followed by a general key to the major groups of mushrooms, and then over 800 pages of mushroom descriptions, organized according to the key, with additional specific keys for each major group.  Brief articles are provided for each individual mushroom species, including scientific name, common names (if available), and descriptive information covering (where relevant) cap, gills, stalk, veil, spores, habitat and edibility.  High quality black-and-white photographs are provided for many (though not all) species.  There is also a section of color plates in the middle of the book referenced by name and page number to the articles in the text.  End material includes articles on mushroom cookery, preservation, and toxins, a dictionary of scientific Latin relevant for mushroom study, a glossary, a bibliography, and an index.  A metric/inch ruler is printed on the back cover as a useful measurement aid.<br /><br />With its varied in-depth articles and large number of species covered, this book is a treasure-trove of information.  It is not quite as visual as other large guides, since not all species have photos, and all the photos in the main text are black-and-white.  This approach forces the user to rely on reading the details of the key, which is a very sound approach to identification.  The first edition of the book was written solely about Californian mushrooms.  In this edition, Arora has expanded his coverage to the continental United States, but he notes that many of his comments about habitat may be more relevant to California residents than others.  The size and weight of the volume make it a bit unwieldy to carry into the field, but it makes a fine reference for study and identification once you've got the mushrooms back home.idents than others.  The size and weight of the volume make it a bit unwieldy to carry into the field, but it makes a fine reference for study and identification once you've got the mushrooms back home.	2005-07-02
182891:US	51917998	R23AL7SJVK77W0	0525161651	400475974	Mushrooms of North America	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Good Field Reference	This book is a good pictorial field reference of North American mushrooms.  At the very beginning of the book, immediately following the table of contents, is a picture key, a description of how to use the keys, a verbal key to the major groups of fungi, and a metric/inch ruler for aid in measurement.  Next comes a general introduction, in which are described the main features of mushroom biology, methods for collecting and studying mushrooms, mushrooms names, seasons for collection mushrooms, edibility and preparation, and mushroom toxins.  The main part of the book consists of the mushroom identification guide, organized according to the key of major mushroom groups.  For each major group, there is a more specific key to identify the exact species.  Each species then has a brief article that includes the scientific name, common names, edibility, tips on culinary preparation (if relevant), textual description, and notes about other similar species.  Most, but not all, the articles are accompanied by high-quality color photographs.  End material includes a very useful illustrated glossary, a textual glossary, a bibliography, and an index.<br /><br />The keys are reasonably clear; however, I must admit that I frequently skip the keys and just flip through the pictures on the chance of finding an immediate answer.  Indeed, since for the gilled mushrooms, the first question in the keys is spore color, the keys can't really be used in the field since you need to take a spore print and wait for the colors to develop before you can use the keys.  The textual descriptions of individual species tend to be rather brief, but seem adequate, nevertheless.  In addition to characteristics relevant for field identification, Miller also includes some information that can only be readily checked in a lab, such as spore size, shape, and chemical staining.  Due to its ease of use and comprehensiveness, this book and the Peterson's Guide by Lincoff are the 2 volumes I am most likely to carry with me when heading out into the wood for a mushroom walk.carry with me when heading out into the wood for a mushroom walk.	2005-07-02
183501:US	51917998	R2XFKSO5XTMKCH	0671675699	151764210	Ragman's Son	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Interesting Tale	This book tells the story of Kirk Douglas, from his humble beginnings in a small upstate New York town to his years in Hollywood.  Douglas was born Issur Danielovitch Demsky, the son of illiterate Jewish immigrants.  As a Jew, his father could not be hired in the mills or other up-and-coming enterprises in town, so the only work available to him was to go about in the street collecting old rags which he sold to paper mills.  Much of this story focuses on the relationship between Issur and his father-Issur felt that his father never gave him recognition, support, or respect.  All his life, he struggled in vain to get a single pat on the back from his father.  In any case, Issur's life wasn't at all tragic.  He showed talent for acting at an early age, managed to get a scholarship to attend college, and then went on to acting school.  It was during summer service in a theatrical company that he chose his stage name Kirk Douglas, which he later took as his legal name.  This book goes on to tell of Douglas' successes on the big screen and marriages and affairs.<br /><br />In addition to the struggle for approval with his father, another recurring theme of the book is Douglas' battles with anti-Semitism.  The book is no great literary classic, but it can be engaging, and does tell an interesting story for Douglas fans.  The details of his early life as the son of poor Jewish immigrants are particularly interesting for the documentation they provide of this little-known chapter of American history.	2005-07-02
201889:US	51917998	R247A16B9IYCO0	0804813159	624964407	The Handbook of Vermont Trees	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Superb Reference	This book is an excellent field book and reference for identifying the trees of Vermont (and other northeastern states).  The authors begin with a description of general characteristics to focus on for tree identification, including leaf outlines, leaf tips, leaf margins, flower parts and shapes, and twig forms.  They then include a brief description and model of how to use a key, which they follow with a detailed key for identification of trees in summer.  Later in the book, they also provide keys for winter identification, and identification of cut wood or lumber.  There is a section of black-and-white photographic plates for identification from bark and a section of drawings from microscopic sections to aid in identification of wood.  End material includes a glossary and index.<br /><br />Individual articles are provided for each common tree in Vermont.  The articles include the scientific name, common names, and a page of black-and-white drawings to aid in identification.  Each article also provides information about habit (form), leaves, flowers, fruit, winter buds, bark, and wood. The articles close with notes, which are general comments about the tree, its uses and folklore.<br /><br />The key and drawings are exceptionally clear and easy to use.  By providing keys for summer, winter, and wood, the authors have made this a comprehensive reference that can be used year-round.	2005-06-16
202022:US	51917998	R1U4VQKE6RQ2YY	0453009050	602681364	Serving In Silence	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Coming of Age Story	This book tells the story of Margarethe Cammermeyer, a woman who challenged the army's regulation against homosexuality.  Cammermeyer was born in Norway but came to the US with her family when she was a small child.  As a teenager, she thought she would become a doctor like her father, but faced with the freedoms of college-life, wasn't able to make the grades.  Instead she found herself drawn to nursing.  An acquaintance got her interested in the challenges and adventure of army nursing, so she gave it a try.  She soon found that army life was an ideal match for her career-oriented nature.  She served with her husband in Vietnam.  When she had children, she was forced to leave the army, for a while, but regulations eventually changed, and she was able to re-enlist as a reservist.  During her long career in the army and national guard, she won many honors.  Her goal was to become a general before she retired.  However, to do this, she needed a top-secret security clearance, which required an in-depth background interview.  It was during this interview that she admitted that she was a lesbian.  Suddenly, the army found it no longer had any use for her skills or experience.  Cammermeyer was flabbergasted at this response, and began a campaign against the regulations which forbid professed homosexuals from serving their country in uniform.<br /><br />The book begins with description of an ugly event that happened on the day Cammermeyer was forced out of the Washington National Guard.  The text in this chapter is so angry, I almost put the book down without reading further because I wanted to read about her life, not her anger.  Fortunately, I kept reading, and found myself quite taken with Cammermeyer's coming of age story.  As Cammermeyer came to adulthood in the early 1960s, young women didn't have a lot of say in running their lives.  They were expected to do what they were told, and what they were supposed to do, like marry, have children, keep house, and leave the career-building for the men.  In trying to play her part, Cammermeyer married, had children, tried settling down on the farm.  But coincident with the women's movement, she noticed that she wasn't satisfied with these actions, and set out to get advanced degrees so that she could push her career into high gear.  Her husband felt threatened and abandoned by her new attitude of independence, and this led eventually to an acrimonious divorce.  After the divorce, Cammermeyer had time to think about what she really wanted and liked in life, and it was at this time that she realized her innate sexual orientation.  Overall the book is well written, and it provides an interesting personal account of the societal changes for women from the 1960s to the 1990s.he career-building for the men.  In trying to play her part, Cammermeyer married, had children, tried settling down on the farm.  But coincident with the women's movement, she noticed that she wasn't satisfied with these actions, and set out to get advanced degrees so that she could push her career into high gear.  Her husband felt threatened and abandoned by her new attitude of independence, and this led eventually to an acrimonious divorce.  After the divorce, Cammermeyer had time to think about what she really wanted and liked in life, and it was at this time that she realized her innate sexual orientation.  Overall the book is well written, and it provides an interesting personal account of the societal changes for women from the 1960s to the 1990s.	2005-06-16
202044:US	51917998	RKTN7WIECF6YM	0674074092	367002617	The Biology of the Honey Bee	Books	5	13	13	N	N	What We Know about Honey Bees	This book is a review of current (as of 1987) research about honey bees.  Topics covered include: origin and evolution, anatomy, development and nutrition, nest architecture activities of worker bees, pheromones, communication and orientation, collection of food, reproduction, mating, and differences between temperate an tropical honey bees.  The book includes numerous black-and-white illustrations, a long-list of references, an author index, and a subject index.<br /><br />Readers will come away from this book with a much greater understanding of these vital insects, encompassing everything from range to communication to gender roles.  The book is written in clear language that is accessible to general readers as well as undergraduate students. Interested readers can use the cited references to learn about specific topics in greater detail.	2005-06-16
202382:US	51917998	R3OM04V91IAK5A	0517163942	886306047	500 Nations: An Illustrated History of North American Indians	Books	5	31	34	N	N	History 101	This book is a grand overview of the history of the native peoples of North America, from the time of first settlement until their ultimate confrontations with European immigrants.  Josephy takes us on a tour of the continent from the Mayan and Aztec civilizations to the Inuits.  For each group of people, he describes their major accomplishments and customary ways of life.  He then traces what happened to the tribes when Europeans determined to take away their lands or resources.<br /><br />Although I thought I knew a fair amount about the history of Native Americans, as I read this book, I became more and more aware of the enormity of my ignorance.  For example, I always wondered before why there were no Native American cities-but Josephy explains that that there were indeed numerous large cities in North America before the arrival of Europeans, but for some reason, most people have never heard of them.  Native American history has been suppressed to the extent that school kids never come to understand Native Americans as having any history at all.  They never hear about the role the Native Americans played in the early wars over the sovereignty of the continent, let alone the policies of genocide set in place in the Nineteenth Century.  It's time that more of this information gets included in general school curricula.	2005-06-16
202422:US	51917998	R162G6VO8OQMSD	1559273682	397524861	Fields and Pastures New: My First Year as a Country Vet	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Master Story Teller	This book relates some of McCormack's adventures as the new vet in a southern country town during the early 1960s.  McCormack grew up on a farm in Tennessee.  His college roommate, a pre-vet major, interested him in veterinary science.  Once he earned his veterinary degree and had a few years of experience under his belt, he set off in search of a town where he could hang up his shingle with an independent veterinary practice.  At the time, Butler, Alabama had no licensed vet, so it seemed like a reasonable place for a new vet to make a start.  In this book, McCormack describes the characters he met, both human and bovine, during that first year in Butler.<br /><br />McCormack is a master storyteller.  With his careful choice of words, he conveys the character of the place with all its color.  While chatting with some locals at a general store, McCormack quipped he went into veterinary rather than human medicine because he didn't like dealing with people.  But he tells us that this is absolutely not true-if there's one skill that a vet must have above all others, it's the ability to deal with people, to understand their needs and character. In this book, McCormack regales us with tales of how he came to learn this lesson.	2005-06-16
202536:US	51917998	R2BWEJCWPP4ZCZ	069108470X	283857845	One Man's Owl	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Fascinating	This book details Bernd Heinrich's experiences with an abandoned owl that he chose to raise by hand.  Heinrich is a well-known scientist who specializes in animal behavior.  Because of his extensive scientific publications and experience with wild animals, he was granted the necessary permits to raise the baby owl that he found in the woods one day.  The owl had fallen out of its nest and was buried in a snowbank.  When Heinrich first pulled him out, the bird was in very poor condition, but with a bit of care, he was able to nurse him back to health.  He was aware however, that in doing so, he would be responsible for meeting all of this infant bird's needs for months or even years to come.  In this book, a journal of the owl Bubo's first three years, Heinrich details all that he learned through his association with Bubo.<br /><br />Heinrich is a patient and gifted observer.  He is also a scientist with a long list of questions about owl behavior.  He is able to find answers to many of his questions simply by observation, but others require experiments. His experiments always involve authentic behaviors, such as mobbing or catching food, rather than artificially conceived tasks.  Some of the experiments can be completed through focused observation, but one described in this book, involving whether mobbing behavior of predators is innate or learned, required the raising of additional birds, a pair of crows.<br /><br />In this book, Heinrich provides much background material on owls, in addition to all of his observations.  This is not just a reference book about owls, however, but also a model record of the vast amount of information that can be learned through the careful observation of just one animal.  The book includes an extensive list of references and an index.	2005-06-16
211486:US	51917998	R2W1JT536RVWO9	0520086287	887338131	Shinohata: A Portrait of a Japanese Village	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Rural Life in Mid-Twentieth Century Japan	This book provides a picture of many facets of life in rural Japan during the Mid-Twentieth Century.  The author made several stays of several months each in the village of Shinohata, in the Shano Plain not far from Tokyo, beginning in the 1950s and continuing through the 1970s.  His first visit to Shinohata was to complete a socio-economic study for a land reform project.  His later stays in the village were to visit friends from his earlier visits.  Because he was able to return to the same area repeatedly, he is able to provide a unique diachronic description of this rural community.<br /><br />Although the book was not written strictly as an ethnology, it contains much information about the social structures of the village.  Dore describes common occupations for men and women as well as the division of labor.  He discusses schooling, courtship, marriage, and death.  He provides information about village politics and the hierarchy of power, both from a historical viewpoint as well as the contemporary situation.  Because of his work in land reform, Dore has a strong interest in houses, their designs, and their history, and he describes and diagrams the usual layout of houses.  He also tells how this layout changed with the tremendous increase in income that occurred between the 1950s and 1970s.<br /><br />One of the book's most striking facts is the huge growth in wealth during this study period.  In the 1950s, Shinohata, as an isolated rural community, was quite poor.  Few families had motorized vehicles or running water, and none had electricity.  Villagers worked very hard from dawn to dusk in order to put food on the table.  But by the 1970s,  most families owned cars as well as farm vehicles, and many had multiple TV sets.  Dore states that the increase in wealth in the village was not necessarily a reflection of increases in efficiency by the villagers, but rather a result of governmental policies for spreading income gains across the entire populace, especially to the rural areas, through price supports and subsidies.  Indeed, one Shinohata resident observes \\"You can say what you like about these politicians, but they certainly know how to run the country: they must be smart....Here I am, doing much the same as I was doing twenty years ago; don't get much bigger yield from the rice field....but our whole style of living is different; everything's mechanized, we don't have to work nearly as hard and we can afford things we'd never dream of a few years ago.\\" Such a description provides an interesting perspective on Japanese agricultural policies, as well as the social changes these policies have brought about domestically., especially to the rural areas, through price supports and subsidies.  Indeed, one Shinohata resident observes \\"You can say what you like about these politicians, but they certainly know how to run the country: they must be smart....Here I am, doing much the same as I was doing twenty years ago; don't get much bigger yield from the rice field....but our whole style of living is different; everything's mechanized, we don't have to work nearly as hard and we can afford things we'd never dream of a few years ago.\\" Such a description provides an interesting perspective on Japanese agricultural policies, as well as the social changes these policies have brought about domestically.	2005-06-08
211759:US	51917998	RC56P6DFQKZ8S	1556523025	651192758	Outwitting Squirrels: 101 Cunning Stratagems to Reduce Dramatically the Egregious Misappropriation of Seed from Your Birdfeeder by Squirrels	Books	2	32	44	N	N	For Determined Bird Watchers	This book is a guide to keeping your bird feeder squirrel-free.  Adler had a particularly pestiferous squirrel who found ways around every squirrel-barrier Adler could think of to protect his bird seed.  The squirrel's notorious feats put Adler on the war-path.  In writing this book, he is not only fighting that one squirrel, but all of squirrel-kind.  If readers pull-off a successful squirrel battle because of ideas in this book, then Adler can declare victory.<br /><br />Bird watchers, (or would-be bird watchers) are the intended audience for this book, so the book begins with some suggestions about how to attract birds, along with a list of suggested foods to offer and descriptive profiles of birds who commonly come to North American feeders. Adler then turns his attentions to squirrels and provides a supposedly thorough description of squirrels, their biology, and behavior.  Next, he describes and compares common bird feeders according to how squirrel-proof they are.  Following this are a list of anti-squirrel devices that can be added to a feeder, and a list of combative actions a bird-viewer can take to ward off squirrels.  Adler concludes with \\"101 Cunning Stratagems\\" (an attempt at humor?), ideas for squirrel lovers, ideas for dealing with problem cats at feeders, and a list of resources for bird-watching and squirrel-fighting equipment.<br /><br />It's hard to tell whether this book was intended to be humorous, or what.  Certainly, the comparison of bird feeders is far too serious to be funny.  (And unfortunately, the feeders are listed by brand-name, rather than by some grouping according to general type or shape.)  Some of the \\"101 Cunning Stratagems\\" seem intended to be funny, but fall short of the goal.  Overall, the entire book reads as if it could have been a decent magazine article, but Adler had to really work to come up with ideas enough to stretch his material to fill out an entire book.  For instance, he fills out his list of 101 stratagems with a number of patent descriptions, which are neither funny nor descriptive enough to give you an idea how the devices being described actually work.<br /><br />Even though he seemed desperate to add to his work count, Adler still left out some key information.  Namely, he provides almost no information about different types of squirrels, and how their approaches to feeders differ.  Adler lives in a city, where he apparently only sees gray squirrels, which is probably why he barely mentions any other types of squirrels.  In our experience, red squirrels are much more aggressive and agile than the grays-with our large population of red hoodlums, grays wouldn't stand a chance in our neighborhood.  We also see flying squirrels at our feeder, but they don't bother us since they only come out at night when the birds aren't in the feeder, and they don't seem to gobble as much seed as the reds.  They sure can jump, though.  Then there are the black squirrels, which are the big gorillas of the squirrel world.  I've seen them in Toronto, and I've also heard they haunt Washington, D.C. after escaping from the National Zoo.  Do they also make pests of themselves at feeders?  Adler leaves us in the dark about these critters.<br /><br />Adler interviews world-renowned squirrel expert Vaun Flyger in the chapter on squirrel biology, and Flyger assures him that the best way to outwit a squirrel is to treat them like chicken; i.e., use them in any recipe that calls for chicken.  In other words, Flyger advocates the \\"final solution\\".  Adler doesn't consider this approach seriously in this book (but speaking from experience, it works, and better than any squirrel bafflers.  Once neighborhood squirrels get the idea you're out for blood, they quickly learn how not to eat from your feeder).ith a number of patent descriptions, which are neither funny nor descriptive enough to give you an idea how the devices being described actually work.   <br /> <br />Even though he seemed desperate to add to his work count, Adler still left out some key information.  Namely, he provides almost no information about different types of squirrels, and how their approaches to feeders differ.  Adler lives in a city, where he apparently only sees gray squirrels, which is probably why he barely mentions any other types of squirrels.  In our experience, red squirrels are much more aggressive and agile than the grays-with our large population of red hoodlums, grays wouldn't stand a chance in our neighborhood.  We also see flying squirrels at our feeder, but they don't bother us since they only come out at night when the birds aren't in the feeder, and they don't seem to gobble as much seed as the reds.  They sure can jump, though.  Then there are the black squirrels, which are the big gorillas of the squirrel world.  I've seen them in Toronto, and I've also heard they haunt Washington, D.C. after escaping from the National Zoo.  Do they also make pests of themselves at feeders?  Adler leaves us in the dark about these critters.  <br /> <br />Adler interviews world-renowned squirrel expert Vaun Flyger in the chapter on squirrel biology, and Flyger assures him that the best way to outwit a squirrel is to treat them like chicken; i.e., use them in any recipe that calls for chicken.  In other words, Flyger advocates the \\"final solution\\".  Adler doesn't consider this approach seriously in this book (but speaking from experience, it works, and better than any squirrel bafflers.  Once neighborhood squirrels get the idea you're out for blood, they quickly learn how not to eat from your feeder).	2005-06-08
212262:US	51917998	R112FNCVXCFIYL	0886461405	232340552	Paper Lion	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Tales from the Locker Room	This book contains some of Plimpton's experiences when he attended training camp with the Detroit Lions in 1965.  Plimpton was a writer, not a professional athlete.  He managed to persuade the owner, managers and coaches to let him attend training camp and participate in drills and scrimmages as if he were a regular, albeit rookie team member. In this book he lets us know what professional football training camp is like (or was like, in 1965), and a little about the personalities of the pro-ball players.<br /><br />Plimpton is a story-teller, and when he's not telling his own stories, he records the stories of others.  He fills this book with the behind-the-scenes antics of his Lions teammates, as well as the stories they told about themselves and each other.  One focus of the book is on coaching styles, and how they affect play.  Plimpton, like his teammates, appreciated Coach Wilson's almost hands-off style, in which he (mostly) treated the players like adults, capable of taking responsibility for their actions.  The one thing that always seemed to make Wilson edgy was being called to discipline team members for infractions of petty rules.  In contrast, other coaches were much more concerned about wielding complete control over all individuals on their teams, even with behavior off the field. The question for Plimpton then became, which type of approach led to winning more games?	2005-06-08
219741:US	51917998	R329WLVPJ7QYQP	0449224775	534679283	The Scarlet Ruse	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Complex	This is a Travis McGee mystery.  McGee is lured off his boat by a friend whose stamp dealer friend is in trouble.  The dealer constructs stamp collections as investments for rich clients.  One day, the dealer noticed that the stamps in one of his client's collections had been switched with low grade specimens, significantly downgrading the value of the collection.  He's terrified that the client will ask to cash in the collection, leaving him with an overwhelming financial liability.  He asks McGee to help him figure out how the stamps were switched, and who did it.  Complicating the matter is the dealer's secretary, who McGee finds himself mysteriously attracted to.<br /><br />This story is rich with detail, and it can be hard at times to keep it all straight.  The plot goes over the edge of plausibility in places, and the ending has an odd twist that I still can't figure out.  Nevertheless, the story remains engaging throughout, and can provide a bit of entertainment or distraction for a little while.	2005-06-01
219743:US	51917998	RDBKGGR5L97KZ	1580172121	801409515	The Vegetable Gardener's Bible: Discover Ed's High-Yield W-O-R-D System for All North American Gardening Regions	Books	5	105	107	N	N	Excellent Reference	This book is a reference manual for vegetable gardeners, particularly those gardening in northern climates.  The book is organized into 3 main parts: From Seed to Harvest (covering planning, preparing beds, starting seeds, maintaining the garden, and harvesting), The Health Garden (covering soil, compost, and pests), and Vegetables & Herbs, A-Z (alphabetical guide to individual vegetables).  The book is amply illustrated with color photographs and illustrations.  End material includes zone maps, a list of suppliers, a list for further reading, and an index.<br /><br />Smith sums up his approach to gardening in the acronym \\"WORD\\", which signifies Wide rows, Organic methods, Raised beds, and Deep soil.  He's come to this approach after many years of trying many different methods, and found that this method seems to give him the best, most reliable harvest with the least effort.  In this book, he explains the parts of the WORD method in detail.  For example, he notes that he found rototilling actually to be counterproductive, since it tends to develop a hardpan of packed soil just under the surface.  This hardpan limits root growth, which tends to stunt plants.  Instead of rototilling, he advocates building deep raised beds, which provide for full root systems and better growth.<br /><br />The articles in the alphabetical reference section are quite useful.  Each includes a brief description of the vegetable, notes on when and where to plant, and notes on harvesting and storing.  Instructions are also provided when needed about how to transplant.  Each article comes with a quick reference chart that covers sowing (depth, temperature, days to germination, etc.) and growing (temperature, spacing, watering, companions, seed longevity, etc.)  Overall, the book is very informative, the text is clear, and the pictures are quite helpful, making the book useful for experienced gardeners as well as beginners.	2005-06-01
219834:US	51917998	R1IU9JCOYFFTO9	0151640874	297926195	My Works and Days: A Personal Chronicle	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Warehouse of Words	This book is an intellectual autobiography, a personal history of the ideas of Lewis Mumford.  It is organized concurrently by chronology and genre.  The story begins with selections from \\"A New York Childhood,\\" originally published in the New Yorker in the 1930s, in which Mumford details some of his earliest memories.  Further details of Mumford's life are supplied in \\"Random Notes,\\" taken from Mumford's personal journals, letters from Mumford, published reviews of other authors' work written by Mumford, and selections from some of Mumford's books.  Perhaps some of the most informative material on the details of Mumford's early life come from a piece of fiction called \\"The Little Testament of Bernard Martin.\\"  Although Mumford states unequivocally that this story does not present an accurate account of his biographical details, the rest of the material in this volume seems quite consistent with the story he tells of Bernard Martin.<br /><br />Having read several other books by Mumford, I picked up this book with the hopes of learning how he came by his ideas-how he had developed his ideas about livable cities or the evils of consumerism.  Such topics aren't the focus of this book, however.  Instead, the focus of the book is Mumford himself.  Mumford obviously adored writing, and he had an incredibly high opinion of himself and his published and unpublished works.  In this book, rather than explain the ideas of his mentor Patrick Geddes and the effect they had on his own intellectual development, Mumford devotes much more prose to explaining the relationship he had with Geddes (and the problems he had working with Geddes' enormous ego).  Mumford describes his adolescent preoccupation with sex in great detail, as well as his later marriage and numerous affairs.  While sex was obviously important to Mumford, I would have been interested in reading more about his studies, both formal and informal, than his extracurricular activities.  Despite these annoyances, the book does include some interesting points, many of which come from his Random Notes (journal entries).  For example, in an entry from 1916, he observes \\"The bane of real education is the encyclopedia and the textbook.  Too often they become simply means of supplying students with so-called knowledge at third hand...A man's education is tested not by what he knows but by what he is capable of learning from and using.\\" A later definition of \\"civilization\\" is likewise very well put: \\"For what is civilization? Civilization is the process whereby a part of mankind threw off the limitations of a rigid, static, tribal society, increased the range of human cooperation, communication, and communion, and created common instruments for the continued development of the personality and the community. (1947)\\"  While the book includes some interesting material like this, overall, it is about 350 pages too long.  To get through this book in its entirety, you must be either a devoted Mumford fan, or a scholar in search of some particular detail about his life.ook does include some interesting points, many of which come from his Random Notes (journal entries).  For example, in an entry from 1916, he observes \\"The bane of real education is the encyclopedia and the textbook.  Too often they become simply means of supplying students with so-called knowledge at third hand...A man's education is tested not by what he knows but by what he is capable of learning from and using.\\" A later definition of \\"civilization\\" is likewise very well put: \\"For what is civilization? Civilization is the process whereby a part of mankind threw off the limitations of a rigid, static, tribal society, increased the range of human cooperation, communication, and communion, and created common instruments for the continued development of the personality and the community. (1947)\\"  While the book includes some interesting material like this, overall, it is about 350 pages too long.  To get through this book in its entirety, you must be either a devoted Mumford fan, or a scholar in search of some particular detail about his life.	2005-06-01
220272:US	51917998	RT3J6K43KE8K9	9625932909	462471406	The Edible Salad Garden (Edible Garden Series)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Picture Book	This book is a garden-picture book for salad lovers.  It has 3 main parts: the art of salad gardening, which discusses different approaches to gardening with greens, an encyclopedia of salad greens, which includes information about growing individual greens, and favorite salad recipes.  At the back of the book are appendices covering basics of planting and maintenance, pests and diseases, and resources.  The book is filled with colorful photographs of greens in gardens and on the dining table.<br /><br />Planting and care information in this book is very basic.  If you're just getting started with gardening, you may need to check with other sources for more detailed information.  In contrast, if you're already an accomplished gardener, you probably won't need much planting information anyway, but some of the descriptions of the lesser known individual greens may prove useful. The gardening advice takes an organic approach rather than using chemicals.  The recipes, which all call for cooking from basic ingredients rather than mixes or cans, look tasty and vary from being something you can throw together in a few minutes to very fancy dishes for special occasions. In general though, the book seems intended to be firstly a visual treat and only secondarily a gardening guide.	2005-06-01
220623:US	51917998	R3RRELTJLPSNZK	0517105608	662138026	All Color Book of Mushrooms and Fungi	Books	2	1	2	N	N	A Mushroom Wonder Book	This short book is a picture-book about the wonders of mushrooms and fungi.  It is written for British readers, so it features mushrooms from Britain rather than North American or Europe.  The author assures us that \\"a very large number of fungi are edible,\\" and laments the fact that British people consume far fewer wild mushrooms than Scandinavians or Russians do.  She notes that \\"the general opinion as to whether a certain fungus is fit to eat or not depends very much on the part of the world in which one happens to reside.\\"  She doesn't highlight the fact, however, that with some species, the same mushroom can be harmless when grown in one part of the world and quite poisonous in another.  Here in North America, we've heard stories of European immigrants and visitors who go out mushroom hunting in our forests and end up preparing for themselves their last supper, due to ignorance about our mushrooms.  Those in the know tell us that anyone can learn to identify edible European mushrooms safely, but only a real woods expert would try to do the same here, and even then, North American experts stay away from many edible species simply because they have poisonous look-alike cousins.  But this text doesn't mention any of this, since its seeming goal is to get British readers more interested in mushroom hunting in British forests.<br /><br />The other goal of the book is to astound readers with wondrous mushroom photography.  Each page contains one or more large format color pictures, drawn from several public and private collections.  The photos are organized more by color and shape than by mushroom family.  Instead of portraying a prototypical example of the species, some of the pictures are chosen because they display rare characteristics, such as being a \\"Siamese twin\\" specimen.  While most of the mushrooms can be found in Britain, a few are depicted from as far away as Malaysia because of exotic properties such as bioluminescence.  British readers may find the book useful for limited identification purposes, but North American readers will want to find a more localized guidebook for identification.  Nevertheless, North American readers may enjoy the mushroom photography and simple text as general background about mushrooms and fungi.book useful for limited identification purposes, but North American readers will want to find a more localized guidebook for identification.  Nevertheless, North American readers may enjoy the mushroom photography and simple text as general background about mushrooms and fungi.	2005-06-01
220752:US	51917998	RAWCI4V5I1EI0	0930031652	962936001	The Independent Home: Living Well With Power from the Sun, Wind, and Water (A Real Goods Independent Living Book)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Exploring the Possibilities	This book is a motivational book for people considering building an off-grid home.  It includes arguments for living independently of the grid or other utility systems, stories and interviews with people who've established independent homesteads, and some general information about design considerations (siting the home for maximum efficiency, ways to generate power, and maintenance issues).  Although there are a few tables and graphs, this is definitely not a how-to book; it includes very little detailed information about setting up independent power systems.  Instead, the book focuses much more on why people choose to live off grid and how they get along without grid power.  The book is illustrated with black-and-white photographs of people and their houses or diagrams of equipment and how it works.  End material includes a glossary, a bibliography, and an index.<br /><br />Unfortunately, many of the interviews with homeowners are rather disjointed.  It seems that Potts was striving to convey what people told him as accurately as possible, and so he relied on direct quotes where it would have made more sense to fill out the statements with the details needed to explain what the people really meant or intended to say rather than the exact words they used.  For the interviews, Potts chose people in the regions he knew best, namely Northern California, Vermont, Hawaii (Maui), and communities in New Mexico, Colorado, and Arizona.  No mention is made of independent homes outside of these regions, and very little is mentioned of independent living in other countries.  Potts has a tendency to stray off topic and he occasionally includes some information that, while interesting, isn't really about building an independent homestead, such as chapter five, a simplified accounting of our environmental impact on the planet (ecological footprinting), in which everything we do or use is translated into trees.  (The details of the accounting system aren't very well thought out, since, for example, Potts equates the impact of 1 mile driven to 10 miles flown, when cars actually get better passenger mileage than airplanes.)<br /><br />The strongest feature of this book is the encouragement it provides that living independently can be done, and done comfortably today.  Many of the people interviewed in this book live relatively ordinary lives, complete with electric lights and refrigerators.  Some have vacuum cleaners, and some even have freezers.  Significantly, all of them are living in remote areas, where they take responsibility for supplying not only their power, but also their water.  Because they realize the limits of their water supply, they use composting toilets, and since they don't have sewage to deal with, their drains have nothing but gray water, which is reused elsewhere around the farm.  Most grow some or all of their own food, and consequently generate very little garbage.  Many even apply the goal of independence to educating their children, and home school their kids.  Overall, the information contained in the book is quite exciting and encouraging, but after reading the book cover-to-cover, I'm no wiser about the details of how I could begin to implement some of these ideas in my own home.since, for example, Potts equates the impact of 1 mile driven to 10 miles flown, when cars actually get better passenger mileage than airplanes.) <br /> <br />The strongest feature of this book is the encouragement it provides that living independently can be done, and done comfortably today.  Many of the people interviewed in this book live relatively ordinary lives, complete with electric lights and refrigerators.  Some have vacuum cleaners, and some even have freezers.  Significantly, all of them are living in remote areas, where they take responsibility for supplying not only their power, but also their water.  Because they realize the limits of their water supply, they use composting toilets, and since they don't have sewage to deal with, their drains have nothing but gray water, which is reused elsewhere around the farm.  Most grow some or all of their own food, and consequently generate very little garbage.  Many even apply the goal of independence to educating their children, and home school their kids.  Overall, the information contained in the book is quite exciting and encouraging, but after reading the book cover-to-cover, I'm no wiser about the details of how I could begin to implement some of these ideas in my own home.	2005-06-01
220943:US	51917998	RK7JV0HOXHKF8	0030183014	634292770	The Mushroom Trail Guide	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Well-thought-out Key	This book is an identification guide for common North American mushrooms geared especially for those who would like to sort the edible mushrooms from the inedible.  The book begins with a brief introduction of several pages that describes how to use the guide, some common fallacies about determining whether a mushroom is poisonous, and some general cooking suggestions for mushrooms.  The book is then divided into two main sections covering the gilled and the non-gilled mushrooms.  Once you have determined whether the mushroom you have in hand has gills or not, you consult the general drawings at the front of each section to make an initial identification of the mushroom.  For gilled mushrooms, Glick adds the additional step of making a spore print to check the spore colors.  In each of the two main sections, there are shorter subsections describing individual members of the main families.  These sections include more detailed black-and-white drawings, labeled with colors or points to notice for identification purposes.  For each entry, information is provided about the cap, gills, stem, where and when the mushroom is usually found, spore color, edibility, and cooking suggestions, where relevant.  At the back of the book is a bibliography and index.<br /><br />The book very much focuses on identification for consumption purposes. One nice feature is that Glick takes care to note those mushrooms whose edibility varies amongst humans, the ones that will make some people ill but not others.  She also notes mushrooms that must be cooked before eating, or mushrooms that should not be consumed with alcohol, or mushrooms that can only be eaten in small quantities without ill effect. The mushrooms described in detail are generally those that are either good for eating, very poisonous, or look-alikes for edible mushrooms.  Unfortunately, in the interests of brevity, many common mushrooms that don't fit into one of these categories, including some of my favorites from the backyard, aren't included.  Thus, the book is more a connoisseur's guide than a complete identification guide.  Nevertheless, the text and descriptions are exceptionally clear.ckyard, aren't included.  Thus, the book is more a connoisseur's guide than a complete identification guide.  Nevertheless, the text and descriptions are exceptionally clear.	2005-06-01
221011:US	51917998	RPQNGJZFFXEXF	015688254X	898742327	Technics and Civilization	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Wordy	This book is a historical interpretation of the effect of technology on society.  Mumford traces the Industrial Revolution to its earliest roots, which he argues, go back to the invention of reliable timepieces in the Eleventh Century (whose invention was motivated, according to Mumford, by the need for recognizing prayer times in Catholic monasteries). Mumford also stresses the effects mining, the military, and the production of arms had on each other and on the development of technology, from earliest recorded history through modern times.  Another recurrent theme is power, and how discoveries of new ways to harness power led to economic development. The final part of the book discusses the invention and assimilation of \\"the machine,\\" as a generic concept for an advanced technology item. The book is illustrated with several sections of black-and-white photographs and reproductions of artwork.  End material includes a chronology of inventions, a lengthy annotated bibliography, and an index.<br /><br />In a discussion of the motivation behind invention, Mumford notes that \\"a good part of the mechanical elements in the day are attempts to counteract the effects of lengthening time and space distance.  The refrigeration of eggs, for example, is an effort to space their distribution more uniformly than the hen herself is capable of doing...The accompanying pieces of mechanical apparatus do nothing to improve the product itself: refrigeration merely halts the process of decomposition.\\"  Is this progress?  Although he originally wrote this book back in the 1930s, well before our present energy crises, Mumford was adamant that renewable energy sources must supply the power of the future.  He is an advocate for wind and water energy, and he dreams of a day when the power of the sun can be used to generate electricity.  Mumford is also disturbed by rampant consumerism. He quotes a Hoover Committee report on a survey of Recent Economics that states \\"The survey has proved conclusively, what has long been held theoretically to be true, that wants are almost insatiable; that one want makes way for another.  The conclusion is that economically we have a boundless field before us; that there are new wants which will make way endlessly for newer wants, as fast as they are satisfied.\\"  Interesting points such as these, which sound remarkably fresh today, can be found scattered amongst the text.  Unfortunately, however, such gems are overshadowed by the sheer volume of text. This book would benefit greatly from an abridgment that would bring out the best, most important ideas by eliminating the wordy asides and statements of personal opinion.onclusively, what has long been held theoretically to be true, that wants are almost insatiable; that one want makes way for another.  The conclusion is that economically we have a boundless field before us; that there are new wants which will make way endlessly for newer wants, as fast as they are satisfied.\\"  Interesting points such as these, which sound remarkably fresh today, can be found scattered amongst the text.  Unfortunately, however, such gems are overshadowed by the sheer volume of text. This book would benefit greatly from an abridgment that would bring out the best, most important ideas by eliminating the wordy asides and statements of personal opinion.	2005-06-01
250012:US	51917998	R12L5EPD4TRTGZ	0837197570	247202902	Passing: The Vision of Death in America (Contributions in Family Studies)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Varied Collection	This book is a collection of historical essays on the topic of death in America.  The book is organized into 3 main sections, the colonial period, the Nineteenth Century, and the Twentieth Century, followed by an epilogue.  In each section, there is a selection of four or five short scholarly essays covering differing aspects of death during the time period.  Some of the essays were written by authors contemporary with the period under study, and others by modern historians writing about death in that time period.  Some of the essays are philosophical, trying to convey people's beliefs and fears about death at the time.  Others describe where and how deaths took place, and who was likely to be present at the deathbed.  Some of the essays are about gravestone and cemetery fashions of the time.  Sources for the strictly scholarly articles are generally listed at the ends of the individual articles. At the back of the book is a general index covering all the articles.<br /><br />Because the articles are so varied in style and purpose, it is unlikely that the average reader will find all of them equally engaging. A few make some interesting points, such as how common the experience was of witnessing another's death in Nineteenth Century America, or how the modern concept of the park cemetery developed.  Others may be of interest to specialists who are looking for specific information, but perhaps not to general readers.  Overall, the book provides some interesting perspectives on some facets of death in America, but it does not provide a cohesive big-picture depiction of the topic.	2005-05-06
250056:US	51917998	R288X0KBAE6PPK	0140276238	186887370	The Undertaking: Life Studies from the Dismal Trade	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Masterful	This book tells us the story of Thomas Lynch, poet and undertaker.  Undertaking came naturally to Lynch.  His father and grandfather were both undertakers, and five of his eight siblings are also in the business.  The book combines memoirs with description of the undertaker's work, all in Lynch's exquisite prose style.  He describes for us how each of his parents died, and how he and his brother prepared their own father's body for burial. He also delves into his Irish roots and how he came to inherit the family homestead in Ireland.  Much of the book, however, explores the issue of undertaking, and its importance for contemporary American society.  Lynch points out that professional funeral directors are relatively new.  Only a short time ago, family members would prepare the bodies of loved ones for burial, and funerals and wakes were held in family homes.  We no longer have rooms set aside for such purposes, nor do we possess the skills for building coffins or setting bodies in them.  And so we depend on skilled professionals like Lynch to see that everything is done properly and to the letter of the law.<br /><br />An interesting social issue that Lynch brings up is the question of the purpose of funerals and burials.  Lynch argues that funerals are solely for the sake of the living, not the dead.  He stresses that once a person is dead, he or she no longer has pride, humility, or preferences that need to be taken into account.  Surviving family members, on the other hand, need the rituals of the funeral to help them say goodbye.  The manner and setting of the funeral ritual also affects their social standing.  For these reasons, he tells a friend that the minimalist funeral the friend wants for himself is out of the question.  \\"What would such a funeral do to your family?\\" Lynch asks.  When the man dies, his family disregards his stated preferences and opts for a traditional funeral and casket.  While it's true that once you're dead, such choices no longer have any meaning, still, I'm not entirely convinced that we do not have the prerogative to make requests about how our bodies should be taken care of when we go.  A dead person may have no pride, but a living person should have some say over how he or she will be remembered.<br /><br />Lynch's language is a delight to read.  However, he meanders off topic in a few places and becomes preachy in some others while leaving details a little unclear.  In general, though, the book is engaging and thought provoking.ve any meaning, still, I'm not entirely convinced that we do not have the prerogative to make requests about how our bodies should be taken care of when we go.  A dead person may have no pride, but a living person should have some say over how he or she will be remembered.   <br /> <br />Lynch's language is a delight to read.  However, he meanders off topic in a few places and becomes preachy in some others while leaving details a little unclear.  In general, though, the book is engaging and thought provoking.	2005-05-06
250117:US	51917998	R1HN1XSX7WIH	0385479689	185160275	Dead Men Do Tell Tales: The Strange and Fascinating Cases of a Forensic Anthropologist	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Gruesome Details	This book details the life work of Dr. William Maples, forensic anthropologist.  Maples took his first physical anthropology course as an undergrad and studied under Tom McKern.  Even as an undergrad, he was no stranger to dead bodies, having put himself through school by working on an ambulance owned by a funeral home that went around chasing bodies at accident scenes.  Through his studies in anthropology, he discovered that he was fascinated by human skeletons and bones and the stories they could tell.  He went on to graduate school in physical anthropology, and then to teach at the University of Florida in Gainesville, where he built and led the C. A. Pound Human Identification Laboratory. In his 30 years at the university, Maples gradually built up a reputation for answering the unanswerable when remains turned up in unexpected places.  In this book, he recounts some of his more challenging and interesting cases.  He also describes some of the ordinary aspects of the decomposition of bodies, a topic he has become an expert on through his day-to-day work.  The book includes several sections of black-and white photographs (not for the faint of heart!) and an index.<br /><br />Maples was called to identify victims of some high-profile murder cases in Florida.  He has also worked on many cases, particularly drug-related, in which the victim and killer were never identified.  He helped set up the oversight team that advises the military lab responsible for identifying the remains of US personnel killed in Vietnam.  Towards the end of the book, he describes his work as a member of the team that identified the bodies of Tsar Alexander and his family in Russia.  The stories of his search for clues, and how tiny bone fragments can tell him whole stories are fascinating, just as many of the details he provides are gruesome.  At the end of the book, he makes a case for the need for training more forensic anthropologists like himself, and laments that there are not enough professional positions available for such experts once they are trained, despite a large and growing need for their skills. This book can be tough to read because of its gory details, but it's even tougher to put down once you start reading.professional positions available for such experts once they are trained, despite a large and growing need for their skills. This book can be tough to read because of its gory details, but it's even tougher to put down once you start reading.	2005-05-06
250914:US	51917998	RLT7P2A1J7T55	0878577475	812678575	The New Seed-Starter's Handbook	Books	5	111	113	N	N	Great All-Around Gardening Book	This book is an introduction and reference for people who want to grow plants from seeds.  The book is organized into 5 main sections: starting seeds indoors, preparing outdoor beds to receive transplants or seeds, detailed instructions for growing individual vegetables from seed, saving seeds, and record keeping and exchanging seeds.  Bubel integrates the results of scientific studies and her own growing experience in her advice to novice gardeners. In striving for completeness, she even includes a chapter with folk wisdom about planting, noting which moon phases are thought to be best for planting and which are not. The book is amply illustrated with black-and-white photographs and drawings.  End material includes a glossary, a bibliography, a list of suggested readings, lists of seed and equipment suppliers, and an index.<br /><br />Although the book is written for people with very limited gardening experience, it is so full of information that even experienced gardeners are bound to learn something through reading it.  Bubel's approach to gardening very much follows organic practices. The section on individual vegetables is a very valuable reference, with its details on when to plant, when to fertilize and how much to use of what, and when and where to transplant in the garden.  Interspersed with the text are charts summarizing information such as germination rates for different vegetable seeds at different soil temperatures, or viability of vegetable seeds over varying storage times. The sections on preparing the soil for planting or transplanting and on saving seeds at the end of the season round out the book quite well, making this an excellent general gardening book, and not just a book about starting seeds.	2005-05-06
261583:US	51917998	R1TN2DYJN4O4CJ	0805011889	739008290	The Essential Kitchen Gardener	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Alphabetical Reference	This book is a collection of short articles on garden plants, pests, and diseases.  The articles are organized in alphabetical order.  Each of the plant articles begins with a short description, and then goes on to include information about planting (when, where, how), germination, care, harvesting, storing, pests and diseases, as well as tips for the kitchen and garden. In general, these articles use only the common names for the plants, and scientific names are not included. The pest articles (mainly about insects, but there are also some articles about pesky mammals and birds), are generally shorter, and include a description of the problem, how to recognize it, and how to combat it (organically).  There are also a few articles on such topics as mulches and composting.  Arkin includes a wide range of herbs as well as garden vegetables and fruits, and she includes notes on companion planting in the tips sections of the plants articles.  The book also includes a chart of when to plant where (in the continental United States), and a garden glossary.  There are decorative collage-type illustrations at the beginning of each letter of the alphabet, but no utilitarian diagrams or drawings.	2005-04-27
261611:US	51917998	R3O3RTX33WFRYB	0878570896	41544968	Successful Berry Growing: How to Plant, Prune, Pick and Preserve Bush and Vine Fruits	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Berry Good Book	This book provides invaluable information about growing berries and other small fruits. The information provided is geared to the family or small-scale market gardener. The main fruits covered in this book are strawberries, raspberries, blueberries, blackberries, grapes, currants and gooseberries, cranberries, elderberries, and mulberries.  Lesser known fruits such as huckleberries, choke cherries, and wine berries are also mentioned.  For each of the main fruits, Logsdon begins by providing information to help the gardener choose between varieties, and he suggests specific varieties suited for growing in the North, South, East and West.  He also explains how to prepare for planting, and how to mulch, prune, and maintain the plants.  He also discusses common problems gardeners may have with these fruits, such as diseases or insects, and suggests ways to avoid these problems.  Although Logsdon does not take a strictly organic approach, he encourages gardeners to avoid the use of poisons whenever possible, and presents numerous alternatives that should make spraying unnecessary for most fruits.  The book is amply illustrated with black-and-white photographs and drawings and there is an index.	2005-04-27
261740:US	51917998	R325AS5Z1UIKUO	0787106003	124121635	P. S.: A Memoir	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Fascinating Tale	This book details the life of Pierre Salinger, journalist, politician, and businessman.  Salinger grew up in California during the 1930s.  After service in the Navy during World War II, he became a journalist (following in his French mother's footsteps).  After a few early successes in investigative journalism involving the California prison system, he was assigned to cover the corruption and possible mob involvement in the Teamsters' Union during the 1950s.  When he heard that Robert Kennedy was leading a government investigation of the Teamsters' Union, he approached Kennedy with an offer to compare notes and join forces.  This began a lifelong relationship between Salinger and the Kennedy family.  When John Kennedy decided to run for president, he asked Salinger to help with his campaign, and following Kennedy's electoral victory, Salinger became his White House press secretary.  Salinger was also involved in Robert Kennedy's and George McGovern's presidential campaigns.  He spent five months in the Senate after he was appointed to fill the term of a friend who had died.  When he lost his own bid for the Senate, he departed the US for Europe, where he had a twenty year career as a journalist.<br /><br />Salinger begins the book by telling us he once considered running for president himself, but decided that the lack of respect today's journalists show for the private lives of public figures would be too daunting for his family.  Four times married, Salinger readily admits to marital infidelities in the past.  In this book, he juxtaposes the successes in his public life with the shambles of his private life, but he notes that he seems to finally have gotten things straight by his fifth decade.<br /><br />The Kennedy years were very exciting for Salinger.  He had a deep respect for both John and Robert Kennedy based on his observations of how they tackled the nation's problems.  Salinger was present when John Kennedy struggled with the aftermath of the Bay of Pigs debacle, and noted how Kennedy seemed to learn from the experience.  He was also present during the deliberations between Kennedy and his cabinet over how to resolve the Cuban Missile Crisis. These experiences were to give Salinger a unique perspective many years later, as he covered the build-up to the first Gulf War as a journalist.  During the Missile Crisis, Kennedy made it clear to the Soviets that continuing their offensive program would result in armed conflict.  In contrast, the first Bush administration went out of their way not to send such a message to Saddam Hussein, not to warn him that the consequences of invading Kuwait would be war.  Had George Bush Sr. gotten Hussein to settle his differences with Kuwait without an invasion, both Gulf Wars could have been avoided.  In Salinger's analysis, Bush Sr. stood to gain popularity points back home by leading the country to battle instead of heading off the battle.  Salinger goes on to point out how Bush's decisions degraded our relations with the Middle East and Europe, and encouraged the rise of the violent fringe of Islamic fundamentalism (as of the mid-1990s, when this book was written).  And we all know where that has led...Pigs debacle, and noted how Kennedy seemed to learn from the experience.  He was also present during the deliberations between Kennedy and his cabinet over how to resolve the Cuban Missile Crisis. These experiences were to give Salinger a unique perspective many years later, as he covered the build-up to the first Gulf War as a journalist.  During the Missile Crisis, Kennedy made it clear to the Soviets that continuing their offensive program would result in armed conflict.  In contrast, the first Bush administration went out of their way not to send such a message to Saddam Hussein, not to warn him that the consequences of invading Kuwait would be war.  Had George Bush Sr. gotten Hussein to settle his differences with Kuwait without an invasion, both Gulf Wars could have been avoided.  In Salinger's analysis, Bush Sr. stood to gain popularity points back home by leading the country to battle instead of heading off the battle.  Salinger goes on to point out how Bush's decisions degraded our relations with the Middle East and Europe, and encouraged the rise of the violent fringe of Islamic fundamentalism (as of the mid-1990s, when this book was written).  And we all know where that has led...	2005-04-27
262019:US	51917998	R1B14NJFBTXL1Q	081291239X	761596662	Silent Partners	Books	2	5	7	N	N	What happened to the chimps?	This book traces the aftermath for the subjects of the ape language experiments, especially what happened to the apes themselves.  Since the publication of Linden's earlier book, Apes, Men and Language, Linden has had a special interest in the personalities, both human and ape of the participants in the ape language experiments.  In this book, he revisits some of the key researchers, such as Roger Fouts, to see where the ape research has taken them.  He interviews these researchers, trying to get some insight into the internal politics of ape research.  He also traces the history of what happened to Washoe, Nim Chimpsky, and Koko following the famous language experiments that they participated in during the early part of their lives.  He even makes a trip to Africa to see how well Lucy, a chimp who was raised in a human family, is getting along in a training program designed to help her adapt to life in the wild.<br /><br />On reading the sub-title \\"The Legacy of the Ape Language Experiments\\", I had expected that the book would include some analysis or retrospective of what was learned from the ape experiments, and how this has affected our current understanding of ape language or human language.  Linden, however, doesn't touch on this topic.  Instead, he pretty much confines his reports to tracing the present whereabouts of the animals themselves. When it comes down to it, the informative content that Linden includes in this book could have been presented much more concisely, perhaps even in a single long feature magazine article.  Indeed, in several places in the book, Linden seems to intentionally pad the material with irrelevant details, such as the make of the car he used when driving to visit an animal, perhaps to bring up the total word count to monograph level.  Nevertheless, the language of the book is quite accessible to general readers and may be very interesting for people concerned about animal rights issues and informed consent amongst nonhuman participants in scientific research.  On the other hand, readers who want to learn more about the linguistic implications of the ape language experiments might find other books on the topic more satisfying.pants in scientific research.  On the other hand, readers who want to learn more about the linguistic implications of the ape language experiments might find other books on the topic more satisfying.	2005-04-27
262360:US	51917998	R282PNF2R0RZNH	0671658433	418176353	VEIL: The Secret Wars of the CIA 1981-1987	Books	3	12	13	N	N	What Casey was thinking	This book presents the history of the CIA during William Casey's tenure, from 1981 to 1987.  Woodward focused the book primarily on William Casey himself.  The book details not only the various operations that the CIA was involved in during the 1980s, but also Casey's motivations for his leadership decisions.  The CIA operations described in the book include everything from the mundane details of placing bugs in the offices of foreign leaders to the Iran-Contra affair.<br /><br />Woodward gathered material from a variety of sources when writing this book.  One of his primary sources was Casey himself.  Woodward interviewed Casey on numerous occasions, and Casey was aware that Woodward was compiling material for a book about his leadership of the CIA.  Casey was surprisingly forthcoming about his involvement in many covert operations.  He must have felt confident that Woodward would not betray his trust and expose any material prematurely.  What is odd is that Woodward discusses not only Casey's professional life, but also his personal life, and includes comments about such things as peanuts getting caught in Casey's dentures that seem mean-spirited rather than relevant for the story.  Nevertheless, the historical documentation of Casey's leadership and CIA activities in the 1980s makes the book well worth reading.	2005-04-27
262453:US	51917998	R1OKT0ADJCB6UF	0882660640	63121385	Carrots Love Tomatoes: Secrets of Companion Planting for Successful Gardening	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Alphabetical Gardening Guide	This book is a gardening guide that focuses on companion planting.  The book consists of short articles arranged in alphabetical order.  In addition to articles about common garden plants, there are also articles about trees, topics relating to plant genetics and nutrition, pests, and diseases.  Each article about a garden plant mentions other plants that do well with the plant, as well as those that don't.  In each case, Riotte notes whether the companion plants should be interplanted or planted in separate but nearby rows, and explains the reasoning behind the preferences. The plant articles generally include the scientific names for the plants as well as the common names.  The insect articles cover beneficial insects as well as pests.  Suggested solutions for garden problems are all organic. The book is amply illustrated with pen-and-ink drawings.  Following the alphabetical part of the book is a collection of longer articles and charts with useful information, including a pollination reference, a list of nut trees, a description of common poisonous plants and how to recognize them, a model garden plan, a list of garden suppliers, a list of suggested readings, and an index.	2005-04-27
269693:US	51917998	R2LXXKM201UAWS	1880317605	309548812	The Origins of Things, Or, How the Hour Got Its Minutes	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A few interesting factoids	This book contains a collection of reprints from the Origins column in the journal Archeological Odyssey.  The authors are all professors or other scholars, but the articles are written for general audiences in accessible language.  The articles are mostly only a few pages in length and contain very little explicit citation of references since that would interrupt the flow of the text.  The articles focus on the ancient history of Western Civilization, particularly in ancient Babylonia, ancient Egypt, and the surrounding regions.  They cover such topics as the numbering of years, the invention of writing, ancient board games, ancient number systems, the history of the library card catalog, etc.  Scattered throughout the book are short paragraph-long boxes labeled \\"Oddifacts\\", containing remarkable information about a topic slightly related to the one under discussion in the main text.  Many of the articles include a few high-quality black-and-white photos for illustration.  There is no index or list of suggested readings at the back of the book.  While a few articles contain some interesting bits of information, many of the articles are not all that engaging, so this isn't a book that will keep you on the edge of your chair.  Nevertheless, students of ancient history, particularly younger ones, may find some of their questions answered here.	2005-04-21
269714:US	51917998	R1TBXCSX413T80	0465046290	423523994	Mindstorms: Children, Computers, and Powerful Ideas	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Classic	This book provides an introduction to Papert's thinking concerning the learning and teaching of math.  Prior to developing the LOGO language described in this book, Papert worked closely with Piaget in Switzerland for 5 years.  While in Switzerland, Papert observed many of Piaget's experiments with children and the development of their understanding of mathematical concepts.  Following Piaget, Papert believed that the math learning that the child comes to know best and that stays with the child always comes from experience and cognition, not from explicit teaching or rote practice.  He noted, however, that there were certain mathematical concepts that children should come to know, but that they wouldn't ordinarily learn from experience alone because they might not come across these ideas in ordinary life.  This is why he invented the programming language LOGO--a toy that children could play with, experiment with, manipulate, and through doing so, gradually come to call their own the mathematical concepts needed for their games.<br /><br />To make LOGO attractive to kids, he included a \\"turtle\\" as the central figure of the language.  The turtle carried a pen that could be used to trace the turtle's movement through the play area or on a computer screen.  The challenge was for kids to write programs in LOGO that would instruct the turtle how to move and when to use the pen so that it would draw shapes in the forms that they wanted.  When the turtle didn't make the shapes they wanted, they were instructed to \\"be the turtle,\\" in order to understand the turtle's perspective, and to figure out how they needed to adjust their programs. According to Papert, even kids who showed no interest in math in the regular classroom began showing dramatic improvements in their math skills when given a chance to play with the turtle.  Unfortunately, when turtle math was first introduced, many teachers tried teaching a turtle math class the same way they taught regular math class, with lectures and assignments.  In doing so, they lost the playful aspects of the program, and kids didn't relate to it as well as they might have if the teachers had followed Papert's guidelines.<br /><br />When turtle math was first invented, Papert's team created a small robot turtle that kids could play with and program.  In the years that followed, the programmable turtle eventually developed into the Lego Mindstorms programmable brick, which doesn't quite sound as cute and fuzzy, but actually allows even more creative play than the turtle, since kids can choose what kinds of forms the robot should take.  One of the more fascinating aspects of this book is the historical documentation it provides of Papert's thinking at the time, and his reasoning behind LOGO and turtle math.  When an idea for a revolution in teaching methodology goes from just an idea, to a system that is being used for teaching engineering and science in classrooms around that world, and is even being sold successfully in regular commercial channels as a toy, it's worth getting to know better, as can be done through reading this book.  Teachers in classrooms using Lego or other robots could benefit greatly from reading this classic book detailing the early history behind programmable robots and the way Papert envisioned them being used for learning.ith lectures and assignments.  In doing so, they lost the playful aspects of the program, and kids didn't relate to it as well as they might have if the teachers had followed Papert's guidelines.   <br /> <br />When turtle math was first invented, Papert's team created a small robot turtle that kids could play with and program.  In the years that followed, the programmable turtle eventually developed into the Lego Mindstorms programmable brick, which doesn't quite sound as cute and fuzzy, but actually allows even more creative play than the turtle, since kids can choose what kinds of forms the robot should take.  One of the more fascinating aspects of this book is the historical documentation it provides of Papert's thinking at the time, and his reasoning behind LOGO and turtle math.  When an idea for a revolution in teaching methodology goes from just an idea, to a system that is being used for teaching engineering and science in classrooms around that world, and is even being sold successfully in regular commercial channels as a toy, it's worth getting to know better, as can be done through reading this book.  Teachers in classrooms using Lego or other robots could benefit greatly from reading this classic book detailing the early history behind programmable robots and the way Papert envisioned them being used for learning.	2005-04-21
269903:US	51917998	R2RGBGL7CJSZZ3	0060135468	528199426	A Book of Dreams	Books	4	31	39	N	N	What is real?	This book contains the childhood memoirs of Peter Reich.  As the son of psychoanalyst Wilhelm Reich, Peter led a bizarre life.  He lived with his parents on the family estate of Orgonon in the backwoods of Maine.  Not only did his father develop a unique form of psychotherapy, but he also was a theorist who experimented with unknown forms of energy.  As Wilhelm's only child, Peter was one of the first recipients of Reich's therapy methods, which involved special forms of touch, energy channeling, \\"softening the stomach\\", and inducing vomiting (in Peter's account). Peter was also made lieutenant in his father's defensive squad that protected the earth from UFO attacks through the use of \\"accumulator guns\\".  The elder Reich eventually got in trouble with the FDA for manufacturing and promoting medical equipment without proper testing for safety and effectiveness.  The court case involving his work eventually landed him in jail through contempt of court.  Not long after being sent to prison, he passed away, apparently of heart failure.  Upon his father's death, Peter found himself at the tender age of 13 forced to confront his father's legacy of brilliance and madness.  Up until the time of his father's death, he had believed everything his father told him, not knowing enough of contemporary scientific theories to understand how different his father's version of reality was from most other people's, nor having established an identity of his own through which he could objectively choose between his father's explanations and standard scientific approaches.  In this book, Peter tries to sort out for himself what is real and what is not, what is his, and what is his father's.<br /><br />The book reads like the proverbial onion-chapters move in a dreamlike fashion from one period of time to another.  Sometimes it's hard to tell if what Peter is describing actually took place, or whether it was all an imaginative game in his head.  By the end of the book, the reader will have some inkling of the confusion in Peter's mind, but, like Peter, may not be capable of saying what really happened.  In any case, this is very much a book about Peter Reich, and not Wilhelm Reich, although readers who want to learn more about Wilhelm Reich may find some clues to his ideas through the interpretation of his son, who experienced them first hand and without question.ave some inkling of the confusion in Peter's mind, but, like Peter, may not be capable of saying what really happened.  In any case, this is very much a book about Peter Reich, and not Wilhelm Reich, although readers who want to learn more about Wilhelm Reich may find some clues to his ideas through the interpretation of his son, who experienced them first hand and without question.	2005-04-20
269965:US	51917998	R28TJHKZ7TUI9L	0312283709	994951933	Running with Scissors: A Memoir	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Thought-provoking	This book details the childhood of Augusten Burroughs, the boy raised by his mother's analyst.  When I first heard about this book, for some reason, I had the idea that his mother simply abandoned her young child at her analyst's with no explanation or forwarding address, that the analyst was a single man with no family, and that the boy was pretty much left to his own devices because the analyst wanted nothing to do with him.  Instead, what really happened was much more complicated.  From the start, Burroughs' mother and father were unfit parents.  After the angry and violent divorce that ended the tumultuous marriage, Burroughs' alcoholic father refused to have anything more to do with him.  He was left in the custody of his mother, who suffered from bipolar disorder and had regular psychotic episodes.  When he was thirteen, his teenage mannerisms became too much for her to handle, and she informed him that he was an adult and should take responsibility for his own life.  Clearly, Burroughs was in need of foster parenting.  But rather than being turned into a ward of the state, Burroughs was gradually entrusted to the guardianship of his mother's analyst.<br /><br />As it turned out, the analyst, Dr. Finch, had a large family, with three generations living under one roof.  Far from not wanting anything to do with Augusten, he took him in out of compassion, as he took in other patients into his home, like the obsessive compulsive lady who lived upstairs for two years.  Dr. Finch was very much a proponent of Freudian theories, and as much as possible, raised his children so that they would not suffer from personality disorders due to repression.  Indeed, his children and grandchild were constantly urged to explicitly express their feelings, especially any anger.  The kids were not required to do anything they didn't want to do, which of course, for teenagers, meant they didn't have to attend school.  In the home of the Finches, Augusten found a much higher degree of acceptance for his behavior and activities than he probably could have anywhere else.  For example, when he decided to remodel the kitchen at 3:00 AM, leaving a heavy pile of plaster and demolition debris over all surfaces in the morning, hardly a word was said, and certainly none of disapproval.  On the other hand, other members of the household also were free to do as they wished, and as a result, living conditions were squalid.  Against his instincts, Augusten learned to go with the flow, and cheer along with the others when the six-year-old pooped under the piano or the doctor's wife snacked on dog food.<br /><br />Through his writing, Burroughs stirs up many issues, such as how do you decide when a person is sane?  Are there limits to how much freedom a young person should experience in order to develop into a healthy adult?  What is the role of a parent?  Is it to nurture a child to discover a sense of self, or to train the child to recognize and follow the rules of society?  Burroughs found that although he didn't have to do anything he didn't want to, his life was still far from easy.  He was free from a lot of responsibility, but he was also often beyond the protection of parents, which resulted in serious consequences including being raped.  One of the more important lessons that he learned is that no family is perfect-even the minister's family from up the street has their unique set of idiosyncrasies that they keep secret from outsiders.  But is it better to be raised in a family where secrets are kept, or where everything is out in the open?  Parts of this book are outrageously funny, and parts are very shocking, not appropriate for all audiences.  Nevertheless, for the issues it brings out, the book is well worth reading and would make excellent discussion material.e of acceptance for his behavior and activities than he probably could have anywhere else.  For example, when he decided to remodel the kitchen at 3:00 AM, leaving a heavy pile of plaster and demolition debris over all surfaces in the morning, hardly a word was said, and certainly none of disapproval.  On the other hand, other members of the household also were free to do as they wished, and as a result, living conditions were squalid.  Against his instincts, Augusten learned to go with the flow, and cheer along with the others when the six-year-old pooped under the piano or the doctor's wife snacked on dog food.   <br /> <br />Through his writing, Burroughs stirs up many issues, such as how do you decide when a person is sane?  Are there limits to how much freedom a young person should experience in order to develop into a healthy adult?  What is the role of a parent?  Is it to nurture a child to discover a sense of self, or to train the child to recognize and follow the rules of society?  Burroughs found that although he didn't have to do anything he didn't want to, his life was still far from easy.  He was free from a lot of responsibility, but he was also often beyond the protection of parents, which resulted in serious consequences including being raped.  One of the more important lessons that he learned is that no family is perfect-even the minister's family from up the street has their unique set of idiosyncrasies that they keep secret from outsiders.  But is it better to be raised in a family where secrets are kept, or where everything is out in the open?  Parts of this book are outrageously funny, and parts are very shocking, not appropriate for all audiences.  Nevertheless, for the issues it brings out, the book is well worth reading and would make excellent discussion material.	2005-04-20
271402:US	51917998	R1E1NS9ZBNSWY5	B00005VD35	788079029	An American doctor's odyssey; adventures in forty-five countries	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Early History of Public Health	This book contains the memoirs Dr. Victor Heiser, international public health administrator for 30 years starting at the turn of the Twentieth Century.  The book begins with a riveting account of how Heiser survived the Johnstown Flood by nimbly balancing on the walls of his barn as it swirled in the maelstrom after seeing his entire family swept under the waters in their home.  Alone in the world following this disaster, Heiser decided to study medicine, but discovered upon graduation that he much preferred to prevent disease than cure it.  He felt that he could do more for more people by fighting public health campaigns than by dealing with individual sick patients.  He began his career as a military health inspector overseeing immigration halls at large ports, including Ellis Island.  He later moved on to Europe, where he set up health inspection services so that would-be immigrants to the United States could be screened before setting sail from Europe.  Following the Spanish American War, he was assigned as chief health officer of the new American colony in the Philippines. After serving almost ten years in the Philippines, he joined the international public health team of the Rockefeller Foundation, where he served as an itinerant medical expert and public health adviser for nearly twenty years.<br /><br />During his tenure in the Philippines, Heiser worked hard to get cholera, typhoid, plague, smallpox, and leprosy under control.  Politically, he was very much a man of his times, and his prose displays the typical racist attitudes of a senior colonial official.  He could become very aggravated by what he considered the whimsical behavior of the Filipinos, and he often resorted to draconian measures to contain disease outbreaks.  Nevertheless, his intentions were laudable if his methods were sometimes questionable.<br /><br />Heiser's accounts of his time with the Rockefeller Foundation are fascinating.  He explains how the Rockefeller Foundation selected hookworm elimination campaigns as their primary focus: Rockefeller wanted the team to work with a pathogen that was not only common, caused serious harm to society, but also could be seen with the naked eye.  He felt that if people could actually see what was making them sick, even if they were illiterate, they would understand the cause and effect relationship between the pathogen and their illness, and would be willing to do their part in supporting the campaign.  The hope was that the administration set up in a community for the hookworm elimination campaign would prove itself so useful that the community would want it to continue and expand its scope, leading to the establishment of a full public health service.  Heiser relates how well this idea succeeded, not only in the American South, but throughout the world, from Thailand to Abyssinia.<br /><br />Indeed, aside from the medical details, Heiser's descriptions of his travels are some of the most interesting parts of the book.  He tells us of conditions on ships and trains, in cities and country sides around the world.  In one of the more fascinating accounts of his travels, he describes the lush green highland paradise of Abyssinia, how in the 1930s he could see terraced orchards of apples and pears from his hotel room in Addis Ababa, and how beautiful the forests and cool clear streams were there.  From modern accounts of the Ethiopian environment, it seems those fruit trees and forests are long gone, casualties of civil war, mismanagement, and over-population (perhaps a result of Heiser's work?).  Heiser also notes how the Abyssinians, including their leader Haile Selassie considered themselves a separate race from the Black Africans, who they displayed racists attitudes towards, and how they were incensed when the US sent them Black ambassadors.  If Heiser's contemporary account of Abyssian society is indeed accurate, it puts Rastafarians' idolization of Selassie in a new light, indeed.ed hookworm elimination campaigns as their primary focus: Rockefeller wanted the team to work with a pathogen that was not only common, caused serious harm to society, but also could be seen with the naked eye.  He felt that if people could actually see what was making them sick, even if they were illiterate, they would understand the cause and effect relationship between the pathogen and their illness, and would be willing to do their part in supporting the campaign.  The hope was that the administration set up in a community for the hookworm elimination campaign would prove itself so useful that the community would want it to continue and expand its scope, leading to the establishment of a full public health service.  Heiser relates how well this idea succeeded, not only in the American South, but throughout the world, from Thailand to Abyssinia. <br /> <br />Indeed, aside from the medical details, Heiser's descriptions of his travels are some of the most interesting parts of the book.  He tells us of conditions on ships and trains, in cities and country sides around the world.  In one of the more fascinating accounts of his travels, he describes the lush green highland paradise of Abyssinia, how in the 1930s he could see terraced orchards of apples and pears from his hotel room in Addis Ababa, and how beautiful the forests and cool clear streams were there.  From modern accounts of the Ethiopian environment, it seems those fruit trees and forests are long gone, casualties of civil war, mismanagement, and over-population (perhaps a result of Heiser's work?).  Heiser also notes how the Abyssinians, including their leader Haile Selassie considered themselves a separate race from the Black Africans, who they displayed racists attitudes towards, and how they were incensed when the US sent them Black ambassadors.  If Heiser's contemporary account of Abyssian society is indeed accurate, it puts Rastafarians' idolization of Selassie in a new light, indeed.	2005-04-19
272503:US	51917998	R1LR75X981C6Z2	0300025998	460087692	Horse of Pride: Life in a Breton Village	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Long Ago and Far Away	This is an amazingly detailed description of childhood in the last generation of Breton peasant society.  Helias was born and raised in Pouldreuzic, a village in Brittany not far from the coast (but far enough a trip on foot for the villagers to consider themselves inland farmers, not coastal fishermen).  Helias was born just before the outbreak of World War I, and his much of his childhood was framed by the departure of the fathers from the village to fight in the French army, and the societal changes that came about on their return.  After graduating from the village grammar school, Helias was selected for a scholarship so that he could continue his education at a lyceum in Quimper.  Although studying in Quimper meant that he had to adopt a new French rather than Breton persona, his felt that his roots would always remain in Pouldreuzic.  This book, written when Helias was in his 60s, is a reliving of Helias' youthful years in Pouldreuzic, covering village economic life, social mores, religion, education, work, and attitudes towards the society of greater France.<br /><br />Helias' family was neither well-off nor poor by village standards.  They owned a cow, they had sufficient food and clothing, and best of all, Helias' grandfather owned their plot of land.  Many other villagers often went hungry, and some had no place to live, so Helias considered himself fortunate as a child.  Nevertheless, the living conditions that Helias describes as normal sound shockingly primitive by modern standards.  Of course, there was no central heat, but there was also frequently no fuel for the luxury of heating their simple one or two-room houses.  Laundry was washed once or twice a year, and the floors of the houses were made of mud.  Not only was there no running water, but latrines were also apparently not in vogue, and people relieved themselves in the fields or behind bushes.  There was a great value in being part of the community, since the entire village would gather for work parties to thresh grain or gather hay. Religion was extremely important to the community, and served to preserve the cohesiveness of the Breton culture since the priests gave validity to the Breton society by addressing the villagers in their own language.  Education, in contrast, took place in French, and the brightest children, those with the most promise for future leadership, found themselves drawn away from the village as their skills in French developed.<br /><br />Though Breton peasant life was hard, Helias finds much to recommend in it.  He appreciated honest labor, and a story well-told.  Helias closes the book with a chapter examining the changes that have come to Brittany since his childhood and weighing whether these changes have been for the good.  This is not a book that can be skimmed quickly.  With Helias' incredible eye for detail, this book requires a long and careful reading.work parties to thresh grain or gather hay. Religion was extremely important to the community, and served to preserve the cohesiveness of the Breton culture since the priests gave validity to the Breton society by addressing the villagers in their own language.  Education, in contrast, took place in French, and the brightest children, those with the most promise for future leadership, found themselves drawn away from the village as their skills in French developed. <br /> <br />Though Breton peasant life was hard, Helias finds much to recommend in it.  He appreciated honest labor, and a story well-told.  Helias closes the book with a chapter examining the changes that have come to Brittany since his childhood and weighing whether these changes have been for the good.   This is not a book that can be skimmed quickly.  With Helias' incredible eye for detail, this book requires a long and careful reading.	2005-04-19
280985:US	51917998	R1ZJ9IW9TIS1RH	1580050581	369187697	The Unsavvy Traveler: Women's Comic Tales of Catastrophe	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Don't Read This On the Plane	This book is collection of travel disasters of all types.  The reasons for the disasters range from tales of simple bad luck (like finding oneself on a family cruise with no clothes because the luggage was lost), or bad planning (signing up for an economy safari), or bad judgment (crossing the country in a van with a serious, untreated injury along with a pair of drug addicts who eat out of the same dishes as their dogs).  The stories cover the globe, from the US to Mexico, Central and South America, Europe, India, China, Japan, and the South Pacific.  Some of the tales are quite funny (after the fact), some are quite harrowing, and some provide some food for thought about intercultural conflict and personal growth.<br /><br />I was pleasantly surprised by the quality of writing of these stories.  Unlike many other anthologies of this type, the writing in this volume is uniformly good and sometimes even great.  While each author has her own style of description and observation, the prose is clear and uncluttered with irrelevancies or cryptic comments. According to the short bios provided at the end of the book of each author, some of the writers are well-known published authors, while for others, this is the first time their work appears in print.<br /><br />At the end of the book is a short list of Websites with useful information for travelers (although after reading this book, you might not want to leave home after all!).  For some odd reason, I decided to take this book with me on a recent vacation for light reading on the plane.  As I read through one disaster after another, a sense of doom seemed to grow, and sure enough, the morning's little snow storm turned into the biggest storm of the year.  When the plane finally got off the ground, we managed to circle the airport at JFK, but were never able to land there and finally had to return again to our home airport.  After a full day of waiting for conditions to improve, our flight was ultimately canceled, and we had to rebook for the following day.  I'm not ordinarily superstitious, but I became convinced that this little book of travel disasters had jinxed our trip.  The next day when we returned to the airport for another try, I left the book behind, and sure enough, our flight and connections went without a hitch.  The book eventually made for great reading- -at home- -but I'm not sure it's the best choice to take along on a trip, if only for the reminders it provides of everything that can go wrong.and we had to rebook for the following day.  I'm not ordinarily superstitious, but I became convinced that this little book of travel disasters had jinxed our trip.  The next day when we returned to the airport for another try, I left the book behind, and sure enough, our flight and connections went without a hitch.  The book eventually made for great reading- -at home- -but I'm not sure it's the best choice to take along on a trip, if only for the reminders it provides of everything that can go wrong.	2005-04-11
281158:US	51917998	R2YYRHFIGCHRSW	0670437654	652791476	Lonely Vigil: Coastwatchers of the Solomons	Books	4	39	40	N	N	Documentation	This book documents the history of the Coastwatchers, a little-known intelligence corps operating in the South Pacific during World War II.  As war loomed on the horizon early in the 1940s, it became apparent to Australian Naval Intelligence that it would be useful to post observers on key strategic islands off the coast of Australia and New Guinea who could report movements of enemy ships and other military activities.  The Coastwatchers, as this team came to be called, were commanded by an Australian officer named Eric Feldt.  The men who filled these positions were of varied backgrounds, from military officers to missionaries and British colonial officials, and even an American who managed to get transferred from his regular unit.  On each of the key islands in the Solomons, the Coastwatchers established lookout points high in the mountain jungles, from where they could radio in to headquarters their counts of ships and incoming planes.  By Lord's account, these reports were vital in the air battles in the Solomons, since they gave warnings to the Allies of incipient attacks, enabling them to prepare and stage effective counter-maneuvers. The Coastwatchers also assisted in the evacuation of Western refugees, both colonists and missionaries.  One of their other important tasks was to locate Allied personnel whose planes or ships had been downed and help them make their way back to friendly territory.  Indeed, it was a Coastwatcher who found the men of PT 109 and assisted Kennedy and his men in their odyssey back to their units.  The book is illustrated with several sections of black-and-white vintage photographs.  At the end of the book are a list of contributors and interviewees and an index.<br /><br />Lord collected this material some 20 years after the war by traveling through the islands and conducting extensive interviews with the Coastwatchers, Solomon Island residents, veterans, and missionaries who had worked with or been rescued by the Coastwatchers.  Instead of presenting the material in one long continuous saga, Lord's approach is to describe the events island by island and station by station.  For the sake of completeness, he tries to weave in the names of every person who played a role in each incident.  As a result, there is not a lot of cohesion to tie the story together. As a reader, I frequently found myself taking note of a person's name and story since Lord made it seem important for the big picture, only to find that the person was never mentioned again.  The book is very much the story of individual people, whose contributions to the war effort might have gone untold if it weren't for the painstaking research that Lord undertook.  While I am in no position to judge the accuracy of Lord's account, I note that in my copy of the book, which came from the collection of a public library, there are several marginal notes correcting names and ranks, and units of people mentioned in the text.Instead of presenting the material in one long continuous saga, Lord's approach is to describe the events island by island and station by station.  For the sake of completeness, he tries to weave in the names of every person who played a role in each incident.  As a result, there is not a lot of cohesion to tie the story together. As a reader, I frequently found myself taking note of a person's name and story since Lord made it seem important for the big picture, only to find that the person was never mentioned again.  The book is very much the story of individual people, whose contributions to the war effort might have gone untold if it weren't for the painstaking research that Lord undertook.  While I am in no position to judge the accuracy of Lord's account, I note that in my copy of the book, which came from the collection of a public library, there are several marginal notes correcting names and ranks, and units of people mentioned in the text.	2005-04-11
283466:US	51917998	R3HWLBLUGCTKD7	0671681389	978813082	Wordstruck	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Personal Story	This book tells the story of MacNeil's childhood and his lifelong fascination with words.  MacNeil's parents came of age in the late 1920s in Halifax, Nova Scotia.  They started married life together just as the Depression hit.  MacNeil's father commanded ships for the Canadian equivalent of the Coast Guard.  During much of MacNeil's childhood, he was away at sea, and young Robert MacNeil was expected to follow in his footsteps when he graduated high school.  However, Robert was drawn more towards books and literature, having developed an ear for literary expression at his mother's knee, as he listened to her read stories like Peter Pan and Treasure Island.  It was his ear and love of enunciation that led him to a career in theater, radio, and eventually television broadcasting.  In this book, MacNeil shares with us many of the influences on his early life and career, and enumerates some of the many books that he enjoyed experiencing as a child.	2005-04-09
283511:US	51917998	R1BR9U1Z2DTFWO	0465072658	119167066	The Periodic Kingdom: A Journey Into The Land Of The Chemical Elements (Science Masters Series)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Extended Metaphor	This book presents the very basics of the chemical elements and the organization of the periodic table.  Atkins' unique approach is to present the material in the form of an analogy, or even an extended metaphor, with the chemical elements as a kingdom, complete with geographical regions, history, laws, and institutions.  Along these lines, the book is divided into 3 parts: Geography, History, and Government and Institutions. At the end of the book are found a short list of items for further reading, an index, and a periodic table.<br /><br />The geographical approach is quite appealing, but somehow falls short of its goal of making the material easily accessible to non-chemists.  Describing the sections of the periodic table as having geographic correlates has a lot of explanatory potential.  Unfortunately, the maps that are used to illustrate the concepts are presented in varying directions (sometimes from the North looking South, sometimes from the South looking North, etc.), but without directional symbols for orientation.  Although orientational clues  are generally provided in the captions, interpreting the maps is still far from easy, especially since the elements are not labeled.  Readers who don't have a thorough familiarity with the periodic table will find it useful to study these maps with a periodic table in hand for comparison, hence the usefulness of the periodic table that is included at the back of the book.  (Unfortunately, I never discovered this table until I had already read the book through, since it isn't referenced anywhere in the text.)<br /><br />One reason I picked up this book is that I have always been fascinated with the organization of the elements in the period table.  I know there are alternative forms for representing the organization of the elements, such as the 3-D Periodic Round Table, which shows continuities between sub-groups rather than simple column edges.  I'd like to know more about why our usual 2-D periodic table is arranged the way it is, and what relationships are encoded in its presentation. Atkins touches on these subjects with both historical information and discussion of chemical properties and bonds.  However, I found his prose often obtuse, and after reading the book, I'm still unclear about many of the key issues.  It seems as though the metaphor of the elements as a kingdom sometimes gets pushed a bit too far and hinders rather than helps clarity.  Nevertheless, the book does have some interesting sections and up-to-date information about basic chemistry.arranged the way it is, and what relationships are encoded in its presentation. Atkins touches on these subjects with both historical information and discussion of chemical properties and bonds.  However, I found his prose often obtuse, and after reading the book, I'm still unclear about many of the key issues.  It seems as though the metaphor of the elements as a kingdom sometimes gets pushed a bit too far and hinders rather than helps clarity.  Nevertheless, the book does have some interesting sections and up-to-date information about basic chemistry.	2005-04-09
307169:US	51917998	R2H3AMCB1A2UAV	0140187448	168292418	The Log from the Sea of Cortez (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Non-teleological thinking	This book represents the log of a voyage Steinbeck took with Ed Ricketts collecting biological specimens from the Sea of Cortez during the spring of 1940.  The goal of the trip was to document the variety of sea creatures that lived in the tidal pools of the region, as well as to bring back specimens for identification and further study.  In total, the voyage lasted about 4 weeks, during which time Ricketts, Steinbeck, and the rest of the crew documented hundreds of species, thousands of specimens, and discovered several new creatures that had not been known before.<br /><br />The book begins with a lengthy preface introducing readers to Ed \\"Doc\\" Ricketts.  Ricketts, of course, was the mythical Doc featured in the Steinbeck classics \\"Cannery Row\\" and \\"Sweet Thursday\\".  In this biography of Ricketts, Steinbeck provides some of the details of Rickett's life, and describes his chief character traits as Steinbeck perceived them.<br /><br />By today's standards, their approach and attitudes towards the animals they were catching seem rather appalling.  In the tidal pools, it seemed they grabbed everything that moved, as well as everything that didn't move but merely showed some signs of life.  In this manner, they collected rare as well as common species.  The ship's crew enjoyed the sport of catching a sea turtle, shooting a shark through its fin, and harpooning giant rays.  Modern readers can at least take comfort in the thought that society has advanced to the point that such behavior is no longer found acceptable on a biological expedition.  Even Steinbeck, however, was shocked by the methods used on a Japanese shrimp trawler that they encountered dredging in Mexican waters.  The Japanese, with full permission from the Mexican government, were literally dredging the ocean floor, bringing up every last living thing, from sea fans to sharks in their nets.  Whatever wasn't shrimp they threw back, where injured or dead, it was reduced to seagull food.  Steinbeck noted the short-sightedness of this approach, how it left nothing behind for future generations, no shrimp, but also no other fish.<br /><br />In the Steinbeck Museum in Salinas, CA, there is an exhibit with photographs of the expedition.  In the center of one of the photographs is Carol Steinbeck, John's first wife, who was a crew member on this voyage, but who John managed to expunge completely from this written record.  Nevertheless, he leaves us with a clue to her existence at the end of chapter 24, where he writes of a strong prejudice when there is a woman along on a voyage of scientific exploration, \\"the wife of one of the members of the party.  She is never called by her name or referred to as an equal....She is nearly always a stringy blonde with leathery skin who is included in all photographs to give them `interest.'\\" Clearly, this account of the voyage is carefully crafted not to tell exactly what happened and to whom, but to represent the events as John chose to tell them.  Most of the prose explores Steinbeck's and Rickett's concept of non-teleological thinking, where they take an idea and push its consequences beyond reasonable limits.  Still, Steinbeck does provide a narrative account of the various collection stops they made, and what kinds of creatures predominated at each stop (this description was based on Rickett's notes).  At the end of the book are a glossary of biological terms used and an index.ted the short-sightedness of this approach, how it left nothing behind for future generations, no shrimp, but also no other fish. <br /> <br />In the Steinbeck Museum in Salinas, CA, there is an exhibit with photographs of the expedition.  In the center of one of the photographs is Carol Steinbeck, John's first wife, who was a crew member on this voyage, but who John managed to expunge completely from this written record.  Nevertheless, he leaves us with a clue to her existence at the end of chapter 24, where he writes of a strong prejudice when there is a woman along on a voyage of scientific exploration, \\"the wife of one of the members of the party.  She is never called by her name or referred to as an equal....She is nearly always a stringy blonde with leathery skin who is included in all photographs to give them `interest.'\\" Clearly, this account of the voyage is carefully crafted not to tell exactly what happened and to whom, but to represent the events as John chose to tell them.  Most of the prose explores Steinbeck's and Rickett's concept of non-teleological thinking, where they take an idea and push its consequences beyond reasonable limits.  Still, Steinbeck does provide a narrative account of the various collection stops they made, and what kinds of creatures predominated at each stop (this description was based on Rickett's notes).  At the end of the book are a glossary of biological terms used and an index.	2005-03-21
335853:US	51917998	R3U86IWXUJFYUO	0805210415	393259245	The Periodic Table (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Interesting Approach	This book tells parts of the life story of Primo Levi, author, chemist, and Auschwitz survivor.  Levi came of age in Fascist Italy and graduated university with a degree in chemistry just as World War II started tearing apart his world.  Caught by German soldiers in a Partisan camp, he was shipped off to the Auschwitz death camp as a Jew.  He survived the camp thanks to his chemistry skills, which secured him a job in a rubber factory near the camp. When he returned to Italy following liberation, he resumed work as a chemist, but he also took up writing as a means to communicate the experiences he had been through.  Over the years, he published a number of books about Auschwitz, as well as books of poetry and stories.  In this book, he records his memoirs as a chemist, with each chapter dedicated to an individual element.<br /><br />The chapters are quite varied in topic and approach.  At least two of the chapters are fanciful works of fiction, short stories that he wrote as a young man.  The book begins with a chapter on the Noble gases, in which he compares his ancestors, now just memories, to inert gases such as argon.  Other chapters early in the book are also based on comparisons between character traits of favorite people and chemical elements.  The later chapters, however, are centered around stories or episodes in his life that featured substantive examples of one of the chemical elements.  Some of the stories are quite amusing, others interesting in the historical perspective they provide of conditions of post-war Italy, and some, those describing the Nazi occupation and the concentration camp are disturbing.  The stories are written as stand-alone entities, rather than fitting smoothly together as a coherent whole.  Nevertheless, they are they are organized in strictly chronological order so that the reader can piece together the main events of Levi's life.	2005-02-26
336076:US	51917998	R14LWYA6UFA21I	0769228682	238544706	Gekeler Method for Oboe ~  Book Two	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Robust Start for Advanced Beginners	This is an excellent beginning method book for students just taking up the oboe.  It is especially good for students who have already had some experience with other instruments, since it progresses relatively quickly.  Nevertheless, Gekeler does provide some introductory practice in musical notation, time signatures, and rhythms for students who have not studied music extensively before.  There are exercises and short pieces in 4/4, 3/4 , cut time, 6/8 and 3/8, with whole notes through sixteenth notes, dotted eighth-sixteenth combinations, and syncopation. Key signatures are covered through 4 sharps and 4 flats. Basic fingerings are taught for notes  from low B below the staff to high D above the staff.  The alternate forked F fingering is also taught almost from the beginning, as well as an alternate fingering for D#.  Dynamics and intonational cues appear throughout the text, but grace notes, trills, turns, and other fancy stuff are not introduced.  Duets appear frequently amongst the study pieces; many are written such that the lower part requires slightly more advanced technique than the upper.  In addition to technical exercises and etudes, there are short melodies by composers such as Hohman, Dancla, Czerny, and Schubert.  Even on pages that are primarily devoted to introducing some new rhythmic pattern, there are always a few passages that the musically experienced beginner will find worthy of practice.  Overall the book provides a varied and challenging introduction to the instrument.  Methodical use of the book, together with daily practice, will enable rapid skill development.	2005-02-26
339572:US	51917998	R2O626MR5D8VCE	1559352892	397556684	At Home in the World	Books	3	54	64	N	N	Unveiling the Secrets	This book tells the story of a young girl who was preyed upon, seduced and then abandoned by an older man.  Of some interest is that the older man, in this case happened to be well-known, the author J.D. Salinger, although that's not the focus of the story.  Maynard was a precocious writer.  Both of her parents were English teachers, and Maynard as a young girl sat in on many a writing lesson that her mother used to give at home for her college and high-school students.  Thanks to this early training, as well as her innate talent, Maynard had published articles in Seventeen Magazine and The New York Times while still a teenager.  After the Times article, which included a picture of her, came out, she received hundreds of letters in response.  One of those letters was from J.D. Salinger, who warned her that there would be those who would complement her writing and then once they had gotten her trust would exploit her.  She wrote back to Mr. Salinger, and they were soon engaged in frequent correspondence.  One thing led to another, and within the year, Maynard had dropped out of college and moved in with Salinger, some 35 years her senior.  Unfortunately, although Maynard was deeply attached to Salinger, the feelings weren't exactly mutual, and within another year, Salinger, without explanation demanded that she leave.  Maynard was to spend the next 25 years trying to understand what had happened to her.  When her own daughter turned 18, the same age she had been when Salinger first approached her, she felt she had to share her story at last, so that others might learn from it.<br /><br />In the book, Maynard describes some of the personal turmoils that left her vulnerable to such an experience.  She relates some of the advice that Salinger shared with her about her writing. She lets us see the good side as well as the bad side of the man, but this book is primarily about her-looking back to see where she came from and make sense of where she has arrived.  Overall, the story is engaging and compelling.the story is engaging and compelling.    <br />	2005-02-23
339855:US	51917998	R2I594ZNA5NSTR	B0007E3P6A	706081105	Tropical childhood;: Cultural transmission and learning in a rural Puerto Rican village	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Why are people the way they are?	This book reports the results of a study of how culture is transmitted.  The study involved a comparison between cultural transmission in a small village in Puerto Rico and an urban New England community.  In the introductory section, the author states that \\"Socialization is the process by which the child acquires the traditions, values, and practices of the man and in turn transmit them, modified to his own offspring.  It is the primary cultural process to which are attached all the systems and process of a culture.\\"  Thus, if one wishes to understand a culture, one should study the process of socialization in the culture.  Socialization can be accomplished through learning on the part of the child, or teaching on the part of others.  In this study, the author used a variety of methods to investigate what traditions, values, and practices were being taught to children, and which of these were being learned by the children, as exhibited by their behavior.  Once he had enumerated common elements of socialization, he then noted how these were reflected in the structure of the larger society.  The comparison to the culture of the New England community formed only a minor part of the study; it was possibly intended to form some sort of baseline, or perhaps to check which elements might be universal, and which were unique to the Puerto Rico village society.<br /><br />The study was conducted over a period of 8 months in 1951 in a small village on the eastern side of the island of Puerto Rico.  Most of the families in the village were involved in sugar cane work, and they all had low incomes.  Landy selected 18 representative families from the village to work with.  All had two resident parents and one or more children.  Landy was especially interested in children who would be about kindergarten-age, and selected a group of children from these families who were about 5 years old for special focus.  A female research assistant conducted interviews with the mothers in the families and observed their interactions with children.  The fathers were also interviewed.  In addition, each of the 5-year-olds were observed as they played with dolls in the researcher's home.  Once data had been collected from these sources, it was tabulated and organized by topic and findings.<br /><br />The main part of the book reports the findings of the study.  Landy begins with several  chapters describing the environment of the village, the economic structure, health, marriage, family structures, kinship, formal education, sex, and courtship, division of labor, family size, and relationships between man and wife.  Then he describes parental care of the child and training, from feeding and weaning, to toilet training, bedtime rules, obedience, discipline, punishment, and sex-role differentiation.  Following this, he turns to the response from the children as shown by their behavior and reactions to discipline and training.  He provides several case studies.  Finally, he compares some of the training topics and child behaviors between the Puerto Rican villagers and a group of urban New Englanders (both middle and working class).  He concludes by listing a number of societal characteristics of the Puerto Rican culture that may be traced back to the socialization elements he studied.  End material includes appendices with the questionnaires from the interviews and the materials and methods of the doll play research, a bibliography, and an index.families and observed their interactions with children.  The fathers were also interviewed.  In addition, each of the 5-year-olds were observed as they played with dolls in the researcher's home.  Once data had been collected from these sources, it was tabulated and organized by topic and findings. <br /> <br />The main part of the book reports the findings of the study.  Landy begins with several  chapters describing the environment of the village, the economic structure, health, marriage, family structures, kinship, formal education, sex, and courtship, division of labor, family size, and relationships between man and wife.  Then he describes parental care of the child and training, from feeding and weaning, to toilet training, bedtime rules, obedience, discipline, punishment, and sex-role differentiation.  Following this, he turns to the response from the children as shown by their behavior and reactions to discipline and training.  He provides several case studies.  Finally, he compares some of the training topics and child behaviors between the Puerto Rican villagers and a group of urban New Englanders (both middle and working class).  He concludes by listing a number of societal characteristics of the Puerto Rican culture that may be traced back to the socialization elements he studied.  End material includes appendices with the questionnaires from the interviews and the materials and methods of the doll play research, a bibliography, and an index.  <br />	2005-02-23
340285:US	51917998	R284FGQVAGZEEG	B00005XZ1Q	165483489	Windjamming to Fiji	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Adventure from a Time Gone By	This book details the adventures of two young women with a remarkable dream.  They were both fascinated with tales of the sea, especially tales featuring sailing ships.  They decided, come what may, they would travel aboard a schooner before this mode of travel disappeared completely from the earth.  Fortunately, this was back in 1926, and there was at least one schooner ship plying the open seas, the Star of Peru.  While living in San Francisco, Cooper read a note in the paper stating that the Star of Peru, a fine old sailing ship, would be soon be making its last voyage, to Fiji, where it would be de-masted and made into a storage barge.  Cooper and her friend Jean Schoen immediately began their campaign to join the Star of Peru for its farewell journey.<br /><br />They attempted several times to gain entry to the ship, and finally managed to persuade the captain, Leon Chateauvieux, to hire them on as midshipmen.  When the ship finally set sail from San Francisco, the Stars and Stripes were lowered, and it was renamed the Bougainville.  The young women joined it in Vancouver and set off across the Pacific for the long sail to Fiji.  During the voyage, Cooper was designated keeper of the ship's log.  She shares with us her records of their lessons at sailing.  We read how they caught fish, swabbed the decks, survived storms, communicated with other ships using semaphore flags, and learned the culture and lingo of the sea.  Their fellow sailors were a rough lot, who regaled them with tales of superstitions about sailing with women, but nevertheless, many were friendly and willing to share their knowledge with the new female deckhands.  Once the ship arrived in Fiji, there were many new adventures to enjoy, from dining with local dignitaries to trading for souvenirs in small villages.<br /><br />The bravery and independence of these two young women is simply remarkable.  One doesn't often hear of young women setting off from home these days to work on a sailing ship with an all-male crew, sailing to a distant corner of the earth with no definite plans or funds for the return trip.  And to think they did it in the 1920s!  The documentation of shipboard life upon a working schooner that Cooper provides will be fascinating to anyone interested in maritime cultural history.hip with an all-male crew, sailing to a distant corner of the earth with no definite plans or funds for the return trip.  And to think they did it in the 1920s!  The documentation of shipboard life upon a working schooner that Cooper provides will be fascinating to anyone interested in maritime cultural history. <br />	2005-02-22
340487:US	51917998	RKKLIDVKHQNM6	1559943696	97978976	Awakenings	Books	3	143	178	N	N	Disturbing Tale	This book details the experiments with L-Dopa that Dr. Oliver Sacks put some special patients through at the Mt. Carmel Hospital in New York.  These patients had been infected with encephalitis lethargica some 40 years earlier.  One of the after effects of encephalitis lethargica (a disease which appeared mysteriously in 1916 and disappeared just as mysteriously in 1926) is manifestation of the symptoms of severe Parkinson's Disease.  The patients had tremors, and they just seemed to freeze up, unable to move, walk, talk, or even swallow, in some cases.  This left the patients in a catatonic state, and when their relatives were unable to care for them any longer at home, they were institutionalized at the hospital, together with patients suffering from dementia and other mental illnesses. Dr. Sacks, a neurologist, began working at Mt. Carmel in 1966.  About that time, researchers working on Parkinson's began touting the wonders of L-Dopa, a drug that seemed to provide some relief from the Parkinsons' symptoms.<br /><br />In the summer of 1969, Sacks began to administer L-Dopa to the encephalitis lethargica patients to see if it would also relieve their symptoms.  The results were miraculous-at first.  Patients were suddenly able to move their muscles again, and they stood up from their wheelchairs and began walking around for the first time in 20-40 years.  They laughed, talked, sang and wrote about their experiences both before their illness, and during their long stay at the hospital. Unfortunately, however, the euphoria was short-lived for all, as ticks, psychoses, and other mental disorders began to set in, often after a period of a few weeks or even just a few days of relative health.<br /><br />In this book, Sacks describes encephalitis lethargica, then he provides a selection of case histories, detailing patients' lives before L-Dopa, during the euphoric state of health, and the later stages, in which nearly every patient developed extreme psychological disorders that necessitated stopping the L-Dopa treatments.  In the conclusion of the book, Sacks analyzes what went wrong, and generally ascribes it to the underlying mental state of the patients.  He suggests that once their initial euphoria over re-joining the world wore off, weak personalities, compounded with poor relationships with family members and mistreatment over the years at the hospital came together and allowed simmering psychoses and other mental problems to bubble to the surface and drag the patients back down to their illness once again.  \\"Love is the alpha and the omega,\\" he states, suggesting that if these patients were more capable of loving and being loved, they could have maintained their healthy state brought on by L-Dopa.<br /><br />From the vantage point of today's understanding of the brain and neurochemistry, Sacks' experiments and analyses seem inexcusable.  Yes, it probably was reasonable to try L-Dopa with these patients.  However, when every one of them went on to develop ticks, and psychoses, an alarm bell should have gone off.  However, in the 1960s, psychosis and bipolar disorders were thought to be purely emotional problems with roots in poor relationships and attitudes.  Nothing was known at the time of how brain chemistry is involved with these illnesses, so when patients starting exhibiting psychotic behaviors, Sacks blamed it on their personalities rather than questioning what else L-Dopa was doing to their minds besides easing their Parkinson's symptoms.  Today, such side effects of L-Dopa are well known, and patients taking L-Dopa may also be given anti-psychotic drugs as well.<br /><br />When I read the blurb on the back cover about patients waking like Rip Van Winkle from a 40-year sleep, I expected tales of a miraculous cure, tempered with feelings of loss and adjustment.  But these patients weren't asleep all those years-they were just confined in bodies that would not move.  For some, their minds were also slowed, but not stopped completely.  They were aware of what was going on around them, but they just couldn't do anything about it.  One patient could move a few fingers, and was able not only to communicate with a typing board, but even to write book reviews the entire time he was in the hospital.  Thanks to L-Dopa, he had a wonderful summer of movement, but then the consequent mental side effects became so severe that he had to be restrained and taken off L-Dopa, which meant a return to his former frozen state for the remainder of his life, during which time he was so traumatized that he never wrote again.  For such a patient, it's not clear that the L-Dopa experiments left him any better off than before; indeed, it appears that he felt worse off, although Sacks suggests otherwise.  In sum, the book is far different from what I expected, and quite disturbing in with its tales of medical experimentation and the omnipotence of a doctor working with the severely disabled.  On the other hand, it can be morbidly fascinating to see how a scientist can believe so strongly in his work based on his understanding of the world, when later research will show his basic assumptions to be very flawed, hence his conclusions baseless.d, but not stopped completely.  They were aware of what was going on around them, but they just couldn't do anything about it.  One patient could move a few fingers, and was able not only to communicate with a typing board, but even to write book reviews the entire time he was in the hospital.  Thanks to L-Dopa, he had a wonderful summer of movement, but then the consequent mental side effects became so severe that he had to be restrained and taken off L-Dopa, which meant a return to his former frozen state for the remainder of his life, during which time he was so traumatized that he never wrote again.  For such a patient, it's not clear that the L-Dopa experiments left him any better off than before; indeed, it appears that he felt worse off, although Sacks suggests otherwise.  In sum, the book is far different from what I expected, and quite disturbing in with its tales of medical experimentation and the omnipotence of a doctor working with the severely disabled.  On the other hand, it can be morbidly fascinating to see how a scientist can believe so strongly in his work based on his understanding of the world, when later research will show his basic assumptions to be very flawed, hence his conclusions baseless.  <br />	2005-02-22
340692:US	51917998	R302CQPB5KX5FE	0226306976	335609966	Mapping	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Simple introduction to maps and map-reading	This book is a simple introduction to maps and map-reading.  It is divided into two parts: getting the most out of maps, and making your own.  In the first part, getting the most out of maps, Greenhood goes over the basics of how to orient yourself on a map, explaining coordinate systems, latitude, longitude, scale and direction.  He then turns to content, and tells us how streams, rivers, roads, mountains, and elevations are represented on maps, including a discussion of topography.  This section closes with a lengthy chapter on projections where Greenhood points out the difficulty of representing a spherical reality on a flat surface and goes on to enumerate all the various ways this problem has been addressed over the centuries.<br /><br />In the second part of the book, Greenhood gives practical advice for amateur map makers.  He describes triangulation methods used by surveyors to accurately record the features of the landscape.  He also includes a chapter covering tools and equipment helpful for making maps (such as sharp pencils).<br /><br />The language of the text is quite simple, appropriate perhaps for middle-schoolers.  For example, when explaining the need for projections, he writes \\"Nobody now wants a flat earth any more than he wants a flat tire.  But we must have flat maps.  Flat maps with round meanings.\\"  Some of the points are made repeatedly in different parts of the same chapter.  Greenhood does not assume that readers will have a strong background in math-some high school geometry should suffice.  The level of the content is very basic, and readers with any experience in orienteering will likely find much of the material too basic.  On the other hand, for readers with no experience at all in using maps, this book may prove a decent place to start.  The Appendix includes a variety of useful tidbits, from metric conversion tables, to conversion of compass points to degrees, to scaling factors.  There is also an index.	2005-02-22
340849:US	51917998	RMYM9WF06U052	1890132292	270943159	Simple Food for the Good Life: Random Acts of Cooking and Pithy Quotations (Good Life Series)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	The Uncook Book	This book is a collection of essays and recipes explaining and demonstrating Helen Nearing's philosophy about food.  Nearing is the first to point out that she does not enjoy cooking in the least.  For this reason, she spent as little time as possible in food preparation.  Nevertheless, as thousands of visitors would testify, the food from her kitchen was wholesome, tasty, and most of all, nourishing. Her cardinal rule was that food should take no longer to prepare than to consume.  Of course, some dishes required simmering for several hours on the woodstove, but the active involvement of the cook was still limited to just a few minutes.<br /><br />The first part of the book is devoted mainly to Nearing's philosophy of food.  She explains the benefits of minimal processing and raw foods, for the cook as well as for health.  She devotes an entire chapter to espousing vegetarianism.  The second part of the book contains recipes or general directions for the kinds of foods she and Scott ate on their homesteads.  Separate chapters cover breakfast, soups, salads, vegetables, casseroles, baking, desserts, and beverages.  She also discusses seasonings, food preservation, and food storage.  One delightful aspect of the book is her collection of quotes from old books that she sprinkles throughout the text.<br /><br />Nearing is very clear about her approach to cooking-she doesn't consider the process itself a worthwhile activity.  She tells us \\"work is only work if you'd rather be doing something else.  Well, I'd rather be reading (or writing) a good book, playing good music, building a wall, gardening, swimming, skating, walking-anything that is more active, more intellectual, or more inspiring.\\"  She states that if a person actually enjoys cooking, that's fine for them, but she gets little pleasure from it herself.  On the other hand, she certainly sees food as worthwhile.  For this reason, she advocates eating food raw, or with as little cooking as possible.  She notes that if you fuss over food and make it too good, people will be tempted to eat more than they need and get fat, but that nobody ever got fat on a diet of raw foods-they eat what they need and then stop.  Seasonings and sweeteners also lead to overindulgence, and so she rarely uses them.  Her breads chapter is somewhat unique in that there is hardly a recipe calling for yeast, and few that are even baked.  She suggests eating foods raw that many have never considered, such as potatoes, oats, or even wheat berries. Though much of her advice is profound, she does make one suggestion that makes me pause.  She notes that she and Scott were not in the habit of supplementing their food with beverages, not even water, and that a single glass of water could last a week for them.  Odd.  Nevertheless, it's hard to argue with someone about their diet when both she and her husband lived healthy and active lives into their late nineties.s that if you fuss over food and make it too good, people will be tempted to eat more than they need and get fat, but that nobody ever got fat on a diet of raw foods-they eat what they need and then stop.  Seasonings and sweeteners also lead to overindulgence, and so she rarely uses them.  Her breads chapter is somewhat unique in that there is hardly a recipe calling for yeast, and few that are even baked.  She suggests eating foods raw that many have never considered, such as potatoes, oats, or even wheat berries. Though much of her advice is profound, she does make one suggestion that makes me pause.  She notes that she and Scott were not in the habit of supplementing their food with beverages, not even water, and that a single glass of water could last a week for them.  Odd.  Nevertheless, it's hard to argue with someone about their diet when both she and her husband lived healthy and active lives into their late nineties. <br />	2005-02-22
340901:US	51917998	R1WB7PYIRA6HBG	037540564X	942748002	Murder at the Library of Congress	Books	2	3	3	N	N	A Bit Silly	This book is an Annabel Smith murder mystery.  Annabel, a curator of a museum of pre-Columbian art, has for some reason been asked to write a feature article about Christopher Columbus for a special issue of \\"Civilization,\\" the magazine of the Library of Congress.  When she shows up at the Hispanic section of the library to start her 2 months of research for the article, she meets a cast of characters, some nice, and some not-so-nice.  Meanwhile, a second-rate painting of Columbus is stolen from an art museum in Miami.  Is there a connection from the heist to the Library?  There must be, or else this story would be dead in the water.  Clues like a fellow researcher at the Library turning up dead draw Annabel into the investigation.<br /><br />This is the kind of mystery in which the author lets us know the whereabouts and thoughts of everyone, including the bad guys, as we go along.  She tells us up front 80%-90% of who is involved in the suspicious activities, so the real suspense is in waiting to see if Annabel will solve the mystery before it's too late, and in seeing how the pieces of the plot-line are finally all tied together.  Though the story is told coherently, the details are far from realistic.  It's hard to picture librarians and researchers with the personalities that Truman describes.  Yes, academics can be a motley bunch of interesting people, but I've never met any who act like this.  Truman has the Library intern working on a long-term project of cataloging 15 Cuban newspapers, hardly the work of an intern.  The researchers, Annabel included, go about their work like journalists rather than academics, for instance, starting their projects with interviews with other researchers, in which they hope to catch a great quote.  A big deal is made of some computer disks which Annabel discovers, and spends all night reading on her computer screen-whereas any experienced computer user, especially a former lawyer, would immediately hit \\"Print\\" upon finding such material, or at the very least, make a copy to the hard drive (which Annabel's laptop apparently didn't have, back in 1997 when the story is set).  Overall, I found the plot weak and predictable, the dialogue inane, and the plausibility very low.  Nevertheless, the story at least hangs together and can keep one's interest for a short while.uch material, or at the very least, make a copy to the hard drive (which Annabel's laptop apparently didn't have, back in 1997 when the story is set).  Overall, I found the plot weak and predictable, the dialogue inane, and the plausibility very low.  Nevertheless, the story at least hangs together and can keep one's interest for a short while. <br />	2005-02-22
341095:US	51917998	R17WMH3OQ4S2D1	0394730887	432751248	Sociology of Housework	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Do Housewives Like What They Do?	This book reports the results of a study on the attitudes of British working and middle class women in the 1970s towards housework, children, and marriage.  Oakley was frustrated at the lack of attention that traditional sociological research had given women to date, so she undertook this project to try to understand and document this understudied population.  She interviewed 40 women between the ages of 20-30, all married, with children, living in a London suburb.  As classified by their husband's occupations, half were working class and half were middle class.  Several of the women also worked outside the house part-time or even full-time, but in her definition, any woman who is the one primarily responsible for doing the domestic chores is a housewife, regardless of her other employment status.<br /><br />The study was designed to get at a variety of questions: What are the attitudes of the women towards housework-do they think it worthwhile? Is there a correlation between social class and domesticity (a personality characteristic of being well-suited to doing housework)?  How satisfied are women with the kind of work they do and with their status as housewives?  What are the standards that women have for their work, where do these standards come from, and what are the women's daily routines?  How much do the husbands help out with the domestic chores?  How do the women feel about having children and caring for them?  Answers to each of these questions were tabulated from the responses to the surveys.  Oakley includes a number of tables summarizing the results and noting whether there were statistically significant differences between groups, such as by class or  by number of children.  She also includes quite a few quotes from the women themselves, explaining their feelings on the subject.  At the back of the book are appendices discussing the method of scoring the responses and the survey questions used.  There are also endnotes and an index.<br /><br />One idea that Oakley expands upon is how housewives structure their work through self-specification of standards and routines.  By spelling out rules, housework is placed into the category of other types of work.  This also serves \\"as a means of job enlargement, a process of elaborating housework tasks so they take up endlessly increasing amounts of time,\\" which serves to keep the worker fully employed.  These rules and standards also give the worker a means to measure whether she is doing a satisfactory job.  If she measures up to her standards, then she can give herself a pat on the back and a reward; otherwise, she will feel guilty and perhaps attempt to redouble her efforts.<br /><br />I'm not sure whether the results of this survey can be generalized to American women, or to society some 30 years after the study was completed.  Nevertheless, the book does include some interesting observations and points.  For instance, it is remarkable to read of the \\"amenities\\" that many of these women did not have, such as an inside lavatory, running hot and cold water, a separate kitchen (from other families), a clothes washer, or a refrigerator.  It's so easy to forget today that all of these items are luxuries, and it was only a short while ago when they were more universally recognized as such.  Oakley describes the cleaning schedule of one young woman who lived in a two room basement flat without running water or an indoor toilet, who not only washed her infant's diapers by hand, but still felt it prudent to wash her curtains every two weeks.  And she thought her lifestyle was normal! In her study of amenities, Oakley points out that \\"the acquisition of a new machine may temporarily raise enthusiasm for a particular task, but it does not seem to affect the basic feeling of satisfaction or dissatisfaction,\\" concerning the task.  Technology can ease the burden of domestic tasks, but it may not lighten the total load for the person responsible for doing the tasks, since she (or he) has an interest in feeling fully employed and will tend to use the extra energy on some other task or to reach higher standards.(or he) has an interest in feeling fully employed and will tend to use the extra energy on some other task or to reach higher standards. <br />	2005-02-22
346155:US	51917998	R2KITJKM4RJH1H	0879238623	945443239	The Kitchen Book & The Cook Book	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Culinary Adventures	This volume consists of two works originally published by Freeling in the 1970s, \\"The Kitchen Book,\\" and \\"The Cook Book.\\"  The two are presented here one after the other as separate entities, together with whimsical illustrations by John Lawrence.  At the back of the book is an index covering material in \\"The Cook Book\\".<br /><br />\\"The Kitchen Book\\" describes Freeling's formative years as a cook in the 1950s and 60s.  Freeling came of age in Britain at the close of World War II.  He wanted to become a chef, and set off to the continent to find himself a job in a the restaurant of a fancy Parisian hotel.  Determination and perseverance enabled him to withstand the rigors of an informal apprenticeship in the kitchen, where he learned the foundation of French cooking.  Ambition and a desire for more pay led him to take a position in a provincial hotel, where he learned more, and not necessarily just about food.  Much of the more interesting material in this volume covers this period in his life.  The remainder covers his later cooking career, when he shifted from hotel to hotel in Britain, and presided as executive chef over a restaurant that was doomed from the start by fantastically poor management.  Some of the material in the latter part of this volume can be slightly hard to follow for readers unfamiliar with the context of restaurant work in Britain or British dialects and slang.<br /><br />\\"The Cook Book\\" is a written in a very informal narrative style, quite different from the detailed didactic instructions of more typical cookbooks.  Freeling enumerates the merits of a dish and how and when it may best be enjoyed, and then narrates entirely in prose how the dish can be prepared.  He eschews exact measurements, temperature or timing guidelines, since he knows that ingredients are variable, and will cook differently depending on their age and treatment, and the humidity and temperature of the kitchen.  He notes that it is far more important to observe, taste, smell, and touch the food as it cooks than to rely on measurements of volume, temperature, or time.<br /><br />Indeed, in the introduction to \\"The Kitchen Book,\\" Freeling explains some of his philosophy on the subject, emphasizing that a good cook makes a dish well not through slavishly following a recipe, but through shear practice, and continuing to make the same dish repeatedly until it consistently comes out right.  He tell us \\"In this book are no recipes, absolutely no useful hints, and above all no damned instructions; they do not give one an appetite.\\"  Actually, that's not quite true-a careful reader can pick up a number of great hints by reading the book, starting with the idea that good cooking comes through practice, not instructions.  Nevertheless, Freeling's narrative style for giving recipes in \\"The Cook Book\\" is not for everyone.  It works well for experienced cooks who are familiar with the ingredients mentioned.  Such cooks won't have a problem with statements like \\"cook until done,\\" but the rest of us may wistfully wish for a few more specific guidelines to help us along.  But this doesn't detract from the delightful readability of the recipes.e, smell, and touch the food as it cooks than to rely on measurements of volume, temperature, or time.   <br /> <br />Indeed, in the introduction to \\"The Kitchen Book,\\" Freeling explains some of his philosophy on the subject, emphasizing that a good cook makes a dish well not through slavishly following a recipe, but through shear practice, and continuing to make the same dish repeatedly until it consistently comes out right.  He tell us \\"In this book are no recipes, absolutely no useful hints, and above all no damned instructions; they do not give one an appetite.\\"  Actually, that's not quite true-a careful reader can pick up a number of great hints by reading the book, starting with the idea that good cooking comes through practice, not instructions.  Nevertheless, Freeling's narrative style for giving recipes in \\"The Cook Book\\" is not for everyone.  It works well for experienced cooks who are familiar with the ingredients mentioned.  Such cooks won't have a problem with statements like \\"cook until done,\\" but the rest of us may wistfully wish for a few more specific guidelines to help us along.  But this doesn't detract from the delightful readability of the recipes.   <br />	2005-02-17
346560:US	51917998	R3C9ILG80YW8MB	0881332259	585167038	The Kwakiutl: Indians of British Columbia	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Story of a Community in Transition	This book is an ethnographic description of a group of Kwakiutl Indians living in Gilford, British Columbia, a coastal fishing community  in the 1960s.  The Rohners lived in Gilford for about 14 months altogether from 1962-1964.  During this time, Evelyn served as the community schoolteacher in the one-room schoolhouse, while Ronald occupied himself with ethnographic research.  The Kwakiutl were not familiar with profession of anthropology, and were quite suspicious, especially at first, of Ronald's activities, particularly his constant note-taking.  Eventually, they came to accept the couple, mostly because of Evelyn's treating them with respect as the parents of her charges.  Through their observations of the village and villagers, they were able together to compile a broad description of village life.  The book is illustrated with black-and-white photographs and maps.  There is a short list of references at the end of the book, but no index.<br /><br />The book is divided into two parts, contemporary society, and society in the past, the Potlatch Period.  The majority of the book is devoted to describing contemporary society.  The Rohners begin by telling us of the environment in the Gilford area, both physical and man-made. They note that the population is ever fluctuating, with migrants coming to town for labor, or leaving for other jobs.  Empty housing is often taken over by newcomers, leading to conflict if and when the original inhabitants return.  The economic life of villagers is captured by a description of what people are doing during a two-day period in December.  The authors note that there is a prominent division of labor according to gender, with men engaging in commercial and subsistence activities, and women doing the domestic chores.  Men dig clams, fish and hunt, but mainly fish.  They prefer to run their own fishing boats rather than work on the boats of others, as the very old and very young must do.  The authors note that the community seems to be becoming increasingly dependent on industrial goods such as nylon fishing nets rather than making these items themselves as they did in the past.  They note that the Kwakiutl currently dress like others and live in a way that is similar to non-Kwakiutls in the area.  On this basis, they claim that the Kwakiutl \\"can be viewed as a rural working-class, a sub-cultural variant of the North American class structure, rather than being a distinctive cultural group.\\"  Nevertheless, they claim that the Kwakiutl share a distinctive value-system, based on generosity, borrowing and sharing, forming friendships, avoiding interfering in the lives of others, and gaining power and prestige through interpersonal relationships.  The authors also discuss the impact that drinking has had on the society, suggesting that it serves to fill the void of cultural loss and can be positive in that it facilitates interpersonal communication by lowering inhibitions.<br /><br />Much of the second part of the book is historical, in which the authors describe the structure of society in the past, when giant potlatches were held.  They note that during this period, \\"wealth was important only insofar as it could be publicly displayed and redistributed in feasts and potlatches, thereby raising the esteem of the donor.\\"  They also describe a potlatch in a neighboring community that they attended.<br /><br />The text is clearly written in language that is accessible to general readers.  It includes information about a variety of aspects of life.  However, the style is not particularly engaging, and readers may find that many topics common to other ethnographies are not touched upon in this volume.to be becoming increasingly dependent on industrial goods such as nylon fishing nets rather than making these items themselves as they did in the past.  They note that the Kwakiutl currently dress like others and live in a way that is similar to non-Kwakiutls in the area.  On this basis, they claim that the Kwakiutl \\"can be viewed as a rural working-class, a sub-cultural variant of the North American class structure, rather than being a distinctive cultural group.\\"  Nevertheless, they claim that the Kwakiutl share a distinctive value-system, based on generosity, borrowing and sharing, forming friendships, avoiding interfering in the lives of others, and gaining power and prestige through interpersonal relationships.  The authors also discuss the impact that drinking has had on the society, suggesting that it serves to fill the void of cultural loss and can be positive in that it facilitates interpersonal communication by lowering inhibitions. <br /> <br />Much of the second part of the book is historical, in which the authors describe the structure of society in the past, when giant potlatches were held.  They note that during this period, \\"wealth was important only insofar as it could be publicly displayed and redistributed in feasts and potlatches, thereby raising the esteem of the donor.\\"  They also describe a potlatch in a neighboring community that they attended. <br /> <br />The text is clearly written in language that is accessible to general readers.  It includes information about a variety of aspects of life.  However, the style is not particularly engaging, and readers may find that many topics common to other ethnographies are not touched upon in this volume. <br />	2005-02-17
352753:US	51917998	R3TJ61IHGL8EC7	0781281598	91166972	I Went to the Soviet Arctic (American Biography Series)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Igarka Memoirs	This book describes the adventures of Ruth Gruber, a feminist social scientist who went poking about the far corners of Siberia to see the conditions for Soviet women in the Artic during the run-up to World War II.  In 1936, Gruber won a Yardley Foundation Fellowship to conduct a project studying the problems of women throughout Europe.  She traveled through France, Germany, Holland, Scandinavia, Turkey, Greece, and Italy, and everywhere she found women in bad shape, \\"thrown out of jobs and pushed back to the soil.\\"  She felt that women were bearing an unfair share of the burden of the economic depression in the 1930s, and as war became inevitable, the situation for women seemed to be growing even worse.  However, when she talked to a Soviet planner named Samoilovich, he bragged that the status of women in the Soviet Arctic was quite high.  He said that far from losing their jobs, they were very much in demand as scientists, engineers, and even sailors.<br /><br />Gruber wasn't willing to believe these claims without seeing the situation for herself, so Samoilovich got her an invitation for an extended stay in the tiny city of Igarka, along the Northern reaches of the Yenesei River in Central Siberia.  Five years earlier, Igarka had been just a trapper's camp along the river, but now it had become the \\"world's newest boomtown.\\"  It had 3 sawmills, a graphite factory, a chemical plant, and also supported fishing, fir, and timber industries.  All of these enterprises needed labor, and as Gruber observed, women's labor was just as welcome as men's.  She was delighted to find that even the mayor of the city was a woman.<br /><br />Gruber interviewed a number of Igarka residents about their lives.  She was curious about why they came to the town, and many mentioned they had come for the high wages and excellent educational perks offered to their children, and for the promise of early retirement (at age 43!).  Some mentioned that they just needed work, any kind of work anywhere, and work was easy to find in Igarka.  And some residents were internal exiles, kulaks, land-owning peasants, who had been kicked off their land and sent to Igarka for punishment.  Gruber noted that the teachers and daycare workers were all women, but she also saw women paving streets, building houses, and sawing wood.  She talked to women about their health, and about dating, courtship, marriage, divorce, and abortions.<br /><br />As with any book written by a visitor to a totalitarian country, Gruber is very careful to present all her comments in a positive light, leaving it to the careful reader to read between-the-lines to pick-up on the subtle details of the negative side of things.  For example, she notes that everyone in the area currently had enough to eat (but they had recently had a scurvy epidemic because their vegetable shipment from Moscow had been frozen and rotted).  She also comments on how well people seemed to make due while living in a city with no plumbing.<br /><br />Following her stay in Igarka, Gruber traveled on by ship to the Polar Sea, where they picked up some researchers from one of the Artic stations.  At this point, her narrative becomes more of a travel adventure tale, as she describes the interactions between the people on the ship on her return journey home.<br /><br />I found parts of the book to be quite fascinating with the unique window it provides on Soviet life in the boomtowns of Siberia during the 1930s.  Of course, since Gruber wasn't a Soviet citizen and she only stayed in the region a few weeks, there is no telling how accurate her descriptions are.  Nevertheless, she does a decent job at capturing the essence of a Siberian town as it was presented to foreigners during the Stalinist era.ork anywhere, and work was easy to find in Igarka.  And some residents were internal exiles, kulaks, land-owning peasants, who had been kicked off their land and sent to Igarka for punishment.  Gruber noted that the teachers and daycare workers were all women, but she also saw women paving streets, building houses, and sawing wood.  She talked to women about their health, and about dating, courtship, marriage, divorce, and abortions.   <br /> <br />As with any book written by a visitor to a totalitarian country, Gruber is very careful to present all her comments in a positive light, leaving it to the careful reader to read between-the-lines to pick-up on the subtle details of the negative side of things.  For example, she notes that everyone in the area currently had enough to eat (but they had recently had a scurvy epidemic because their vegetable shipment from Moscow had been frozen and rotted).  She also comments on how well people seemed to make due while living in a city with no plumbing.  <br /> <br />Following her stay in Igarka, Gruber traveled on by ship to the Polar Sea, where they picked up some researchers from one of the Artic stations.  At this point, her narrative becomes more of a travel adventure tale, as she describes the interactions between the people on the ship on her return journey home.   <br /> <br />I found parts of the book to be quite fascinating with the unique window it provides on Soviet life in the boomtowns of Siberia during the 1930s.  Of course, since Gruber wasn't a Soviet citizen and she only stayed in the region a few weeks, there is no telling how accurate her descriptions are.  Nevertheless, she does a decent job at capturing the essence of a Siberian town as it was presented to foreigners during the Stalinist era.  <br />	2005-02-11
352817:US	51917998	R2YPIELZGO3WZC	0882660217	367289368	How to Make a Living in the Country (without Farming)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Nifty Ideas	This book is repository of ideas for gaining a cash income as country folk.  In the first part of the book, Osgood discusses the temperament necessary to make a go of it in the country.  He stresses that country living isn't for everyone because of the hard work and skills that are required.  A person who chooses to live in the country has to be self-disciplined, resourceful and creative.  Osgood reviews some reasons why people might want to move to the country, and gives a few examples of people who have done so successfully.<br /><br />Following this introduction, Osgood turns to enumerating a variety of jobs, professions, and occupations that country people have used to earn a living.  His discussion is based on the results he received from surveys distributed to people living in rural areas.  These jobs are organized into several groups, including: wages and factory jobs, services and business, professions, arts and crafts, and products from the land.  He points out that if you're going to work outside of your home, remember to find housing close to the job, since automotive costs can be quite expensive and there is little public transportation  available in rural areas.  Since rural wages are usually low, such costs can eat up an inordinate chunk of wages.  One couple that he interviewed gave some wise advice, \\"In the first place, don't think of yourself as a specialist, but cultivate a wide range of abilities so that if one of your attempts at earning a living fails, you can fall back on other competencies.\\"  They went on to say \\"Simplify your way of life and dramatically cut your income requirements.\\"  Osgood suggests that if you run your own business, keep it small, so that you don't need to hire outside help (which can be expensive, and also make your business subject to OSHA regulations).  Each section of the book is rounded out with examples of people who have created their own niche in the country, from rural garage mechanic to freelance photographer to dressmaker.  At the end of the book are an annotated list of resources for country living and an index.o dressmaker.  At the end of the book are an annotated list of resources for country living and an index. <br />	2005-02-11
355290:US	51917998	R2IQES4PAJR1IA	B0006BOE5K	249976724	In Search of the Primitive	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Wild Kingdom	This book is a collection of stories from a lifetime of professional travel.  As a young man just after World War I, Cotlow was very enamored with travel.  He got himself a job as a supercargo, monitoring the handling and loading of merchant ships, and traveled around the world.  As a supercargo, he made a point of visiting ports and taking numerous slides of famous destinations.  After four years of such a life, he settled down again back home, working as an insurance salesman.  However, he was asked to give lectures about his travels, and soon found himself traveling about the country with his slides and stories of exotic lands.  He also attended similar lectures and met with anthropologists and explorers.  He writes \\"Their stories of primitive tribes, wild animals, tropical forests, and the ways of living far from civilization fascinated me.\\"  This fascination set him off on lifelong tour of wild peoples of the world.  He wanted to meet and film these people so that he could show them to the folks back home who attended his lectures.  Attending his lectures must have been sort of like watching Wild Kingdom, except he was featuring people, not animals.  Cotlow has included a selection of his photographs to illustrate this book.  Most are reproduced in black-and-white, but there are also a few in color.  The book includes an index, but no references or suggestions for further reading.<br /><br />This book was written in 1966, at the end of Cotlow's career, so the stories are an amalgamation of reminiscences of all his trips over the years.  Similar to a slide show, it is organized by region, with separate sections for Africa, South America, New Guinea, and the Arctic, and stories from different trips to the same region are combined to give a more complete description of the area that includes a diachronic perspective.  Much of Cotlow's travel in Africa went through Congo and Central Africa, where he met the Watusi, the Masai, and the Mangbetu, among others.  In South America, he lived and traveled with the Jivaros of northern Ecuador.  In New Guinea, he spent time on the coast as well as in the central highlands, and met the Forei and Kukukuku, among others.  He also traveled with the Inuit in the Arctic.  In each place he went, he introduced himself to the local tribal chiefs, bringing trade goods as tribute.  Through interpreters, he questioned the tribe members about their daily activities, their customs, mating rituals, and diet, and takes great pains to describe their attire and appearance for readers.  Whenever possible, he went along on a hunting expedition with the tribe.  He also cajoled or paid the tribes to perform special dances or rituals for his movie cameras.  In addition to meeting the native tribes, he also met a wide variety of Western researchers and colonists living in the area, such as Jean de Medina, founder of the Okapi research station in Congo.<br /><br />I'm not very fond of books written by people who travel solely to have something new to write about.  This book is an extreme example of such travel, where the author even gets the people he meets to stage events just so he can get material, and he frequently displays a colonial attitude of treating the tribal people as animals in a zoo rather than as real people.  Nevertheless, parts of the book are still quite interesting today.  In his descriptions of the Watusi in Africa, he provides fascinating glimpses into the source of the violence between the Hutus and Tutsi in Rwanda today.  In his travels, there was hardly a Westerner living in the wild regions that he did not meet, and researchers interested in these people can find fascinating anecdotes about them in Cotlow's stories.  In one memorable chapter about a 1955 trip to New Guinea, Cotlow encounters Kuru, before it had a name.  He describes visiting the Forei, who were afflicted with a \\"strange laughing disease,\\" that went on to rob victims of their coordination, and was always eventually fatal.  He notes that this disease had first been noticed by patrols in 1951, but that it had been with the tribe for a long time before that.  At the time of Cotlow's visit, the connection of the disease to cannibalism had not yet been discovered.  Gems like these make this book a treasure trove of anecdotal history of tribal regions of the mid-Twentieth Century.fatal.  He notes that this disease had first been noticed by patrols in 1951, but that it had been with the tribe for a long time before that.  At the time of Cotlow's visit, the connection of the disease to cannibalism had not yet been discovered.  Gems like these make this book a treasure trove of anecdotal history of tribal regions of the mid-Twentieth Century. <br />	2005-02-09
355863:US	51917998	RZ23ZNPPP2T90	0944475183	579632710	Growing Upcountry: Raising a Family & Flock in a Rural Place	Books	5	1	1	N	N	In a Country Corner of Vermont	This book is a collection of short essays that detail Mitchell's adventures with sheep and children on his farm in Vermont.  Like many new Vermonters, Mitchell was an urban transplant, and upon arrival in Vermont, he didn't have a lot of the accumulated \\"country-sense\\" necessary for survival on the farm.  Undaunted, Mitchell talked to his neighbors, read all he could, and slowly learned how to make a living off the land.  In this book, Mitchell struggles to figure out the best way to raise kids-how to tell when they are ready to drive a tractor, or deal with life's passages in the sheep barn.  He also spends a lot of time in the sheep barn, working out the guidelines for efficient animal husbandry and marketing his sheep products.<br /><br />Mitchell's first book, Moving UpCountry, kept me in stitches for days, as I recalled such scenes as procuring fresh chickens for out-of-town visitors.  There's nothing spectacularly funny like that in this book, but there are several points to ponder.  In a story about deciding whether to collect a pile of skipping stones from a park to take back home to his own pond, Mitchell writes \\"having my own private supply of stones might make them hard to share.  Could I gracefully stand by while visiting guests fired stone after stone from my pail out across the water?...Would I have to remind myself, each time I skipped a stone, that now I possessed one less stone to skip?\\" When he realized the work and worry a stone supply would cause him, he gave up the enterprise at once so that he could enjoy the immediate pleasure of skipping stones with his kids on the beach. Small lessons like these make up the measure of a truly educated person.	2005-02-09
363098:US	51917998	RSMTLBWPKXC78	1589760425	100496869	Headhunting in the Solomon Islands: Around the Coral Sea	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The Expotition	This book tells the story of two young American women who set off on an independent \\"Expotition\\" to the South Seas in the 1930s.  They had the lofty goal of painting \\"the portrait of a race of primitive negroids living in the Southwest Pacific.\\"  Of the two young women, Mytinger was the painter, and her friend Margaret was her faithful companion and assistant.  They started off from San Francisco with four hundred dollars in their pockets and a cigarette tin containing supplies for doing charcoal drawings.  The idea was to supplement their meager cash and support themselves along the journey by drawing portraits of people they met.  Despite the odds, which spared them no end of adventures, from capsizing, to fistfights, to malaria, they survived the journey and made it back home with a story to tell.<br /><br />The book is somewhat of a period piece, in that the author comes across as living her life through whimsy in a feminine sort of way-but at the same time, she is also a feminist, proud of the fact that she is traveling together with her friend in wild places that many men from back home would deem too dangerous to visit.  Mytinger writes from a time before the word \\"politically correct\\" was invented, and much of the terminology that she uses to describe the local people that she meets would not be considered acceptable today.  However, the manner of her descriptions are not at all out of line with the standards of her time.  Modern readers interested in living conditions in the South Seas, especially in the Solomon Islands and New Guinea during the time just before the Second World War will find this a treasure trove of information. Mytinger tells us about life on the plantations, and life in native villages.  She tells us who was getting along with whom, the Americans, the British, the Germans, Japanese, and of course, members of all the various local tribes.<br /><br />During the two years of their Expotition, Mytinger did indeed find many heads to paint.  But the conditions of the journey were not conducive to assembling a large collection of portraits.  All of her painting supplies were destroyed in the first watery landing on the islands.  She was eventually able to get enough paints together from various sources to be able to cob a paint kit together and get some heads on canvas.  Unfortunately, most of the collection was lost and never made it back home.  Nevertheless, apparently, she had copies of a few of the portraits, which appear reproduced in black-and-white in several places throughout the book..  But the conditions of the journey were not conducive to assembling a large collection of portraits.  All of her painting supplies were destroyed in the first watery landing on the islands.  She was eventually able to get enough paints together from various sources to be able to cob a paint kit together and get some heads on canvas.  Unfortunately, most of the collection was lost and never made it back home.  Nevertheless, apparently, she had copies of a few of the portraits, which appear reproduced in black-and-white in several places throughout the book. <br />	2005-02-03
364583:US	51917998	R30C0025092ZJY	0929627008	222723975	First Person Rural	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Peasant Tales	This book is a collection of essays by a man who describes himself by observing \\"I once was a New Yorker.  Now, I'm a peasant.\\"  Perrin moved to Vermont some 14 years before writing these essays and had a lot of time in the meantime to learn the ways of the country.  He shares with us some practical advice, like how to rescue burned maple syrup, or how to build fences using trees from your own land.  In one story featured in this collection, he tries to take a load of firewood to New York City to see how much of a killing he could make by selling it there.  Some of the stories are a bit humorous, but mostly, they aim towards the practical.<br /><br />Perrin addresses himself to other newcomers, or wanna-be newcomers to Vermont, the Flatlanders.  In comparing city life to the idyllic country lifestyle, he notes that here in the country we don't have garbage strikes (since we don't have garbage pickup or sanitation workers to get disgruntled), but we do have fresh air (which needs to be warmed up from -20 degree temperatures before you can breathe it without pain).  One of his themes is the tension between modernization and the determination to make a \\"last stand\\" by living a traditional lifestyle.  A mainstay of Vermont's tourist economy is the \\"last stand\\" farmstead; unfortunately, it's nigh onto impossible to make a living by farming without modern equipment such as milking machines, which goes against the ethos of \\"last stand\\".  As I read this book, I couldn't help but think of the native Vermonters I've met, who want to have nothing to do with woodstoves or dirt roads.  They've split and hauled all too many cords of wood in their time, and now that they have the resources to own a house with a modern furnace located on a paved road, they don't see any reason why they should go backwards.  Meanwhile, the Flatlanders come up here and can't wait to get themselves a woodstove, and they can't understand why the natives aren't interested in such things.  Flatlanders like the challenge of learning how to do for themselves, to provide their own water, heat and food.  Some native Vermonters look on, bemused both at how little common sense the Flatlanders have, not knowing how to do anything right, and also at their determination to do things the hard way when they have the resources to live like modern city people do. But of course, not all Flatlanders or native Vermonters fit the stereotypes-some Flatlanders are quite skillful at country living, and many native Vermonters are quite pleased with to see their new neighbors fit in so well on \\"last stand\\" homesteads.  In any case, if you're a recent arrival in the country, Perrin's tales may hit a chord with you, and you just might learn something useful along the way.like the challenge of learning how to do for themselves, to provide their own water, heat and food.  Some native Vermonters look on, bemused both at how little common sense the Flatlanders have, not knowing how to do anything right, and also at their determination to do things the hard way when they have the resources to live like modern city people do. But of course, not all Flatlanders or native Vermonters fit the stereotypes-some Flatlanders are quite skillful at country living, and many native Vermonters are quite pleased with to see their new neighbors fit in so well on \\"last stand\\" homesteads.  In any case, if you're a recent arrival in the country, Perrin's tales may hit a chord with you, and you just might learn something useful along the way. <br />	2005-02-02
365498:US	51917998	R17AMO21Z6SMN5	0060984198	170292603	Pastures of Plenty: A Self-Portrait	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Words from the Wise	This book is a sampling of letters, liners notes, and lyrics by Woody Guthrie.  Most of the items have not been published before, or at least, not in this form.  The writings come from the period 1936-1950, and are organized chronologically.  Through Woody's words, we travel with him to Los Angeles, and then to New York.  We spend World War II together with Woody in the Merchant Marines, and then get drafted in into the Army on VE Day.  Following the War, we return to New York and join the People's Artists with Pete Seeger, providing music for union meetings across the country.  Interspersed with the text are many black-and-white pictures of Woody and other folksingers of the times, such as Pete Seeger, Leadbelly, and Cisco Houston. The book also includes a smattering of sketches drawn by Woody in his journals.<br /><br />The editors have done a masterful job at choosing items for inclusion.  Several items describe Woody's approach to song writing, or analyze differences between performed and recorded music.  Many explain his politics and background.  Some are very personal pieces written for his children, in which we can see examples of the depth of his affection.  Though he never had much formal schooling, Woody was addicted to writing, to expressing himself through writing, to exploring his ideas through writing, to communicating with others through writing.  The editors comment that he was known to be a noisy houseguest, what with his habit of picking up the typewriter to start banging away at 3:00 AM. His writing style is his very much his own.  In many places, it comes across as chain-of-thought, where he leaps from one topic to another.  Yet, he still manages to bring his ideas back to his main topic in the end.  The wild associations that he comes up with serve to emphasize and explicate his deepest thoughts.  In a 1930s letter to his sister, he writes \\"Now, when you look around you, see how this battle is taking shape all around you, and how it's a fight between the rich folks and the poor folks every day.  The question I want to ask you is this: What side are you on from Day to Day?...There always have been more rich than poor.  Since this is True, the Rich folks must have someway of making us poor folks believe their way, so they put out radio programs, sermons, moving pictures, books, magazines, and all sorts of silly advertising.\\"  If Woody were still with us today, he'd have no lack of topics to write about.t between the rich folks and the poor folks every day.  The question I want to ask you is this: What side are you on from Day to Day?...There always have been more rich than poor.  Since this is True, the Rich folks must have someway of making us poor folks believe their way, so they put out radio programs, sermons, moving pictures, books, magazines, and all sorts of silly advertising.\\"  If Woody were still with us today, he'd have no lack of topics to write about.  <br />	2005-02-01
365616:US	51917998	R21RBYID2SHQVV	0395204321	282622661	Manila, goodbye	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Survival Instincts	This book details the childhood of Robin Prising, who at the age of 8, found himself interned in a Japanese prison camp in Manila.  Prising, who had been born in Canada and given up at birth, was adopted by a couple in their 50's, Frederic and Marie Prising, and immediately taken to their overseas home.  Frederic was a rich American businessman, and Marie, British by birth, had been an actress.  Robin's first seven years of life were very luxurious.  He had rich foods, servants to wait on him, and preferred the company of adults.  When the war came to Manila, all of this changed.  He and his parents were carted away to an internment camp.  Robin's parents' health deteriorated almost immediately, and they were taken off to the hospital ward.  From the small boy's point of view, this constituted abandonment, proof that in the end, they only cared for each other, and not for the small waif they had taken in.  Later experiences would show that his parents did indeed care for him, but the scars of this incident persisted.<br /><br />On his own, Robin had to learn how to get along with other children, and how to endear himself to adults who could help him.  He learned to tie his own shoes, to make his own deals with the black marketers for food, and how to catch and eat any manner of living critters to stave off certain starvation.  He saw his parents beaten, and he saw the fattest man he ever knew slowly starve to death in the camp.  Later, he saw people killed.  He came down with measles, whooping cough, and pneumonia, and pulled through.  What kept him alive was hope.  He writes \\"My early years had been a time of ease and plenty: like a child through is fingers, I had merely peeped at the world outside.  This childhood had abruptly ended with the Japanese occupation of Manila when I was nearly nine years old.  The fall of Manila forced me into boyhood, three years which even now (1975) seem the longest in my life.  This was the time in which I learned to live through hope.  The American invasions and the ensuing holocaust had shut my boyhood behind me.\\"  The book is a disturbing, yet uplifting story of a struggle against impossible odds, and provides a unique first-hand account of the Japanese occupation of Manila as experienced by Westerners who were caught in the wrong place at the wrong time.hope.  The American invasions and the ensuing holocaust had shut my boyhood behind me.\\"  The book is a disturbing, yet uplifting story of a struggle against impossible odds, and provides a unique first-hand account of the Japanese occupation of Manila as experienced by Westerners who were caught in the wrong place at the wrong time. <br />	2005-02-01
367510:US	51917998	R1QHL5I8J9MVSN	0486275795	848934787	Initiations and Initiates in Tibet	Books	4	35	36	N	N	Notes on Tibetan Buddhism of Generations Past	This book is a description of the practices of Tibetan Buddhism found by David-Neel during her tenure in Tibet during the early part of the Twentieth Century.  David-Neel had spent many years living in Tibet and studying Buddhism before she wrote this book, even adopting a Tibet son, Lama Yongden.  This book describes the main beliefs and ceremonies of Tibetan Buddhism as David-Neel observed them at that time.<br /><br />The first sentence of the text reminds us that her task is practically unachievable \\"To present to Westerners a perfectly clear and complete idea of the mysticism of the Tibetans is practically impossible.\\"  David-Neel was remarkably cognizant of the immensity of the cultural differences that she was trying to bridge, far more so that many other travel writers of her era.  Her fluency in the language and spiritual commitment helped her gain a foothold in the mysterious city of Lhasa, closed at that time to all foreigners-except her.<br /><br />In this book, David-Neel takes on a variety of topics, including: Tibetan mysticism, kinds of initiations and their meanings, daily spiritual exercises, a historical overview of the Dalai Lamas, types of Buddhism, morality in Tibetan Buddhism, meditation and the cultivation of attention, and the Tibetan intelligentsia.  To capture some of the essence of Tibetan mystics, David-Neel terms them \\"spiritual sportsmen,\\" referring to the boldness of the Tibetan mystics and \\"their singular impatient desire to measure their strength against spiritual obstacles or occult foes.\\"  As she describes some of the types of initiation, these ideas become more clear.  For example, in one initiation, the initiates demonstrate their determination to exercise mind over matter as they sit naked for hours in the cold and swallow a four-inch long burning candle.  Later in the book, she stresses that the initiation is \\"not intended to communicate knowledge, but rather to transmit the power to do some physical or mental act.\\"<br /><br />The workings of the subconscious mind are extremely important to these mystics, and David-Neel tells us how the mystics use the study of sleep and dreams to determine intent, where it can be studied free from the constraints of conscious action.  In their beliefs, a person who dreams he murdered someone is guilty of murder because the dream shows his or her true intent.  In contrast, a person can actually kill someone and not be guilty of murder, if  he or she had no personal motive in the affair.  It is intent, and solely intent, upon which the system of morality is based.<br /><br />This book is not intended to be a guide or introduction to the Buddhist faith, although it does include material summarizing some sacred Buddhist texts.  Buddhists are very diverse in their beliefs, and while a number of the statements David-Neel includes are familiar to all Buddhists, some of the practices described here would be abhorrent to many, and may be quite different in modern practice, even in Tibet.  As a historical  document, however, the book is fascinating in its description of the ceremonies, initiations, and beliefs of Buddhist mystics in early Twentieth Century Tibet.r /> <br />The workings of the subconscious mind are extremely important to these mystics, and David-Neel tells us how the mystics use the study of sleep and dreams to determine intent, where it can be studied free from the constraints of conscious action.  In their beliefs, a person who dreams he murdered someone is guilty of murder because the dream shows his or her true intent.  In contrast, a person can actually kill someone and not be guilty of murder, if  he or she had no personal motive in the affair.  It is intent, and solely intent, upon which the system of morality is based. <br /> <br />This book is not intended to be a guide or introduction to the Buddhist faith, although it does include material summarizing some sacred Buddhist texts.  Buddhists are very diverse in their beliefs, and while a number of the statements David-Neel includes are familiar to all Buddhists, some of the practices described here would be abhorrent to many, and may be quite different in modern practice, even in Tibet.  As a historical  document, however, the book is fascinating in its description of the ceremonies, initiations, and beliefs of Buddhist mystics in early Twentieth Century Tibet. <br />	2005-01-30
368671:US	51917998	R2Z862JVZ7OLCW	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Essential Background	This book provides excellent background material for understanding the rise, rule, and fall of the Taliban.  Though written in 2000 when the Taliban were at the height of their power, and before the September 11th attacks, the book is far from outdated.  The narrative begins in 1994 in Kandahar, with the rise of Mohammad Omar.  Rashid then takes us on a blow-by-blow account of the battles that took the Taliban to Kabul.  The second part of the book discusses various topics relating to Taliban rule, including Islamic Fundamentalism, the Taliban's political and military organization, the banning of women from public life, the basing of the economy on drugs and transshipment (smuggling), \\"Arab Afghans\\", and Osama Bin Laden.  The book closes with a section that analyzes  Taliban-run Afghanistan in a regional and global context.  This section takes up the mutual influences and enmities between the Taliban, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Iran, and the US.  End material includes a sampling of Taliban decrees, a listing of Taliban leaders and the positions they held, a chronology of the Taliban from 1992 to September 2000, a chronology of the struggle to develop oil and gas resources and a pipeline through Afghanistan, a glossary of Afghan terms, a bibliography, endnotes citing sources for all factual material in the text, and an index.<br /><br />Rashid was very well qualified to write such a book.  As a Pakistani journalist, he had covered politics and wars in Afghanistan from the 1978 Soviet invasion.  One striking observation that he makes about the difference between the Mujaheddin and the Taliban fighters early on was the cultural ignorance of the Taliban.  When Rashid met and talked with Mujaheddin fighters during the 1980s while they were on maneuvers, they spoke to him as tribal members.  Many did not have formal schooling, but they all knew their ancestry back many generations, and they had a trade or could make a living from the soil.  Many Taliban fighters, on the other hand, had been raised in refugee camps in Pakistan, often as orphans.  They were ignorant of their ancestry and tribal customs.  Though they had attended \\"school\\", it had been at madrassahs, were they got rudimentary training in the religious ideas of mullahs, many of whom were unqualified as Islamic scholars. As refugees, they knew no trades, and had no connection to the land.  Many had grown up outside of family structures and had no memories of interactions with women, not even with close female relatives. Thus it wasn't surprising that they had no skills at running a government or even interest in such activities once they came to power, or that they seemed to want women to just disappear.<br /><br />The chapter on the Arab-Afghans is especially interesting.  In it, Rashid documents the early influences the Saudi government and the CIA had (under the leadership of William Casey) in laying the groundwork for the Taliban.  As far back as 1982, Pakistan had been allowing Islamic radicals free passage so they could fight Communism with the Mujaheddin.  In 1986 and 1987, Casey got the CIA to support the Pakistani ISI in recruiting Islamic terrorists worldwide to fight with the Mujaheddin.  The Saudis joined in, eager to both push Wahabbism in the region, as well as to provide a worthwhile cause for their own radical malcontents like Osama Bin Laden.  Rashid describes how these radicals established terrorist training camps both in Pakistan and Afghanistan, and the relations between the Taliban and these foreign thugs.<br /><br />Another point that Rashid raises in several places is the idea that is apparently common throughout the Islamic world that the fall of the Soviet Union was due primarily or solely to the Muslim Mujaheddin.  In the West, we assume that the Mujaheddin played a small role in the drama, and that what really happened was an economic collapse, both because the Soviet system was rotten to the core, and because the Arms Race forced the Soviets to spend their last kopeck.  This difference in opinion about the demise of the Soviet Union provides some insight into how disparate the worldview may be between the West and Islamic countries.<br /><br />Any reader of this book when it first came out in 2000 could see that Afghanistan was a disaster waiting to happen.  Rashid warns us that this is not only a powder keg waiting to blow, but that the fuse has already been lit.  He stresses the dangers of ignoring the crisis, and continuing to make due with the status quo.  But not even he could guess at the magnitude of the explosion when it finally came.  With this in mind, one particularly ominous observation from Rashid is the following \\"The radical Islamicist discourse suffered from the same weaknesses and limitations as the Afghan Marxists did: as an all-inclusive ideology, they rejected rather than integrated the vastly different social, religious and ethnic identities that constitute Afghan society.  Both the Afghan communists and Islamicists wanted to impose radical change on a traditional social structure by a revolution from the top.  They wished to do away with tribalism and ethnicity by fiat, an impossible task, and were unwilling to accept the complex realities on the ground.\\"  Let's see-when the Coalition Forces threw out the Taliban and the UN stepped in to establish a new government, did they try to impose a democratic revolution from the top?  Are they doing enough to understand how this complex traditional society works?  Are they taking care of the needs of the all the disparate ethnic and tribal groups without showing undue favoritism?  Could this be a factor why peace has yet to be established in Afghanistan?viets to spend their last kopeck.  This difference in opinion about the demise of the Soviet Union provides some insight into how disparate the worldview may be between the West and Islamic countries.   <br /> <br />Any reader of this book when it first came out in 2000 could see that Afghanistan was a disaster waiting to happen.  Rashid warns us that this is not only a powder keg waiting to blow, but that the fuse has already been lit.  He stresses the dangers of ignoring the crisis, and continuing to make due with the status quo.  But not even he could guess at the magnitude of the explosion when it finally came.  With this in mind, one particularly ominous observation from Rashid is the following \\"The radical Islamicist discourse suffered from the same weaknesses and limitations as the Afghan Marxists did: as an all-inclusive ideology, they rejected rather than integrated the vastly different social, religious and ethnic identities that constitute Afghan society.  Both the Afghan communists and Islamicists wanted to impose radical change on a traditional social structure by a revolution from the top.  They wished to do away with tribalism and ethnicity by fiat, an impossible task, and were unwilling to accept the complex realities on the ground.\\"  Let's see-when the Coalition Forces threw out the Taliban and the UN stepped in to establish a new government, did they try to impose a democratic revolution from the top?  Are they doing enough to understand how this complex traditional society works?  Are they taking care of the needs of the all the disparate ethnic and tribal groups without showing undue favoritism?  Could this be a factor why peace has yet to be established in Afghanistan? <br />	2005-01-29
371858:US	51917998	R13XAQXN6P1WKU	0374510768	465957672	The American Cider Book	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Opinionated but Fun	This book is an excellent concise reference for cider making and enjoyment.  It begins with a short article on the history of cider, particularly in North America and New England.  This is followed by a substantial chapter on methods of making cider in the past and in the present.  This section also describes tools and machinery, as well as bottling and preserving cider.  There is also a shorter chapter on methods and tools needed for small-scale home cider production. The last part of the book consists of a collection of various recipes that call for cider, from soup to main dishes, to pie.  The book is amply illustrated with high-quality black-and-white drawings and photographs. End material includes a short appendix of suppliers for cider making equipment and an index.<br /><br />This book is fun to read as well as informative.  Certainly, the quality of the historical research is excellent, and the facts are presently very coherently. A wide variety of information is included, from types of apples to use for cider making, to characteristics of the ideal pomace, to bottling and preservation methods for both sweet cider and hard cider, and even methods for making apple cider vinegar.  Orton bases his comments not only on his historical research, but also on his own experience, growing up and making cider on a traditional family farm.  On certain topics, he has some very firm opinions, which he shares with readers.  For example, he observes, \\"One of the most outlandish, and to me shocking, habits of the times we live in is that of swilling down drinks from up-lifted bottles.  No civilized person guzzles from a bottle if a glass or mug is available.  For American advertisers to condone and actually promote such a habit is a good comment on these times when manners have been abandoned and social customs of gentlemen and ladies decried.\\"  Such comments yield clues to Orton's personality-I wouldn't want to get on the wrong side of this guy, so when I make my cider, I'm going to follow his rules.'m going to follow his rules. <br />	2005-01-27
376994:US	51917998	R2JJTIYQYBWX9A	B0007DMT4A	313487717	A Family on Wheels: Further Adventures of the Von Trapp Family Singers	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Road Stories	This book is a collection of reminiscences of almost ten years of life on the road as the singing troupe of the Trapp Family Singers.  The von Trapps had arrived in America in 1939 as penniless refugees from the war in Europe.  Through a lot of luck and blessings from above, they eventually managed to land on their feet and establish themselves as a professional song troupe.  With proceeds of their performances, they were able to purchase a plot of land in Vermont on which they built a homestead.  That is, the girls built the homestead, since the boys were off with the US army fighting in the War.  Unfortunately, Captain von Trapp passed away not long after the end of the War, in 1947.  The family still needed to make a living however, and their music was in great demand.  As a family, they toured the US, giving concerts in small towns and large cities from one end of the continent to the other.  They also toured Latin America, from Cuba to Belem, Trinidad to Santiago de Chile.  Later trips took them to Hawaii, New Zealand, and Australia.  In this book, Maria von Trapp regales us with the variety of adventures and misadventures that they met with along the way on these tours.<br /><br />This is not a long or weighty book, but nevertheless, it does include some thoughts to ponder.  In describing their initial arrival in the US, Maria recalls, \\"A refugee is not just someone lacking in money and everything else. A refugee is vulnerable to the slightest touch: he has lost his country, his friends, his earthly belongings.  He is a stranger, sick at heart.  He is suspicious; he feels misunderstood.\\"  When the von Trapps arrived in America, they were just one more refugee family.  But what they found was that \\"The real America is not neon-sign language; it is a state of mind.  It is warm, spontaneous generosity-full measure, pressed down and running over.\\"  Throughout their early time in the US, they met with this generosity, homes were opened to them, cars were loaned to them, and most importantly, people who had been strangers offered emotional support when it was needed.  The von Trapps responded by trying to pass on the gifts that had been given them, with their music performances and camps, and with their efforts towards war time relief.  In this book, we read how they celebrated mass with and were ultimately adopted by a supposedly hostile American Indian tribe and learned Hawaiian hula dances.  They visited a leper colony in Hawaii, and by the close of the book, three members of the family were teaching at a mission school in the highlands of New Guinea.  The von Trapps were indeed a remarkable family, and it's no wonder that a movie was made about them.  But in this case, the true life stories go far beyond the fictional account told by Hollywood.o them, and most importantly, people who had been strangers offered emotional support when it was needed.  The von Trapps responded by trying to pass on the gifts that had been given them, with their music performances and camps, and with their efforts towards war time relief.  In this book, we read how they celebrated mass with and were ultimately adopted by a supposedly hostile American Indian tribe and learned Hawaiian hula dances.  They visited a leper colony in Hawaii, and by the close of the book, three members of the family were teaching at a mission school in the highlands of New Guinea.  The von Trapps were indeed a remarkable family, and it's no wonder that a movie was made about them.  But in this case, the true life stories go far beyond the fictional account told by Hollywood. <br />	2005-01-23
379297:US	51917998	R2ZVXEUZY7C2XU	0299088146	988413141	A History Of Education In Antiquity (Wisconsin Studies in Classics)	Books	4	40	41	N	N	Massive Scholarly Undertaking	This book is a massive scholarly overview of education in ancient Greek, Roman, and early Christian cultures, from 1000BC to 500AD.  It is divided into 3 main sections: Origins of Classical Education from Homer to Isocrates, Classical Education in the Hellenistic Age, and Classical Education and Rome.  The first section describes Greek education from very early times, going as far back as Homer.  This section includes discussion of Spartan education and the role of military training and sport in education, pederasty in early Greek education, and education at the time of Plato and Isocrates.  The second section explores classical Greek education in greater detail, focusing on the subjects that were studied, namely,  physical education, artistic education (especially music and rhetoric), and science.  It also discusses educational institutions, primary schools, secondary schools, and higher education.  We learn about methods of teaching reading in ancient Greece, classroom atmosphere and discipline, and the lowly station of teachers in Greek society.<br /><br />In the third section, Marrou details how Greek methods and topics of education were adopted by Roman society, with some differences and modifications.  For example, the Romans had very little use for physical education, whereas physical education had formed a core element of Greek education.  Another difference was the status given to teachers; in Roman society, teachers were well-respected and many used the teaching profession as a stepping stone to gain high political appointments.  Paralleling the topics of the second section, this section includes information about the subject areas studied and the institutions were education took place.  This section also includes shorter descriptions of topics, institutions, and methods of education during early Christian times, Byzantine education, and monastic education up to the Carolingian Renaissance.<br /><br />This is a massive scholarly undertaking.  Ancient sources are analyzed throughout the text; footnotes referring to these sources appear on almost every page.  End material includes a large section of additional notes, references, and an index.  The book contains information about an enormous range of topics, from the origins of rhetoric, to the ancient Greek modes in music, to rules of ancient Greek wrestling and the first Olympic games.  In his introduction, Marrou makes some general observations about education that are well worth pondering, \\"Education is a collective technique which a society employs to instruct is youth in the values and accomplishments of the civilization within which it exists....A civilization must achieve its true form before it can create the education in which it is reflected.\\"  He discusses the education of girls as well as boys.<br /><br />The book is not easy reading.  The text is sprinkled liberally with Greek words that are neither translated nor transliterated-a basic familiarity with the Greek alphabet would be a very useful asset for readers of this book. Marrou also assumes that the reader has a thorough grounding in classical literature and the history of the ancient Greeks.  Sentences like \\"Everyone knows the set-back which Plato's ambition received from the final defeat of the reactionary aristocracy to which he belonged\\" abound  in this book.  If you are a little hazy on the details of Plato's ambitions, or have perhaps never even heard of them, you may have a tough time getting through this text because Marrou doesn't slow down to explain.  Marrou's style of writing is very much in accordance with European academic style; that is, he peppers the text with numerous factoids that have little bearing on the main points but serve mainly to show that his knowledge of this topic and related ones goes far beyond what he has chosen to focus on here.  This style can be somewhat annoying for readers more used to straight-forward writing.  Nevertheless, the book is so informative that evencasual readers are bound to find something of interest in it.even casual readers are bound to find something of interest in it.  <br />	2005-01-21
381763:US	51917998	R3RRR1KGVRPCSJ	1567408451	121899390	Appointment at the Ends of the World (Nova Audio Books)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Amazing tales	This book tells the story of Dr. William Karesh, a wildlife veterinarian. Karesh tells us about his early interest in wild animals, and how he came to study veterinary science in graduate school.  Following his studies, he used his skills working for zoos and the Wildlife Conservation Society.  Now he spends much of his time traveling around the world studying the habits and health of various wild creatures.  Highlights of Karesh's stories include nursing an injured okapi back to health, and chasing peccaries through the Peruvian forests.  The best tale of all, however, has to be that of the time he was high in a tree, attempting to stare down a jaguar who thought he smelled like a nice hunk of meat.  The point of the book is not all light-hearted stories, however.  Karesh provides us with some important points to ponder about wildlife conservation and the future of the planet.	2005-01-19
382331:US	51917998	REWQZ8S5F5F6K	0805032584	418402221	New York, New York: How the Apartment House Transformed the Life of the City	Books	4	5	7	N	N	History of Residential Architecture in New York City	This book relates the history of residential architecture in New York City from 1869-1930, the period covering the transition from single family houses to apartment dwellings.  The book is into four sections organized by era: Old New York (1869-1879), the Gilded Age (1880-1899), the New Metropolis (1900-1919), and the Manhattan Skyline (1920-1930).  According to Hawes, an architect named Richard Morris Hunt was the leader in bringing apartment buildings to New York.  Hunt had been educated in Paris, where apartment buildings were the norm.  Indeed, when he began designing apartment buildings for New York, they were first called \\"French flats.\\"  Hawes takes us on a tour through neighborhoods where the new apartment buildings were being constructed, and she also describes how the millionaires living on Fifth Avenue were determined to keep apartments out of their neighborhood.  She introduces the architects of the time, and provides detailed descriptions of both buildings and the interior layouts of the new luxury apartments. This book is very much about New York City--there is little, if any, discussion of architectural changes in other American cites. The book is amply illustrated with high-quality black-and-white period photographs.  End material includes an appendix of extant buildings of the style described in the text, endnotes, selected references, and an index.<br /><br />Throughout the book, the focus is on housing for the rich and the upper-middle class, those who kept a social distance between themselves and the lower classes who lived in tenements.  The book chronicles not only the architects of the time and the buildings they designed, but also how high society gradually accepted and even warmed up to the idea of living in multiple-family dwellings.  In order to make the new apartment buildings attractive to upper-class tenants, architects included every luxury they could think of, from ample servants' quarters, to independent electrical power stations and cold storage rooms.<br /><br />Though the book is well-researched, I'm still not entirely convinced by several of Hawes; claims, however.  The book is sub-titled \\"How the apartment house transformed the life of the city.\\"  While the apartment house was certainly a new way of living for the rich, I suspect that the majority of the population did not belong to the upper classes, and did not have access to these buildings.  What's more, the shift in architectural style that Hawes describes doesn't seem to be of the type that would filter down to the masses, so it's hard to see how these new luxury apartment houses transformed the life of the city beyond the rich.  If the life of the city actually was transformed, it's hard to discover the details in this book, since the book focuses more on the architects and their buildings than on cultural change.  Hawes also seems to be at least implicitly claiming that it was the new architecture style that convinced people to live in multiple-family dwellings.  She notes that the population of New York exploded during this time period.  If so, then land values must have been increasing as well, and there must have been quite a bit of pressure to use the land more efficiently. Hawes notes that as land values went up, some of the very rich finally sold their land, and had the exact layout of their houses duplicated on the uppermost floor of the new buildings that went onto the plots.  This suggests that perhaps the shift from single family houses to apartment dwellings may have been inevitable rather than simply following fashion, especially given the limited amount of land that was available in the island setting of the city.nd cold storage rooms.   <br /> <br />Though the book is well-researched, I'm still not entirely convinced by several of Hawes; claims, however.  The book is sub-titled \\"How the apartment house transformed the life of the city.\\"  While the apartment house was certainly a new way of living for the rich, I suspect that the majority of the population did not belong to the upper classes, and did not have access to these buildings.  What's more, the shift in architectural style that Hawes describes doesn't seem to be of the type that would filter down to the masses, so it's hard to see how these new luxury apartment houses transformed the life of the city beyond the rich.  If the life of the city actually was transformed, it's hard to discover the details in this book, since the book focuses more on the architects and their buildings than on cultural change.  Hawes also seems to be at least implicitly claiming that it was the new architecture style that convinced people to live in multiple-family dwellings.  She notes that the population of New York exploded during this time period.  If so, then land values must have been increasing as well, and there must have been quite a bit of pressure to use the land more efficiently. Hawes notes that as land values went up, some of the very rich finally sold their land, and had the exact layout of their houses duplicated on the uppermost floor of the new buildings that went onto the plots.  This suggests that perhaps the shift from single family houses to apartment dwellings may have been inevitable rather than simply following fashion, especially given the limited amount of land that was available in the island setting of the city. <br />	2005-01-19
395629:US	51917998	R3NPNJRD45X6N4	B0006BNVGI	656365214	The Eskimo of North Alaska, (Case studies in cultural anthropology)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Culture in Transition	This book provides an overview of the Eskimo culture of Northern Alaska that the author found while he was doing his fieldwork in the region from 1958-1962.  Chance spent the majority of his study time in Barrow, Kaktovik, and Wainwright, Alaska.  One of his main projects was to study the degree of contact the Eskimos had had with Western culture, and how this was affecting their emotional well-being.  Due to the nature of this study, much of this ethnography centers on the comparison between customs in the past and customs in the present, and on identifying factors that might be responsible for change.<br /><br />The book includes material on the population and environment, child rearing, economic life in the past and in the present (1960s, that is), family and village structure, authority and politics, cultural values, and religious beliefs. Chance argues that, in the past, in order to survive, the Eskimos had to adapt their society and culture to fit the extreme conditions of the far North.  Hunger was a powerful force, and fatalism a common response.  One major aspect of change brought about by exposure to Western culture has been the possibility of working for wages.  This has greatly reduced the role of hunger in society, but it has also required the people to remain in one location for great lengths of time.  Wage labor has led to thousands of other consequences for the material culture as well as for the structure of society.  At the end of the book are found a glossary of Eskimo vocabulary, a list of references cited, and an annotated list of recommended readings for further study.  The book is illustrated with a few small black-and-white sketches.<br /><br />The prose is quite clear and accessible to general readers.  Chance avoids making the book simply a dry presentation of facts by interspersing anecdotes or traditional Eskimo stories in the text where appropriate.	2005-01-08
396793:US	51917998	R2NFII1Z7ZUUKO	0385026242	567794591	Only in Alaska; The adventures of a young family in a young state	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Alaskan Lifestyle	This is the story of the Thomas family, who moved to Alaska in 1960, shortly after it became a state.  For quite some time, they had been dissatisfied with their lives in New Jersey.  They felt pent up by suburbia and they were looking for a place where they felt they could make a real difference in their community.  Lowell was a small plane pilot, and wanted to live and fly in an area with wide open skies, not the tight air space of the Northeast.  So they packed their bags, their kids, and their dog and drove off to settle in Alaska.  This book describes the new life they built for themselves there, with all the natural beauty, the history, and the wonderful people that they found.<br /><br />Thomas tells us about the challenges of gardening in Anchorage, reassuring us that it is indeed possible to grow vegetables there, but you have to plan carefully.  She describes the climate and the changing hours of sunlight.  She writes about the quality of the schools, and burgeoning young oil industry.  She relates adventures that they had as a family camping in the wilderness or visiting places like Kotzubue the north.  She tells us what it was like to be in Fairbanks in August of 1967 during the great flood and how the community came together to house and feed people pushed out of their homes by the floodwaters.  The final chapter is a harrowing first-hand account of the 1963 earthquake in Anchorage, in which she and the children barely escaped with their lives and their house was swallowed up by the earth. The text is well-written, and provides a good balance of historical information, description of the scenery and culture, and interesting anecdotes.  Also included are several pages of high-quality black-and-white photos of the family and their favorite places in Alaska.	2005-01-07
399039:US	51917998	R3JCX3W0RPBIQ9	0340044373	211600620	Yak for Christmas	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Family Vacation	This is the simple journal of a family vacation, but it goes far beyond the ordinary.  The family, being the wife and children of Sir Edmund Hillary, was no ordinary family, and the vacation wasn't ordinary either.  One year, instead of celebrating Christmas at home in New Zealand, Louise Hillary and the three kids took off for South Asia.  After a brief stop in New Delhi, they went on to Katmandu and then off to trek in the Himalayan mountains with Edmund.  Highlights of the trip were the dedication of Khumjung hospital for the Sherpas that the Hillarys had founded and campaigned for, and a family trek to the Everest Base Camp.  On the trip home, they visited with Tenzing (a team member from Edmund's historic climb) and his family.  The book includes several pages of high-quality black-and-white photos.<br /><br />This is very much a travel journal rather than a detailed description of foreign cultures and locations.  Louise tells us of the adventures and misadventures along the road, which souvenirs they bought, who the children met, and what their accommodations were like.  I'm not sure I would want to take young children on such a trip- -Louise relates to us each episode of vomiting on the part of herself or the children because of bad food or altitude sickness.  Fortunately, the Hillarys didn't seem to suffer any more serious ailments over the course of the journey.  And despite the recurrent stomach ailments and strenuous climbing, the kids still proclaimed, \\"This Himalayan holiday is the most wonderful Christmas present that anyone could ever have.\\"	2005-01-06
400562:US	51917998	R339ZCA3M42Q61	0805050248	716559527	A Good Place to Live: America's Last Migration	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Cities that Work	This book is an exploration into the factors behind successful American cities.  Pindell began with the question \\"Where is a good place to live?\\"  In his travels across the country, this question was often the topic of conversations that he struck up with fellow travelers. Surprisingly, despite the thousands of possible answers, many of the people he asked came up with answers from the same short list of cities.  With this list in hand, Pindell set off across the country again to visit each city.  He wanted to see if the cities' reputations as great places to live were justified, and he also wanted to see if he could identify some common factors that these liveable cities all shared.  In this book, Pindell describes his visits to cities as diverse as Santa Fe, Seattle, Kelowna (British Columbia), Portland, New Hampshire, and Wilmington, North Carolina.<br /><br />In virtually every city he visits, Pindell starts off in a bar in search of what Ray Oldenburg terms a \\"third place\\" (after home and work) where people congregate to socialize with others.  He strikes up conversations with locals and tourists alike, meets with local politicians and frequently talks with street people.  He makes a point of trying to identify unofficial leaders in the community.  He questions each of these people about the quality of life in the city, the problems and threats to continued success, and asks them to list what factors  have made the city so liveable.  To facilitate comparison between cities, he establishes something he calls the 10,000 Waves Scale: the Cheers Factor (ease of sociability), the Foot Factor (how well one can get around without a car), the Cake factor (proximity to cultural amenities), the Comfort factor (pleasantness of the climate), and the Fudge Factor (a purely subjective feeling about the place).<br /><br />Along the way, Pindell makes some interesting observations.  He notes that in order for a place to be a great place to live, it needs to have a continual infusion of new blood.  That is, the newcomers have to outnumber the natives.  He also notes that even while he was writing this book, the number of good places swelled \\"not because people are discovering good places, but because they are making them.\\"  At the end of the book, Pindell summarizes some common factors that good places share, which include: pedestrian friendliness, thriving residential neighborhoods adjacent to downtown, and ownership of downtown properties by merchants.  The book includes a short bibliography and an index.<br /><br />Overall, I found the book thought-provoking as well as informative.  The beginning chapters of the book can be rather heavy and repetitive with their simple descriptions of Western cities.  In the East, however, Pindell takes a different approach, exploring cities that may not be entirely great places to live, but have certain aspects of particular interest, such as the historical development of Portsmouth, New Hampshire, or the campaign against drug dealers in Charlottesville, Virginia.  The book is very weighty with prose-perhaps a more concise presentation might have made the points stand out more, but it also would have limited the scope of the journey.nual infusion of new blood.  That is, the newcomers have to outnumber the natives.  He also notes that even while he was writing this book, the number of good places swelled \\"not because people are discovering good places, but because they are making them.\\"  At the end of the book, Pindell summarizes some common factors that good places share, which include: pedestrian friendliness, thriving residential neighborhoods adjacent to downtown, and ownership of downtown properties by merchants.  The book includes a short bibliography and an index. <br /> <br />Overall, I found the book thought-provoking as well as informative.  The beginning chapters of the book can be rather heavy and repetitive with their simple descriptions of Western cities.  In the East, however, Pindell takes a different approach, exploring cities that may not be entirely great places to live, but have certain aspects of particular interest, such as the historical development of Portsmouth, New Hampshire, or the campaign against drug dealers in Charlottesville, Virginia.  The book is very weighty with prose-perhaps a more concise presentation might have made the points stand out more, but it also would have limited the scope of the journey.  <br />	2005-01-05
400905:US	51917998	RLVF2XVTWT0YC	0681783230	836685183	Cooking Ingredients . The Ultimate Photographic Reference Guide for Cooks and Food Lovers	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Basic reference	This book is a picture reference book of ingredients that are commonly available to or used by British cooks.  It is arranged into sections according to types of foods: eggs and dairy, cheese, fish, meat and poultry, vegetables, beans and grains, pasta and wrappers, fruits and nuts, herbs and spices, condiments and oils, tea and coffee, and kitchen equipment.  Each item in a chapter receives a 3-5 sentence description, sometimes longer, that may help the cook identify the food, select the best variety or cut, or store the item appropriately.  The descriptions may also include trivia or suggestions for when or how to serve the item.  There are few, if any, recipes, although there are frequent feature boxes throughout the book demonstrating and describing preparation tasks like how to roast peppers or truss a bird.<br /><br />The book was clearly written for a British audience, and not a very knowledgeable one at that since the information provided is very basic.  For the American edition, the publisher has tried to patch up the Britishisms by providing American names for such things as aubergines (eggplants) beside the British names. Although the book seems to aim toward completeness, it overlooks many items that are common fare for Americans, such as collard greens.  The attempts to Americanize the terminology were also far from complete.  In addition, at times, it seemed the author was trying to describe things she had never tasted, like pomelos, which she suggests taste like grapefruit but may need more sugar- -actually, they are sweeter than grapefruit and lack its bitterness.  Ingram also describes the texture of a snake fruit as being creamy; while the color is creamy, the fruit itself is more on the crunchy side.  These inaccuracies lead me to wonder how many other questionable factoids she has included.  Nevertheless, the pictures, while not depicting all items (especially not the rarer ones) are high quality and there is an index.  If you are moving to England and you are concerned about what to call the foods there or the kinds of foods you might encounter in a supermarket there, perhaps this book may be of use to you.land and you are concerned about what to call the foods there or the kinds of foods you might encounter in a supermarket there, perhaps this book may be of use to you. <br />	2005-01-04
403640:US	51917998	R10KIV90O251QT	0375408355	953382925	That Others May Live: The True Story of the PJ's, America's Most Daring Rescue Force	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Interesting Story-Melodramatically Told	This book tells the story of Jack Brehm, a career pararescue jumper or PJ.  After graduating from high school in the mid-1970s, Brehm answered an ad in the paper for men interested in learning how to jump from airplanes.  The ad had been placed by the local PJ recruiter on Long Island.  After talking with the recruiter, and learning the kinds of tasks PJs undertake, Brehm decided he was interested in signing up.  He proceeded to basic training and then to the pipeline, a series of training schools starting with \\"Superman School\\", designed not only to build skills and physical abilities, but also to weed out anyone not possessed of superhuman strength, endurance, and motivation to put their lives on the line for others.  Brehm made it through the pipeline and became a full-fledged PJ in the early 1980s.  At the same time that he started flying missions, he also became a father to twins, and this story is as much his family's story as it is his.<br /><br />Brehm describes for us the risks that PJs take on stormy seas or windy mountain tops.  Over the course of his 20-year career, Brehm saved many lives but lost many of his friends in job-related accidents.  He was also injured himself on several occasions.  The one tour of duty that he wanted most of all to complete his career was a military rescue.  The stories can be quite interesting; however, their melodrama is played out to the fullest extent.  At times details are blown completely out of proportion, such as when Brehm is faced with the decision between following his PJ mentor to Alaska or applying to be the NCO in charge of his unit when his mentor leaves.  This episode is presented as being extremely momentous.  Certainly, it was an important time in Brehm's life, but not that remarkable compared with similar decisions that people with more sedentary jobs must make routinely.  Other details are similarly exaggerated, and the level of melodrama makes the book read at times as if it were straight out of Reader's Digest.  Nevertheless, Brehm's story is very engaging and informative about a branch of the services that many people have never heard of.s Digest.  Nevertheless, Brehm's story is very engaging and informative about a branch of the services that many people have never heard of.  <br />	2005-01-03
407454:US	51917998	R33HE4W3B28GZC	0231050356	128612228	The High Valley	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Alone and Overwhelmed	This book relates the adventures of Kenneth Read, a young anthropologist who set off to do field work in the highlands of Eastern New Guinea.  During the Second World War, Read had spent ten months living in the highlands as a member of the Australian armed forces, observing the reactions of the local people to the Japanese occupation.  He found this experience both rewarding and enjoyable, and in 1950 when he became a research fellow at the Australian National University, he was eager to take an advantage of an opportunity to return to the area for field research.  This second expedition, however, turned out to be much more challenging for Read, both socially and physically.<br /><br />Read was invited to a village named Susuroka by a man named Makis, a member of a Gahuku tribe.  Over the next two years, Makis would be Read's informant and friend in the village.  During this time, Read observed the relations between people in the village, between the men and women, and between the adults and children.  He was present at the ritual initiation of his houseboy, Asemo, and at the arranged marriage of a female friend named Tarova.  He also became embroiled in a civil suit in the village centering on one of the town characters, Goluwaizo.  The Gahuku were an aggressive people whose society was based on strength and power.  As an outsider, Read felt continually vulnerable.  Raised in the West, he had trouble coming to terms with this aggressive, unforgiving culture.  He reacted by trying to make sense of the people and their motivations through psychological analysis.  In the end, poor diet and stress led Read to develop bleeding ulcers, which necessitated his evacuation from the village. This is not a strictly formal ethnography, but a very personal record of the people who colored Read's stay.  Nevertheless, the book is filled with ethnographical details that will inform students interested in the cultures of highland Papua New Guinea.	2004-12-30
407663:US	51917998	RW387Z84F638I	0345353870	686255612	Without a Farmhouse Near	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Finger on the Pulse	This book is an exploration into the factors behind the suburbanization of an American farming community.  When I first picked up this book, I did a double-take as I read the blurb on the cover \\"The story of Jericho and Underhill, two traditional Vermont communities in transition-from dairy farms to the suburbs.\\"  Since my arrival in Vermont ten years ago, I had always thought of Jericho and Underhill as rich suburbs of Burlington, and never had an inkling that these communities had been rural just a short time ago.  In this book, Rawson, a first-generation New Yorker, interviews her Vermont relatives, the last generation in her family to make their living on the land.<br /><br />Over the course of 3 years (1985-1988), Rawson observes the development in Jericho and Underhill.  She talks with her relatives, their neighbors, and local politicians to try to understand why farming seems to be on the way out in the area.  The reasons for the agricultural decline are myriad.  People coming to work at the IBM plant need housing, and their demands have increased land values. Increased land values make for increased property taxes, which are a greater burden for farmers than others because farms require larger plots of land than single-family houses.  Technological improvements over the past 40 years have greatly increased farm efficiencies, but require much higher capital and maintenance costs.  As a result, farms have to be bigger just to break even, but bigger farms require hiring outside labor.  But with large employers like IBM in town, it's next to impossible for farms to find people willing to do tough farm labor for low farm wages.<br /><br />Residents and politicians alike shake their heads in dismay.  They want to see farms continue to form a substantial part of the landscape, but they don't know how to successfully address the problems.  Meanwhile, the farmers are getting on in years, and their kids either aren't interested in farming or they can't afford to buy their way in.  As the farmers reach an age at which they can no longer actively farm, they need money for retirement, making developers' outrageous offers for purchasing their land overwhelmingly enticing.  It's hard to see a way out of this quagmire that doesn't involve seeing farmland become suburbs.  Land trusts make a valiant effort to save some of the land for farming or conservation, but their resources are limited.<br /><br />For the most part, this book is quite well written. Rawson does an admirable job of introducing us to the people in the area, explaining their backgrounds and motivations.  In a few places, she gets bogged down in detail, but mostly the story flows rapidly from page to page.o buy their way in.  As the farmers reach an age at which they can no longer actively farm, they need money for retirement, making developers' outrageous offers for purchasing their land overwhelmingly enticing.  It's hard to see a way out of this quagmire that doesn't involve seeing farmland become suburbs.  Land trusts make a valiant effort to save some of the land for farming or conservation, but their resources are limited.   <br /> <br />For the most part, this book is quite well written. Rawson does an admirable job of introducing us to the people in the area, explaining their backgrounds and motivations.  In a few places, she gets bogged down in detail, but mostly the story flows rapidly from page to page. <br />	2004-12-30
408531:US	51917998	R2KX4HQOGROENP	0879830948	572804489	Mrs. Appleyard's Winter Kitchen (Their The Mrs. Appleyard books ; v. 3)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Amusing Tales and 1950s Food	This book is a collection of stories and recipes for special meals during a winter season in Vermont.  Mrs. Appleyard is a fictional character (bearing a great resemblance to Louise Kent), who lives in a fictional town named Appleyard Center (bearing a great resemblance to Maple Corner, a village of Calais, Vermont).  The book runs from October to May, all the months in which snow can usually be found on the ground in Appleyard Center.  The book is organized by month.  Each chapter begins with a tale of Mrs. Appleyard's activities during that month, leading up to a major meal that she served for some special occasion during that month.  Recipes then follow for each item on the menu of that meal.  At the back of the book is an index of recipes and main ingredients.<br /><br />Maple Corner residents and visitors will easily recognize many of Appleyard Center's famous features.  For example, Appleyard attends the Christmas candlelight service at the Old West Church, which has not changed at all since Kent first published this book in the 1920s.  But other aspects of Vermont have changed-in her time, a typical lady of Appleyard Center would be \\"a Republican, an Episcopalian (occasionally a Unitarian), a Friend of the Symphony, a reader of the Atlantic Monthly, a member of the Horticultural Society, an admirer of Picasso, and a member of the English Speaking Union!\\"  It would be hard, but perhaps not impossible, to find such a combination today here in Calais.<br /><br />The title \\"Winter Kitchen\\" led me to believe this would be a book of seasonal recipes, recipes that would make use of foods that are in season or need to be used up during the winter months in Vermont.  In a sense, this is indeed a seasonal book, since each of the meals celebrates a festive winter occasion.  However, many of the ingredients aren't exactly locally available in Vermont at this time of year.  Appleyard must have had a good grocer, who could supply plenty of fresh greens, frozen vegetables, and even fresh seafood on occasion.  In general, the recipes tend to be typical for 1950s American food-tasty in their own right but not always appealing for modern diners.  Directions are clear (as well as amusing to read).  One of Appleyard's most interesting observations about cooking is found near the end of the book, where she states \\"She hopes that no one who reads this book will think she wants people to spend all their time in the kitchen.  She wants you to have, literally, a good time.  That means that you will use time as you like instead of its using you.  In cooking, as in life, time is the most important element.\\"tables, and even fresh seafood on occasion.  In general, the recipes tend to be typical for 1950s American food-tasty in their own right but not always appealing for modern diners.  Directions are clear (as well as amusing to read).  One of Appleyard's most interesting observations about cooking is found near the end of the book, where she states \\"She hopes that no one who reads this book will think she wants people to spend all their time in the kitchen.  She wants you to have, literally, a good time.  That means that you will use time as you like instead of its using you.  In cooking, as in life, time is the most important element.\\" <br />	2004-12-29
408780:US	51917998	RQ0881V59NQEY	0694517712	382494444	Santa's Twin	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fun for Ages 8 and Up	This book is a modern Christmas classic.  Santa has been mugged, tied up and stuffed under the basement stairs by his twin brother, Bob.  At first, Bob comes across as malevolent and psychotic, intent on destroying his brother's reputation as well as wrecking everyone's Christmas.  But thanks to the efforts of two brave sisters, we find out that Bob is merely jealous of his brother and has forgotten some basic behavioral standards.  The story is told entirely in rhyme.  Indeed, it is Koontz's clever rhymes that will keep you in stitches-he even finds not one, but two rhymes for halitosis!<br /><br />Due to the violent beginning, I wouldn't recommend this story for kids under 8, and the opening violent scene makes the story certainly unsuitable for youngsters who still believe in Santa Claus.  But those who are not emotionally distraught by the image of Santa Claus as the victim of a violent crime will find the story charming.  After the opening scene, the story itself is not that violent, and Bob eventually learns a new moral to take to heart and direct his future behavior.	2004-12-29
409324:US	51917998	R2GF4QCF0DUPJ1	0671788493	414205854	A Season on the Reservation	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Interesting Story	This book is a record of Abdul-Jabbar's first season as a basketball coach.  When Abdul-Jabbar's mother died, he became quite distraught and didn't know what to do with himself.  One of his friends at the White Mountain Apache reservation in Arizona invited him to come to the reservation to try out coaching by working with the high school basketball team on the reservation for a season.  Abdul-Jabbar found the invitation attractive for a number of reasons, and decided to give it a go.  Once on the reservation, he had to learn not only how to coach rather than play basketball, but he also found himself trying to lead teenagers who weren't always looking for his directions, all while operating in an unfamiliar culture.<br /><br />After reading the first chapter of the book, I stopped to re-examine the title and cover page to find out who the ghost writer was.  After all, most books by sports figures are \\"told to\\" rather than written, especially books whose prose flows as well as this one.  I was surprised to find that this volume had no ghost writer listed at all.  As I read further along in the book, the reason became clear-unlike many other sports figures, Abdul-Jabbar has a number of academic interests and writes quite well.  In reading this book, one finds that Abdul-Jabbar is a thinker, a person who brings his analytical skills to problems and new situations.  He tries hard to get kids to appreciate the mental aspects of playing basketball.  He is quick to pick up on the cultural characteristics that make the Apache kids react differently than other kids in mainstream America.  He is occasionally carried away with emotion at games, but afterwards analyzes his inappropriate actions and chalks them up to lessons learned about coaching. Abdul-Jabbar explains how he happened to make a connection with the reservation, describes the kids on the team and the other coaches, and recounts hoop-by-hoop stories of several key games.  In a few places, the tale bogs down a little in detail, but overall, it's well written and very enjoyable to read.little in detail, but overall, it's well written and very enjoyable to read. <br />	2004-12-29
410379:US	51917998	R2C2AEFL3BVQHL	0805061738	752533128	The Making of a Chef: Mastering Heat at the Culinary Institute	Books	4	8	9	N	N	In-Depth Tour of Education at the CIA	This book provides an in-depth introduction to American professional culinary education as practiced at the Culinary Institute of America (CIA).  Ruhlman is a journalist who enjoys cooking and fashions himself as a decent cook.  With the excuse of writing a book about the CIA, Ruhlman managed to get himself into the school as a special student, able to skip around the curriculum at an accelerated pace so that he could experience many of the lessons in a limited amount of time.  Even though he was excused from many required classes and the required externship, it still took about a year for him to progress from basic culinary skills to covering the grill at the CIA's American Bounty Kitchen.  This book is both a diary of Ruhlman's classroom experiences at the CIA and a description of the students and chef-lecturers at the school.<br /><br />If readers aren't already tuned into the differences between broth, roux, and brown sauce, through reading this book, they will develop an appreciation for why professional cooks need to master each one. They will also become familiar with the structure of the educational program at the CIA, as Ruhlman discusses each curriculum block in turn; a diagram of the program is provided inside the back cover.  Ruhlman explores several themes in depth, including the ethics of cooking for others, and the heroic physical standards that professional chefs must live up to.  In a few places, Ruhlman gets bogged down in detail, or ponders his personal connections to the project a little too heavily.  Overall, though, the book is enjoyable as well as informative.	2004-12-28
410604:US	51917998	R2HI8N1YPKUPVH	015529461X	247679252	Fundamentals of Music Theory: A Program	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Mechanical Computations	This book is an introduction to the mechanics of Western music theory.  Topics covered include: notation, rhythm, meter, and time signatures, scales, intervals, key signatures and triads.  Howard takes a unique approach in his presentation of the material.  Instead of providing extensive prose about each topic, every point is covered with a one or two sentence cloze (fill-in-the-blank) exercise.  Answers are provided on the left-hand side of each page; if the reader covers the answers, he or she can first try to guess the correct word to fill in the blank, and then check the results immediately.  In addition to fill-in-the blank exercises, there are also numerous exercises requiring the reader to fill in the musical staff (treble or bass) or make notations on a keyboard diagram.  At the back of the book is an index of topics.<br /><br />In the introduction to the book, Howard notes that the book could be used by remedial students.  Indeed, his approach with its repetitive, mechanical nature, seems influenced by behaviorist models of learning and geared towards helping those who learn best through limited reading and lots of simplistic writing.  As an amateur musician who has played a variety of musical instruments for 30 years, I found the beginning chapters of this book excruciatingly simple.  The notation chapter and rhythm material would, indeed, be good for remedial students and are best skipped over by anyone with a modicum of musical knowledge.  Some of the remaining material, however, such as intervals, minor scales, and triads, can be quite challenging for those who have never formally studied music theory before.<br /><br />Nowhere in the book does Howard provide any contextual information about the music theory topics.  He does not mention the history of notation, common uses for different rhythms or time signatures, or even the fact that major keys sound different than minor keys.  He makes no suggestions that students play or listen to any of the bits of notation from the exercises.  Students come away from this book able to calculate such things as a diminished triad in second inversion, but have no idea why they would want to do so, or how such a triad might be used in music.  In this respect, the book is much like an elementary math book filled with simple instructions and exercises, but no theorems, proofs, or word problems.  Although I came away from this book with improved calculation skills in music theory, I don't think these calculation skills will last long without an understanding of how they can be put in practice.s of notation from the exercises.  Students come away from this book able to calculate such things as a diminished triad in second inversion, but have no idea why they would want to do so, or how such a triad might be used in music.  In this respect, the book is much like an elementary math book filled with simple instructions and exercises, but no theorems, proofs, or word problems.  Although I came away from this book with improved calculation skills in music theory, I don't think these calculation skills will last long without an understanding of how they can be put in practice. <br />	2004-12-28
414877:US	51917998	R1HO2XONXZIFNJ	0892812184	77892389	Virtue, Success, Pleasure, and Liberation: The Four Aims of Life in the Tradition of Ancient India	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Hindu Value System	This book is an explanation of the Hindu value system.  Danielou is a very well-known musicologist and linguist who has published many important works explaining Indian music to Western audiences.  In this book, he takes up the basic tenets of the Hindu religion and how they are played out in the culture of India.  The book is organized into two parts.  The first part consists of only two chapters, covering the early history of Hinduism and the development of Sanskrit, and the justification for the caste system.  The second part begins with a brief description of Hindu cosmology, and then turns to the four aims of life: duty, success, pleasure, and liberation, and relates these to the four stages of life: study, family, retreat, and renunciation.  The book contains two appendices: an enumeration of the thirty-two sciences and the sixty-four arts, a one-page description of sources, and an index.<br /><br />I found this book quite easy to understand.  Danielou's description of the four aims of life and corresponding four stages of life is very clear.  Danielou points out how very different Hindu assumptions about the world, its organization and social structure are from Western assumptions.  He notes that the enormity of the differences can make it practically impossible for members of one culture ever to understand the other culture completely, since their worldview is so different.  He says \\"It is difficult to explain Hindu moral attitudes using a Western vocabulary fashioned by Christian scholasticism; it is not even easy to establish parallels between terms, postulates, and classifications.  The very values are so contradictory that in passing from one of these worlds to the other, it is necessary to think on another plane and in another idiom...\\"<br /><br />As Danelou writes, it can be hard to tell whether he is giving his own personal opinions, some of which might be objectionable if judged by Western ethical standards, or simply stating commonly-held Hindu beliefs.  He supports his statements with numerous quotations from sacred Hindu texts.  As a Western reader, I cannot vouch for the accuracy of his explanations, but logically, they make sense and shed light on many aspects of Hindu culture that appear incomprehensible to Westerners unfamiliar with Hindu beliefs.beliefs.  He supports his statements with numerous quotations from sacred Hindu texts.  As a Western reader, I cannot vouch for the accuracy of his explanations, but logically, they make sense and shed light on many aspects of Hindu culture that appear incomprehensible to Westerners unfamiliar with Hindu beliefs.   <br />	2004-12-23
415122:US	51917998	R3O08CX9U3CWP4	0060928727	628774691	The Circle of Simplicity: Return to the Good Life	Books	2	36	41	N	N	Simplicity Discussion Groups	This book provides a broad overview of some of the issues behind the Simplicity movement.  The author, Cecile Andrews set up a number of Simplicity study circles near her home in the Northwest.  This book reveals some of the factors that led her to become interested in Simplicity as well as her ideas of how Simplicity study circles might work.  Much of the beginning of the book provides justification for adopting Simplicity.  Andrews enumerates problems such as hyper-consumption, environmental degradation, and personal isolation.  She also explores possible actions we could take to solve these problems, such as consciously building community with other people and the earth, finding ways to express our spirituality, and restructuring our economic system to make it more environmentally and socially friendly. In the last part of the book, she describes the idea of Simplicity study circles, the benefits that might be gained from participating in one, and how a study circle should operate.  She also provides a 10-week study plan based on the earlier material in the book.<br /><br />Although I agree with the ideas in this book, I found the book rather disappointing in content.  Much of the discussion is either so personal as to be hard to generalize, or else a superficial summary of other more substantial texts.  For example, Andrews frequently refers to findings of Juliet Schor; readers would have more material for discussion by reading Schor's works directly.  Some of Andrews' suggestions for addressing problems are rather inappropriate.  To draw attention to hyper-consumerism, she suggests surreptitiously clothes-pinning tags with messages like \\"You don't really need this, do you?\\" inside articles of clothing in shops.  While I'm all for trying to get people to become more aware of their needless purchases, I don't think messing with the property of individual store owners is an acceptable way to go about the mission.  Her suggestions for reforming our economic system would be great in an ideal state, but until we are run by a benevolent socialist dictator, I don't think they can realistically be put into action.  It would be better to focus our efforts on goals that are conceivably achievable.  Overall, while I found the topic of this book interesting, I think there are numerous other books on the topic of Simplicity that are better implemented, starting with Joe Dominguez and Vicki Robin's \\"Your Money or Your Life\\".  It's hard to tell from this book if Andrews can take credit for originating Simplicity study groups such as those run by the Northwest Earth Institute.  If so, she certainly deserves credit for her efforts in that area, but I don't think there's enough substantial material in this volume to use as background reading for an effective study group by itself.m would be great in an ideal state, but until we are run by a benevolent socialist dictator, I don't think they can realistically be put into action.  It would be better to focus our efforts on goals that are conceivably achievable.  Overall, while I found the topic of this book interesting, I think there are numerous other books on the topic of Simplicity that are better implemented, starting with Joe Dominguez and Vicki Robin's \\"Your Money or Your Life\\".  It's hard to tell from this book if Andrews can take credit for originating Simplicity study groups such as those run by the Northwest Earth Institute.  If so, she certainly deserves credit for her efforts in that area, but I don't think there's enough substantial material in this volume to use as background reading for an effective study group by itself. <br />	2004-12-23
426893:US	51917998	R3JGDNKEV9R24O	0887307043	748298009	The Ecology of Commerce: A Declaration of Sustainability	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Interesting Approach	This book explains how environmental concerns are an integral part of doing business, whether we want to consider them or not.  Hawken begins by relating how the genesis of this book came one day when he was about to accept an environmental award for actions his company had taken.  He realized that despite the award, his company's environmental efforts had been trivial, at best.  To actually merit such an award, the company would need to adopt a revolutionary approach to doing business.  Such a revolution is what Hawken argues for here.  His approach boils down to 8 points: reduce consumption of energy and natural resources in the developed world by 80% within the next 50 years; provide meaningful employment for everyone everywhere; be self-actuating rather than regulated or morally mandated; honor market principles; create a more rewarding lifestyle; restore habitats to better than they were; rely on current income; and strive for an aesthetic outcome.  These are mighty goals-unfortunately, they may not be realistic because of the degree of cooperation they would require from governments and business across the world.  But the book has some interesting points that could be implemented independently by individual business owners, both large and small.  (Sources of information are cited in endnotes at the back of the book, organized by chapter, and there is an index.)<br /><br />One of the strongest points in this book is that we are not consumers, but producers.  Producers of waste, that is.  Most companies are giant producers of waste, and as Hawken points out, such waste is literally wasteful for the bottom line.  When a company makes and discards by-products as part of its production process, it is throwing money away as well as harming the environment.  Hawken lists a number of companies (such as 3M) that have re-evaluated their procedures, and discovered that they didn't need to use hazardous chemicals after all, or by changing their formulations, found they could sell their by-products rather than pay to dump them.  These companies ended up increasing their profitability at the same time as improving their environmental record.<br /><br />Hawken advocates for companies to be accountable for the full costs of their product, including any resulting environmental damage or disposal requirements.  He stress that, \\"Without doubt, the single most damaging aspect of the present economic system is that the expense of destroying the earth is largely absent from the prices set in the marketplace.\\" Hawken supports green taxes, that is, taxes on items that harm the environment.  He argues that if the federal government adopted green taxes, consumers would make choices that take environmental issues into consideration.  At the same time, income taxes could be reduced or even eliminated, based on the revenue from the green taxes.<br /><br />Hawken likes to run the numbers and find equivalencies for common items whose true impact may not be fully understood.  For example, he calculates that 27 years of stored solar energy are consumed every 24 hours by our utilities, cars, houses, factories, and farms.  Another interesting figure that he cites is that an average American town spends 20% of its gross income on energy.  Ninety percent of that money is exported out of town.  So by adopting conservation measures, the town would be able to keep more of its own money floating around the local economy rather than being sent away or overseas.  Thus, saving energy would not only help the environment, but it would be great for the economy as well.  And that's the big point that Hawken wants us to take from this book.could sell their by-products rather than pay to dump them.  These companies ended up increasing their profitability at the same time as improving their environmental record. <br /> <br />Hawken advocates for companies to be accountable for the full costs of their product, including any resulting environmental damage or disposal requirements.  He stress that, \\"Without doubt, the single most damaging aspect of the present economic system is that the expense of destroying the earth is largely absent from the prices set in the marketplace.\\" Hawken supports green taxes, that is, taxes on items that harm the environment.  He argues that if the federal government adopted green taxes, consumers would make choices that take environmental issues into consideration.  At the same time, income taxes could be reduced or even eliminated, based on the revenue from the green taxes. <br /> <br />Hawken likes to run the numbers and find equivalencies for common items whose true impact may not be fully understood.  For example, he calculates that 27 years of stored solar energy are consumed every 24 hours by our utilities, cars, houses, factories, and farms.  Another interesting figure that he cites is that an average American town spends 20% of its gross income on energy.  Ninety percent of that money is exported out of town.  So by adopting conservation measures, the town would be able to keep more of its own money floating around the local economy rather than being sent away or overseas.  Thus, saving energy would not only help the environment, but it would be great for the economy as well.  And that's the big point that Hawken wants us to take from this book. <br />	2004-12-11
426972:US	51917998	R1TZLNZF9C3MKX	1890132411	804584095	Wise Words for the Good Life: A Homesteader's Personal Collection (Good Life Series)	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Words to Hang on Your Refrigerator	This book is Helen Nearing's personal collection of astute quotations on various topics relating to homesteading and simple living.  The topics are grouped into chapters, including: the rewards of country living, frugality and economy, weather and the seasons, gardening and the soil, woodlots and fire-making, money and true wealth, and solitude and contentment.  Within each chapter, the quotations are organized chronologically according to when they were first published.  Authors of quotations range from the well-known, such as Cicero, Shakespeare, and Thoreau, to others who have been forgotten or obscured by time.  William Alcott makes a number of appearances in this book, as do Thomas Jefferson, George Washington, and Frank Lloyd Wright.  To help you locate quotes by author, there is an index of authors' names at the end of the book.<br /><br />Great words cover every page in this book.  I would love to hang a selection of them on my refrigerator for prominent display every day, starting with \\"Men dig their Graves with their own Teeth and die more by those fatal instruments than the Weapons of their Enemies.\\"-Thomas Moffett, Helth's Improvement (1590). One fact that becomes clear from reading this book is how long a history the philosophy of simplicity has in our culture.  Ben Franklin reminds us \\"With frugality, there will be no lack; with extravagance, there's never enough.\\" Later on, Frank Lloyd Wright points out \\"Many wealthy people are little more than the janitors of their possessions.\\" In 1938, Lin Yutang saw simplicity as a movement of the future, arguing \\"I do not think that any civilization can be called complete until it has progressed from sophistication to unsophistication, and made a conscious return to simplicity of thinking and living.\\"<br /><br />One fact that struck me while reading this book is how even those who try to live simply today are blessed with a much higher standard of living than was ever imaginable for even the very rich in the past.  In the chapter on woodlots and fire-making, a number of quotations refer to the need for conserving wood, using every scrap, and letting the house go cold at night.  A proper fire that warmed the whole house could only be lit a few times a year.  After all \\"it took fifty or more cords a year to feed the kitchen fire alone,\\"-William Reed, Life on the Border, 1882.  Fifty cords of wood per year for just a kitchen fire?! Thanks to today's construction techniques and materials, and our modern efficient stoves, it's simple to keep a moderately-sized house (but gigantic by pioneer standards) at 80 degrees 24-hours a day all winter on only 3 cords of wood.  Simplicity can be a wonderful blessing as it frees us from unnecessary appliances and possessions.  Nevertheless, there are some facets of modern technology that can go a long way in making our lives truly simple.past.  In the chapter on woodlots and fire-making, a number of quotations refer to the need for conserving wood, using every scrap, and letting the house go cold at night.  A proper fire that warmed the whole house could only be lit a few times a year.  After all \\"it took fifty or more cords a year to feed the kitchen fire alone,\\"-William Reed, Life on the Border, 1882.  Fifty cords of wood per year for just a kitchen fire?! Thanks to today's construction techniques and materials, and our modern efficient stoves, it's simple to keep a moderately-sized house (but gigantic by pioneer standards) at 80 degrees 24-hours a day all winter on only 3 cords of wood.  Simplicity can be a wonderful blessing as it frees us from unnecessary appliances and possessions.  Nevertheless, there are some facets of modern technology that can go a long way in making our lives truly simple. <br />	2004-12-11
431049:US	51917998	R3DCTOG6GBUXA1	156836069X	114306355	Blackberry Winter: My Earlier Years (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Fascinating Glimpses of Her Early Life	This book provides Mead's accounts of the people and events that most affected her thought and research.  About half the book is devoted to her life before she began her career as an anthropologist.  We meet her parents, Edward Mead and Emily Fogg Mead.  Edward was an economics professor at the University of Pennsylvania.  Emily divided her time between managing the household and pursuing her doctoral studies in the social sciences.  Edward's mother, Martha Ramsay Mead, a former schoolteacher and principal, also lived with the family and was the primary director of their home schooling.  Margaret describes her relationship with each of her parents and with her grandmother and siblings in turn.  We learn how the family moved every season from one domicile to another, and how this shaped Margaret's concept of \\"home\\".  Margaret also discusses how Edward related to his academic work and colleagues (such as when he organized a group to guarantee Scott Nearing's salary for a year after his dismissal).  Margaret describes her schooling in detail, from the approach to learning that her grandmother and mother instilled with their home schooling efforts, to the various traditional schools that she attended and the social lessons she learned from them.  She also discusses her college years and friends.<br /><br />The second part of the book describes Mead's adult and professional life.  She explains her relationships with all three of her husbands, and how in the case of Reo Fortune and Gregory Bateson, they collaborated together in their fieldwork.  She also relates how she came to work with Franz Boas, and how he directed her research early in her career.  She tells us about how she came to know Ruth Benedict, and how she considered Benedict one of her closest colleagues and friends.  The last part of the book, covering Margaret's experiences as a mother and grandmother, is not as detailed, but does provide some personal observations.<br /><br />For me, the most interesting aspects of this book were Mead's own interpretation of her motivations and accomplishments.  She was a firm believer in both the value and necessity of studying cultures very different from her own. On the first page of the text, she tells us \\"I have spent most of my life studying the lives of other peoples, faraway peoples, so that Americans might better understand themselves.\\"  Later she notes, \\"to clear one's mind of presuppositions is a very hard thing to do and, without years of practice, all but impossible when one is working in one's own culture or in another that is very close to it.\\"  In summing up her work, she states, \\"I went to Samoa-as, later, I went to the other societies on which I have worked-to find out more about human beings, human beings like ourselves in everything except their culture.  Through the accidents of history, these cultures had developed so differently from ours that knowledge of them could shed a kind of light upon us, upon our potentialities and our limitations, that was unique.\\"  Some anthropologists today have a different approach, believing that since one cannot understand a foreign culture completely, it is better to stick to observing one's own culture.  There is still much validity, however, in Mead's point that you can't know what is natural or unnatural, innate or learned behaviors, unless you are aware of the wide range of possibilities exhibited by the myriad cultures of the world.resting aspects of this book were Mead's own interpretation of her motivations and accomplishments.  She was a firm believer in both the value and necessity of studying cultures very different from her own. On the first page of the text, she tells us \\"I have spent most of my life studying the lives of other peoples, faraway peoples, so that Americans might better understand themselves.\\"  Later she notes, \\"to clear one's mind of presuppositions is a very hard thing to do and, without years of practice, all but impossible when one is working in one's own culture or in another that is very close to it.\\"  In summing up her work, she states, \\"I went to Samoa-as, later, I went to the other societies on which I have worked-to find out more about human beings, human beings like ourselves in everything except their culture.  Through the accidents of history, these cultures had developed so differently from ours that knowledge of them could shed a kind of light upon us, upon our potentialities and our limitations, that was unique.\\"  Some anthropologists today have a different approach, believing that since one cannot understand a foreign culture completely, it is better to stick to observing one's own culture.  There is still much validity, however, in Mead's point that you can't know what is natural or unnatural, innate or learned behaviors, unless you are aware of the wide range of possibilities exhibited by the myriad cultures of the world.  <br />	2004-12-08
431364:US	51917998	RZT387N1BJ0XC	0805031251	755930874	Food and Mood: The Complete Guide to Eating Well and  Feeling Your Best (Henry Holt Reference Book)	Books	4	28	32	N	N	Decent Nutrition Overview	This book is an overview of nutritional and dietary practices, and how they can affect your health, particularly your mental well-being.  It is organized into two main sections: The Food-Mood Link, and Nutrition Know-How.  In the first section, there are separate chapters about such topics as blood chemistry, carbohydrates, fats and chocolate, and dietary affects on energy levels, PMS and SAD, depression, stress, thinking and memory, as well as chapters on food allergies and intolerances, and eating disorders.  The second section presents advice on healthy eating habits for positive mental well-being, with chapters on shopping and supplements.  At the end of the book are a glossary, a short section of recipes, a list of organizations devoted to specific diet and health concerns, references organized by chapter, and an index.<br /><br />Reading this book is a bit like consulting with a nutritionist.  Near the beginning of most chapters is a short self-scoring quiz about your current dietary habits or mental condition.  After taking the quiz, you add up the points to see if you are eating well in this particular area, or should consider adjusting your habits.  The remaining text in the chapter explains some of the problems or symptoms of the topic under discussion and various dietary factors that may play a role, or how dietary changes can help ameliorate symptoms.  The suggestions Somer makes are all grounded on published scientific research, as cited in the references found at the back of the book.<br /><br />While I found the nutritional information worthwhile, I found the quizzes a bit simplistic at times.  Quiz 1.1 \\"What do you eat and how do you feel?\\" was particularly questionable in format.  It asks you to rate your mood on a scale of 0-5 for about 25 characteristics such as \\"calm\\" or \\"lethargic\\" before lunch and then again after lunch.  If any of these values change during this time, you are presumably to blame it on what you had for lunch.  Such a format constitutes a classic example of how to create unfounded cause-effect relationships.  Mood changes could just as easily come from hormone cycling, food you ate at an earlier meal, or something you heard on the news during lunch.  On the other hand, the quizzes provide a limited means of interactivity, to make up for Somer not being able to conduct a personal interview about specific needs before giving dietary advice.  Overall, I found the book informative and interesting, though the quizzes need some more polish.constitutes a classic example of how to create unfounded cause-effect relationships.  Mood changes could just as easily come from hormone cycling, food you ate at an earlier meal, or something you heard on the news during lunch.  On the other hand, the quizzes provide a limited means of interactivity, to make up for Somer not being able to conduct a personal interview about specific needs before giving dietary advice.  Overall, I found the book informative and interesting, though the quizzes need some more polish. <br />	2004-12-08
434533:US	51917998	R88Q79Y5I2C2M	0060519207	973518427	A Thousand Bells at Noon: A Roman Reveals the Secrets and Pleasures of His Native City	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Remembering Home	This book represents the musings of a native son of Rome, returning for an extended visit home after a lifetime living abroad.  Romagnoli, now in his 70s, grew up in Rome, leaving it for America some 50 years earlier with his American wife.  As this book begins, the widowed Romagnoli, newly re-married to another American, is returning to Rome to re-establish his ties.<br /><br />During the tax ride from the airport, Romagnoli considers the concept of \\"native\\".  He was born in Rome, but that doesn't qualify him as truly Roman.  To be truly Roman, all ancestors to 7 generations back must have been born and lived in Rome.  While his mother was a Roman, his father was a \\"pellegrino,\\" an immigrant from the North.  The taxi driver points out some of the more recent pellegrinos they pass on the way to Romagnoli's rented flat.  This is a suitable introduction to the book-rather than focus on the sights or manners of the Romans, Romagnoli considers broad topics of special import to Italians.  In each subsequent chapter, he takes up a different topic in turn, such as government, health care, the fountains, religion, and transportation.  But he develops each of these topics from his experiences on this particular trip.  By the time you finish reading this book, you will feel you have had a series of long conversations with a Roman about how the city works, and how Romans feel about it.	2004-12-05
434625:US	51917998	R2LEZ0QC48UH2V	0553200771	914274265	Mother Earth News Handbook of Homemade Power	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Interesting Information	This book is a collection of reprinted articles from popular magazines about making use of no-cost energy sources.  The book is organized into 5 sections: wood energy, water energy, wind energy, solar energy, and methane energy.  Some of the articles are interviews with people either use the kind of energy under discussion or helped to develop equipment for using it.  Other articles are technical descriptions of how to build specific pieces of equipment yourself.  The book is illustrated with black-and-white drawings and diagrams.  At the back of the book is a bibliography of further readings by section.  The bibliography also includes contact information (as of the 1970s) for where to find equipment mentioned in the articles.  There is also an index at the back of the book.<br /><br />The articles are drawn primarily from Mother Earth News and Popular Mechanics.  The quality of writing varies.  Some of the articles contain very little information, and others are quite informative.  Perhaps the most valuable lesson I learned from reading this book was the best uses of each of these types of power sources: wood and solar energy are great for heating and cooking, water and wind are good for generating electricity, and methane can be used to run diesel engines.  When you're figuring out how to power your house independently, you should choose the kind of energy source that is most efficient for your needs.  Also, as Ed Trunk points out \\"Before considering the wind [or any alternative energy] as a source of power for your domestic needs, ... you should take a look at the electrical appliances you now have and decide which you consider essential, and which are just conveniences.  If you can live with reasonably modest lighting, ... a small black and white TV, [and] a refrigerator, you may find that the wind can supply all of part of your electric needs.\\"  Even more to the point, since mass-produced power is so cheap, if you're already connected to the grid, simply instituting serious conservation measures (which you would have to do anyway if you switched to alternative power) will be much more cost-efficient than installing your own alternative power system.  On the other hand, if you don't have affordable access to grid-power, the ideas in this book would be some viable alternatives that may provide the power you need. In addtion, if you use solar and wood for as many heating/cooking needs as possible, you will greatly reduce your need to purchase heating oil, propane, or electricity for heating hot water or air.<br /><br />For me, the most interesting article included in this book was an interview with Marcellus Jacobs.  From the 1930s to 1950s, Jacobs developed and sold the premier equipment for home wind power systems.  He solved numerous problems with the equipment, such as a governor that prevents the blades from flying off the tower during storms, and voltage regulators for the battery charging system.  His systems were known for being top-quality and extremely reliable-they even had one in Antarctica that ran for decades without a hitch with minimal maintenence.  In the end, it was the Rural Electrification Program that spelled the end for Jacobs.  Once farmers could get on the grid, they stopped buying home wind power systems.  Unfortunately, the engineering advances that Jacobs made were unfamiliar to the wind power industry when it was revived in the 1970s, and later wind power enthusiasts spent a lot of time re-inventing the wheel (or windmill).ituting serious conservation measures (which you would have to do anyway if you switched to alternative power) will be much more cost-efficient than installing your own alternative power system.  On the other hand, if you don't have affordable access to grid-power, the ideas in this book would be some viable alternatives that may provide the power you need. In addtion, if you use solar and wood for as many heating/cooking needs as possible, you will greatly reduce your need to purchase heating oil, propane, or electricity for heating hot water or air.   <br /> <br />For me, the most interesting article included in this book was an interview with Marcellus Jacobs.  From the 1930s to 1950s, Jacobs developed and sold the premier equipment for home wind power systems.  He solved numerous problems with the equipment, such as a governor that prevents the blades from flying off the tower during storms, and voltage regulators for the battery charging system.  His systems were known for being top-quality and extremely reliable-they even had one in Antarctica that ran for decades without a hitch with minimal maintenence.  In the end, it was the Rural Electrification Program that spelled the end for Jacobs.  Once farmers could get on the grid, they stopped buying home wind power systems.  Unfortunately, the engineering advances that Jacobs made were unfamiliar to the wind power industry when it was revived in the 1970s, and later wind power enthusiasts spent a lot of time re-inventing the wheel (or windmill). <br />	2004-12-05
441112:US	51917998	RTFT6CRUY2SWZ	156170508X	183660860	Making Magic in the World	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Radio Interview	This is a recording of a one hour radio interview of Maya Angelou by Michael Toms.  For the most part, Toms asks predictable, softball questions.  Fortunately, Angelou is a gifted speaker who loves to expand on topics and tell stories.  Highlights of this interview are Angelou's description of her journey from muteness to speech, and her meeting with Malcolm X in Ghana just after his pilgrimage to Mecca.  The tape doesn't have many surprises, nor does it go into any great detail about Angelou's accomplishments or philosophy.  Nevertheless, listening to it may provide a pleasing past time to her fans.  Perhaps one of the most interesting aspects of the tape is the fact that it allows the listener to hear Angelou's voice and her unique blend of Southern African American accent over-layed with the classical sounds of educated American women of the 1940s, mixed with vocal souvenirs from far-away lands and peoples.	2004-11-29
441521:US	51917998	R1QD213SI0C8BQ	1564311961	277255047	Last Chants	Books	2	4	6	N	N	New Age Murder Mystery	This is a Willa Jansson mystery.  On a crowded street, Willa meets a family friend named Arthur Kenna holding a gun on someone in front of a policeman.  Willa manages to get the Kenna away with her, and together they escape into the mountains, only to find out that the friend's assistant was murdered near their mountain retreat, just before Willa met Kenna on the street.  Indeed, the village where their mountain hideout is located is filled with interesting characters, including a firm called Cyber-Delics, which is working on a project called Cyber-Shaman.  It seems everyone Willa meets has a secret mystical history.  It's up to her to sort out the characters and figure out who the killer was before he - or she - strikes again.<br /><br />The story is filled with many New Age themes, such as shamanism, mysticism, and mythology.  Unfortunately, Matera doesn't quite have a firm understanding of computer technology.  At one point, she has Willa pondering how vastly different the world would have been if Apple had managed to kill off Bill Gates before he founded Microsoft-we would never have had Windows, she concludes.  True, we might not have had an operating system called Microsoft Windows, but the Windows interface borrowed (stole?) so much from Apple that our computer screens might not have looked that different at all, with or without Bill Gates.<br /><br />The choice of Alexa Bauer as a narrator for this book was quite inappropriate.  Willa tells this story from her point of view, and she is a Californian.  Bauer, on the other hand, has a British accent.  This difference in accents could possibly be overlooked, except at one point Willa relates a conversation with a person with a British accent, and complains that she couldn't identify which part of the UK the person is from because she doesn't know her British accents.  To hear this coming from the mouth of a Brit with a strong British accent is odd, indeed.  Bauer uses British rather than American pronunciations of certain words, such as chamois as \\"sham-wa\\" (accent on second syllable).  She also has very little knowledge of computer technology, at one point saying that someone's computer had Ad-dob (accent on first syllable) Premier loaded on it.<br /><br />Overall, the story left me with marginal interest, at best.  The material about technology was inaccurate and preposterous, and the New Age elements were rather puerile.  The narration was bad, but at least the story was mostly coherent.ations of certain words, such as chamois as \\"sham-wa\\" (accent on second syllable).  She also has very little knowledge of computer technology, at one point saying that someone's computer had Ad-dob (accent on first syllable) Premier loaded on it.   <br /> <br />Overall, the story left me with marginal interest, at best.  The material about technology was inaccurate and preposterous, and the New Age elements were rather puerile.  The narration was bad, but at least the story was mostly coherent. <br />	2004-11-29
445436:US	51917998	R32NORC2J5FTKI	0136056504	302554379	Understanding Music	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Very approachable	This book is a nicely done introduction to music appreciation for Western audiences. It includes an overview of musical genres and traditions from the Gregorian chants through Hip Hop rap.  The book is organized into chapters according to musical era with chapters for the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, the Baroque era, the Classic era, Nineteenth Century, and Twentieth Century.  Beethoven receives a chapter of his own.  There are also chapters on World Music, music theory, listening techniques, jazz, and popular music.  Within each era, there is a general description of musical development of the times, and then several well-known representative composers are profiled.  Yudkin goes out of his way to include information about the contributions of women and minorities to  music. Interspersed with the text are listening guides with notes for active listening for specific pieces of music to exemplify the prose.  The listening guides include such information as instrumentation, lyrics and translations, short segments of notation, as well as comments keyed to specific time spots for the selection on the student or faculty CDs (sold separately).  The book is amply illustrated with black-and-white reproductions of paintings and photographs.  Each chapter also includes a section of colored plates with artwork or scenery typical of the era and location.  At the end of the book are a glossary and index.<br /><br />One aspect of the book that I particularly liked was the fact that it began with World Music, describing aspects of music that are found the world over.  Instead of approaching the topic as if all classical music is from the Western tradition, Yudkin explains that Western classical music is simply one kind of music found in the world, and there are other classical music traditions that are quite different.  Only after he has established this point does he turn to an in-depth description of the classical tradition most familiar to his audience, the Western tradition.  Throughout the book, I was quite impressed with Yudkin's global rather than ethnocentric approach to Western classical music.<br /><br />The layout of the book is exceptionally well done.  Although there numerous short articles for special topics inserted in the text, as well as the listening guides, and images with captions, the text is neatly cut so that sentences are rarely left hanging or continued across page turns when such items are included.  My only complaint is that quotations about composers are printed in the margins in light yellow ink, which can be extremely hard to read.  Also, a few of the listening guides in the popular music section contain nothing besides lyrics; they could benefit from a few additional words of analysis as found in the listening guides earlier in the book.<br /><br />Overall, the book is quite accessible and interesting to students of with varying musical backgrounds.  Although I've been exposed to classical music all of my life, there was much about the tradition that I remained completely unaware of.  After reading Yudkin's explanations, I find that there is a lot more to listen to than I had noticed before..  Throughout the book, I was quite impressed with Yudkin's global rather than ethnocentric approach to Western classical music. <br /> <br />The layout of the book is exceptionally well done.  Although there numerous short articles for special topics inserted in the text, as well as the listening guides, and images with captions, the text is neatly cut so that sentences are rarely left hanging or continued across page turns when such items are included.  My only complaint is that quotations about composers are printed in the margins in light yellow ink, which can be extremely hard to read.  Also, a few of the listening guides in the popular music section contain nothing besides lyrics; they could benefit from a few additional words of analysis as found in the listening guides earlier in the book. <br /> <br />Overall, the book is quite accessible and interesting to students of with varying musical backgrounds.  Although I've been exposed to classical music all of my life, there was much about the tradition that I remained completely unaware of.  After reading Yudkin's explanations, I find that there is a lot more to listen to than I had noticed before. <br />	2004-11-24
449588:US	51917998	R392LA0440QWB4	0140805184	38080606	Verbal Learning and (Modern Psychology)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Tough Slog	This book is a collection of classic papers about verbal memory from the 1960s. Topics covered include: acquisition, organization, transfer, inhibition and retention, interference, and measurement of retention.  The papers are organized into sections according to these topics and presented in roughly chronological order as a kind of dialogue.  Each section is also preceded by a review essay written by the editors of the volume.  Endnotes with references are found at the end of each individual article.  At the back of the book are a list of further reading, an author index, and a subject index.<br /><br />I hoped that this book might include the essential background readings for early research on memory, but it doesn't have such classics as \\"The Magical Number 7 (plus or minus 2)\\".  The name Ebbinghaus is mentioned a few times in the last few articles, but the book itself contains none of Ebbinghaus' papers.  Instead, these papers stick pretty much to the period between 1957-1967, with a few papers from earlier in the 1950s and one from 1939 (Hovland).  There is a heavy emphasis on papers by Postmand and Underwood.<br /><br />Since the papers are research articles, the terminology and methodology they use are not explained.  It is assumed that the reader is familiar with terms such as \\"stimulus,\\" \\"response,\\" and \\"association,\\" at least in the senses they were being used in the 1960s.  If you don't know how these words were being used by memory researchers in the 1950s and 1960s, you're out of luck when reading this text, because unfortunately, the terms also aren't explained in the review essays.  Overall, I found the review essays to be extremely impenetrable rather than illuminating or explanatory.<br /><br />From the articles chosen here, it sounds like the field was filled with rather odd ideas in the 1960s.  The \\"Acquisition\\" papers investigated experiments that seemed to have subjects attempt to memorize either lists of nonsense trigrams (groupings of 3 randomly chosen consonants) paired with other trigrams, or else lists of words paired with other words that might or might not have been found to be common answers for each other on word association tests given to large groups of people. (Yes, these papers are very big on behaviorism!)  It's hard to understand why these were called \\"Acquisition\\" experiments.  If there were supposed to mimic language learning, then the experimenters were very unfamiliar with the language learning task, in which an unfamiliar, but pronounceable (at least in the target language) term is associated with a familiar object or concept.  Many of the papers refer to the trigrams as \\"syllables.\\"  Had the authors consulted a linguist, they would have learned that a syllable of a language is always a pronounceable unit, not a series of random consonants thrown together on paper.  The experimenters were way out of line in assuming they could even attempt to compare experiments with trigrams to experiments with words, since the trigrams also involve serial memory because each series of 3 consonants cannot be combined to make a pronounceable, let alone comprehensible unit.  In contrast, a real 3-letter syllable, since it is pronounceable, even if meaningless, would be remembered as a single unit, not a series of random letters, and real words, of course, would also be units, but units with meanings.  With such facts in mind, it's not even clear whether memorizing paired list of trigrams would even qualify as \\"verbal\\" memory.  Although most of the papers in the book deal with rote memory, from the types of experimental design they describe, it appears that the experimenters had little experience with or interest in real rote memory tasks, or else the research framework of the time did not permit investigating such tasks (talk about being straight-jacketed by behaviorism!).<br /><br />Nonetheless, there are a few papers with some ideas of lasting interest.  One by Miller and Selfridge investigates how meaningfulness of a verbal string affects memory.  Incidentally, they stick to varying statistical patterns of organization, steering very clear of any syntactical analyses of their experiment or findings.  In general, these papers are difficult to understand out of context, and the review essays do not do a very good job at establishing the context for later readers.  It's striking that such a collection of papers on \\"verbal\\" memory from this era appeared to have been completed with absolutely no reference to research in linguistics at the time, or even consultation with linguists on basic points or protocol.  This aspect of the book in itself is quite revealing of the development of the field during this period.es how meaningfulness of a verbal string affects memory.  Incidentally, they stick to varying statistical patterns of organization, steering very clear of any syntactical analyses of their experiment or findings.  In general, these papers are difficult to understand out of context, and the review essays do not do a very good job at establishing the context for later readers.  It's striking that such a collection of papers on \\"verbal\\" memory from this era appeared to have been completed with absolutely no reference to research in linguistics at the time, or even consultation with linguists on basic points or protocol.  This aspect of the book in itself is quite revealing of the development of the field during this period.  <br />	2004-11-21
449942:US	51917998	R44PCFLI1P92T	0671628054	503439836	Pedaling the Ends of the Earth	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Seeing the World for the First Time	This book tells the story of a young man who had a dream of cycling around the world.  In 1982, David Duncan had recently finished college.  He had an urge to see, smell, touch, feel and taste other cultures in exotic far-away lands, and a bike trip seemed to him the best way to accomplish these aims.  A practical person, he felt that it would be unsafe to cycle around the world solo, but then putting together a team effort for a year-long trip would be prohibitively expensive.  A friend of the family's suggested that it might be possible to get sponsors for the trip if they organized the ride as a charity fundraiser.  It seemed like a good idea at the time- -Duncan would get his bike trip around the world, he would have companions to travel with him, and they'd get to make the trip with little or no costs to themselves, all while raising money for a worthy cause.  Unfortunately, some of these factors would later turn out to be liabilities rather than boons.<br /><br />This is very much a coming of age story.  From the very beginning of the trip, Duncan is very organized and professional.  However, he's got very little experience with foreign travel, and no idea of the dangers and hardships that await them on the road.  Within a few months, he has to come to terms with illnesses and injuries, tense political situations, wars, group dynamics, and his own ambition.  Quite a few of the problems are brought on by the need to fulfill prior agreements for their fundraising activities.  Rather than go with the flow of the road, taking delays in stride or hitching when they just didn't feel like biking, Duncan felt beholden to the Plan, and occasionally drove his team beyond their limits.<br /><br />Conditions on the road and misadventures soon did away with the youthful naivete of the team.  By the end of the book, Duncan would say about average well-meaning Americans, \\"they blithely believed that their goodwill could wipe away any evil in the world.  I understood this sort of thinking because I had been raised to believe in it myself.  But after all I had seen, I knew it was a lie.\\"  Having traveled in some of the same countries myself, I understand and agree with his assessment. It's a very complex world out there, and a lot of people don't share our eternal Western optimism about others or the future. On the other hand, in reading other accounts of long-haul cycling trips (such as Barbara Savage's Miles from Nowhere), I found many more stories of personal connections that the cyclists made with people along the road that served to temper the cultural rough spots.  Perhaps because of the size of the team, which made impromptu stays with local hosts unwieldy, as well as the need for speed, the cyclists on this trip didn't have as many opportunities to enjoy some of the more wacky and positive aspects of travel.  In any case, the writing of the book is engaging, and Duncan includes some interesting observations that make for thoughtful reading.is sort of thinking because I had been raised to believe in it myself.  But after all I had seen, I knew it was a lie.\\"  Having traveled in some of the same countries myself, I understand and agree with his assessment. It's a very complex world out there, and a lot of people don't share our eternal Western optimism about others or the future. On the other hand, in reading other accounts of long-haul cycling trips (such as Barbara Savage's Miles from Nowhere), I found many more stories of personal connections that the cyclists made with people along the road that served to temper the cultural rough spots.  Perhaps because of the size of the team, which made impromptu stays with local hosts unwieldy, as well as the need for speed, the cyclists on this trip didn't have as many opportunities to enjoy some of the more wacky and positive aspects of travel.  In any case, the writing of the book is engaging, and Duncan includes some interesting observations that make for thoughtful reading. <br />	2004-11-20
450550:US	51917998	R3U09HQS2R6LCB	0060977582	724541831	The Overspent American: Why We Want What We Don't Need	Books	5	137	141	N	N	Examining our Motivations	This book is an exploration into our motivations for acquiring mountains of stuff.  The book also includes brief descriptions of some groups of people who have managed to get off the acquisitions bandwagon. Schor takes us through some of the classic literature on class and consumption patterns, noting that we make use of lifestyles as a form of social communication.  We show our status or place in the hierarchy of society by the goods we own and display.  Others may judge us according to our display of goods, or they may choose to challenge our status by some acquisitive one-ups-manship.<br /><br />As an example of such social communication, Schor cites some research she did on cosmetic brands.  Of all the types of cosmetics, lipstick is the one most likely to be applied in public.  Schor found that women will often choose an expensive brand of lipstick to carry in their purses, especially if they are going to apply it in public where others will see and recognize the tube.  But in blind tests, it was found that lipsticks are all more or less equivalent in quality, so women pay extra just for the visible tube.  In contrast, facial cleansers are almost always used in private, and women make their choices between facial cleansers based on what works best, not brand name.<br /><br />This brand consciousness pervades all of our purchasing behavior, whether we are aware of it or not.  Think of your living room- -are there furniture brands or types of furniture some people display in their living rooms, but you would not even consider putting in yours because of what it would say about your taste?  What statement does your wrist watch say about you?  Does it show you pay attention to fashion, or that you are strictly practical, or that you're proud of being a cheapskate, as anyone can tell from your torn Velcro band that's held together with duct tape?  Whichever way you answer, realize that you are not unique.  There are others just like you, who share many of your preferences and have similar possessions in similar states of newness or disrepair.  Do you avoid mass produced or branded items in favor of handmade?  Funny enough, that's what hot with the upper-middle class right now- -you're not bucking the trend- -you are the trend!<br /><br />Marketers make their business on studying patterns of acquisition.  Zip codes are often great indicators of similar consumer groups by virtue of the fact that people who share the same zip code often live in houses that fall within a certain price range- -they often have similar incomes, and similar experiences.  Marketers use this information to design effective campaigns to get people to buy products and services.  In the past half century, they've gotten people to buy more stuff than ever before, and the rate of acquisition seems to be rising rapidly.<br /><br />One reason for the rapid rise in hyper-consumption, Schor argues, is that people are no longer trying to keep up with their neighbors, since neighborhoods are less cohesive and people don't know as many neighbors as they used to.  Instead, social contacts are often with work colleagues or with TV \\"friends\\".  As a result, consumers are now trying to acquire stuff that will keep them not on the level of their peers, but on the level of their their managers (people with higher incomes) or fictional families on TV (whose consumption is often directly driven by marketers).<br /><br />Schor also points out that \\"it is precisely when traditional markers of identity and position, such as birth and occupation, begin to break down that spending comes to the fore as a more powerful determinant of social status.\\"  And who are the biggest spenders of them all?  Highly educated middle-aged women.  They are very status-conscious and very well informed.  Because of their education, they are exposed to high status people, and constantly seek ways to affirm their own high status through the social symbols they display.<br /><br />Another factor thathas added to the consumption feeding frenzy is the ease of getting consumer credit.  Schor notes that on average, 18% of Americans' income goes towards paying interest on consumer debt (and how much more goes towards interest on the national debt?).  Meanwhile, our traditional cultural and religious restraint on greed has been relaxed, to the point that spending is \\"extolled as good for the ego, if not for the soul...Most insidious of all, aggressive spending was made patriotic.\\"  This is even more true after the September 11th attacks, when the message coming from mass media seemed to be that we needed to spend our way out of grief in order to show the world how powerful we are.<br /><br />Towards the end of the book, Schor profiles some \\"downshifters\\", people who have experienced a significant decrease in income, and who are coming to terms with their tightened financial situations by learning to spend less.  Schor also provides a brief description of the Voluntary Simplicity movement, in which people choose a lifestyle focused on living rather than on earning in order to spend.<br /><br />At the end of the book are an extensive bibliography, appendices explaining the details of Schor's research projects, a list of organizations devoted to reducing hyper-consumption, endnotes of sources, and an index. Overall, I found the book to be very well-researched and quite interesting to read.  Her investigation into the social foundation of motivation to buy was extremely thought provoking.nother factor that has added to the consumption feeding frenzy is the ease of getting consumer credit.  Schor notes that on average, 18% of Americans' income goes towards paying interest on consumer debt (and how much more goes towards interest on the national debt?).  Meanwhile, our traditional cultural and religious restraint on greed has been relaxed, to the point that spending is \\"extolled as good for the ego, if not for the soul...Most insidious of all, aggressive spending was made patriotic.\\"  This is even more true after the September 11th attacks, when the message coming from mass media seemed to be that we needed to spend our way out of grief in order to show the world how powerful we are.   <br /> <br />Towards the end of the book, Schor profiles some \\"downshifters\\", people who have experienced a significant decrease in income, and who are coming to terms with their tightened financial situations by learning to spend less.  Schor also provides a brief description of the Voluntary Simplicity movement, in which people choose a lifestyle focused on living rather than on earning in order to spend.   <br /> <br />At the end of the book are an extensive bibliography, appendices explaining the details of Schor's research projects, a list of organizations devoted to reducing hyper-consumption, endnotes of sources, and an index. Overall, I found the book to be very well-researched and quite interesting to read.  Her investigation into the social foundation of motivation to buy was extremely thought provoking.   <br />	2004-11-19
451114:US	51917998	RXUKV45D4828G	068485595X	213780042	Hundred Dollar Holiday: The Case For A More Joyful Christmas	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Thought-provoking	This book is a call to reconsider our Christmas traditions, where they came from, and what we want from them.  The book is extremely short, and can be read in only an hour or two, but the ideas in it are profound.  McKibben begins by describing some of the details of how the American commercialization of Christmas came about in the early 1800s.  At that time, wassailing was getting a bit out of hand, so some upper-class New Yorkers decided to reinvent the holiday around some more wholesome traditions of family celebrations and gift giving.  As part of this movement, in 1818 Clement Moore brought St. Nicholas into the picture complete with reindeer on the roof with his famous \\"Twas the Night before Christmas\\".  From there, the idea of centering the holiday on gift-giving grew and grew, much to the delight of department store owners, who were eager to add their own contributions to the holiday pantheon (such as Rudolph, courtesy Montgomery Wards).<br /><br />McKibben asks us \\"Are you having fun?  Are you enjoying your family's holiday traditions?\\"  Or do you find yourself stressed out with all the competitive shopping and endless wrapping?  Do the holidays leave your credit cards maxed out?  He reminds us that the tradition of massive gift-giving at Christmas time is only a very recent one in this country.  If it's not fun, if it doesn't fill your life with wonder and holiday spirit, why continue with it all?<br /><br />Instead, McKibben suggests examining your own family traditions.  Stop and think- -do you even remember what gifts you received for Christmas last year, or the Christmas before that?  On the other hand, what elements of the Christmas celebrations of years past stand out most clearly in your memory?  For most, it is the fellowship of friends and family, the wonderful foods, and the music.  The exchange of gifts is certainly prominent, but it's often not the actual gifts that are important, but the anticipation, the surprise, the humor, and the unveiling of the gift in the loving presence of all one's family members.  McKibben points out that we don't need to spend a lot of money and buy a lot of gifts to enjoy a memorable Christmas.  Homemade gifts, gifts to charities, coupons for future services or shared meals together will serve the purpose of gift exchange just as well.  It's the love that will make the holiday, not the price tag.  As for those who feel that Christmas should be about fulfilling all of our children's material dreams, McKibben reminds us \\"...if we make that the center of the holiday, we help school [the children] in the notion that transcendent joy comes from things.\\"<br /><br />The title of the book \\"Hundred Dollar Holiday\\" refers to the fact that $100 is the upper limit of what McKibben and his entire family spend on celebrating Christmas.  He argues that by setting such a limit, it forces everyone in the family to be creative with their contributions to the holiday.  The end result is a holiday season that doesn't feel rushed, but is filled with the warmth of family making gifts for each other, cooking and eating together, and most important, sharing time together.<br /><br />Beyond suggesting setting a monetary limit, McKibben doesn't provide a lot of specific suggestions for how to re-make the holiday in this book.  He includes some general ideas of alternatives to commercial gifts for family and friends, but there are no simple lists of things you can do to save money or cut corners.  This is because each family is different, and they need to decide together how they can best enjoy the mystic spirit of the season.veiling of the gift in the loving presence of all one's family members.  McKibben points out that we don't need to spend a lot of money and buy a lot of gifts to enjoy a memorable Christmas.  Homemade gifts, gifts to charities, coupons for future services or shared meals together will serve the purpose of gift exchange just as well.  It's the love that will make the holiday, not the price tag.  As for those who feel that Christmas should be about fulfilling all of our children's material dreams, McKibben reminds us \\"...if we make that the center of the holiday, we help school [the children] in the notion that transcendent joy comes from things.\\" <br /> <br />The title of the book \\"Hundred Dollar Holiday\\" refers to the fact that $100 is the upper limit of what McKibben and his entire family spend on celebrating Christmas.  He argues that by setting such a limit, it forces everyone in the family to be creative with their contributions to the holiday.  The end result is a holiday season that doesn't feel rushed, but is filled with the warmth of family making gifts for each other, cooking and eating together, and most important, sharing time together.   <br /> <br />Beyond suggesting setting a monetary limit, McKibben doesn't provide a lot of specific suggestions for how to re-make the holiday in this book.  He includes some general ideas of alternatives to commercial gifts for family and friends, but there are no simple lists of things you can do to save money or cut corners.  This is because each family is different, and they need to decide together how they can best enjoy the mystic spirit of the season.  <br />	2004-11-19
465522:US	51917998	R3R2USD9HWFL4U	068487055X	713170115	Born to Buy: The Commercialized Child and the New Consumer Culture	Books	5	85	86	N	N	Scathing Analysis of Marketing Practices	This book is an extended report on current marketing practices aimed at children and their results.  The author begins by noting how marketing practices have changed over the last ten to fifteen years.  In the 1970s and 1980s, when many of today's new parents were growing up, laws and industry practices provided some level of protection and privacy for children from the focus of marketing campaigns.  Now, however, the gloves are off, and marketing firms shamelessly push everything from junk food to beer, cigarettes, cosmetics, and cars to `tweens, children between the ages of 6 and 12.  Schor worked closely with marketing professionals while gathering information for this book so that she could obtain insider views.  At the end of the book, Schor notes that these marketers generally feel horrible about what they do and the lengths they go to, but feel they have to continue in order to feed their own families.<br /><br />The kinds of marketing practices that Schor describes in this book are shocking and outrageous.  Many parents have heard of Channel One, an organization that puts TVs in schools for free, but parents may not be aware that in exchange for use of the equipment, administrators agree to force students to watch Channel One program complete with commercials while sitting in their seats and with the volume turned on.  But force-feeding commercials to a captive audience of school kids is nothing compared to other current practices, such as having children conduct and even surreptitiously videotape focus-group data from friends at slumber parties that marketers pay them to organize.  And then there are the \\"viral-marketing\\" campaigns, where kid leaders are sought out because other kids think they're cool, and then paid to convince other kids to buy merchandise, or when college kids are paid to sit in bars and pretend to be ordinary patrons while extolling  the virtues of a company's alcoholic beverages.<br /><br />Schor notes that there are now many ways in which marketing messages are delivered to kids.  Kids are exposed to ads through viral-marketing, magazines, and radio.  But television advertising seem to be especially hard for youngsters to understand and withstand.  Marketers know that if they tell young kids that a product is fun or cool, the kids will pester their parents to get it, and they more the kids see the ads, the more persistent they will be with the pestering.  Internet advertising is also a great problem for children, since young children have great difficulty recognizing which parts of the screen are filled with advertising and which parts with content.  Marketers even embed Internet games with logos and ads, so that the ads are inseparable from the content.<br /><br />One result of all this exposure to advertising is that kids these days are more heavily into consumerism than ever before.  Schor cites a 1997 time use survey in which it was found that American children now spend, on average, two and a half hours each week shopping, which is twice as much time as they spend reading or going to church, and five times as much as they spend playing outdoors.  They are extremely brand conscious with their clothing choices, even well before their teenage years.  Schor attempted to find how down-shifting families dealt with all these commercial influences on their children, but found that it was extremely difficult to locate down-shifters with children- -apparently, having children in the house who are so exposed to marketing campaigns makes it difficult to avoid over-consumption.<br /><br />To see how modern hyper-consumerism is affecting children, Schor conducted a research survey among kids in downtown and suburban Boston.  She found that the marketing pitches are causing serious harm to children's well being. Advertisements for junk food, sweets, and soft drinks are feeding the obesity epidemic among our children, and the kids who watch the most TV are the ones getting the fattest.  Heavy TV watchers also tend to have the greatest number of behavior problems, they have problems getting along with their parents, and they cannot seem to find satisfaction with life, no matter how much they buy.  In contrast, in another study conducted by Thomas Robinson in San Jose, California, it was found that children whose TV watching was reduced also reduced their requests for products advertised on TV.<br /><br />This book is clearly written and very well researched.  Sources are cited through endnotes found at the back of the book (but not numbered explicitly in the main text). There is also an extensive bibliography and index.  At times, the text can be rather heavy and overbearing, as Schor buries the reader in fact after depressing fact, so it's not exactly a fun book to read.  Nevertheless, the material is extremely important for all of us, parents or not.tchers also tend to have the greatest number of behavior problems, they have problems getting along with their parents, and they cannot seem to find satisfaction with life, no matter how much they buy.  In contrast, in another study conducted by Thomas Robinson in San Jose, California, it was found that children whose TV watching was reduced also reduced their requests for products advertised on TV. <br /> <br />This book is clearly written and very well researched.  Sources are cited through endnotes found at the back of the book (but not numbered explicitly in the main text). There is also an extensive bibliography and index.  At times, the text can be rather heavy and overbearing, as Schor buries the reader in fact after depressing fact, so it's not exactly a fun book to read.  Nevertheless, the material is extremely important for all of us, parents or not. <br />	2004-11-06
467797:US	51917998	R1CWNTMX0VPY6V	0767908163	931225579	The Golden Ratio: The Story of PHI, the World's Most Astonishing Number	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Dense	This book is an exploration into the history and concepts of Phi, the Golden Ratio.  Livio begins his story by tracing the earliest known uses of numbers and counting systems.  He progresses through Pythagoras and the discovery of irrational numbers.  The history of Phi takes us to many mathematicians and their work, including Plato, Euclid, Abu'l-Wafa, Fibonacci, Pacioli, and Kepler, from the foundations of plane geometry through computer-generated fractals.  Livio describes the special properties of Phi in triangles and pentagrams, the mysterious Fibonacci series phenomena, and the beauty of equiangular spirals.  Concepts and examples are illustrated throughout the book with formulae, diagrams, drawings, and black-and-white reproductions of paintings.  At the end of the book are appendices with geometrical and mathematical proofs, an extensive list of suggestions for further reading organized by chapter, and an index.<br /><br />Livio cites dozens of examples of how Phi comes into play in geometry and mathematics, and he also points out where the numbers or shapes relating to the Golden Ratio appear in nature, such as in snail shells or pineapple scales.  He then examines claims that the Golden Ratio was used explicitly in art, music, and poetry, and argues that such claims, are the for the most part, widely overstated.  Indeed, only a few artists, musicians, or poets have explicitly attempted to work with the Golden Ratio (Le Corbusier, for one), and much of their work comes across as somewhat contrived rather than natural.  On the use of the Golden Ratio for aesthetics, Livio concludes, \\"In spite of the Golden Ratio's importance for many areas of mathematics, the sciences, and natural phenomena, we should, in my humble opinion, give up its application as a fixed standard for aesthetics, either in the human form or as a touchstone for the fine arts.<br /><br />The material in this book is quite fascinating for those with a mathematical bent.  Even readers who have heard of and worked with the Golden Ratio before are bound to come across new facts, details or phenomena involving the Golden Ratio that they were not aware of before.  Livio's presentation draws many, many facets of the Golden Ratio together into one cohesive story, while analyzing some claims for uses of the Golden Ratio in the arts that perhaps go too far.  Livio assumes that readers will have a decent background in algebra and a firm foundation in geometry.  The material in this book is dense and requires thoughtful reading, so it is not a quick read, but it is quite informative and interesting.have heard of and worked with the Golden Ratio before are bound to come across new facts, details or phenomena involving the Golden Ratio that they were not aware of before.  Livio's presentation draws many, many facets of the Golden Ratio together into one cohesive story, while analyzing some claims for uses of the Golden Ratio in the arts that perhaps go too far.  Livio assumes that readers will have a decent background in algebra and a firm foundation in geometry.  The material in this book is dense and requires thoughtful reading, so it is not a quick read, but it is quite informative and interesting. <br />	2004-11-04
468275:US	51917998	R15EMDG9PE3D71	0887307280	499218489	The E-Myth Revisited: Why Most Small Businesses Don't Work and What to Do About It	Books	4	1036	1070	N	N	Stop Running Around in Circles	This book is a guide to success for small business owners.  Gerber is the founder of a consulting company for small businesses.  In the beginning of the book, Gerber cites the well-known failure-rate statistics for small business: 40% fail in 1 year.  Of those who survive 1year, 80% fail in 5 years, and of those who survive 5 years, another 80% fail.  Over the years, Gerber has observed that the small business owners who fail often share a number of characteristics, while those who succeed do so not by luck, brains, or perseverance, but by taking a different approach.  This book explains the approach that is necessary for a business to survive and thrive.<br /><br />One of Gerber's most striking observations is that most small businesses are started by \\"technicians\\", that is people who are skilled at something and who enjoy doing that thing. (A technician can be anything from a computer programmer to plumber to a dog groomer to a musician or lawyer.) When these technicians strike out on their own, they tend to continue doing the work they are skilled at, and ignore the overarching aspects of business.  Without clear goals and quantification benchmarks, they soon find themselves overworked, understaffed, and eventually broke.  Worst of all, they may come to hate the work they do.  Rather than owning a business, they own a job, and they find themselves working for managers who are completely clueless about how to run a business- -themselves.<br /><br />The solution, Gerber argues, is for every business owner, especially the technician-owners, to balance their business personalities.  According to Gerber, every business owner needs to simultaneously be an entrepreneur and a manager as well as a technician.  The technician is the worker-bee, the one who produces the product.  The manager makes sure operations and finances run smoothly and consistently.  The entrepreneur formulates the goals, and steers the business in the direction needed to reach those goals.  Of these three personalities, the entrepreneur is key- -without it, the technician will work himself or herself to death or bankruptcy.  As the business grows, the business owner will need to draw away from the technician work and manager work and delegate this work, rather than abdicate this, to others.<br /><br />For turning businesses around, or getting them off the right foot, Gerber suggests looking at franchises as a model.  In comparison to the dismal rate of ordinary small-business start-ups, 75% of franchises succeed at 5 years.  The reason they succeed is that they are set up so that any unskilled person off the street could walk in, buy a franchise, run all operations in the franchise, and have a fairly good chance of success.  The product of franchise companies is a business model, not food, hotel rooms, etc.  In order to meet this level of success, franchise companies have clear operations manuals, procedures, consistent sales approaches- -every detail of running the business is specified down to dress codes and wall paper.<br /><br />By asking us to consider the franchise approach, Gerber is not saying to go out and buy a franchise license.  Instead, he says to imagine that you want to sell your business as a successful franchise within a finite period of time.  If so, what will you need to do regarding your business plan and management in order to meet this goal?  That is, if you were going to make your business fool-proof so that any unskilled person could take over as owner after a few years and succeed with it, what will you need to do?<br /><br />Overall, I found the ideas in this book extremely profound and incredibly useful for my own small-business venture.  The writing style can be a bit wordy and choppy at times, which is the only reason why I did not give this book full marks.  If you're a small business owner whose business is out of control, stagnant, or worse, or if you're thinking of going into business yourself, this book can be of immeasurablevalue.of immeasurable value.  <br />	2004-11-03
471291:US	51917998	R3PZSC79KXEOJ1	0140097015	134381622	The Media Lab: Inventing the Future at M. I. T.	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Mixed Bag	In 1986, Brand made an extended visit to the Media Lab at MIT to get an idea of what the future might hold.  While there, he saw working prototypes of new communications technologies and the issues they raise, including personalized newspapers and video news, fast personal connections to the Internet using ISDN, HDTV and globalization.  The book is organized into two parts: The World of the Media Lab, in which Brand describes the main projects underway at the Media Lab while he was there, and Life in Parallel, in which he relates some of the projects to overarching issues that may become prominent in the future (keeping in mind he was writing in the 1980s).  Interspersed in the text are black-and-white photos of some of the key players at the Media Lab in 1986.  There is also a section of color images from some of the Lab projects.  At the end of the book are found a short bibliography and an index.<br /><br />Brand's material is almost twenty years old now.  The sections in which he discussed the historical development of the Media Lab or its projects remain relevant for today's readers.  But unfortunately, a great deal of the book was an attempt to look into the future; hence it became outdated as prediction almost as soon as it was written.  What's quite interesting today, however, is to see that almost every project that Brand predicts will have some chance of success has actually become commonplace today.  For prediction, that's an incredible track record.  Did Brand achieve this by sticking only to cutting edge technologies, those that were just on the very edge of leaving the lab for the real world?  Were there other projects at the time that Brand didn't choose to write about here because they were obviously going nowhere?  It would be a an interesting project to look back to see the actual status of these projects at the time.<br /><br />I picked up this book because I was interested in learning more about the culture of the Media Lab.  In my own years at MIT, the Lab certainly had a reputation for the uniqueness of its faculty and for attracting students who were highly original as well as capable.  It was hard to learn more about the Lab, however, unless you were a part of it.  This book, with its emphasis on predicting future technologies, didn't real satisfy my curiosity about the Media Lab.  The book contains a few interviews with leading figures in the lab such as Andy Lippman and Danny Hills.  But the interviews don't quite succeed at conveying the personalities of these people along with their viewpoints.  Instead, they seem to add to the feeling that this book is a personal record of the variety of experiences Brand encountered during his visit.at MIT, the Lab certainly had a reputation for the uniqueness of its faculty and for attracting students who were highly original as well as capable.  It was hard to learn more about the Lab, however, unless you were a part of it.  This book, with its emphasis on predicting future technologies, didn't real satisfy my curiosity about the Media Lab.  The book contains a few interviews with leading figures in the lab such as Andy Lippman and Danny Hills.  But the interviews don't quite succeed at conveying the personalities of these people along with their viewpoints.  Instead, they seem to add to the feeling that this book is a personal record of the variety of experiences Brand encountered during his visit. <br />	2004-10-31
471430:US	51917998	R29ENFM307EGXO	1564311910	116554720	Brewing Up a Storm	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Cheers for the murderer!	This yarn tells the story of an anti-beer activist, Mrs. Maddie Underwood.  Mrs. Underwood (never referred to as \\"Maddie\\" except by her sworn enemies) is the leader of NOBBY, a group that seeks to prevent underage drinking.  At the beginning of the story, NOBBY is engaged in a lawsuit in which the parents of a teenager who died after imbibing are suing Kischel, the producers of a non-alcoholic beer their son was fond of.  They accuse the company of wrongful death because they, with NOBBY's backing, argue that Kischel's near-beer led to developing an addiction to stronger stuff.  At the same time, congressional hearings about the implications of non-alcoholic beer sales to minors are being held, and Underwood wants to use these hearings to further her cause and that of her organization.  The problem is, Underwood is a batty, self-centered, and thoroughly unsympathetic character.  By the time the author finally gets around to murdering her, you will have long been ready to do the same yourself- -if you haven't given up on the book entirely by then.<br /><br />After Underwood is put under, the story finally begins to pick steam.  There are a few clues to help us determine who did it.  By the way, this is a John Putnam Thatcher mystery.  If you haven't read other books in the series, then you may wonder who in the world this Thatcher is, and why Lathen goes to such pains to give him bit parts early on in the book.  Through his trivially tangential links to the case, Thatcher develops enough interest in the murder by the end of the book to solve the crime through deductive reasoning so that he can point the police in the right direction to make an arrest.  This is a complicated book with numerous plot-threads that will try the patience of all but the most devoted Thatcher fans.	2004-10-31
471610:US	51917998	R3IE29M23ZXSGK	0743500563	479586765	Cronkite Remembers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Newsbites	This is a celebration of Cronkite's more than 50 years of journalism.  Cronkite shares some of his early childhood memories with us, like how he got his first start in journalism- -selling papers on street corners.  He traces his career through writing for newspapers and acting out baseball games on radio.  He also tells us about the war years, when he covered the war in newsreels from Europe.  He describes how, in the days before satellites, film footage of Queen Elizabeth's coronation had to be flown across the ocean before it could be broadcast on this continent.  He reminisces about his relationship with each of the presidents from Hoover through Reagan- -just the fact that he met and worked with so many presidents is a great indicator of his reputation as journalist.  But in all of these interviews, recorded with Cronkite, his family, and co-workers, Cronkite never comes across as being overbearing or egotistical.<br /><br />Towards the end of this tape, Cronkite looks back and selects the most important stories that he covered.  Among these are his famous opinion statement on Vietnam, when he set aside the goal of trying to remain objective and spoke his mind, based on what he saw on the ground in Vietnam.  Later he talks about the Lunar landings, and how they left him unexpectedly speechless.  For younger audiences, this could be an interesting overview of the main stories of the Twentieth Century.  For older listeners, it's a walk down memory lane.	2004-10-31
471619:US	51917998	R6OB3DYZGGTW1	1559945494	862270385	Sacred Clowns	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Well Done	This is a Jim Chee mystery.  Chee has been assigned to find a young boy who has run away from school.  Meanwhile, a man has been murdered at the school where the boy ran away from.  While Chee is on the trail of the boy, the boy's uncle happens to be murdered almost right in front of him.  Coincidence?  Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn, Chee's boss, doesn't believe in coincidences.  But there are no clues linking the three incidents.  It's up to Chee to figure out what's been happening in case the boy is in danger.<br /><br />As with all of Hillerman's books, this tale is rich with detail from Navajo culture.  Through Chee's eyes, we witness a Pueblo ceremonial and learn about some of the roles tribesmen play during the ritual.  Despite the urgency of the situation, Chee must divide his attention between his job and his personal life, between the ethics of his tribe and the law.  This book will draw you in from page one.	2004-10-31
473196:US	51917998	R190JD469HMDXE	0694516929	59233487	The Dilbert Principle: A Cubicle's Eye View of Bosses, Meetings, Management Fads, & Other Workplace Afflictions	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Dilbert for Dictator!	This book is an amusing look at modern business practices and what's wrong with them.  Adams takes us through a short history of business in the 1990s, from down-sizing to right-sizing, from re-engineering to Total Quality Management.  His descriptions, based on his own job titles and tasks, of how the business world has changed is quite revealing.  In the not-so-long-ago good-old-days, people could easily get lost in the bureaucracy of a large company doing time wasting jobs that produced nothing of value for the company.  As things got tighter, in poorly run companies, the rats who could swim did just that, leaving more and more work to be done by people who were, on average, less and less capable.  And the least capable, as well all know, were promoted to management, where they wouldn't be in the way of real work.<br /><br />In the last part of the book, Adams has a few suggestions as an engineer/cartoonist about ideal company management.  He introduces the notion of the OA5 company, or Out At Five.  He suggests that managers maximize efficiency by scheduling meetings only in the afternoons, and late in the afternoons, so that the meetings don't get in the way of real work.  That way, the work gets done despite the meeting, so everyone can get out at 5, which keeps up morale and energy.  Besides, if a meeting is scheduled for 4-5 and everyone wants to get Out At Five, then the interminable chatterers who hog the floor at meetings may keep their traps shut for once so that they too, can go home on time.  Adams argues that the most important task for a manager is to make sure that everyone in the department is a team player, and that people who don't work well or get along well with others should be dismissed.  That way, the others can get more work done and get Out At Five.  I've never studied business management and I don't think Adams has formally either, but these ideas sure sound as good as anything else I've heard on the topic.  In any case, we'll have to wait for the prototype to be built before we can see how the ideas actually work in practice.ait for the prototype to be built before we can see how the ideas actually work in practice. <br />	2004-10-29
474093:US	51917998	R2END9Y26BGLQ5	1559274069	393979454	The Making of a Country Lawyer	Books	2	2	7	N	N	Excruciating	This book relates the details of the life of Gerry Spence, a well-known trial lawyer.  From his earliest days of life through the beginnings of his second marriage, Spence reveals to us what his life was like, who his influences were, and how he reacted.  The driving focus of the book is Spence's mother, who took her own life when he was a young man.  At the time of her death, she and Spence had had a falling out, and Spence sees much of the rest of his life as trying to make peace with her.  At the end of this book, some of Spence's famous cases and clients are mentioned in an epilogue; however, these topics are not discussed in the memoir section at all.<br /><br />As an outsider to Spence's family, this book was extremely hard to get through.  Some of the details of his early life in rural Wyoming were quite interesting, and he certainly reveals some of his character as he variously compares arguing in the courtroom to wild game hunting or playing poker.  The stories of his first marriage and its breakup, and how he took up with another woman are not exactly things to be proud of, and I'm not sure his family would really want to see these details published.  When his marriage was on the rocks, he decided to sell his family's home in Wyoming together with all their possessions and start life anew in Mill Valley, California.  Within a month, though, he abandoned his family in Mill Valley, where they were far from relatives, friends or any other people who might provide emotional support, to go back to his mistress in Wyoming.  I couldn't help thinking about Judith Wallerstein's book about children of divorce (\\"Second Chances\\") when I read this section.  For her studies, she chose families facing divorce in the early 1970s living in a town in California.  Was it Mill Valley where she did her studies?  Did she include the four Spence children in her work?  Was it the Spence children whose standard of living took a drastic nosedive when their father moved in with someone else?  But it was the woe begotten prose addressed to Spence's mother that was the most difficult part of this book to get through.  I had hoped to develop some sympathy for lawyers, or at least for this one, or maybe even learn something about growing up in the West during the Depression by reading this book.  Instead, after reading this book, I find myself repelled even by the thought of reading any more memoirs by lawyers.meone else?  But it was the woe begotten prose addressed to Spence's mother that was the most difficult part of this book to get through.  I had hoped to develop some sympathy for lawyers, or at least for this one, or maybe even learn something about growing up in the West during the Depression by reading this book.  Instead, after reading this book, I find myself repelled even by the thought of reading any more memoirs by lawyers. <br />	2004-10-29
477971:US	51917998	R8LU5V67ABSU	0935028897	696748695	Earthsummit.Biz: The Corporate Takeover of Sustainable Development	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Sustainability and Globalization	This book is a brief overview of globalization and environmental \\"greenwash\\".  The book is organized into two parts.  The first part covers legislative aspects of globalization with respect to the UN, the World Bank, GATT, WTO, NAFTA, the IMF and a veritable alphabet soup of similar agencies.  The second part introduces the terms \\"greenwash\\" and \\"bluewash\\" to refer to corporate propaganda aimed at convincing the public that the corporation is more dedicated to the environment or human rights than it really is.  The second part also includes examples of marketing materials or program descriptions from specific transnational companies.<br /><br />I found the first part of the book with its multitude of acronyms rather hard to follow.  A few of the ideas in this section were also a little odd, such as when the authors write: \\"Instead of reducing consumption in the United States...auto corporations built more sport utility vehicles (SUVs), which pump ever-greater amounts of global warming gasses into the atmosphere.\\"  Here, the authors seem to assume that auto companies should be more environmentally responsible by refusing to build the product most in demand by customers.  But refusing to meet demand out of principle is not a very realistic expectation for us to have from corporate executives.  What the authors perhaps meant was that auto companies should not market their SUVs as aggressively, so that consumers might choose other more environmental friendly autos. This section did include a relatively lucid description of the problems of globalization however, where the authors note \\"Globalization means that communities, workers, consumers and others around the world are feeling the effects of the growing power and reach of transnational corporations every day.\\"  If these transnational corporations focus solely on the maximization of profits and do not respect human rights or the environment, then globalization threatens us all.<br /><br />The case study format of the second section made this section much easier to read.  According to the authors, if an organization does any of the following, it qualifies as \\"greenwash\\":<br /><br />--Impress you with tangential projects (such as when a company spends more on advertising its environmental friendliness than on environmental actions)<br /><br />--Distract you from their destructive products<br /><br />--Gain your sympathy by adopting environmental lingo<br /><br />--Avoid regulations claiming they will solve the problem themselves<br /><br />Organizations focused in this section include: BP, Council for Biotechnology Information, Chevron, Ford, Mitsubishi, Monsanto, the Nuclear Energy Institute, Philip Morris, Southern Company (electricity producer), and Royal Dutch Shell.  In addition to whistle-blowing on environmental issues, the authors also use the term \\"bluewash\\", referring to the blue of the UN flag, to point out deceptive claims about human rights issues.  Companies accused here of \\"bluewash\\" include Aventis, Nike, Rio Tinto, the International Chamber of Commerce, Unilever, Norsk Hydro, Bayer, and Eskom.  This latter category of deception is not related to the environmental notion of sustainability, but perhaps was included because the authors assume that a global economy cannot be sustainable if human rights are not respected.<br /><br />The book contains a substantial amount of end material, including endnotes for sources cited, Global Compact Principles and list of participants, Citizens Compact on the United Nations and Corporations, the platform and letters of support for the Alliance for a Corporate-Free U.N., an index, and materials about the Website [...]the second section made this section much easier to read.  According to the authors, if an organization does any of the following, it qualifies as \\"greenwash\\":  <br />--Impress you with tangential projects (such as when a company spends more on advertising its environmental friendliness than on environmental actions) <br />--Distract you from their destructive products <br />--Gain your sympathy by adopting environmental lingo <br />--Avoid regulations claiming they will solve the problem themselves <br />Organizations focused in this section include: BP, Council for Biotechnology Information, Chevron, Ford, Mitsubishi, Monsanto, the Nuclear Energy Institute, Philip Morris, Southern Company (electricity producer), and Royal Dutch Shell.  In addition to whistle-blowing on environmental issues, the authors also use the term \\"bluewash\\", referring to the blue of the UN flag, to point out deceptive claims about human rights issues.  Companies accused here of \\"bluewash\\" include Aventis, Nike, Rio Tinto, the International Chamber of Commerce, Unilever, Norsk Hydro, Bayer, and Eskom.  This latter category of deception is not related to the environmental notion of sustainability, but perhaps was included because the authors assume that a global economy cannot be sustainable if human rights are not respected. <br /> <br />The book contains a substantial amount of end material, including endnotes for sources cited, Global Compact Principles and list of participants, Citizens Compact on the United Nations and Corporations, the platform and letters of support for the Alliance for a Corporate-Free U.N., an index, and materials about the Website [...] <br />	2004-10-25
480121:US	51917998	RXB3IKSC6S1PS	0767904486	683753064	Wine and War: The French, the Nazis, and the Battle for France's Greatest Treasure	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Interesting idea	This book tells the story of French wine makers and wine during the Second World War.  In the introduction, the authors point how important wine is to France. \\"It is not just a beverage or commercial product to be poured from a bottle.  It is much more than that.  Like the flag,...it goes to the country's heart and soul.\\"  That said, the history of World War Two in France cannot be considered complete without the tales of what happened to the wine and the winemakers.<br /><br />The book is organized in chronological fashion, starting in 1939, the last pre-war grape harvest.  Each subsequent year of the war is represented in one or more chapters of details and war stories.  We read about wine makers who are sent to POW camps, the \\"weinfuhrers\\", Germans whose job it was to manage the wine industry in occupied France, and families of wine makers whose men-folk are away fighting or imprisoned.  The authors point out how useful it could be to keep tabs on wine, such as when the Resistance was able to notify British intelligence about an imminent invasion in North Africa based on their tracking of wine shipments by the Germans.<br /><br />At the beginning of each chapter is a picture of a wine scene related to the war.  Unfortunately, the pictures are printed in extremely light shades of gray and white and virtually uninterpretable as a result.  Captions for the pictures appear only in the List of Illustrations at the beginning of the book.  The book includes an index, but no bibliography.  (Much of the material for the book came from extensive personal interviews.)<br /><br />For the most part, the book is informative, but it doesn't quite live up to the lofty promises of the introduction.  Part of the problem is that a number of the stories from the wine makers that the authors uncovered aren't all that remarkable.  In other cases, war histories of individual wine makers are chopped up to fit in the chronological organization of the chapters, which detracts from the overall coherence.  Nonetheless, historians of the Second World War may find substantial material of interest in this book.the overall coherence.  Nonetheless, historians of the Second World War may find substantial material of interest in this book. <br />	2004-10-23
480268:US	51917998	R2U7KLXYPAYNWH	0786881623	983915079	Moving Violations: War Zones, Wheelchairs, and Declarations of Independence	Books	4	30	34	N	N	Coming to Terms with Disability	This book contains the memoirs of John Hockenberry, a well-known journalist who is disabled. Hockenberry takes us through a blow-by-blow account of the accident which left him paralyzed from the chest down.  He explains the nature and extent of his injuries and describes his experiences in the rehab hospital where he learned how to manage the needs of daily life from his wheelchair.  He then takes us through the details of his young adult years, his education, marriage, and career.  The only aspect of the book that I did not like was that Hockenberry occasionally gets a little heavy-handed with philosophizing.  The extensive self-analysis, however is understandable, since this is very much a book about coming to terms with his life-to-date and his culture.<br /><br />It was the 1980 eruptions at Mt. St. Helens that got Hockenberry his big break with NPR.  Hockenberry was covering the reports for a local radio station in Eugene, Oregon, where he was living at the time, and his reports drew the attention of the national NPR news editors.  They never suspected that their intrepid Oregonian journalist was in a wheelchair until the day he was not able to phone in a report before the deadline because he couldn't locate an accessible phone.  NPR found that Hockenberry was quite talented at finding, writing, and reading news stories, and brought him to their headquarters in D.C.  Later, Hockenberry was chosen to be the Middle East correspondent for NPR, stationed in Jerusalem.  It was there, far from home and the Americans with Disabilities Act legislation, where Hockenberry faced tremendous challenges that taught him much about the human family.<br /><br />Although I had listened to countless news reports from Hockenberry on NPR, I never knew about his disability until I heard him giving an interview on NPR about this book.  The thought of someone who is paralyzed from the chest down voluntarily navigating through a war zone, managing to transport himself through terrain where wheels can't go, is simply mind-boggling.  Hockenberry doesn't tell these stories to boast about his strengths- -instead, his goal is to explain how he is an ordinary person with his own foibles and problems.  But his problems aren't insurmountable, thanks to his creativity and determination, and to the willingness of others to meet him partway at times with compassion or a shift in habits or expectations.  He's not asking to pull less weight than others because of his disability, but only to be allowed to pull the weight in the ways that he is able, without barriers placed in his way.<br /><br />Working in Jerusalem gave Hockenberry a unique vantage point for observing the US and its relation to handicapped people.  He writes \\"It is very American to make these ironclad distinctions between the individual merit of a person and opportunities for advancement that have to do with family connections, wealth, wheelchairs, race, and other intangibles...In America the primary virtue is in doing something `despite the wheelchair,' or `even though you are black or a woman.' Succeed by incorporating what makes you different into your goal and you are perceived as having cheated.\\"  Later he notes \\"In America access is always about architecture and never about human beings.  Among Israelis and Palestinians, access was rarely about anything but people.  While in the U.S. a wheelchair stands out as an explicitly separate experience from the mainstream, in the Israel and Arab worlds it is just another thing that can go wrong in a place where things go wrong all the time.\\"  Hockenberry notes how far people in Jerusalem were willing to go out of their way to help him when the terrain was inaccessible, and contrasts that with his experience trying to use the New York subway, where most people refused to even look at him, let alone offer to assist him in stations without elevators.<br /><br />Having lived in the Middle East myself for five years, I think Hockenberry was probablyright about Israelis and Palestinians more readily acknowledging the humanity of situations involving access for wheelchairs.  But I'm not sure that non-disabled Americans are intentionally uncompassionate.  As Americans, we are taught that disabled people wish to be independent and don't want any attention drawn to their special circumstances, and they don't want us to push their chairs or grab their white canes.  We assume that because there is a law guaranteeing access for all, that access exists and is sufficient and already present in the buildings where it is required.  Once the law has been put in place, we assume any needs have already been met.  Most of us are unfamiliar with the needs of disabled people- -we don't know how to act around disabled people, what we should do, and what we shouldn't, so perhaps that's why we try not to see the disabled. In that respect, this book fills a dire need: it brings us into the day-to-day life of a remarkable yet ordinary disabled person, introducing us to his life story, dreams, and desires.probably right about Israelis and Palestinians more readily acknowledging the humanity of situations involving access for wheelchairs.  But I'm not sure that non-disabled Americans are intentionally uncompassionate.  As Americans, we are taught that disabled people wish to be independent and don't want any attention drawn to their special circumstances, and they don't want us to push their chairs or grab their white canes.  We assume that because there is a law guaranteeing access for all, that access exists and is sufficient and already present in the buildings where it is required.  Once the law has been put in place, we assume any needs have already been met.  Most of us are unfamiliar with the needs of disabled people- -we don't know how to act around disabled people, what we should do, and what we shouldn't, so perhaps that's why we try not to see the disabled. In that respect, this book fills a dire need: it brings us into the day-to-day life of a remarkable yet ordinary disabled person, introducing us to his life story, dreams, and desires. <br />	2004-10-23
489880:US	51917998	RXBTPMTIX9HAY	086571312X	863511738	Our Ecological Footprint: Reducing Human Impact on the Earth (New Catalyst Bioregional Series) (Paperback)	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Running Out of Room:  Economists' Viewpoint	This book is about the environmental costs that humans have on our planet, especially those humans living in developed countries.  The authors contend that we are using up the resources of the planet at an astounding rate, such that little will be left for generations of the future.  In other words, our present lifestyle is unsustainable.  The authors argue that a measure of sustainability can be calculated by adding up the resources used by a group of people, and translating this to area on the earth, which yields roughly the total amount of land needed by the group to live sustainably, or their \\"ecological footprint\\".  They point out that people in developed countries tend to have much larger ecological footprints than those in developing countries, but even amongst developed countries, there are large differences, and that Americans have huge ecological footprints compared to people from most other countries.  In fact, in order for everyone on Earth to live as Americans do, it would require several additional planets to provide the resources and disposal space for waste.<br /><br />The beginning chapters of the book define sustainability and the concept of ecological footprint.  They also argue that our present practices are not sustainable.  In the third chapter, we find the general idea of how an ecological footprint can be calculated, and the types of resources that need to be accounted for.  The authors also run through a few examples of how footprints can be calculated on a nation by nation basis.  They don't claim to have developed a conclusive method for calculating ecological footprints, especially on an individual basis, though they invite interested readers to do so on their own (there are numerous suggestions for how to do so on the Web).  The last part of the book suggests some possible strategies for creating a more sustainable world.  Endnotes citing sources appear following each chapter.  There is a glossary, but no index.  The book includes a number of black-and-white illustrations and cartoons.<br /><br />The authors argue that \\"The strength of the Ecological Footprint analysis is its ability to communicate simply and graphically the general nature and magnitude of the biophysical `connectedness' between humankind and the ecosphere.\\"  They go on to comment \\"Ecological Footprint analysis can estimate the balance of trade in load-bearing capacity as embodied in the energy and material flows associated with trade goods and biogeochemical cycles.\\"  These ideas are interesting and hefty- -the text is somewhat theoretical and aimed towards those who are fascinated with macroeconomics. The style of writing is not for everyone, but there are some very valid points to mull over.  For example, in a box discussing efficiency gains and sustainability, the authors point out that in the past, efficiency gains have led to more consumption rather than a decrease in resource usage, so we can't rely on efficiency gains as a solution to over-consumption.ack-and-white illustrations and cartoons.    The authors argue that \\"The strength of the Ecological Footprint analysis is its ability to communicate simply and graphically the general nature and magnitude of the biophysical `connectedness' between humankind and the ecosphere.\\"  They go on to comment \\"Ecological Footprint analysis can estimate the balance of trade in load-bearing capacity as embodied in the energy and material flows associated with trade goods and biogeochemical cycles.\\"  These ideas are interesting and hefty- -the text is somewhat theoretical and aimed towards those who are fascinated with macroeconomics. The style of writing is not for everyone, but there are some very valid points to mull over.  For example, in a box discussing efficiency gains and sustainability, the authors point out that in the past, efficiency gains have led to more consumption rather than a decrease in resource usage, so we can't rely on efficiency gains as a solution to over-consumption.	2004-10-14
490653:US	51917998	RDWRJT762VQWK	0679761659	904927606	TRAIN GO SORRY: Inside a Deaf World	Books	4	18	22	N	N	Issues in Deaf Education	This book is a personal overview and interpretation of several issues of concern in deaf education.  The author, Leah Cohen, was born into a hearing family who worked and resided at Lexington School for the Deaf in New York City.  In this book, she explores her connection to the school through the stories of her father's parents, who were both deaf, and her father, who was superintendent of the school when this book was being written.  Cohen also looks at the school from the point of view of two students, Sofia Normatov and James Taylor.  She describes some of the accomplishments these students have achieved despite tremendous challenges.  Sofia was a recent immigrant from the USSR, and must learn ASL and English if she wants to go on to university.  James hails from the housing projects and receives very little support from friends and family for his academic endeavors.  Nevertheless, he is determined to pass the Regents Exam and earn an academic diploma so that he will have the opportunity to continue his education.  Cohen also describes her own experiences learning sign language and then developing her skills as a translator.  The book includes some black-and-white photos of the main characters described in the text.  There is no index or bibliography.<br /><br />Worked into the chapters telling stories about Lexington School, its students, and staff are many issues that are central to the deaf community today.  One of these issues is the question of mainstreaming deaf children into public education.  Many administrators (and hearing parents) believe that deaf children should be treated like other handicapped children and enrolled in regular classes in hearing schools.  These people cannot seem to comprehend how misguided this policy is.  Deaf children, especially those born to hearing parents, need the company of other deaf children in order to learn the language that is best suited for them.  Only in the company of other deaf children of varying ages and deaf adults is it possible for deaf children to pick up on Deaf culture, the culture that will understand them for who they are and not consider them handicapped.  A deaf child who is mainstreamed is likely to spend most of his or her childhood isolated, unable to communicate effectively with peers or develop native fluency in sign language for effective communication with other deaf people.  Schools for the deaf, on the other hand, provide rich opportunities for deaf children to develop socially as well as learn in classes that are thoroughly adapted for their skills and needs.  In her chapters touching on the question of mainstreaming, Cohen reports the discussions at board meetings and the frustration on the part of educators for the deaf in getting education departments to listen to their arguments.<br /><br />Cohen discusses at some length the topic of cochlear implants.  Not only does she explain why those in the Deaf community see no use for them, but she also points out how they can harm the user by eliminating residual hearing they might have.  In her material about the student James, she points out how little supposed hearing specialists know about the implants.<br /><br />One of the largest and perhaps somewhat understated issues in the book is the question of the role of ASL in deaf education.  I was shocked to read that some teachers at the Lexington School, at least in the early 1990s when this book was written, still had no fluency in ASL.  How in heavens name could they communicate with their students?  As Cohen explains, Lexington was founded as an oral school, and it has only been quite recently that students were finally allowed to communicate with each other in sign.  Cohen was born into a family where her father and grandparents were fluent in sign and used it as their primary means of communication, and she spent the first 7 years of her life living in a residential school for the deaf, haunting the hallways and even attending preschool classes withdeaf children.  With such an upbringing, fluency in ASL should have almost been her birthright.  Instead, with ASL banned on campus during the time she lived there, she did not start to learn sign language until her college years, by taking private lessons. (Perhaps this is why she was completely ignorant about deaf applause, and mistakenly attributes its invention to the Deaf President Now campaign at Gallaudet in 1988.  While she claims that the shimmering hand applause of the deaf spontaneously appeared at Gallaudet in 1988 and from there spread rapidly around the world, I saw it in action in 1985-86 in deaf schools in Finland.  I suspect it has been part of Deaf culture for quite a bit longer than Cohen was aware.)  In her book, she notes that \\"train go sorry\\" is a deaf idiom equivalent for \\"missing the boat\\".  The truly tragic \\"train go sorry\\" in this book is the fact that Cohen was denied learning sign language as a child, and that deaf students anywhere studying in deaf schools still find teachers in their classrooms who do not know and use ASL.  While oral skills have their place and should be a part of the deaf curriculum, they should constitute a minor course of study, and not the medium of instruction.es with deaf children.  With such an upbringing, fluency in ASL should have almost been her birthright.  Instead, with ASL banned on campus during the time she lived there, she did not start to learn sign language until her college years, by taking private lessons. (Perhaps this is why she was completely ignorant about deaf applause, and mistakenly attributes its invention to the Deaf President Now campaign at Gallaudet in 1988.  While she claims that the shimmering hand applause of the deaf spontaneously appeared at Gallaudet in 1988 and from there spread rapidly around the world, I saw it in action in 1985-86 in deaf schools in Finland.  I suspect it has been part of Deaf culture for quite a bit longer than Cohen was aware.)  In her book, she notes that \\"train go sorry\\" is a deaf idiom equivalent for \\"missing the boat\\".  The truly tragic \\"train go sorry\\" in this book is the fact that Cohen was denied learning sign language as a child, and that deaf students anywhere studying in deaf schools still find teachers in their classrooms who do not know and use ASL.  While oral skills have their place and should be a part of the deaf curriculum, they should constitute a minor course of study, and not the medium of instruction. <br />	2004-10-13
495140:US	51917998	R3KM95YCRKIUNG	0679410252	802397301	Daisy Fay and the Miracle Man	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Growing up Despite the Odds	This book is the childhood journal of one Daisy Fay Harper from rural Mississippi. It takes us from her eleventh year to her seventeenth year, during which time she wins some, and loses quite a lot, too.  Daisy Fay's parents don't get along well at all.  Her father is an alcoholic and has a great deal of trouble keeping a roof over their heads and food on the table.  In fact, just about the only way he can get money coming through the door is to run some sort of scheme or caper.  Thinking up such ideas is one thing he is good at, but he's not always as good at pulling them off.  Through her diary, Daisy Fay tells us about her relationship with her parents and friends, and the trouble they get in to.  She tells us of her nightmares and dreams, and despite all the tragedies and bad luck that happen to her, she turns out OK after all.<br /><br />Flagg does a decent job of expressing and developing Daisy Fay's voice from that of a young girl to that of a teenager ready to leave home.  Some readers may find the book too sentimental for their tastes, but nevertheless, the book is quite engaging.	2004-10-09
495461:US	51917998	R3E3L7KBA6R8DN	156201059X	128014434	Goa Freaks: My Hippie Years in India	Books	3	10	16	N	N	Scary	This book relates the experiences Cleo Odzer had while living on Anjuna Beach in Goa, India during the 1970s.  Odzer landed in Goa after traveling around Europe for three years, where she had supported herself as a model.  On Anjuna Beach in Goa, she discovered a community of hippies.  She immediately felt a kinship with this group and determined to build for herself a permanent home on the beach.  These weren't just any hippies- -they were Freaks, or serious drug addicts.  All told, Odzer spent 4 years on Anjuna Beach.  During this time, she went from being a heavy but casual drug user to being a serious addict, from being the leaser of a very nice large beachfront home, to being homeless in Bombay.  Like the other Freaks, she supported herself by smuggling drugs into Western countries, including Canada, the US, and Australia.  The smuggling activities took place mostly in the monsoon season, when the copious rainfall made life in Goa unpleasant.  Those Freaks who were not too badly addicted to manage a smuggling run or two made out like bandits during the monsoon, returning with enough money to last the rest of the year on the Beach.  But within a year or two after arrival, their drug addictions would get the better of them, and they would no longer be able to pull their monsoon capers off, at which point, they would find themselves penniless and out of stash on the beach.<br /><br />I found the book quite difficult to read.  As Odzer's life spirals out of control in a maelstrom of cocaine and smack addiction, each page takes us to a new low.  She tells us the stories of loves gone sour, and her habits of spending the night with the first guy she met when she couldn't afford a hotel room.  She relates stories of young children of the Freaks born on the beach and brought up by drugged out parents, and how funny her puppy dog acted whenever he sniffed cocaine dust out of her living room carpet.  One particularly pitiful character was a girl, Little Lisa, who had been stranded in Nepal when her mother died there.  From that time on, she tagged along with a surrogate father figure, an American drug dealer.  By the time Lisa was 18 and living on Anjuna Beach, she was very heavily addicted to drugs. What ever became of her?  Throughout all these tales of woe, Odzer never seems judgmental about her own actions.  She doesn't say \\"Boy, was that stupid!\\" or \\"I wish I hadn't treated them that way\\".  It's hard to tell whether this portrayal of the events is trying to convey how she felt at the time, or is due to her feeling sentimental, and trying to relive her adventures through writing about them.  I had hoped to learn a little about the relations between the hippie community and the Indians from this book, but even though she later became an anthropologist, Odzer had incredibly few interactions with Indians in Goa, to the point where she never learned more than a few words of Hindi during her four year stay.<br /><br />It's mind boggling how much money is in the drug trade.  In her first monsoon season, Odzer managed to earn some $32,000 (in 1970s dollars!) with a few drug runs.  She burned through that money and more on drugs during the following beach season- -in India!  I wouldn't recommend this book to recovering drug addicts.  In some places, the descriptions of drug taking may be too graphic to handle.  After reading this book, I don't think I would support legalization of the drug trade. Drug use too easily leads to drug addiction, and drug addiction makes it impossible to hold down a job, even a job smuggling or selling drugs.een stranded in Nepal when her mother died there.  From that time on, she tagged along with a surrogate father figure, an American drug dealer.  By the time Lisa was 18 and living on Anjuna Beach, she was very heavily addicted to drugs. What ever became of her?  Throughout all these tales of woe, Odzer never seems judgmental about her own actions.  She doesn't say \\"Boy, was that stupid!\\" or \\"I wish I hadn't treated them that way\\".  It's hard to tell whether this portrayal of the events is trying to convey how she felt at the time, or is due to her feeling sentimental, and trying to relive her adventures through writing about them.  I had hoped to learn a little about the relations between the hippie community and the Indians from this book, but even though she later became an anthropologist, Odzer had incredibly few interactions with Indians in Goa, to the point where she never learned more than a few words of Hindi during her four year stay. <br /> <br />It's mind boggling how much money is in the drug trade.  In her first monsoon season, Odzer managed to earn some $32,000 (in 1970s dollars!) with a few drug runs.  She burned through that money and more on drugs during the following beach season- -in India!  I wouldn't recommend this book to recovering drug addicts.  In some places, the descriptions of drug taking may be too graphic to handle.  After reading this book, I don't think I would support legalization of the drug trade. Drug use too easily leads to drug addiction, and drug addiction makes it impossible to hold down a job, even a job smuggling or selling drugs. <br />	2004-10-09
497664:US	51917998	R341ZKRSLQ30D9	0671888250	336782304	The Geography of Nowhere: The Rise and Decline of America's Man-Made Landscape	Books	3	7	14	N	N	The evils of the motorcar	This book is an exploration into what's wrong with suburbia.  When he was a child, Kunstler's parents moved from the City into a development on Long Island.  Kunstler enjoyed the new places to roam in his new neighborhood, but it wasn't long before the wild lands near his new home were also built up.  This experience seems to have left a bad taste in Kunstler's mouth, prompting him to write this book about city planning run amuck.<br /><br />The book begins with a chapter on colonial American settlement patterns, noting the cultural differences in the settlements in the North and the South.  This is followed by a chapter on Nineteenth Century city planning and culture.  Following this is a history of the earliest suburb development projects, including Llewellyn Park near New York City and Riverside near Chicago.  Then comes a chapter on the evils of Modernism as an architectural movement, a chapter whose topic goes a little astray of the city planning theme found in the rest of the book- -Kunstler certainly likes to rant about bad style!  The next two chapters are about how cars have had such a negative influence on American city planning.  Then we find a chapter-long case study of Sarasota Springs as an example of planning gone awry.  This is followed by another chapter about architectural styles, this time the styles of residential buildings.  The next chapter takes up Schuylerville, NY as another case study.  This is followed by a chapter discussing Detroit (a planning nightmare, because of cars), Portland (a utopia, at least in Kunstler's view, because of planning), and Los Angeles (Kunstler points out that it was the streetcars and railroads who are to blame for the layout of Los Angeles, not cars).  The case study theme is continued in the next chapter, where Kunstler analyzes Disneyworld and Atlantic City as \\"Capitals of Unreality\\".  Finally, in chapter 13, Kunstler interviews the planners behind what he considers some of the most well-thought-out recent development projects in the country, including Seaside, Florida, San Francisco, Western Massachusetts, and the Vermont Land Trust.  At the end of the book are the endnotes for sources cited in the text, a bibliography, and an index.<br /><br />Kunstler makes a number of valid points that are worth cogitating over.  He argues \\"the situation in a big city is the same as in a small town: the economy IS the community.  Without one, you cannot have the other.\\" He lays much of the blame for the evils of suburbia on automobiles.  He points out that city planning boards of the early Twentieth century \\"were often dominated by realtors, car dealers, and other with a keen personal interest in advancing auto use, and little thought for long-term consequences.\\"  He admits that suburban developments, with their air, light, and greenery, represented an improvement for people who moved to them from cramped apartments in big cities, but he stresses \\"The main problem [with sub-divisions] was that [they] dispensed with all the traditional connections and continuities of community life, and replaced them with little more than cars and television.\\"  Later he tells us, \\"we have lost our knowledge of how physically to connect things in our everyday world, except by car and telephone.\\"<br /><br />Kunstler does an excellent job at pointing out the problems caused by the automobile and by planners who put cars first and people second.  Like Lewis Mumford, he seems to believe that with better planning, especially regional planning, cities would be much more livable places.  While I agree with most of Kunstler's observations, I'm not entirely convinced that planning represents the entire problem and solution.  In Edge City, Joel Garreau makes the point that developers are in the business of building sub-developments to make money.  They build suburbs the way they do because there seems to be an incredible demand for them.  For this reason, I think studying which developments sell and why in the manner that Garreau did may be at least as important for addressing the problems of suburbia as dictating new patterns of development through planning boards.  Planners and dreamers such as Kunstler may have wonderful ideas about what cities should look like, but they also need to meet the realities of what the consumers are really looking for when they buy a home.<br /><br />Unlike Garreau, who tried to keep his personal opinions about suburbia secondary to his research, Kunstler is very passionate with his criticism of the new form of American cities.  Using words like `crummy', `lame-brained,' and `stupid,' to describe development projects, Kunstler leaves us with no doubt about the depth of his distaste. Such vocabulary choices, however, can come across as being somewhat juvenile.  In general, I found this book to be interesting in places as well as informative, but overall, I found I tended to agree more with Garreau's approach to the topic than Kunstler's.n the manner that Garreau did may be at least as important for addressing the problems of suburbia as dictating new patterns of development through planning boards.  Planners and dreamers such as Kunstler may have wonderful ideas about what cities should look like, but they also need to meet the realities of what the consumers are really looking for when they buy a home. <br /> <br />Unlike Garreau, who tried to keep his personal opinions about suburbia secondary to his research, Kunstler is very passionate with his criticism of the new form of American cities.  Using words like `crummy', `lame-brained,' and `stupid,' to describe development projects, Kunstler leaves us with no doubt about the depth of his distaste. Such vocabulary choices, however, can come across as being somewhat juvenile.  In general, I found this book to be interesting in places as well as informative, but overall, I found I tended to agree more with Garreau's approach to the topic than Kunstler's. <br />	2004-10-07
498861:US	51917998	R2PPPQ0E79DROC	0935526358	530916816	Vegan: The New Ethics of Eating	Books	2	14	35	N	N	Oddly Titled	This book is a collection of arguments against eating animal products.  It is organized into 3 sections: human health, animal welfare, and the environment.  The book is illustrated with high-quality black-and-white photographs.  End material includes a description of vegan food groups, a list of organizations devoted to topics discussed in the book, and a list of suggested readings.  Sources are cited with endnotes, and there is an index.<br /><br />The health section, which goes on for 90 pages, isn't about ethics at all.  Instead, it enumerates various health problems and how avoiding animal products can help reduce the risk of developing these problems.  We read about how vegetarians have lower rates of heart disease, cancer, obesity, and Creuztfeldt-Jakob disease (mad cow disease), and also how dairy products are over-rated as health foods.  The book makes it sound as if adopting a vegan diet is a great way to prevent both heart disease and cancer, but since these are the two leading causes of death in the US, and even vegans have to die of something, what do they die of, if not heart disease or cancer?<br /><br />The section about animals is the one most closely related to ethics.  In this section are chapters describing the horrors of factory farms for chickens, swine, and cattle, as well as farm workers.  Many stories in this section are drawn from the mission work of Gene and Lorri Bauston who visit factory farms and rescue abused animals.  They take the sick and injured animals home to their Farm Sanctuary, name them, and let them run around unexploited for the remainder of their natural lives.<br /><br />The final section of the book discusses big picture topics, such as world hunger, and how vegetables can be produced so much more efficiently than animal products.  It also describes the harm that range animals do to their environment.  It concludes with a short chapter about why Marcus himself became a vegan.<br /><br />I was a vegetarian for 20 years, but my doctor, a naturopathic physician, has advised me that my body needs at least some meat now and then.  I'm concerned about the ethics of including a little meat in my diet, but I didn't find much in here that was new.  Descriptions of the horrors of factory farming are much more detailed and convincing in books such as Fast Food Nation (Eric Schlosser) or Spoiled (Nichols Fox). Actually, Marcus's arguments are mainly against consuming the products of factory farms, not against the complete avoidance of all animal products as practiced by vegans.  After learning about the horrid conditions of factory chickens and the unhealthy eggs they produce from Schlosser and Fox's books, I have switched to eating only local eggs from free-range chickens kept by a neighbor.  I also have a policy of never eating meat grown by a stranger- -if I must eat meat, I want to be able to look the animal in the eyes and know that it was healthy and treated humanely up to the point of its death in the slaughterhouse, a local facility, run by local workers who have received proper safety training. I was looking for arguments against or advice about using animal products from even small farms, but didn't find much here.<br /><br />The layout and formatting of the book are cutesy.  Rather than make the text easy on the reader's eyes, the designer played with creative ideas for making the appearance of the text interesting. Phrases are bolded at random throughout the book.  On about a third to a half of the pages, the text doesn't end flush with the margin, but rather in a concave arc.  Scattered throughout the book are short focus articles presenting biographies of people discussed in the text.  These articles are set off from the main text in half columns, but always arranged so that there is a page turn in the middle of the article, guaranteeing that the reader will either have to turn back and forth to read the main text or the focus article consecutively, or else read both texts all onone page, and remember each topic separately while turning the page to resume each topic.  Ugh!  The layout designer obviously doesn't like to read! Overall, though interested in the topic, I found the book rather disappointing both in content and readability.texts all on one page, and remember each topic separately while turning the page to resume each topic.  Ugh!  The layout designer obviously doesn't like to read! Overall, though interested in the topic, I found the book rather disappointing both in content and readability. <br />	2004-10-06
499005:US	51917998	R28WOWV45CTVXM	0375702024	537031843	The Man Who Ate Everything	Books	4	8	12	N	N	A New Yorker's Views on What's Good to Eat	This book is a collection of short essays by Jeffrey Steingarten, food columnist for Vogue magazine.  The essays touch on topics such as who makes the best ketchup (and how to make your own), how to make perfect mashed potatoes, judging a barbecue contest, cooking with Olestra (the fake fat), and fruitcakes.  There are research essays on health related topics such as the French Paradox, and the possibly over-rated dangers of eating salt. Steingarten also likes to do experimental research in his own kitchen, resulting in essays on topics like bread, french fries, or ice cream.  Sometimes he works with exotic ingredients, and other times he experiments with creative uses for packaged processed foods.  Sprinkled throughout the book are recipes for specific projects from the essays, but this is not a recipe book by any means.  Sources are not cited at all, neither in the text, nor through endnotes or a bibliography.  There is, however, an index.<br /><br />Virtually all of the essays held my interest.  Some of them led to some ah-ha moments, as he explains the science or culture behind favorite dishes that just don't always turn out well in my kitchen.  Steingarten is a New Yorker through and through.  He revels in being able to start an odd cooking project late at night, popping out if need be to 24-hour groceries to get that exotic ingredient that happens to be missing from his kitchen at the time when he needs it.  He goes to great lengths to ensure proper cooking procedures for ultimate results, such as continuously monitoring and correcting the cooking temperature when boiling potatoes for mashing, or ordering freshly ground flour to be flown in special for his bread.  This seems to be a rather city-oriented way of thinking about cooking.  Out here in the country, I don't have time to monitor the temperature of my potato water, but I grow my own potatoes and know that the variety and age of the potatoes probably is much more significant for excellent mashed potatoes than the cooking temperature.  To get fresh flour, I grind my own, and if I don't have an ingredient in the house when I begin a recipe, I substitute or change recipes rather than go right out and buy something.  In sum, Steingarten's way of thinking about many topics is very much that of a consumer from the big city.  While readers may not share that approach, the book is nonetheless interesting and informative.<br /><br />The one chapter I was less than pleased with was the one on Olestra.  Steingarten came across as being so thoroughly enamored with Olestra, it sounded as if he felt he had to say only positive things about the product because the manufacturer had been so generous in letting him play with it.oes than the cooking temperature.  To get fresh flour, I grind my own, and if I don't have an ingredient in the house when I begin a recipe, I substitute or change recipes rather than go right out and buy something.  In sum, Steingarten's way of thinking about many topics is very much that of a consumer from the big city.  While readers may not share that approach, the book is nonetheless interesting and informative. <br /> <br />The one chapter I was less than pleased with was the one on Olestra.  Steingarten came across as being so thoroughly enamored with Olestra, it sounded as if he felt he had to say only positive things about the product because the manufacturer had been so generous in letting him play with it.  <br />	2004-10-06
504910:US	51917998	RI23VTT5H2N8E	1895629683	295113016	How to Survive Without a Salary: Learning How to Live the Conserver Lifestyle	Books	4	67	69	N	N	Some Good Ideas	This book is an introduction to living well while living cheaply.  Long uses the term \\"conserver\\" to denote a person whose philosophy of life is to live better by spending less money.  The book outlines how one can become a conserver and ideas for ways to manage well with less money.  A conserver who achieves some measure of success at cutting expenses will soon find that needs for income are also reduced, hence a salary is no longer necessary.  At that point, the conserver can quit working for a living since \\"casual income\\" will suffice.  Long also provides some ideas of how to gain a casual income.  Thus, the way to live without a salary is first to cut expenses, then eliminate debt, and with the new low expense lifestyle, many people will find that they no longer need a full-time job to get by.<br /><br />The structure of the book is as follows: introduction to the conserver lifestyle, budgeting, needs, identifying the time when a salary is no longer necessary, casual income, buying secondhand goods, buying at auctions, alternatives to buying, taxes, insurance and retirement, and the macro-economics of the conserver lifestyle.  The book does not include a list of references or an index.  There are no illustrations.<br /><br />Long makes some points that are well worth writing on the family bulletin board.  \\"There is more to be gained more easily by reducing costs than increasing income,\\" he argues in the first chapter.  When sorting out needs from wants, Long notes that we must consider the maintenance and storage costs as well as additional effort required to use the item when adding up the true cost of an item that we purchase.  \\"Given all the aggravation, do I really want it?\\" he has us consider before we make a purchase.  Some of his soundest advice about purchasing items is to simply procrastinate.  Quite often, if you put off the purchase for a while instead of going out and buying something when the need first arises, you may stumble across an equally good alternative solution that doesn't require a purchase after all, or perhaps a slightly used second-hand item at a fraction of the original price.  Long has another great rule of thumb that applies to debt: \\"Borrow to buy resalable things whose value is inflating faster than the rate of interest on the debt.\\"  By this measure, taking out a loan to go on vacation is a ridiculous idea.  So is putting a stereo system or computer on a credit card.  Car loans also don't make the cut.  Real estate, however, is another story.  Long cites several examples of people living without salaries whose income comes entirely from real estate investments.<br /><br />For me, most of the useful ideas in this book were in the first half of the book.  I found the chapter on auctions a bit strange.  In this chapter, Long goes into great detail about how auctions are run, how to inspect items before the sale, and how to make bids.  I expected that he would mention how a person could make a casual income by going to auctions, buying items cheaply, and then reselling them later for profit.  He tells us that you often end up having to buy a whole pile of items at an auction just to get the one or two things that you need from the pile, but he doesn't include suggestions of how to get rid of the things you don't need.  With an emphasis on acquiring items cheaply through auctions, yard sales, and free shelves at the transfer stations, but no mention of how to get rid of unwanted stuff, there's a danger of filling your house to overflowing with cheap stuff.  There's a fine line between being a conserver and being a packrat, and from his descriptions, it doesn't sound like Long keeps that idea prominent with his own family.  Also, in several places, he mentions getting used appliances cheaply, but he doesn't note how this can be counter-productive for minimizing expenses, since new appliances are so much more energy efficient than old ones.  In fact, conservation of energy and natural resources isone topic that doesn't receive much attention in this book.  A true conserver would seek to save money by reducing energy consumption even if it requires some additional initial investment.<br /><br />Overall, I found parts of the book interesting.  Since there is more of an emphasis on acquiring things cheaply than not acquiring things or getting rid of unwanted things, this book takes a different approach than books about the simplicity lifestyle.  Nevertheless, most of the overall suggestions and ideas will be useful for those seeking to live a better life by switching to the slow lane.urces is one topic that doesn't receive much attention in this book.  A true conserver would seek to save money by reducing energy consumption even if it requires some additional initial investment.   <br /> <br />Overall, I found parts of the book interesting.  Since there is more of an emphasis on acquiring things cheaply than not acquiring things or getting rid of unwanted things, this book takes a different approach than books about the simplicity lifestyle.  Nevertheless, most of the overall suggestions and ideas will be useful for those seeking to live a better life by switching to the slow lane. <br />	2004-09-30
510017:US	51917998	RFVOCAP19J24H	067153680X	107857920	GUMP & CO.	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Mildly Amusing	This book is a sequel to the wildly popular Forrest Gump.  I picked this book up because I remember seeing the movie years ago, and I remembered how popular it was.  Unfortunately, I forgot that I found the movie more cute than funny.  This book is more of the same, but not quite as well done as the original.<br /><br />The book starts off with Gump, who is working as a barroom janitor after his shrimp business went bust.  Before long, he's the fall guy for the season of the New Orleans Ain'ts, and it turns out he's also behind the bad formula for New Coke.  From there, his life just keeps going down hill.  Here and there, there are a few funny moments, but I found myself annoyed at times when true historical events are degraded by Gump's twisting of the facts to put himself in the picture.  Groom frequently writes beyond his personal experience, inventing inaccuracies that are so bad they take away from the larger plot.  If he had had enough knowledge to describe the events accurately, the plot would have been more tenable and perhaps more amusing.  You can't call this a historical novel, by any stretch of the imagination.  But if you liked Forrest Gump, you might like this book, too.	2004-09-25
510159:US	51917998	R37P860WS1HMA7	0962174769	384520085	Working Chef's Cookbook for Natural Whole Foods	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Professional Chef's Guide to Vegetarian Cooking	This book is a compendium of information, charts, and recipes for the professional chef of a natural foods restaurant.  Nevertheless, it could also be useful for the average home cook.  The book begins with several chapters describing natural foods.  In chapter 1, we learn why natural foods are preferable.  Chapter 2 covers economic advantages for natural food restaurant chefs and health advantages for the consumer.  Chapter 3 covers diet recommendations for natural foods and meal planning.  It also covers seasonal menu suggestions that take into account when vegetables are at their prime.  Chapter 4 contains recommendations for foods to eat for special occasions or effects (meetings or romance, for instance).  Chapter 5 considers the philosophy of eating natural foods.  Chapter 6 is comprised of useful charts covering food safety, kitchen math, flavor combinations, garnishes, stocking lists, and nutritional information.  Chapter 7 provides detailed recommendations for purchasing, storing, and preparing different kinds of fruits and vegetables,  as well charts summarizing yields, seasonal availability, and spicing.  It is organized by type of food, starting with fruits, then sauces, nuts and seeds, oils, and sea vegetables.  Chapter 8 is a glossary of culinary terms.  Chapter 9 is an excursus on flavor.  The remaining 2/3 of the book contains recipes.  The book includes a recipe index by category and an alphabetical recipe index, but there is no subject index.<br /><br />The recipes are designed for use either at home or in a restaurant.  Each recipe is printed in 2 columns across the page.  In the left column are the ingredients and amounts for a home-sized dish, followed by a blank column so that the reader can multiple the ingredients for a larger yield.  On the right are the instructions presented in list-form in very concise language.  There are no pictures.<br /><br />I found the detailed information about ingredients quite interesting, and the book answered some long-standing questions I had concerning food preparation.  But then again, there are some internal inconsistencies that left me confused, such as on p. 108, Blackman tells us \\"for bread, use hard red spring wheat\\", and then on p. 159 he tells us that bread flour \\"is made from hard winter wheat.\\"  So which wheat berries do I need to buy for my bread, hard spring wheat or hard winter wheat, or does it matter?  In any case, the book includes a large variety of recipes and plenty of suggestions for customizing them.  Professional chefs who are just getting started with natural foods, or new owners of natural foods restaurants may find parts of this book quite useful, and so might cooks at home.ered some long-standing questions I had concerning food preparation.  But then again, there are some internal inconsistencies that left me confused, such as on p. 108, Blackman tells us \\"for bread, use hard red spring wheat\\", and then on p. 159 he tells us that bread flour \\"is made from hard winter wheat.\\"  So which wheat berries do I need to buy for my bread, hard spring wheat or hard winter wheat, or does it matter?  In any case, the book includes a large variety of recipes and plenty of suggestions for customizing them.  Professional chefs who are just getting started with natural foods, or new owners of natural foods restaurants may find parts of this book quite useful, and so might cooks at home. <br />	2004-09-25
520272:US	51917998	RMY1GJBMFV1MB	0521228336	868767058	Sociolinguistics (Cambridge Textbooks in Linguistics)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Wordy	This is a passable, though wordy, introduction to the field. The book covers the standard topics in sociolinguistics, including: language variation, language varieties, code-switching, anthropological linguistics, gender differences, and educational implications of sociolinguistics (concentrating on Britain). The organization of topics often seems to circle back on itself, with points being repeated in different places rather than being grouped together. The author attacks the work of both Labov and Chomsky without following through with comprehensible arguments.<br /><br />The explanations are not always clear, especially in the section on quantitative study of speech, which is replete with unlabeled or poorly labeled graphs. The author is also not very careful with his accuracy of comments. Consider for instance, this quote from page 61 about pidgins: \\"As for morphology, this is left out altogether, which again makes for ease of learning....The best way to illustrate these characteristics of pidgins is by discussing a sentence from Tok Pisin, the English-based pidgin spoken in Papua New Guinea. Bai em i no lukim mi. `He will not see me.'\\" Below this, luk- is glossed as `see', and -im is glossed as \\"added obligatorily whenever the verb has an object\\". It's hard to see how this example illustrates how morphology has been left out altogether! The book contains many examples of such blanket overstatements or carelessness.<br /><br />Although the book is often used as a course text, it lacks suggested exercises, projects, or suggestions for additional reading. It does contain an excellent bibliography and index.	2004-09-15
520348:US	51917998	R3CKXBA32Y0BR1	0704341026	799441204	Both Right and Left Handed: Arab Women Talk About Their Lives (Third World women's studies)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Interesting insider viewpoints	This book consists of a series of interviews with Arabic women in Syria, Lebanon, Palestine, and Algeria. Because the women interviewed were personal contacts or contacts of contacts of the author, it almost comes across as snapshots in a personal photo album. Most of the women interviewed are leaders, women of prominence in their countries, or university professors like the author herself. The attitudes they express towards the state of women in their countries is remarkably similar, but the reader can't assume that these attitudes prevail in these countries because no attempt was made at trying to reach a representative sample of women. Nevertheless, the book is extremely interesting, informative, and thought-provoking. Many of the women interviewed point out the strength of women and their remarkable achievements during armed struggles. They rail against husbands who ignore their intellectual abilities and accomplishments while requiring them to be perfect house cleaners, cooks, and child care givers. A number of the women reflect that they themselves may be partly to blame in the way that they raise children, especially their sons. Almost universally, they are unhappy with their present state, but on the other hand, they would not want to have the lifestyle of European women. But do they understand the lives of European women any better than European women understand the lives of Arab women?	2004-09-15
520427:US	51917998	R376N6FFGLVM1	0531113043	845190514	Women in the Middle East: Tradition and Change (Women Then--Women Now)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Coherent and concise	This book presents a coherent and concise overview of women in the Middle East.  Although written for young people, the language and facts are not dumbed-down in the least.  Much recent research by such well-known authors as Fatima Mernissi, Bouthaina Shaaban, and Valentine Moghadam is presented in a form accessible to high school or even advanced middle school readers.  Numerous pictures throughout the book help to support the authors' observations of how much variety there is in the conditions of women's lives in the region.  Although the authors are both Americans, they have obvious deep connections to the Middle East, and their writing is neither strictly from the outside nor the inside- -it truly bridges cultures.  The book is highly informative- -by spending just an hour or two reading this book, an adult reader could get a crash course in all of the main issues and major writers in this field.  Recommended reading for anyone, young or old, travelling to the Middle East.	2004-09-15
520450:US	51917998	R2WLRCN0X0OD2Y	0520081862	581472033	Days of Honey, Days of Onion: The Story of a Palestinian Family in Isrl	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Real Page Turner	Wonderful book. Gives a very insightful summary of the history of Israel from an Arab perspective on a personal scale. The author envelopes you into the story of one ordinary family's life from life in the British mandate through the beginning of the Intifadah. As well as being a description of Arab life within Israel, this book also provides interesting material about the life of small-scale agriculturalists in Arabia.	2004-09-15
520650:US	51917998	R1INA8B9BTYOP	0813015774	507364093	Middle Eastern Women and the Invisible Economy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hot topic, uneven writing	This book presents a survey of a hot-topic in development studies- -the invisible economy and women. The editor points out in the introduction that the term \\"invisible economy\\" lacks a standard definition. In some contexts, it means unpaid agricultural labor on family farms. In others, it may mean food or textile products produced in the home and sold on the streets or in markets. In yet other contexts, the invisible economy is said to be made up of all small business with fewer than 10 workers. The editor does not adopt any one of these definitions as standard for this book; as a result, the 14 chapters that make up this book are quite varied in topic and scope. The writing of the chapters is likewise uneven. Each chapter is quite short (about 15 pages). Authors who focus their topics very narrowly present interesting and informative details- -about extremely narrow topics in one small part of one country. Authors who try to paint a broader picture usually don't have enough space within their 15 pages to say anything worthwhile. Nevertheless, as a taste of the issues included, this book is worthwhile.	2004-09-15
520705:US	51917998	R2ELLABUAOO3MK	0689801467	304201742	In a Different Light: Growing Up in a Yupik Eskimo Village in Alaska	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Simple language, dated pictures	This book is written for adolescents or (very) young adults. It describes Yup'ik village life in the 1990s from the point of view of an eighth grader. The approach taken by the author to personalize the details of daily life may be more interesting to a young person than a standard geography reference book. Nevertheless, one wonders how accurate the descriptions really are, and especially whether young Yup'iks would really look at their own world the way this outsider imagines. In that sense, this book is certainly a work of Western fiction. One amusing facet of the book is several pictures that are supposed to illustrate modern Yup'ik life; however, the children's shoes are clearly from the 1970s. Either Yup'iks are just now starting to wear 1970s shoes, or the author has not updated her pictures from her earlier visit to Alaska. Also, a picture from the chapter that supposedly takes place in February shows a child walking outdoors in a sweater without a hat or boots. Is this possible in the southwest coast of Alaska? The language of the book was quite simple (did it have to be THIS simple?) and most of the topics would be suitable for middle school children.	2004-09-15
520777:US	51917998	R3HWVKSY0GQOVT	0139533575	68467065	Urbanization: An Introduction to Urban Geography	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Unimpressive	The level of detail and generality would make this book suitable for a lower-level undergrad course on urban planning or urban geography. However, even as someone who has completed an advanced degree, I found this book to be extremely difficult to follow. The topics covered are good; the photographs are well done. But the text itself is hard to understand. The logic of the author's argumentation is faulty in some places. Several diagrams left me clueless because there was not enough supporting documentation to interpret them. On the bright side, I did like his suggested portfolio assignments at the end of every chapter. If you can find a better book for your course, use it. Otherwise, this one will have to do.	2004-09-15
520783:US	51917998	R1AA9TCUPMMPS0	0688078958	101867755	The Mother Tongue: English and How It Got That Way	Books	2	21	23	N	N	Easy to read- -sloppy scholarship	This book consists of a series of essays about various aspects of English. On the whole, the book is well-balanced between describing British and North American varieties of English. The writing style is quite fluid and the book is, for the most part, very enjoyable to read. However, Bryson was not always careful about the quality of his scholarship; he often gets his facts confused or repeats \\"factoids\\" that are known to be false. On page 14, for instance, he makes reference to the old Eskimo snow vocabulary myth, claiming that Eskimos have 50 words for snow (see The Great Eskimo Snow Hoax for a more accurate account). On p. 107 he manages to associate the Martha's Vineyard pronunciation research with Trudgill instead of Labov. Since he makes so many errors, a reader can't tell for certain whether the remaining material is trustworthy. Readers of this book may find themselves more misinformed than informed.	2004-09-15
520888:US	51917998	R2UJCR7NEEJZX3	0801827299	643080690	Behind the Veil in Arabia: Women in Oman	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Interesting study of early development in Oman	This book reports on two short field studies done by a female Norwegian anthropologist in Sohar, Oman in the mid-1970s. The book mostly focuses on the relationship of women to their families and marriage roles. Her descriptions of women's lives in this community in Oman just after the country opened up to foreigners are extremely interesting, as the society has no doubt changed dramatically along with the economic transformations. The community that she describes is unique in their emphasis on nonverbal means of communication. Indeed, one of the author's main points is that people researching cultures must be alert to all forms of communication, not simply verbal forms. The author is careful throughout to stress that her observations are those of an outsider trying to comprehend what she observes. Naturally, it would also be very interesting to get an insider's viewpoint for comparison, but for a number of reasons, this was not possible at the time, and now the society she describes probably no longer exists in the same form. I would recommend this book to anyone studying history of society or development in Oman or the Gulf countries. It would also be interesting for those studying gender roles in the Muslim or Arab worlds.	2004-09-15
521084:US	51917998	R32QB7QUYHW1O7	1555873464	351322313	Modernizing Women: Gender and Social Change in the Middle East (Women & Change in the Developing World)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Informative and thorough	This book presents a state-of-the-art comparative study of women's roles in the Middle East as of 1990.  The author draws together a large number of statistics and research as she discusses how and why women's status varies across the region.  The book can be succinctly summed up in the following quote: \\"Many studies on the Middle East and commentaries by Islamists themselves tend to understate the heterogeneity of the region; they project a uniform culture and exaggerate its importance, elevating culture or religion to the status of single explanatory variable.  My alternative position is that there is an interactive relationship of economic processes, political dynamics, and cultural practices.\\"  In addition to describing the general situation throughout the region, the author presents two case studies: Iran and Afghanistan.  The information in the case studies is highly illuminating and I have not seen such detailed discussion on these topics elsewhere.  In places, the author goes a little off topic, such as when she describes the French Revolution or the Russian Revolution; although the information presented in these sections is somewhat interesting, it's not clear why it was necessary or appropriate to include them.  The author also has the annoying habit of relying extensively on acronyms whose meanings can be hard to keep track of.  Overall, though, the book is a valuable reference for those interested in women in the Middle East.	2004-09-15
521157:US	51917998	R2XS1R55YEYPM4	9774243579	503105016	Family, Gender, and Population in the Middle East: Policies in Context	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Quite informative and diverse	This book consists of a series of papers presented at a symposium sponsored by The Population Council held in Cairo in 1994. The topics are quite diverse, but are divided into the broad areas of \\"The Family, the State, and the Law,\\", \\"Women in Families\\", and \\"Health and Family Planning Services.\\" The countries of focus include Turkey, Egypt, Iran, and Morocco. The research is well documented and well written. This is an excellent reference book that will be of interest to anyone studying family planning or population policy in the Middle East. The diversity of findings suggests that there are no hard-and-fast rules about population studies and family planning. For instance, although increasing levels of education among women is associated with fewer births in each country, women from the most educated country in the region have the highest number of births. And women from the most developed countries in the region also have a high birth rate. This book provides data that really outline the complexity of the population planning issue.	2004-09-15
521213:US	51917998	R21CAHJJO448EA	0765603128	477672500	Nadia, Captive of Hope: Memoir of an Arab Woman (Foremother Legacies)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Amazing!	Extremely moving story. The author recounts for us how she survived through an abusive childhood, an arranged marriage as a teenager, being a refugee of two wars, and being widowed twice. Through all of her experiences, she never comes across as being helpless or an object of pity, but rather as a strong woman who will prevail despite the circumstances. Through reading her story, I finally began to comprehend what it means to be brought up and live in a patriarchal society and through this why anthropologists put so much emphasis on kinship structures when describing cultures. Her story also provides excellent background into the issues of concern for Islamic feminists- -especially child custody laws. This book is a must for anyone interested in women's roles in Islamic society. It also provides useful firsthand description of the Palestinian flight from Israel in 1947-48.	2004-09-15
521509:US	51917998	R1Z5ALZC6G3V6N	0415183448	103594977	The Routledge Handbook of Scripts and Alphabets	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Essential reference work	This slim volume contains 39 scripts (and their variants) along with their transliterations and brief histories.  The scripts of most major languages are covered, as well as some key historical scripts such as Devanagari and Gothic.  The scripts are arranged in alphabetical order to aid rapid lookup.  The book would be an essential reference for a library as well as an interesting addition to the collection of anyone interested in languages or scripts.	2004-09-14
521556:US	51917998	R6FALYOMUPDGO	0316929085	768535927	Latitudes & Attitudes: An Atlas of American Tastes, Trends, Politics, and Passions : From Abilene, Texas to Zanesville, Ohio	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Eye-Opening	This book is a survey of American marketing surveys.  Through its detailed maps, we can see associations between products and behaviors, attitudes, and income.  The book has two major sections.  The first half is comprised of maps showing us such information as the regions in which baking from scratch is popular and the regions where it is not, or juxtapositions of the regions where heavy metal music is preferred as opposed to where gospel music rules.  The maps are drawn not on a state-wide scale, but rather using the more detailed ADIs (Arbitron's Areas of Dominant Influence), which divide up the US into some 211 markets.  Underneath each map is a short article describing the topic in more detail, and mentioning other related correlations.  The maps are organized by topic, including chapters on food, drink, leisure activities, home, health, sports, cars, television, music, periodicals, and politics.  The second half of the book takes up each ADI in turn from Abilene-Sweetwater, Texas to Zanesville, Ohio, providing a short description of the market including total population, median income, median house price, median education level, primary age groups, major employment options, a list of hot and not-hot topics (such as car brands, TV shows, magazines, foods, and political views) as well as a one-paragraph overview of the community.  At the very end of the book are charts reviewing the information from the maps in graphical form.  There is no index.<br /><br />The book is filled with amazing bits of information, some predictable, and others quite surprising.  For example, we learn that pro-lifers also tend to be staunch supports of the death penalty.  Filmgoers tend to be more highbrow than video renters, since filmgoers also attend plays, concerts, and art openings at above average rates, while video renters have less money, more kids, and typically watch more than seven hours of TV every weekday.  We can see a huge cluster of National Enquirer readers in the Southeast, while the Simpsons are popular on the West Coast.  Weiss doesn't provide us with maps of educational attainment or income levels.  But in the text, he manages to slip in some eyebrow-raising details, such as \\"Southerners...have low rates of mobility and college attendance,\\" the appeal of both Donahue and Oprah in the South is \\"understandable, given the region's dubious distinction as having the lowest high school completion rate in the nation.\\"  We can see how the relative burden of housing costs varies across the nation, with houses in Davenport, Iowa going for only 1.6 times local salaries, while houses in Santa Barbara cost 6.4 times local salaries.<br /><br />Presenting this information in book form brings with it certain technical limitations.  In the interests of clarity, Weiss never juxtaposes more than 2 sets of survey results at once.  However, in flipping from page to page, repeated patterns begin to emerge, and the reader will probably wish the book could have been printed with loose transparent maps that could be over-layed according to interest.  Even better would be a CD-ROM that would allow readers to play with the data themselves, but that might be asking too much since the information came from proprietary sources.  There are some topics that beg for broader comparisons, such as considering both European and American markets.  For example, in considering cigarette smokers, Weiss notes that \\"today's smokers tend to be downscale and poorly educated blue-collar residents of farms and inner cities.\\"  Such correlations are not however, universal, as an examination of European smokers would show that smoking is quite popular there amongst highly educated academics.  What marketing forces could explain such a difference in smoking practices?<br /><br />The regional descriptions of the ADIs at the end of the book could potentially be used by people interested in re-locating to identify regions where their own values and preferences are popular.  However, I'm not convinced that this information is accurate for every ADI.  For example, most of Vermont is grouped into one ADI together with a large chunk of upstate New York.  Those of us who live in the region have a gut feeling that Vermonters and New Yorkers are two distinct populations.  Our houses look different, we work for different kinds of employers, and we eat different foods.  Much of the text summarizing marketing data for this ADI sounded quite surprising to me- -it made the region sound more like New York than Vermont.  Perhaps it was easier to accurately characterize some of the smaller, more cohesive, or more homogenous regions, but in general, I would take the information in this section with a grain of salt.<br /><br />This book was written by a marketing specialist and it summarizes information that is well-known (or should be well-known) to marketers, but it's written for general audiences.  Through reading this book, you will not only get to know your fellow Americans better, but you will also get an inkling of the kinds of information that marketers use when planning campaigns to sell stuff to you.However, I'm not convinced that this information is accurate for every ADI.  For example, most of Vermont is grouped into one ADI together with a large chunk of upstate New York.  Those of us who live in the region have a gut feeling that Vermonters and New Yorkers are two distinct populations.  Our houses look different, we work for different kinds of employers, and we eat different foods.  Much of the text summarizing marketing data for this ADI sounded quite surprising to me- -it made the region sound more like New York than Vermont.  Perhaps it was easier to accurately characterize some of the smaller, more cohesive, or more homogenous regions, but in general, I would take the information in this section with a grain of salt. <br /> <br />This book was written by a marketing specialist and it summarizes information that is well-known (or should be well-known) to marketers, but it's written for general audiences.  Through reading this book, you will not only get to know your fellow Americans better, but you will also get an inkling of the kinds of information that marketers use when planning campaigns to sell stuff to you.  <br />	2004-09-14
521581:US	51917998	R2O8LQINR219E5	0345440161	267673969	In the Devil's Garden: A Sinful History of Forbidden Food	Books	4	15	17	N	N	A romp through food taboos	This book is an informal exploration of food taboos, from apples to potatoes, pig flesh to human flesh.  The book is organized into chapters featuring the seven deadly sins: lust, gluttony, pride, sloth, greed, blasphemy, and anger.  Each chapter is comprised of short informative articles related to the relevant sinful theme that describe the social history of a food taboo.  For example, in the chapter called \\"Lust,\\" we learn how the apple came to be associated with Eve's forbidden fruit in the Garden of Eden.  Allen points out that apples were hardly common Middle Eastern fruit during Biblical times.  They were, however, sacred to the Celts, and when Christians came into Celtic territory, they demonized the sacred fruit of the Celts by translating the Biblical word for the forbidden fruit, one whose botanical identify is not known for sure, as \\"apple.\\"  Allen states: \\"The Celts had associated apples with the glorious wisdom from the sun.  By the time the Christians were done, scholars had assigned it to `the jurisdiction of Venus' and lust.\\"  Each chapter also includes several recipes featuring the foods under description. Some of the recipes are historical rather than in contemporary usage, but virtual all have been updated for modern kitchens and cooks.  Sources are cited in extensive textual endnotes.  There is also a bibliography and index.<br /><br />Taboos of all kinds are often closely related with religious beliefs.  Allen describes some common religious taboos relating to food, such as Jewish and Muslim avoidance of pork, and Hindu extreme reverence for cattle.  One interesting point that Allen makes is that Christ was blatant in his practice of disregarding Jewish food laws, establishing a religion that is remarkably free of food taboos.  Allen pokes fun at our modern diet practices, but he also makes some serious points, noting that \\"convenience foods are so unpleasant they make even work look good.  They're also immensely profitable for the corporations who produce them...American workers now pay more money for worse food so they can hurry back to jobs they hate.\\"  In his conclusion, Allen observes \\"The point is that these archaic food taboos and rules, however preposterous and evil they may have at times been, also deepened our lives by imbuing our most common social gathering with meaning.\\"<br /><br />Occasionally, Allen plays fast and loose with details.  For example, he has European peasants munching Macintoshes, but the Macintosh variety of apples was developed only in 1870 in New England.  He also misses some major taboos- -of course in a book of this nature, we can't expect him to cover everything related to the topic.  But when he describes garlic and religious injunctions against it, he never mentions avoidance by some Hindus of garlic and onions on the grounds that they are \\"intoxicating\\" or \\"over-stimulating\\".  Such an omission is surprising, given the other information he provides both about Indian traditions and garlic.  Allen's style of writing is informal--he writes to entertain as well as inform, making the book appeal to general readers rather than academic food historians.  Since this is a book about breaking taboos, readers shouldn't be too taken aback at the kinds of topics Allen choose to delve into, but they might not want to consider this a read-aloud book for the whole family if small children are to participate.ions who produce them...American workers now pay more money for worse food so they can hurry back to jobs they hate.\\"  In his conclusion, Allen observes \\"The point is that these archaic food taboos and rules, however preposterous and evil they may have at times been, also deepened our lives by imbuing our most common social gathering with meaning.\\" <br /> <br />Occasionally, Allen plays fast and loose with details.  For example, he has European peasants munching Macintoshes, but the Macintosh variety of apples was developed only in 1870 in New England.  He also misses some major taboos- -of course in a book of this nature, we can't expect him to cover everything related to the topic.  But when he describes garlic and religious injunctions against it, he never mentions avoidance by some Hindus of garlic and onions on the grounds that they are \\"intoxicating\\" or \\"over-stimulating\\".  Such an omission is surprising, given the other information he provides both about Indian traditions and garlic.  Allen's style of writing is informal--he writes to entertain as well as inform, making the book appeal to general readers rather than academic food historians.  Since this is a book about breaking taboos, readers shouldn't be too taken aback at the kinds of topics Allen choose to delve into, but they might not want to consider this a read-aloud book for the whole family if small children are to participate. <br />	2004-09-14
521674:US	51917998	R2477CR963W7MW	9812102612	238021212	Language, Society and Education in Singapore: Issues and Trends (Language & Linguistics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Comprehensive review	This book gives an overview of language policies and education in Singapore.  Many of the papers have been updated since the 1994 edition, and others have been added.  The book is divided into 3 parts: Language in Singapore, Language in Society, and Language in Education.  The language experiences and status of the three major ethnic groups of Singapore, Chinese, Malay and Indians, are each described in separate chapters.  Singapore English is also considered extensively.<br /><br />One striking fact about Singaporean language policy that comes out repeatedly in the papers of this volume is how the government gives preferential treatment towards Mandarin Chinese, and dismisses other dialects of Chinese as merely \\"dialects\\".  It would have been nice if the book had included a paper on the motivations behind this policy and how non-Mandarin speakers feel about the policy.  However, such questions may not be political acceptable to the government so the omission is understandable.<br /><br />On the whole, the papers in the volume are very well written, with few exceptions.  Many of the papers in the first 2 parts of the book might appeal to anyone interested in sociolinguistic and language planning issues.  The third part of the book may only interest Singapore specialists, however.	2004-09-14
521760:US	51917998	RVV3048AIMT2D	0688036473	955912499	Voluntary simplicity: Toward a way of life that is outwardly simple, inwardly rich	Books	2	48	86	N	Y	A Sermon	This book is an ecumenical sermon about the global implications of hyper-consumerism. It contains little information about specific ways to reduce consumption, leaving it open to the readers to discover techniques that work for them. Instead, it focuses on the ethical philosophy of consuming only what you need.<br /><br />But are the foundations of this philosophy firm? The author seems to use guilt as a motivating factor for getting Westerners to cut their consumption. He repeatedly states that individuals in the West should reduce their consumption habits, suggesting implicitly that high consumption in the West is depriving the developing world of money or other resources. Paradoxically, reducing consumption in the West would deny wages to the Third World workers who produce consumer products for Western markets. So reducing Western consumption as a means to make the world a better place implies a very simplistic view of economics. Besides that, Western hyper-consumerism pales in the face of that displayed by affluent Easterners or South Asians. A more defensible reason for reducing consumption would be because it simply makes you feel better on a personal level. Also, it's beneficial for family budgets when money isn't spent before it's earned. And that leads to healthier family relationships. A book that focused its arguments on such issues would be far more convincing than this one.	2004-09-14
521863:US	51917998	R25FMPPUGTVGHI	0684853779	999464161	Bobos in Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	1	31	37	N	Y	Uneven and inconsistent	This book comes across as more of a jumping-on-the-bandwagon book than a carefully (or even uncarefully) researched sociological study. The author's main contention is that the upper class in America has shifted from being comprised of people with a lot of wealth to people with a lot of education. He points out that the rich in the past weren't typically top achievers, even if they did manage to graduate from Harvard, but now the top achievers seem to be well-to-do. There's a missing logical connection there that's never explicitly filled in. Likewise, he approaches the justification for his term \\"Bobo\\" for \\"bourgeois bohemian\\" from several directions but never quite completes the task. But that's all in the beginning of the book where he appears to be on track to somewhere. In later chapters his description of \\"Bobohood\\" becomes rather inconsistent. One minute a Bobo is a green hyper-consumer, the next a self-promoting talkshow pseudo-intellectual. I just don't see the connection between all those people driving SUVs, furnishing their houses from Crate and Barrel, and spreading their artisan bread with extra-virgin olive oil with the overbearing interviewees peddling their latest books on Good Morning America. I don't think the ordinary espresso drinkers that make up the core of Brooks' new class all have pretensions of doing talkshows- -after all, many of them are too busy throwing away their televisions. A few tastes of this book are amusing, but as a whole, it's a bunch of long-winded ideas for essays that have been over-stretched to make a monograph. If you want to know who the real upper class in America are, you're better off reading The Millionaire Next Door, whose findings are actually based on real statistical data.	2004-09-14
522083:US	51917998	RR4ZK489A3D1P	0521823471	227682660	English as a Global Language	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Concise and well written	This book explores the question of how English came to be the premier international language of our time.  Crystal begins with various ways of defining \\"international language\\", and he explains how English alone among other widely spoken languages meets all criteria.  The book includes numerous maps and descriptions documenting the spread of English throughout former British colonies.  It is concise and well written.	2004-09-14
522166:US	51917998	R2Y57K3Y6JXA8N	1555877850	589588042	Women, Work, and Economic Reform in the Middle East and North Africa	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Impressive	This book presents an encyclopedic overview of gender and employment in selected countries in the Middle East and North Africa (Morocco, Tunisia, Turkey, Egypt, Jordan, Syria, Iran, and Algeria).  The author gathers and analyses economic statistics from a wide range of published sources; she also includes data from her own fieldwork.  The countries covered  are each taken up in separate chapters (although Morocco and  Tunisia form a joint chapter, as do Jordan and Syria).<br /><br />Moghadam describes how the factors of educational attainment, cultural restrictions, and economics (need for family income, as well as the labor market) determine whether a woman can and will work.  In the beginning chapters of the book (Morocco and Tunisia, Turkey), she gives a pointed emphasis to economic factors, perhaps because these can be firmly supported with economic data.  By the time she describes Algeria, however, she seems to place more emphasis on cultural factors.  Perhaps this shift from economic factors to cultural factors was the basis for ordering the chapters in the way she did, although she does not state this explicitly.<br /><br />If Moghadam had included the richer Gulf states in the study, she might have been forced to address the competition between the factors more directly.  In the richest Gulf States, women often attend school equally as long as men do, but their participation in paid employment is even lower than that of Jordan or Algeria.  Thus it would seem that economic need and space in the labor market are both required in order to overcome cultural restrictions against women working outside of the home; education alone will not get a woman a job.  If, however, the cultural restrictions are overcome by economic factors, then education will help a woman find work and security.	2004-09-14
522243:US	51917998	R2WOAA1Z071DMX	0691057923	586375396	Remaking Women	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Well-researched but dry	This volume consists of a collection of essays about changing conceptions of women's roles in Egypt and Iran since the Nineteenth Century.  On the whole, the articles are well researched and well written.  However, rather than giving a single overall view of the subject, they tend to focus on very specific topics, such as the representation of Joan of Arc in Egyptian popular literature in the early part of the Twentieth Century or the education and family background of A'isha Taymur, a Nineteenth Century Egyptian poet.  If the particular subject matter of the articles appeals to your interests, you will find the book very enjoyable.  Otherwise, it's not exactly engaging reading.	2004-09-14
522463:US	51917998	R3QFCWGFMAN3Y2	0812234499	154844955	Madcaps, Screwballs, and Conwomen: The Female Trickster in American Culture (Critical Authors & Issues)	Books	2	7	7	N	N	An angry patriot talks	This book consists of a series of conversations between the journalist Elisabeth Schemla and the Algerian feminist Khalida Messaoudi. The conversations are organized into chapters according to topic. It is most interesting for the general reader when Messaoudi is describing her childhood and education. Later chapters focusing on her political struggles require the reader to have extensive background knowledge of modern Algerian politics in order to make sense of them. The repeated use of abbreviations in the book tends to be rather annoying for readers who aren't familiar with Algerian politics. They are explained in a glossary at the end. If you want an insider's view of Algerian politics of 1980s and 1990s, you must read this book. If you are simply looking for tales of an ordinary woman's life (or even an extraordinary woman's life) in Algeria, you'll need to look elsewhere.	2004-09-14
522652:US	51917998	R3425DZZQX7U8U	0340676817	449013154	A Cultural History of the English Language	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Packed with information	This slim book presents a clear and comprehensive overview of the history of the English language.  For the most part, the book is well written and accessible to general audiences.  Most foreign language phrases are translated, but a non-native speaker may have trouble guessing the meanings of words from the early part of the modern-English period presented in their original spellings. One drawback is that, like so many books on the topic, the author focuses on the early history of the languages of the British Isles, rather than on the earliest history of  English.  Thus, there is an inordinate focus on Celtic languages before the arrival of the Angles and Saxons, and not enough about what the languages of the Angles and Saxons were like before the tribes arrived on the island. After all, this is supposed to be a history of a language, not of an island.  When describing the modern period, Knowles tends to emphasize British developments, such as the development of class accents and Received Pronunciation, and does not go into great detail about other varieties of English beyond England.  The organization of the book is chronological, from the pre-English British Isles through English as an international language on the Internet.  Included are suggestions for further reading, a lengthy bibliography, and an index.  The book would be suitable for general audiences or for a text in an undergraduate history of English course, especially if the course is taught outside North America.  (Due to its heavy emphasis on British English in the modern period, other texts might be more appropriate for North American courses.)	2004-09-14
522654:US	51917998	R1352L5UA560BR	0380719185	655450573	Princess: A True Story of Life Behind the Veil in Saudi Arabia	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Voice from within the Kingdom	The book is a fascinating tale of a natural-born feminist who struggles with her family and culture, not her religion. Many of the stories that she tells will be shocking to Western readers, but they are all too familiar to people who know the Gulf well. Because it has a Western author's name on the cover, I was initially dubious whether the book truly represents the view of a Saudi princess. I thought perhaps this was a Western feminist author railing against Islam by pretending to tell the story of a Saudi princess. However, certain views expressed in the book could only come from a woman raised in the Saudi culture- -they would be incomprehensible or trivial to Western feminists, yet they express the core of the princess' character. Warning: once you open the cover, you will not be able to put it down.	2004-09-14
522746:US	51917998	R22BMK53GWC3WP	0385424345	137433229	Edge City: Life on the New Frontier (Anchor Books)	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Exceptionally well done	This book explores what has become of the suburbs.  Garreau's argues that certain suburbs have developed into a new kind of city, a city without a traditional downtown.  He believes that such \\"edge cities\\", are the cities of the future. Garreau's criteria for an \\"edge city\\" are:<br /><br />--5 million square feet or more of office space<br /><br />--600,000 square feet or more of retail space<br /><br />--more jobs than bedrooms<br /><br />--perceived as one place by the population<br /><br />--developed within the last 30 years<br /><br />With these criteria in mind, Garreau sets off across the US to study our major edge cities.  He explores edge cities in New Jersey, Texas, Southern California, and the areas around Boston, Detroit, Atlanta, Phoenix, San Francisco, and Washington D.C.  In each area that he visits, Garreau takes up an edge city theme.  For instance, in Detroit he discusses cars and the role they play in edge cities, and in Atlanta he discusses questions of race and class in edge cities.<br /><br />At the end of the book is a list of US cities that qualified for edge city status in 1992.  This is followed by a glossary of words used by edge city developers and a set of \\"laws\\" about how edge cities work.  These \\"laws\\" are statistical observations about human behavior relevant for city planning, such as \\"the furthest distance an American will willing walk before getting into a car is 600 feet.\\"  Finally, there is an annotated list of suggested readings, endnotes, and an index.<br /><br />Garreau is neither for nor against edge cities.  He tries instead to understand how they work, and why they have popped up so rapidly across the country.  He strives to be descriptive rather than prescriptive, coming across more like Jane Jacobs than Lewis Mumford, who argued so stridently for regional planning. Garreau points out that edge cities are being built by developers who are in the business to make money.  In other words, they build what they believe will sell, and given the fact that the developments sell so well, a lot of Americans are making the conscious decision that they want to live in edge city developments.  Through interviews with developers, employers, and residents, Garreau explores the factors that make edge cities so popular.<br /><br />He writes \\"Maybe it worked like this.  The force that drove the creation of Edge City was our search deep inside ourselves for a new balance of individualism and freedom.  We wanted to build a world in which we could live in one place, work in another, and play in a third, in unlimited combination, as a way to nurture our human potential.  This demanded transportation that would allow us to go where we wanted, when we wanted.  That enshrined the individual transportation system, the automobile, in our lives.  And that led us to build our market meeting places in the fashion of today's malls.\\" Cars are key elements in this phenomenon.  They make it possible for people to separate their workplaces from the residences, and they define the distances which are considered commutable.  They make it possible for people to live spread out enough from each other that everyone can have a front yard, yet at the same time, for the development to be dense enough to support large employers and sophisticated shopping options.<br /><br />Garreau doesn't devote much space to the problems created by such heavy dependence on personal autos.  Would Americans ever be willing to trade in their cars for more sustainable transit options, such as bicycles?  Unless the price of gas rises drastically, we probably won't find out.  But it seems that it wouldn't be that hard to develop edge cities where people could get around by bicycle or foot.  In Scandinavia, for instance, new developments are connected by bicycle/pedestrian walkways that are completely separate from motorways and have their own underpass system so that interactions with motorized traffic are kept to a minimum.  Everyone from the youngest tot to the oldest senior citizen uses these paths.  If bike travel were made easy and safe here, perhaps it might become more popular, easing the congestion on the roads.  It might also help with our obesity epidemic.<br /><br />One topic that Garreau seems to overlook is the question of the support workers for edge cities.  In Garreau's edge city descriptions, the edge city residential properties are attractive and upscale, suitable for well-paid white color employees.  The money these people have supports the edge city malls, shopping centers, and restaurants.  But such highly skilled people aren't likely to actually work at the malls, where the jobs are minimum wage.  All those shops and restaurants require ranks of minimum wage workers, and people earning the minimum wage can't afford to live in Edge City where the housing costs are so high.  Instead, they live in run-down inner cities or outlying towns and commute long distances to their jobs at the malls.  They may not reside in edge cities, but they still comprise a major component of the overall operations and their needs and habits should also be considered.<br /><br />I lived in an edge city west of Boston for four years.  I lived in a box, I worked in a box, and when I got home at night I was dead tired from the commute. The distances between shops and homes were so large that a car was absolutely required to get around.  It was virtually impossible to meet others, and cultural activities were extremely limited. For the most part, the only public space in town was at the malls.  The town spirit seemed to be missing along with the town center. The first chance we had to leave town, we bolted and have never looked back. If Garreau is right, and edge cities are the wave of the future because that's where Americans are choosing to live, I'm afraid for the future of America.  Hopefully, as edge cities begin to mature, they will become more livable places.the oldest senior citizen uses these paths.  If bike travel were made easy and safe here, perhaps it might become more popular, easing the congestion on the roads.  It might also help with our obesity epidemic. <br /> <br />One topic that Garreau seems to overlook is the question of the support workers for edge cities.  In Garreau's edge city descriptions, the edge city residential properties are attractive and upscale, suitable for well-paid white color employees.  The money these people have supports the edge city malls, shopping centers, and restaurants.  But such highly skilled people aren't likely to actually work at the malls, where the jobs are minimum wage.  All those shops and restaurants require ranks of minimum wage workers, and people earning the minimum wage can't afford to live in Edge City where the housing costs are so high.  Instead, they live in run-down inner cities or outlying towns and commute long distances to their jobs at the malls.  They may not reside in edge cities, but they still comprise a major component of the overall operations and their needs and habits should also be considered. <br /> <br />I lived in an edge city west of Boston for four years.  I lived in a box, I worked in a box, and when I got home at night I was dead tired from the commute. The distances between shops and homes were so large that a car was absolutely required to get around.  It was virtually impossible to meet others, and cultural activities were extremely limited. For the most part, the only public space in town was at the malls.  The town spirit seemed to be missing along with the town center. The first chance we had to leave town, we bolted and have never looked back. If Garreau is right, and edge cities are the wave of the future because that's where Americans are choosing to live, I'm afraid for the future of America.  Hopefully, as edge cities begin to mature, they will become more livable places. <br />	2004-09-13
523497:US	51917998	R1C2JX1RRH5MD3	0140176675	919373867	Last Go Round: A Real Western	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Entertaining	This book tells the story of the first Pendleton Round-Up.  The Round-Up was organized to settle once and for all who was the greatest cowboy in the world.  Contestants arrived from across the continent to vie for the prize, a magnificent saddle.  Three of the men who came to try their luck were Jackson Sundown, a Nez Perce Indian, George Fletcher, an African American from Pendleton, and Jonathan E. Lee Spain, a youngster from Tennessee.  When the final scores were tallied, these three came out in a draw, so special events had to be added to the contest to determine the winner.<br /><br />The book tells the story from Spain's point-of-view.  As one of the youngest contestants, his experience with rodeo competitions was limited.  The authors take us behind the scenes to see how the rodeo favorites took him under their wing, teaching him more than just how to compete in the ring.  The story is quite entertaining, with a full cast of characters, from Buffalo Bill to a young girl named Meyerhoff, who could ride like the wind.  The only odd part of the story is the beginning, which is set in modern times, with Spain as an old man- -it's a bit hard to understand where the plot is going at first, but once it finally gets going, there's no stopping it.	2004-09-13
524980:US	51917998	R237IH1EJ9LELK	0553525530	111782299	A Study in Scarlet: BBC (Bbc Radio Presents)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Intro to Sherlock Holmes	This book is the first of the Sherlock Holmes mysteries.  The book starts with the arrival of Dr. Watson to London following his discharge from military service.  He's looking for a place to stay, and an acquaintance suggests he find a room together with Sherlock Holmes, a man who has been hanging around in the medical school laboratories.  Watson finds Holmes amiable enough to live with, but an enigma- -just how does he earn his living?  Before he knows it, he's helping Holmes with the investigation of a murder.<br /><br />If you want to read Sherlock Holmes, you need to start here.  Considering that the genre was in its infancy when Doyle wrote this volume, the story is remarkably well told.  The plot hangs together, there are clues for the inquisitive reader, and plenty of plot twists.  This particular recording has its ups and downs.  Some of the voices are well done, but others are rather shaky.  Clive Merrison as Holmes has a rather irritating laugh, but perhaps that was intentional given Holmes' personality.	2004-09-11
532750:US	51917998	RBWMMW62UYMYS	0806625732	147563344	Tis a Gift to Be Simple	Books	5	28	29	N	Y	Christian guide to slowing down	This book is a guide to the simplicity lifestyle written for Christians.  At the beginning of the book, the authors ask readers to reflect on the following questions:<br /><br />--What are the values that guide my actions?<br /><br />--What is my fair share?<br /><br />--When is enough enough?<br /><br />--Why don't I feel good?<br /><br />--How can I live a more integrated faith?<br /><br />--Who are my neighbors, and do I really care about them?<br /><br />These questions form a rough outline of the topics to come: dropping out of the competitive consumption race, eating well and practicing healthy habits, environmental reasons for reducing consumption, reducing consumption to leave more of the world's resources available for others, setting appropriate priorities, and building community.  What differentiates this book from other books on simplicity is its focus on Christian values and scriptures.  Every chapter asks the reader to reflect how Christ would approach the topic under hand.  There are numerous references to scripture in the text.  At the end of the book is a collection of scripture readings and prayers designed to fill out a six-week period of reflection and study.  There are also endnotes to cite sources and a bibliography.  There is no index.  Although the book is designed for self-study; it would also work well as a basis for church-related discussion groups.<br /><br />The authors argue that following the simplicity lifestyle is exactly how Christ would have us act. \\"Voluntary simplicity...is a matter of obedience- -to live a faith integrated with life, to live as Christ taught, to live as Christ lived, joyously aware that we have the ability to be generous if we so choose.\\"  They discuss the reasons enumerated by Jorgen Lissner of the Peace, Justice, and Human Rights in the Luther World Federation, for Christians to review their life-styles, which include:<br /><br />1. An act of faith ... as an expression of personal commitment to a more equitable distribution of the world's resources<br /><br />2. An act of self-defense... against the polluting effects of over-consumption<br /><br />3. An act of withdrawal ... from the achievement neurosis of materialistic societies<br /><br />4. An act of solidarity with the majority of humankind<br /><br />5. An act of sharing with others what has been given to us<br /><br />6. An act of celebration of the riches...found in community<br /><br />7. An act of provocation to arouse curiousity [about the reasons for our conspicuous under-consumption]<br /><br />Although I am very much in favor of simplicity myself, I'm not altogether swayed by the arguments for it based on charitable action, trying to consume less so that less fortunate people will have more.  Such an approach may work within a single household, but I can't see it really working in any group larger than that.  It's vital to devote time, energy, and resources towards helping others, but I don't believe that infinitesimally small steps towards reducing consumption such as eating one less meat meal per week will really provide more food for the less fortunate.  The thing to focus on here is that the person who eats one less meat meal per week will probably end up healthier and consequently be more fit to help others.  For me, the main benefits of simplicity is that one feels more content, healthier, and more connected with others.  But as the Sorensens point out, \\"Simplicity is more than slowing down.\\"  It is a life-style that makes an important statement to the world family.s <br />2. An act of self-defense... against the polluting effects of over-consumption <br />3. An act of withdrawal ... from the achievement neurosis of materialistic societies <br />4. An act of solidarity with the majority of humankind <br />5. An act of sharing with others what has been given to us <br />6. An act of celebration of the riches...found in community <br />7. An act of provocation to arouse curiousity [about the reasons for our conspicuous under-consumption] <br /> <br />Although I am very much in favor of simplicity myself, I'm not altogether swayed by the arguments for it based on charitable action, trying to consume less so that less fortunate people will have more.  Such an approach may work within a single household, but I can't see it really working in any group larger than that.  It's vital to devote time, energy, and resources towards helping others, but I don't believe that infinitesimally small steps towards reducing consumption such as eating one less meat meal per week will really provide more food for the less fortunate.  The thing to focus on here is that the person who eats one less meat meal per week will probably end up healthier and consequently be more fit to help others.  For me, the main benefits of simplicity is that one feels more content, healthier, and more connected with others.  But as the Sorensens point out, \\"Simplicity is more than slowing down.\\"  It is a life-style that makes an important statement to the world family. <br />	2004-09-04
534039:US	51917998	R133OXMVI3JH9V	0684831066	465384608	Why We Watch: Killing the Gilligan Within	Books	1	2	7	N	N	Attempt at satire?	This book is a tongue-in-cheek (I hope) self-help book for improving your personality by watching TV.  In the style of self-help psychology books, this book starts off by laying out the problem- -most people have flawed personalities.  After the diagnosis, the book proceeds through a number of chapters that romp through fads and schools of psychoanalysis and psychotherapy.  Topics include issues of self-esteem, co-dependence, dysfunction, rage (where the title comes from- -we all secretly want to kill Gilligan because he's such a klutz), depression, and fear of death.  Miller also manages to slip in some Freud and dream analysis, as well as paranormal phenomena.  Each of these topics is illustrated through the behavior of characters in popular TV shows.  The discussions rely heavily on the reader's familiarity with these TV characters.  If you don't know all the characters, some of the text may leave you in the dark.  (If you do know all the characters, you have a serious problem with TV addiction.) Each chapter also includes preposterous exercises that you can do which involve watching TV shows analytically to improve the personality defect under discussion.  The last third of the book is devoted to brief (3-4 paragraph) psychological analyses of personality problems as illustrated in 25 popular TV series from the 1950s-1980s (mostly from the 1950s and 1960s).  The book is illustrated throughout with black-and-white publicity stills from numerous popular TV programs of the 1950s-1980s.<br /><br />I think the book is supposed to be funny.  However, it's too serious for satire, and too odd to be sincere.  Successful satiric writing often relies on such techniques as fiddling with the proportion of details, focusing on the minutiae while de-emphasizing other ideas, or telling a recognizable story with a few well-chosen outrageous changes.  Miller seems to think the whole idea of watching more television in order to fix your personality is funny enough in itself, and he sounds almost serious enough that you have to wonder if he was actually proposing his \\"Teletherapy\\" for real.  For me, the only mildly amusing parts of the book were the creative footnotes used to cite imaginary sources.  One disturbing factor is Miller's approach of treating television characters as if they were real, since belief in television people is one step down the slippery slope towards tele-isolation.  But maybe that was supposed to funny?<br /><br />Despite these flaws, the book does have one worthwhile exercise:<br /><br />\\"Assertiveness Through Television\\"<br /><br />1. Stand up in front of your television with a remote control in your hand.  Turn to C-Span or some other low energy station.<br /><br />2. Practice turning the set off and on according to your own inner decision, not related to the content of the show.  State your intentions out loud in a commanding tone of  voice, \\"I turn you off!\\" and then \\"I turn you on!\\"<br /><br />3. When you feel greater confidence, switch to a more intense channel, such as The Cartoon Network or MTV, and try it again.  Work your way up so that you are able to even watch your favorite channel and turn it off right in the middle of the episode!<br /><br />To this, I would add:<br /><br />4. Now that you have your TV off, call a family member, go for a bike ride, read a book or magazine, practice an instrument, attend a school play, go visit a neighbor, or do anything else to keep yourself busy.  Time yourself- -see how long you can go without turning the TV back on again.he sounds almost serious enough that you have to wonder if he was actually proposing his \\"Teletherapy\\" for real.  For me, the only mildly amusing parts of the book were the creative footnotes used to cite imaginary sources.  One disturbing factor is Miller's approach of treating television characters as if they were real, since belief in television people is one step down the slippery slope towards tele-isolation.  But maybe that was supposed to funny? <br /> <br />Despite these flaws, the book does have one worthwhile exercise: <br /> <br />\\"Assertiveness Through Television\\" <br />1. Stand up in front of your television with a remote control in your hand.  Turn to C-Span or some other low energy station. <br />2. Practice turning the set off and on according to your own inner decision, not related to the content of the show.  State your intentions out loud in a commanding tone of  voice, \\"I turn you off!\\" and then \\"I turn you on!\\" <br />3. When you feel greater confidence, switch to a more intense channel, such as The Cartoon Network or MTV, and try it again.  Work your way up so that you are able to even watch your favorite channel and turn it off right in the middle of the episode!  <br /> <br />To this, I would add:  <br />4. Now that you have your TV off, call a family member, go for a bike ride, read a book or magazine, practice an instrument, attend a school play, go visit a neighbor, or do anything else to keep yourself busy.  Time yourself- -see how long you can go without turning the TV back on again. <br />	2004-09-03
535274:US	51917998	R2DTIRZN844ICC	0881330515	913797155	Inis Beag: Isle of Ireland	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Filled with facts	This book is an ethnography of an Irish Island.  The name Inis Beag itself is a fictitious name, resorted to for the privacy of the small population of the island.  The author and his wife lived on the island for several years during the late 1950s, and this is a record of the information they learned about the island, its traditions, and its culture.  The book includes chapters on the island itself (history and climate), traditional ways of making a living (agriculture, farming, and crafts), village and family structures, religion, and emigration.  The book is amply illustrated with high quality black-and-white photographs.  At the end of the book are a section of references and an annotated list of suggested readings.  There is no index.<br /><br />From Messenger's description, this is a very conservative society (or at least it was so in the late 1950s).  Most of the islanders follow age-old occupations.  (One interesting description was how the farmers create soil from seaweed mixed with dung.)  They are subject to very tight societal controls administered by the priest and headmaster of the school.  They are extremely private about sexual matters to the point that young people never receive any instruction about sex up to or even following their wedding day.  Male patients are unwilling to undress in front of the island nurse.  As Messenger explains \\"Marriage is looked on [by males] with trepidation, or at least as something less then desirable.\\"  As a result, the average age for marriage for men was 35 years, and for women, 25 years, and premarital sex is unknown.  About a third of the population never marries at all.  Between the aversion to taking on the responsibility of a family, and the need to emigrate for paid work, the population of the island is decreasing.  Those who stay on the island are prone to feelings of depression and hypochondria.  All in all, it doesn't sound like a very cheery place to live.<br /><br />Messenger is very fond of statistics and quantification.  He seems to have surveyed residents and quantified their answers for just about every topic.  For example, when describing the importance of weather prediction skills to the islanders, he notes the existence of some 250 signals traditionally used for predicting the weather.  There are 40 varieties of fish, thirty-two householders own 3-man canoes, and so on.  Such statistics show Messenger's meticulous efforts at getting his fact straight, however, they can make the reading a bit dry.tics and quantification.  He seems to have surveyed residents and quantified their answers for just about every topic.  For example, when describing the importance of weather prediction skills to the islanders, he notes the existence of some 250 signals traditionally used for predicting the weather.  There are 40 varieties of fish, thirty-two householders own 3-man canoes, and so on.  Such statistics show Messenger's meticulous efforts at getting his fact straight, however, they can make the reading a bit dry.  <br />	2004-09-02
535725:US	51917998	R2PW11QYNLMPPB	0878572775	827587718	Root Cellaring: The Simple No-Processing Way to Store Fruits and Vegetables	Books	5	310	312	N	N	Encyclopedia of no-energy food preservation	This book is a vast resource of information about root cellars, how to build them, and how to use them.  The Bubels contend that even city apartments dwellers can arrange some sort of cold food storage area with a little imagination and a few suggestions from those who have done it before.  The book has 6 parts: choosing good storage vegetable varieties, harvesting for keeping quality, storing crops in the root cellar, root cellar ideas for those who don't currently have a root cellar, root cellaring experiences, and recipes. At the end of the book is a bibliography for further reading, a list of plant sources, and an index.  The book is amply illustrated with diagrams and black-and-white photographs.<br /><br />I didn't expect to find much in this book that I haven't read elsewhere.  Since my house didn't come with a root cellar, I wasn't very optimistic about finding anything in the book that I could use.  Fortunately, I was way off-base in these assumptions.  I was amazed at the variety and detail of information that the Bubels provide.  The sections on choosing seed varieties and determining when to harvest are extremely useful, even if you're only going to put your harvest in the refrigerator.  They also explain the different types of storage conditions required for different crops- -some like it cool and moist, and others warmer and dry.  But what gave me real hope was all the ideas about un-root cellars that people have constructed and made good use of for storing vegetables.  Their examples include everything from insolated window baskets for apartment dwellers to buried package trucks.  One idea that might work well for my situation at least for the time being is a buried refrigerator.  Down the line, if I have extra time on my hands, I could trade up for a real dug root cellar, following the plans in the book. If you're a gardener, you'll find something of use for sure in this book.	2004-09-01
535881:US	51917998	R1AWJ08LGOA353	0442246781	158210111	Apples and Man	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Natural History of Apples	This book is a natural history of apples.  Its ten chapters cover the following topics: the genus Malus, the spread of the apple in North America, apple varieties, the ascendancy of mediocrity in the apple world (aka Delicious and Golden Delicious), the nightmare of standard orchard chemicals, the medical benefits of eating apples, the propagation of apples, crabapples, and apples in other parts of the world.  At the end of the book are a list of apple sources, a glossary, a bibliography, and an index.<br /><br />Lape's style is quite accessible for general readers.  He is an apple connoisseur, and he wants others to come to share his passion.  He grew up on a farm in upstate New York that had many old apple trees.  This early exposure to a variety of types of apples makes him extremely dissatisfied with apples such as the Delicious, which was bred for color, bearing, and shipping qualities but has virtually no taste. He is also quite concerned with the chemicals commonly used in commercial orchards, which not only poison animals, the soil, and workers, but also leave residues on your fruit that may wind up in your food.  He suggests for consumers to either grown their own trees if they have a backyard, choosing heirloom varieties for taste, or, lacking a yard, purchase local apples from small farms, which will probably taste a lot better than those horrible Delicious apples on supermarket shelves.  If you must purchase your apples at a supermarket, then ask the manager to carry something more exciting than Delicious- -Macintosh apples, for example, at least have some flavor.<br /><br />I found the chapter on apple propagation quite useful. I've been frustrated in my own yard at having 4 old apple trees that produce rather disappointing apples.  I've tried planting some nice new trees in heirloom varieties, but the deer always eat them to the quick and they die within a season or two.  But Lape's got me going now- -why not treat the established apple trees as root stock, and graft some tasty apples on them?  And if I ever try planting new trees again, instead of hanging soap from the branches in an attempt to keep the deer away, I'll follow his suggestion and build a chicken wire fence around the tree, large enough to keep the deer away, but not so large as to make an insurmountable project out of the job.<br /><br />I found the book to be quite illuminating.  After reading the book, I feel that I understand the story of apples and their Twentieth Century downfall much more clearly.  Actually, I never really liked apples all that much (probably because I only knew the Delicious variety) until I lived in Finland for a year.  During the time I was in Finland, I noticed how almost every house had at least one apple tree in the yard.  And when a friend finally coerced me into tasting one of the apples off a neighbor's tree, I was blown away by the flavor- -I never knew apples had any flavor at all!  But this brings up one weakness of Lape's book.  Towards the end of the book are 3 chapters in which Lape enumerates popular varieties of apples on other continents.  These chapters read as if they are simply summaries from journal articles, and they give no reflection of personal experience on Lape's part.  It would have been great for him to include information gathered through personal travel to these areas, where he could have seen (and tasted) for himself some of the apple cultures of foreign climes.  He mentions that apples are grown in Hungary, but a visit to Hungary would have shown him that just about every single yard of every private house, from downtown Budapest to the tiniest mountain village in Hungary is filled with fruit trees, especially apple trees.  Such fruit growing habits can probably be found throughout Eastern Europe.  But the phenomenon of fruit trees in the yard is not necessarily just a reaction to communism, since we also see the trees in Finland as well, which certainly was never communist.  There's a lot more to learn about apples in other countries besides just the names of the popular varieties.  So in my opinion, this book is well worth reading, but it's not quite finished.'s a lot more to learn about apples in other countries besides just the names of the popular varieties.  So in my opinion, this book is well worth reading, but it's not quite finished. <br />	2004-09-01
536923:US	51917998	R302RHT2ZTHZ6D	1570420262	658635808	The Hidden Life of Dogs	Books	4	11	19	N	N	For True Dog-lovers	This book is an exploration into the social life of domestic dogs.  The author, Elizabeth Thomas, kept a large group of dogs in her family house near Cambridge, Massachusetts in the 1980s.  This group, which numbered as many as 11 dogs at one point, included a pair of pugs, some huskies and sled dogs, and a dingo.  Thomas was fascinated at the interactions between the dogs in the group and decided to conduct a formal study of their behaviors.  This book represents the results of that study.<br /><br />Thomas spent some time on Baffin Island observing a family of wolves to get an idea about what kinds of wild instincts the ancestors of her own dogs might have had at some time.  She saw how only the alpha female in the wolf pack bred, and the remaining adult members of the pack all assisted in finding food and caring for her puppies.  In her own group of dogs, an older female husky took on the alpha female role, a source of great conflict when other female dogs in her group were bred and she was not.  Many of the behaviors that Thomas witnessed with the wolves could also be found, sometimes in modified forms, with her own group of dogs.  But her own dogs also displayed some particular behaviors that she never saw with the wolves.  Through her thousands of hours of observation, she has documented in this book new ways of understanding dog behavior.<br /><br />After reading this book, it is now much clearer to me why people who have dogs often find that keeping a pair of dogs is in many ways easier than keeping only one.  They are clearly social animals that are influenced strongly by instinctive behaviors.  Thomas and the rest of her family are very much dog-people- -she relates the story of how her husband shared an ice cream cone with one of the dogs, lick for lick down to the last crumb, and how she treated her dogs for diabetes and took them for specialist veterinary care at Cornell when they became infirm.  Thomas, perhaps because of her great fondness for the animals, frequently goes over the line in anthropomorphising them.  She speaks of dog consciousness and dog morals.  For me though, her arguments aren't convincing.  Many of the behaviors that she describes are instinctive, and show no semblance of greater awareness on the part of the dogs.  She also abuses terminology, repeatedly referring to animals she cared for as being husband and wife, and she discusses a case of what she terms dog rape.  Using such terms when referring to dogs is rather bizarre, since husband and wife involve much more than procreation and child raising- -these are legal concepts preceded by ceremony and they involve extended family ties.  And rape is not simply forced sex, but it involves violence and domination, factors that were not present in her example at all.  Despite these flaws, the book is quite informative and interesting, and would certainly be useful for dog owners and those contemplating getting dogs.animals, frequently goes over the line in anthropomorphising them.  She speaks of dog consciousness and dog morals.  For me though, her arguments aren't convincing.  Many of the behaviors that she describes are instinctive, and show no semblance of greater awareness on the part of the dogs.  She also abuses terminology, repeatedly referring to animals she cared for as being husband and wife, and she discusses a case of what she terms dog rape.  Using such terms when referring to dogs is rather bizarre, since husband and wife involve much more than procreation and child raising- -these are legal concepts preceded by ceremony and they involve extended family ties.  And rape is not simply forced sex, but it involves violence and domination, factors that were not present in her example at all.  Despite these flaws, the book is quite informative and interesting, and would certainly be useful for dog owners and those contemplating getting dogs. <br />	2004-08-31
537706:US	51917998	R29WMF4AZM8FXE	1570622310	608862426	The Mysticism of Sound and Music: The Sufi Teaching of Hazrat Inayat Khan (Shambhala Dragon Editions)	Books	5	82	91	N	N	Good Vibrations	This book is a compilation of the teachings of Hazrat Inayat Khan, a Sufi mystic from the early part of the Twentieth century.  Born in India, Khan was thoroughly familiar with both Hindu beliefs and Islam and he also knew Christian scriptures well.  In this book, Khan explains the central tenets of his Sufi sect.  He begins with the belief that vibration is the ultimate connection to God, and states that this belief is found in Christian, Muslim, and Hindu scriptures by reading \\"word\\" as sound, and sound as vibration. All else flows from this.  Khan finds spiritual direction through seeking harmony with all and finding and matching the appropriate rhythm of things.  Music, (of the serious type, not jazz, for instance) provides a means of worship and union with the Almighty.  But the highest form of sound is abstract, a topic whose details are reserved for Sufi initiates because others might misuse such knowledge.<br /><br />The book contains chapters on topics such as: the music of the spheres, color and sound, music in Indian culture, music of the dervishes, dance and music, music and psychology, the healing powers of music, memory, will, reason, intuition and dreams, the Ego, inspiration, and the value of repetition.  It also contains short collections of aphorisms and phrases to be repeated.  The editing of the volume is exceptionally well-done. Khan did not write these selections as a book; instead, they were collected and organized from various lectures and articles that he prepared dating from about 1913 to 1926.  The editors have managed to create a cohesive text from very disparate sources.  Some ideas are presented repeatedly, but unlike so many similar compilations of articles by other authors, the presentation of Khan's ideas in this book are consistent each time they are mentioned.  The original sources and dates for each chapter are listed at the end of the book.  The book contains an index, but no glossary.<br /><br />I picked up this book because of the picture on the cover of Khan playing the vina.  As a struggling student of Indian music, I hoped that Khan might say a word or two about the vina.  Indeed, he does, explaining how the quiet sounds of the vina make it ideal as an instrument for mediation, but not for playing large public concerts.  Much of my previous reading about Indian music has been by authors who seek to present strictly objective information about the music and culture of India, but in taking such a secular approach, they miss the whole feeling of the topic.  Reading this book has given me a much greater understanding of and appreciation for how music is central to Indian religious practices and beliefs, whether among the Hindus or the Sufis, or even among members of the Indian Muslim community, such as musicians.  Nevertheless, one point remains unclear- -harmony.  In Indian music, harmony seems to play a much smaller or very different role than in Western music.  Throughout this book, Khan speaks of harmony and its importance, but what kind of harmony is he speaking of?  The kind of harmony that results when two differing notes are played simultaneously with an agreeable affect?  Or is he talking about vibrations joining to create a repeatable, predictable pattern?  Or  lining up rhythmic cycles so that the beats fall together in a pattern?  He wasn't specific on this point, and I'm not sure that the concept of harmony carries over with the same meaning across musical cultures.  Harmony is clearly important in the East as well as the West, but the word may refer to very different phenomena and so his message could potentially be interpreted differently according to the culture of the reader.<br /><br />This book is one of the clearest on Sufi beliefs that I have found.  I appreciate Khan's scholarship and his open-mindedness regarding all religious beliefs.  He never preaches that one must abandon one's own religion, but instead tries to show that the core beliefs of all religions reach ultimately to the same source.  In this light, the book is full of little surprises, like when Khan points out the etymological relationship between our Christian word Alleluia, and Muslim Allah.  Points to ponder leap from every page, such as \\"It is never too late to go onto the spiritual path, but it is never too early.\\"  Khan is exceptionally clever at using metaphors for explanation.  I'm not ready to take everything he says at face value, but he's given me a lot to think about.reach ultimately to the same source.  In this light, the book is full of little surprises, like when Khan points out the etymological relationship between our Christian word Alleluia, and Muslim Allah.  Points to ponder leap from every page, such as \\"It is never too late to go onto the spiritual path, but it is never too early.\\"  Khan is exceptionally clever at using metaphors for explanation.  I'm not ready to take everything he says at face value, but he's given me a lot to think about.  <br />	2004-08-31
539280:US	51917998	R3DXWT38FSD4W2	0313227462	783827979	The Culture of Cities.	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Epic work	This book is a statement of Mumford's views on city planning.  It begins with a 300-page history of European and American cities, from the Middle Ages through the 1920s.  Following this, Mumford takes up a variety of topics in turn, including regional planning (and why he advocated for it), politics of regionalism, and miscellaneous topics such as agriculture, hygiene, museums, housing, and schools.  The book is punctuated every 50 pages or so with pictorial features of black-and-white photographs or drawings together with paragraph-long analyses of these items related to topics from the main text.  The book also includes a glossary, a 50-page annotated bibliography, and an index.<br /><br />This book was seminal in its time.  It represented a massive scholarly undertaking, and many of its ideas are still relevant today, some 70 years later.  The historical overview is interesting and informative.  Mumford points out how residents of cities in the Middle Ages enjoyed freedoms not possessed by land-bound peasants, and how life in the cities of those times did not entail exile from natural surroundings.  He goes on to describe how cities lost more and more of their green spaces as they become more densely developed, and how the air and water of industrial cities made these places quite unhealthy.  He also describes the original Garden City concept, which aimed at building small livable cities for the working class.  These Garden Cities were supposed to be economically self-contained, with several options for industrial employment within their boundaries.  Nowadays, when we think of the Garden City concept however, we think of the birth of suburbs, towns in the country where people only keep their beds, and which they leave each morning to go into the big cities for work and shopping.  Mumford had a strong distaste for such developments, calling them \\"dormitories\\", and he rails against time wasted in workaday commutes.  His ideal would be small cities of 30,00-40,000 inhabitants, with dense efficient housing, plenty of green space for everyone, and workplaces within walking distance from home for all.<br /><br />Mumford's organization of the volume barely conceals a strong underlying message- -that cities in the distant past were pretty good, then they got worse, and now (in the late 1930s) they are heading towards Armageddon.  He views the enormous megalopolis of the Twentieth Century as leading inevitably to armed conflict and misery.  Given the context of his time, such a belief is quite understandable.  Within two years from the publication of the book, his predictions of dire destruction did seem to come true.  Nevertheless, world society somehow got through the problems of the 1940s, and people seem perfectly capable of living peacefully with their neighbors in cities that are much larger than any Mumford discussed.  Thus, the problems that he claimed to be inevitable with big cities were not inherent in the size of the cities themselves, but more likely were products of an unstable era.<br /><br />As a scholar in the Western tradition of the 1930s, Mumford may have had little background or interest in cultures beyond Europe or North America.  However, as a modern reader, I found his notion that the general history of cities began in Europe in the Middle Ages a bit disconcerting.  European cities at that time were in contact either directly or indirectly with the great cities of the East, from Jerusalem to Istanbul, Cochin to Shanghai and beyond.  Such a survey of the history of cities, if written today, would need to consider the elements of city life beyond Europe.  By using a comparative approach and including the cities of the Incas and Aztecs, one might be able to deduce which factors affecting the development of cities are universal or inevitable, and which are culturally bound.<br /><br />One additional weakness of Mumford's argumentation is that he relies on comparisons of cities across time to try to identify whichelements go into healthy cities.  He concludes from these comparisons that as a city gets older, life in the city tends to go downhill, and he tries to identify the factors that make it do so, such as increasing population density.  He might have gotten more accurate results by comparing cities synchronically, cities that share the same time and culture, but were developed along different lines with varying results.<br /><br />In general, Mumford's writing style is delightful to read- -from the first page, I could recognize that he was an author who took pride in his craft.  Although some peculiarities of his argumentation do not stand the test of time, many of his ideas are still quite exciting and well worth discussing.  It would be great to see an edited volume of this work, with the most important points condensed into a shorter text.entify which elements go into healthy cities.  He concludes from these comparisons that as a city gets older, life in the city tends to go downhill, and he tries to identify the factors that make it do so, such as increasing population density.  He might have gotten more accurate results by comparing cities synchronically, cities that share the same time and culture, but were developed along different lines with varying results.   <br /> <br />In general, Mumford's writing style is delightful to read- -from the first page, I could recognize that he was an author who took pride in his craft.  Although some peculiarities of his argumentation do not stand the test of time, many of his ideas are still quite exciting and well worth discussing.  It would be great to see an edited volume of this work, with the most important points condensed into a shorter text. <br />	2004-08-29
539313:US	51917998	R29HBRF8VO2A2I	0394573854	127607738	The Great Divide	Books	4	1	1	N	N	What happened to the 60s?	This book is a collection of interviews with ordinary Americans about their lives in the 1980s.  A wide variety of people from many walks of life explain who they are, what they do, and what they worry about, from socialites to factory workers, from Clarence Paige to a Klan member.  The general, though unstated, theme of the book seems to be the loss of the idealism of the 1960s.  We hear from a university teaching assistant how students of the younger generation not only have no memories of the Vietnam conflicts, but they also have no interest in questioning authority.  We hear updates from people involved in the Civil Rights movement, and from others reminiscing about their neighborhood social activism during the 60s. Many of the interviewees are from the Chicago area, highlighting the division between the various neighborhoods there that rose to a crisis-point during the 1980s.  The book closes with an interview from Jean Gump, a 1980s peace-activist imprisoned for damaging a nuclear warhead, possibly intended as a positive note for the future in that it shows how some idealists were still doing what they thought was right.<br /><br />Terkel documented the problems being experienced in the 1980s by union members and farmers.  Looking back now, I can have pity for these people as individuals, but it seems the only way out of their quagmire was to take a different approach.  Unions will have little success in maintaining wages amongst American workers as long as foreign workers earning far less per hour compete with them.  Instead of trying to organize American workers, the energies of union organizers might be better spend at this point in time in lobbying for legislation that would restrict competition in the US to products manufactured by workers who enjoy the same labor organization rights and safety protections as US workers have. There's nothing wrong with a little competition, as long as the playing field is level.  When productivity increases, jobs will inevitably be lost, and the only viable way to fight back long-term is to somehow differentiate the product (offer organic produce, increase quality, or invent something new) so that consumers will be willing to pay premium prices.  But allowing sustained aid programs to those who have lost their jobs only leads to a culture of entitlements without creating real solutions.<br /><br />I found the most heartening interviews in the book to be the back-to-back interviews between a big-city chief of police and his wife.  The police chief tells us how he is first and foremost, a civil servant, that he fervently believes in law-and-order, and how under his watch, arrests have increased dramatically.  Then his wife tells us that she is a peace activist, and has been arrested 5 times for civil disobedience by officers serving under her husband.  This is a true indicator of a civilized society, where people are not afraid to criticize the government or take action against it, and where a man can occupy a position of supreme authority in a city, yet his immediate family members are subject to the same laws as everyone else. And to top it all off, both the husband and wife are first-generation immigrants. Only in America!nevitably be lost, and the only viable way to fight back long-term is to somehow differentiate the product (offer organic produce, increase quality, or invent something new) so that consumers will be willing to pay premium prices.  But allowing sustained aid programs to those who have lost their jobs only leads to a culture of entitlements without creating real solutions. <br /> <br />I found the most heartening interviews in the book to be the back-to-back interviews between a big-city chief of police and his wife.  The police chief tells us how he is first and foremost, a civil servant, that he fervently believes in law-and-order, and how under his watch, arrests have increased dramatically.  Then his wife tells us that she is a peace activist, and has been arrested 5 times for civil disobedience by officers serving under her husband.  This is a true indicator of a civilized society, where people are not afraid to criticize the government or take action against it, and where a man can occupy a position of supreme authority in a city, yet his immediate family members are subject to the same laws as everyone else. And to top it all off, both the husband and wife are first-generation immigrants. Only in America!   <br />	2004-08-29
540394:US	51917998	R3RWBDXUD5WGIZ	0881334057	724676078	Nest in the Wind: Adventures in Anthropology on a Tropical Island	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Personal touch	This book is an ethnography of the people of Pohnpei.  The author accompanied her husband to Pohnpei during the 1970s and they lived there together for several years.  In the 1940s, army doctors had noted that the people of Pohnpei all had quite low blood pressure.  Ward and her husband were the anthropologist components of a team that was trying to determine whether the initial blood pressure observations were accurate, and if so, whether societal influences seemed to be playing a role.  Although the blood pressure study was the impetus for going to Pohnpei, and provides much of the framework for Ward's time on Pohnpei, this book isn't about that project.  Instead, the book describes how Ward gradually integrated herself into the culture to the greatest extent that she could during her limited stay.<br /><br />As a trained anthropologist, Ward was primed to observe the culture on Pohnpei.  She notes that the society was matriarchal and that ceremonial titles were highly important.  Personal names were impermanent, and many people, including study subjects, changed their names frequently.  She struggles to learn the language, noting that it makes use of dual number in addition to singular and plural, and makes a distinction in personal pronouns between inclusive and exclusive \\"we\\".  She discusses diet, gender roles, politics, education, courting behavior, and funeral rites.  All of this is done, however, informally, almost in the manner of a travelogue.  Indeed, many of the chapters close with letters that she wrote home to family or friends, many with humorous touches as she struggles with culture shock.  As the time on the island passes, Ward relates to us the challenges that she faced in finding housing, a local research assistant, and conducting research related to the blood pressure project.  She describes feasts that she attended, and feasts that she gave, and how a ceremonial title came to be bestowed on her.  She also tells us of her decision to have child, and how her pregnancy was greeted by the local Pohnpeians.<br /><br />One initial theory about why the Pohnpeians had low blood pressure was that this was a tropical paradise, where everyone had low-stress lives.  Ward noted that this was, of course, a baseless assumption, since people on Pohnpei certainly did have problems and stress.  Unfortunately, the results of the blood pressure project were never published in detail.  However, in the epilogue, Ward notes that the study found some people with high blood pressure, especially among the sedentary and obese.  The book closes with an annotated list of additional readings.  It does not have an index.  It has maps and a few black and white sketches, but no photographs.<br /><br />The book is quite accessible to general readers, while containing the kinds of information that anthropologists would expect to find in an ethnography.  In addition to observations on the local culture of Pohnpei, Ward also tells us a little of the culture of North American researchers and Peace Corps volunteers working on the island.  In this book, we can find a window into Pohnpei (albeit the Pohnpei of thirty years ago) that will be interesting to travelers and anthropologists alike.ld, and how her pregnancy was greeted by the local Pohnpeians.  <br /> <br />One initial theory about why the Pohnpeians had low blood pressure was that this was a tropical paradise, where everyone had low-stress lives.  Ward noted that this was, of course, a baseless assumption, since people on Pohnpei certainly did have problems and stress.  Unfortunately, the results of the blood pressure project were never published in detail.  However, in the epilogue, Ward notes that the study found some people with high blood pressure, especially among the sedentary and obese.  The book closes with an annotated list of additional readings.  It does not have an index.  It has maps and a few black and white sketches, but no photographs. <br /> <br />The book is quite accessible to general readers, while containing the kinds of information that anthropologists would expect to find in an ethnography.  In addition to observations on the local culture of Pohnpei, Ward also tells us a little of the culture of North American researchers and Peace Corps volunteers working on the island.  In this book, we can find a window into Pohnpei (albeit the Pohnpei of thirty years ago) that will be interesting to travelers and anthropologists alike.  <br />	2004-08-28
555524:US	51917998	R1GS3FWJRZOB3N	0805071342	225067813	The Lady Tasting Tea: How Statistics Revolutionized Science in the Twentieth Century	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Anecdotal history of Twentieth Century statistics	This book introduces the personalities behind the names found on the famous statistical works of the Twentieth Century.  Beginning with Francis Galton, the founder of the journal Biometrika and the discoverer of the uniqueness of fingerprints, Salsburg outlines the major developments and developers of modern statistics.  In order to make the book accessible to general readers, he strenuously avoids mathematical formulas or charts, keeping his discussion focused on the people behind the math.  He relates such tales as the origin of \\"Student t-tests\\", which go back to William Sealy Gossett, a statistician employed by the Guiness Brewing Company, who was forbidden by his company to publish his work, hence his use of the pseudonym \\"Student\\".  The text is organized into many short chapters, each only a few pages long.  At the end of the book is a timeline, covering the publication dates of key papers in statistics and their authors, followed by an annotated bibliography of suggested works for further study and a list of materials used in the book.  There is also an index that includes names of people and institutions as well as general statistical topics.<br /><br />I picked up the book because I was intrigued by the sub-title: \\"How Statistics Revolutionized Science in the Twentieth Century.\\"  Unfortunately, the book has very little about this topic, and probably much more could be said- -it certainly would make for an interesting volume.  The numerous stories about the people behind the developments in statistics are quite interesting, nevertheless.  Unfortunately, Salsburg goes a bit too far in avoidance of math.  He describes statistical topics in a very general fashion, so general in fact, that readers who don't know statistics are left completely in the dark. If he had only added a graph here and there to demonstrate the topics visually, interested general readers might gain a better sense of what each statistical personality accomplished.  He also has a habit of laying out the details of interesting experiments in such fields as medicine or agronomy which led to the development of new statistical approaches.  But then he leaves us hanging, not following up with the results of the experiments and the scientific facts that were learned through using the statistics.<br /><br />Nevertheless, the book is quite engaging, and I've found it has at least sensitized me to importance of statistics (without actually teaching me how to do any statistics).  It would be very valuable reading for statistics students, enabling them to get to know the people who wrote the famous papers in their field and learn about the circumstances that led to their discoveries.laying out the details of interesting experiments in such fields as medicine or agronomy which led to the development of new statistical approaches.  But then he leaves us hanging, not following up with the results of the experiments and the scientific facts that were learned through using the statistics. <br /> <br />Nevertheless, the book is quite engaging, and I've found it has at least sensitized me to importance of statistics (without actually teaching me how to do any statistics).  It would be very valuable reading for statistics students, enabling them to get to know the people who wrote the famous papers in their field and learn about the circumstances that led to their discoveries. <br />	2004-08-15
556012:US	51917998	RGPFVRA09GPLO	0679430504	499546549	Nobody's Fool	Books	3	28	32	N	N	Hometown Characters	This book tells the story of a 60-year-old ne're-do-well who goes by the name of Sully.  Sully does odd construction jobs in a small town in upstate New York, the very town where he grew up.  His childhood friends, ex-wife, and high school flames all live in town, and in this story, he continues to annoy them as he always has.  The town is slowing changing, though, and Sully with it.  Sully certainly doesn't want to change, but between a knee injury that makes continuing his construction work dubious, an aging landlady, and the return of his son, whose marriage is failing, Sully reluctantly begins to admit that he's going to have to make some adjustments to the status quo.<br /><br />I've run across Sully and his friends in my travels.  Cranky, hypocritical, tough, and tender, they are the perpetrators of some of the funniest antics of family oral histories--that is, as long as you weren't on the receiving end of their ire at the time.  You'll get a few laughs out of this book for sure, and it may even strike home.	2004-08-15
556064:US	51917998	R345FQBFF399N0	0465031765	325990916	Culture Matters: How Values Shape Human Progress	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Interesting idea in concept	This book is a collection of papers from a symposium organized by Harrison and Huntington on the question \\"Does culture affect economic development?\\".  The papers are organized into 7 sections, which may reflect how they were presented at the symposium: Culture and Economic Development; Culture and Political Development; The Anthropological Debate; Culture and Gender; Culture and American Minorities; The Asian Crisis; and Promoting Change.  Some of the articles contain citations to other works through endnotes, which appear together at the end of the volume.  The book also includes an index as well as short biographical sketches of the authors of each article.  In general, with one notable exception, the authors agree with the hypothesis that some countries or regions are worse off economically because culture factors limit their economic development in some way.<br /><br />I was intrigued by the title of the book, and was quite interested in learning what the experts have to say on the topic.  However, I found the book rather disappointing.  For the most part, the articles are very general, and wander willy-nilly around the world, making broad swipes at major topics, but presenting few detailed points.  For the most part, the authors tend to come across as ranting, rather than building firm arguments based on measurable data.  Many of them claim that there must be some sort of cause and effect relationship between culture, values, and economic development.  But they all speak in terms of generalities, observations, rather than pointing to formal surveys.  Only two authors in the entire volume mention statistics; one of these finds correlations between growth and geography, but no statistically significant correlations between growth and cultural factors such as religion.  The other plots cultural factors against economic measures to identify zones of development that seem to be culturally determined.  (He uses a sample of 43 societies for his work, and does not describe how this sample was selected.  Noticeably absent from his study are any Arabic countries, which would be extremely problematic for his analyses.)<br /><br />The general statements, combined with the lack of well-founded support for the authors' claims makes many of them sound like they are blaming the victim.  This is rather unfortunate, because I do believe that there is a strong connection between cultural and development, and that proof of this connection could readily be found (by the right people).  In five years of living overseas in a cosmopolitan community comprised of people from many, many cultures, I have witnessed a number of factors that could potentially affect development.  When I first went overseas, I went with the firm conviction, based on many years of anthropological reading, that all cultures have equal potential for development.  Customs and beliefs differ around the world, but no culture or traditional practice can be said to be \\"better\\" or \\"worse\\" than another.  Or so I thought.  But after learning of young women who were \\"disappeared\\" in the desert by their brothers because they were suspected to have spoken to men, and hearing how this was treated as an honorable act by the culture, or teaching a young woman at a university for five years, only to hear that upon graduation she would be forbidden to accept a job offer at a laboratory because her salary would be higher than her lesser-qualified brother's, I've learned that some cultural practices are simply bad, and objectively so.  When anthropologists preach that cultures differ, but that's OK, they must be referring to such simple topics as aesthetics, like which colors are considered appropriate for wedding or funeral attire.  Or perhaps they're referring to typologies of names for relatives.  But cultural practices that harm people, animals, or the environment are just plain bad, and societies where these practices are common are bad as well, and should be encouraged to change, even if such a change would disturb the observations of anthropologists.<br /><br />Does culture affect economic development?  Consider the case of Country X (a real place), where the current cultural practice of expressing political opposition involves violent nationwide strikes that are called every few weeks.  These strikes shut down all transportation, shops, manufacturing, and economic activity throughout the entire country for an entire day, or even days at a time. The lowliest rickshaw driver doesn't venture out on the road during the strikes for fear of his life.  Potential investors are shocked when they realize the challenges of trying to work in such an environment.  This is only one small example of how cultural practices directly affect economic activity- -there must be many others like this around the world, but the authors of this volume didn't cite any.  An interested researcher could survey people from different cultures about their values and practices, and see if statistically significant correlations could be found between culture and development.  But this group of authors didn't do it here.  To be fair to the organizers and participants, the goal of the symposium was more likely to draw these people together so that they could hear what each other has to say, and for others to have the chance to learn from a collection of experts on the subject.  However, it's too bad that the authors didn't take the time to put more substantial material into their articles.nge, even if such a change would disturb the observations of anthropologists.      <br /> <br />Does culture affect economic development?  Consider the case of Country X (a real place), where the current cultural practice of expressing political opposition involves violent nationwide strikes that are called every few weeks.  These strikes shut down all transportation, shops, manufacturing, and economic activity throughout the entire country for an entire day, or even days at a time. The lowliest rickshaw driver doesn't venture out on the road during the strikes for fear of his life.  Potential investors are shocked when they realize the challenges of trying to work in such an environment.  This is only one small example of how cultural practices directly affect economic activity- -there must be many others like this around the world, but the authors of this volume didn't cite any.  An interested researcher could survey people from different cultures about their values and practices, and see if statistically significant correlations could be found between culture and development.  But this group of authors didn't do it here.  To be fair to the organizers and participants, the goal of the symposium was more likely to draw these people together so that they could hear what each other has to say, and for others to have the chance to learn from a collection of experts on the subject.  However, it's too bad that the authors didn't take the time to put more substantial material into their articles. <br />	2004-08-15
572453:US	51917998	R19PJMVC9W4GD2	0397471076	706669894	Family In Various Cultures	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Informative	This book is a sociological overview of the variety of family types found throughout the world.  It describes cultures that practice polyandry (exemplified by the Toda of South India), cultures that practice polygamy (exemplified by the Baganda of Uganda), matrilineal cultures (exemplified by the Hopi of Arizona), patriarchal cultures (exemplified by the Chinese), and cultures with minimal families (exemplified by the kibbutz culture of Israel).  For each of these cultures, a detailed description is provided that includes information about family organization, kinship orientation and terminology, mate selection, responsibilities and typical practices of family members at different stages of life (birth, infancy, childhood, adolescence, adulthood and old age), family controls, division of the family, and functions of the family.  The descriptions are based on published anthropological accounts of the cultures in question, and specific details are cited with endnotes that appear following each chapter. The parallel organization of the first five chapters facilitates easy comparison of each feature across the different cultures.<br /><br />The second part of the book attempts to explore contemporary (1950s in the 3rd ed) American families by seeking historical roots of family traditions.  The authors implicitly assume a Classical Western Civilization source of American family traditions and present a linear history that goes from colonial families to British families, to families of the Roman empire, to early Christian families, and ultimately back to Hebrew families.  To me, this part of the book sounds a bit of a stretch, and a closed-minded one at that.  I don't think cultural traditions work in such a closed, linear way.  I would guess that American families probably have some things in common with other heterogeneous cultures of immigrants, like those found in Israel, Brazil, or New Zealand, in that ties with ancestors and extended family were severed with emigration from the home countries, and may not have been rebuilt by later generations.  In addition, certainly Slavic, Spanish and Muslim, and Scandinavian family traditions must all have played some role in creating the culture of the contemporary American family, a role that certainly equaled that contributed by the early Roman or Hebrew cultures.  The book closes with a chapter on the American \\"Negro\\" family, which highlights some reasons why family traditions in African American families can be so very different from European  American (WASP) families.<br /><br />Overall, I found the book somewhat informative and occasionally even interesting.  In places, it seemed that the book focused a bit too much on mating customs and wedding traditions, and didn't delve into the more important questions such as \\"What is a family in this culture?\\" or \\"How do the children view their families in this culture?\\" In order to  facilitate the discussion, the focus is on the ideal family in each culture, such as a family with a patriarch and 3 or 4 generations living under one roof.  What doesn't receive enough discussion is what happens when the patriarch passes away, since although this doesn't meet the ideal for family composition in the culture, it certainly happens within every family, and everyone in the culture at some point is going to live in a broken family.  How do they manage then?  The authors brush these questions aside, providing at most a paragraph or two about divorce for each culture. Despite these shortcomings, for a cross-cultural overview of family traditions that is accessible to the general reader, this book may nevertheless prove adequate.ation from the home countries, and may not have been rebuilt by later generations.  In addition, certainly Slavic, Spanish and Muslim, and Scandinavian family traditions must all have played some role in creating the culture of the contemporary American family, a role that certainly equaled that contributed by the early Roman or Hebrew cultures.  The book closes with a chapter on the American \\"Negro\\" family, which highlights some reasons why family traditions in African American families can be so very different from European  American (WASP) families. <br /> <br />Overall, I found the book somewhat informative and occasionally even interesting.  In places, it seemed that the book focused a bit too much on mating customs and wedding traditions, and didn't delve into the more important questions such as \\"What is a family in this culture?\\" or \\"How do the children view their families in this culture?\\" In order to  facilitate the discussion, the focus is on the ideal family in each culture, such as a family with a patriarch and 3 or 4 generations living under one roof.  What doesn't receive enough discussion is what happens when the patriarch passes away, since although this doesn't meet the ideal for family composition in the culture, it certainly happens within every family, and everyone in the culture at some point is going to live in a broken family.  How do they manage then?  The authors brush these questions aside, providing at most a paragraph or two about divorce for each culture. Despite these shortcomings, for a cross-cultural overview of family traditions that is accessible to the general reader, this book may nevertheless prove adequate. <br />	2004-07-29
572584:US	51917998	R33SJ2EBBR4AVW	0472080458	420968062	Co-wives and Calabashes: 1st Edition (Women and Culture Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Art and anthropology	This book is an anthropological investigation of art forms of the Saramakas of Suriname.  The Saramakas are a particularly interesting group to study.  They are a tribal people living in the Suriname rainforest with relatively few trappings of modern global culture. Yet, their culture, like that of the United States, Israel, or New Zealand, is a recent creation of immigrants from heterogeneous sources brought together in a new land.  The Saramakas call themselves \\"Bush Negroes\\" and are descendants of slaves who mutinied and led an independent existence in the mountain region of Suriname for centuries.  The original Saramakans came from many tribes across several regions of Africa.  As described here, they have developed a culture (and language) that displays strong connections to African traditions, but also includes significant Portuguese, Native American, and Dutch elements.<br /><br />The first part of the book explains the structure of Saramakan society, the family structure, and the roles of women and men.  Price turns her attention next to the patterns of exchange in the culture.  She describes how the practices of giving and receiving between men and women, while reciprocal, are very unequal because of the structure of society and the unbalanced gender ratio in the Saramakan lands.  Men are frequently absent for long periods of time while they work for cash on the coast.  As a result, women greatly outnumber the men and as expected, polygamy is practiced.  Because of their greater access to resources, men are able to give valuable gifts to their wives which are vital for the wives' sustenance.  In contrast, the gifts that women give their husbands in return are appreciated but not at all necessary for the husbands' continued existence.  Indeed, many of the gifts from the wives are immediately packed away in trunks and never even used by the men.<br /><br />The last part of the book is a detailed examination of the arts, particularly those practiced by women, in Saramakan culture.  The most well-known art of the Saramakans are wood carvings done by men.  Here Price describes the art created by women, carved calabash bowls and clothing.  She details the materials and patterns used, the methods and terminology, and how these have changed over generations.  This section of the book is exceptionally well illustrated with black-and-white photographs and diagrams of examples of the art work.  The book concludes with a chapter on songs as an expression of Saramakan culture, and a short exploration into the relationship between the structure of a society and how it is played out in the arts.  It is this very last section that is truly the most interesting part of the book.  I, myself, don't have an artistic bent, and much of the detailed description of Saramakan textile art went way over my head. But as Price drew the details from the two parts of the book together in her conclusion, I finally began to understand the scope of her work and its implications.  It leads to some exciting possibilities for re-examining the art of many more cultures.omen, in Saramakan culture.  The most well-known art of the Saramakans are wood carvings done by men.  Here Price describes the art created by women, carved calabash bowls and clothing.  She details the materials and patterns used, the methods and terminology, and how these have changed over generations.  This section of the book is exceptionally well illustrated with black-and-white photographs and diagrams of examples of the art work.  The book concludes with a chapter on songs as an expression of Saramakan culture, and a short exploration into the relationship between the structure of a society and how it is played out in the arts.  It is this very last section that is truly the most interesting part of the book.  I, myself, don't have an artistic bent, and much of the detailed description of Saramakan textile art went way over my head. But as Price drew the details from the two parts of the book together in her conclusion, I finally began to understand the scope of her work and its implications.  It leads to some exciting possibilities for re-examining the art of many more cultures. <br />	2004-07-29
572931:US	51917998	R2VXLE33DQYY0N	0671573403	148418160	Final Jeopardy (Alexandra Cooper Mysteries)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Not Bad	This is an interesting murder mystery featuring an Assistant D.A. named Alexandra Cooper whose specialty is sex crimes.  A starlet is murdered in the driveway of Cooper's Martha's Vineyard house, and it's up to Cooper to figure out what happened and who's guilty before the same thing happens to her.<br /><br />The plot has some interesting turns, and it stays on the proper side of the plausibility line throughout.  Cooper manages to juggle several cases at once while keeping her personal life going, and she even goes down a few dead ends in her investigation. Nevertheless, this isn't the kind of book where you flounder around for the first hundred pages while the author develops the characters; instead each character has a distinct personality and the plot gets moving from the very first page.  It will definitely hold your interest.  Well done, Fairstein.	2004-07-29
578785:US	51917998	R1JEHIQ4F004RE	0262621606	722492901	History of Shit (Documents Book)	Books	1	24	40	N	N	Tries to shock rather than inform	This book is an academic romp through taboos, especially those that can in some way be related to excretion.  Laporte begins by reviewing a 1539 French royal edict that railed against the use of Latin in official documents. He then juxtaposes this with a second edict of the same year that expressed disgust at the unhygienic conditions of the Paris streets and responded by demanding that residents clean up their practices and house owners build cesspools.  He gropes to find a connection between the two edicts, and proceeds in a similar fashion throughout the book, striving to connect theories of philosophy, economics, and linguistics with a few episodes in the history of public hygiene in France.  Throughout the book, Laporte takes great enjoyment from wallowing in academic obfustication of his material. In the introduction, the translators note that they strived hard to faithfully convey the impenetrability of the text.  They greatly succeeded.  With words such as physiocrats, antiphrasis, and mephitic, you'll need a dictionary to get through this one.<br /><br />The book is illustrated with black and white photographs and drawings that appear at the end of each chapter.  To see where the illustrations fit, you must pay close attention to the margins of the text, where the figures are cited by number.  The connection between the illustrations and the topic of the corresponding part of the text is, in many case, not very clear.  Sources are cited using endnotes appearing at the end of the book.  There is no index.<br /><br />A few ideas presented in the book got me thinking a little, such as, the quotation from a letter by Paul Leroux, \\"By nature's law every man is at once a producer and consumer, and if he consumes, he produces.\\"  Most of the others left me scratching my head, such as \\"Language comes into its own only through an act of castration that marks it as feminine.\\" Readers with a thorough classical background in philosophy, semantics, and economic theory who find humor in the scatological may enjoy this book immensely.  But if you're actually looking for some historical material about sanitation and public hygiene, you would be better to look elsewhere.n the scatological may enjoy this book immensely.  But if you're actually looking for some historical material about sanitation and public hygiene, you would be better to look elsewhere.	2004-07-23
578897:US	51917998	R1G3ARW0MNU7ZV	9999589405	614517668	High Wide and Lonesome (88890)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Engaging	This book tells the story of a young boy who becomes a young man out on the high plains of Eastern Colorado.  In 1910, Hal Borland?s father got the wanderlust.  He left his job as typesetter and newspaper editor in a small town in Nebraska and set off for the plains.  He located a likely plot of land for homesteading in Colorado and returned to get Hal.  Together, Hal and his father built a house and dug a well, and after they were joined by Hal?s mother, they determined to make a stand on their land.  Over the next 3 years, life was not easy, between the vagaries of the weather, livestock losses, and health problems.  Hal gradually grew up learning to deal with coyotes, playing with prairie dogs, and doing the chores around the farm.<br /><br />I found the first part of the book a little slow.  The first chapter seemed to go on forever, with a blow-by-blow account of setting up the farm.  Once the buildings were finally constructed, however, and the family began to settle into daily life, I found the story much more engaging.  It brought back memories of family stories about my own grandfather?s boyhood growing up just across the border in Eastern Kansas during the same period.  I had heard that my grandfather?s family built a sod hut to live in, but I couldn?t really grasp what this meant.  Now, through Borland?s eyes, I can see that hut and picture some of the experiences that my grandfather must have had as a young child.  Towards the end of the book, Borland philosophizes a little about what it means to be a pioneer, living on the frontier.  One issue he doesn?t address is that this lifestyle was a choice not for him, but for his father, and that he and his mother lived through the homesteading adventure because it was his father?s dream.  Nevertheless, although homesteading was thrust upon him, he looks back on it with nostalgia and respect for the land and people.	2004-07-23
579475:US	51917998	R20ENTNG07IQFX	067168812X	991578042	The Anastasia Syndrome	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Science fiction	This book is a murder mystery where you know who?s done it all along.  Judith Chase is an American writer doing research in London.  She meets and falls in love with a British politician, the heir to the position of prime minister.  She has some psychological baggage that she?s dealing with, however.  She?s a British war orphan who was adopted by an American soldier as a small child, and her politician lover urges her to postpone any research on her British birth family until after the elections, at least.  But the sights and sounds of London are all too familiar for Judith and she starts having flashbacks.  She can?t put off learning about her birth family any longer and that?s where she gets into trouble.<br /><br />Much of the plot of the story turns on an invented psychological theory called the Anastasia syndrome, in which personae from the past can connect directly with living people.  In the book, this is done through mind altering drugs which result in a split personality.  Of course, that?s clearly not how a split personality works in real life, so the story lacks a lot in the area of plausibility.  Nevertheless, it is well told and engaging. If you can get past the science fiction foundation, it?s an enjoyable read- -right up until the sudden bizarre plot twist at the end.	2004-07-23
579477:US	51917998	R2887JJ7W6X0ZC	0292704569	855992557	Doctor Mary in Arabia: Memoirs	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Illuminating	This book tells the story of Dr. Mary Allison, medical missionary in the Arabian Gulf from 1935-1975.  Dr. Allison, or Dr. Mary, as she was known in the Gulf, was the daughter of a minister and decided at an early age that she wanted to be a missionary.  Since women at that time were not commonly called to the pulpit, she trained as an M.D., a general practitioner, and applied to work for a missionary society as soon as she completed her training.  She was sent to Kuwait in 1934, where she served in a mission hospital until 1964, with brief sojourns away during World War when she worked in the US and India.  Following her time in Kuwait, she also served in Bahrain and Oman until her retirement in 1975.  This book represents her personal memoirs of her years of training and service, stretching from her early childhood through retirement.  The book includes a small collection of black and white photographs documenting scenes of daily life in Kuwait and Oman, as well as the clinics where Dr. Allison worked and her patients and helpers.<br /><br />Dr. Allison comes across as being very modest about her training and skills.  She claimed she was of average ability, and many of the anecdotes described in the book tell of her medical failures, although some highlight her successes as well.  She possessed an unwavering faith in her particular version of Christianity, heavily influenced by her Dutch heritage.  She felt that even if she wasn?t the best doctor in the world, her very presence and willingness to serve gave life and hope to her patients.  Given the low level of development in the Gulf at the time and the lack of access to quality medical care, she was able to save hundreds, if not thousands of lives, through her work.  As for saving souls, she describes how she only knew of one or two Muslims during her entire 40 years in the Gulf who had converted to Christianity, and seemed to have trouble understanding why more were not attracted to her faith by the kinds of work the mission hospital was offering.<br /><br />The documentation that Allison provides of mission life in the Gulf during the first part of the Twentieth Century is invaluable.  Allison was in the middle of all the changes that came to pass as the oil money began to flow.  When she first arrived, she learned to survive and work through the desert summer heat without AC.  Her patients came to her with trachoma, tuberculosis, and infected feet from stepping on needles.  Then oil company men came from the West, and she even ended up marrying one herself.  She describes how the oil money brought AC, electric lights, cars, and schools.  If she could re-visit Kuwait today, she would find very little trachoma or infected feet.  Instead, there is diabetes, heart disease, and car accidents, the scourge of the Gulf which ensures that polygamy will be a common practice for all of the foreseeable future.  Although she left the region before all of these changes came to pass, she could already see them coming.<br /><br />Anyone who has spent time living in the Gulf will recognize that many traditions have changed very little since the time when Allison first arrived.  The Arabs still drink their coffee with cardamom, and a visitor must take 3 cups, swirling the last to signal satiation. Many women are still not free to pursue health care on their own, and medical personnel will not touch a woman, even in an emergency, without a husband?s permission.  Blood for transfusions is ever in great need, especially because of the innumerable car accidents, but people don?t die anymore for lack of blood donations because enough ex-pats are around to keep a steady blood supply, and even some Arabs are now willing to donate blood.  There is still a dearth of nurses from the Gulf, but the shortage is no longer due to lack of proper education for girls.  It turns out that Gulf Arabs just don?t like nursing as a career, so they still import the vast majority of their nurses from India and the Philippines.<br /><br />Although the information in the book is fascinating in itself, the book could really have used quite a bit more editing.  There are a number of places where Dr. Allison repeats the same anecdotes, and she occasionally even confuses the location where she met a particular patient, sometimes saying it was in Kuwait and later in Bahrain, for instance.  All in all, though, the book is well worth reading for anyone with an interest in the Gulf, especially those considering taking a medical posting in a Gulf country.and the Philippines. <br /> <br />Although the information in the book is fascinating in itself, the book could really have used quite a bit more editing.  There are a number of places where Dr. Allison repeats the same anecdotes, and she occasionally even confuses the location where she met a particular patient, sometimes saying it was in Kuwait and later in Bahrain, for instance.  All in all, though, the book is well worth reading for anyone with an interest in the Gulf, especially those considering taking a medical posting in a Gulf country. <br />	2004-07-23
589548:US	51917998	R1KHQF8Z7G2M1X	0060529334	262010179	Catch Me If You Can	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Amazing	This book relates the exploits of the young Frank Abagnale, Jr., master con-artist.  When Abagnale's parents split up in the early 1960s, Frank went to live with his father.  He was a teenager who was addicted to girls, and found that he needed greater and greater sums to gain their company.  To get a little extra money, he hatched his first scheme to score a little extra cash with his father's credit card.  This started him down the slippery slope, and before long, he moved on to passing bad checks, creating counterfeit checks, soon adopting entirely new identities and personae to assist in his paper-passing schemes.  The list of aliases and assumed positions is mind-boggling, ranging from pilot to pediatrician to professor.  What makes his story even more remarkable is that he was able to pass off each of these assumed identities successfully, even though he was in reality still a teenager.  This book details how he was able to do so, from interviewing real pilots, to learning the lingo of the trade, forging transcripts, studying technical dictionaries in broom closets when confronted on the job with terms he did not know, to cramming for and eventually passing the Bar in Georgia (at the age of 19, as a highschool dropout!).  Abagnale was certainly no slouch, and could have gone far in any field he chose to apply himself to.<br />Abagnale's capers become bolder and more unbelievable with every page, giving the story both suspense and comic relief at times.  The book doesn't leave readers with the message that crime pays, however.  Abagnale describes his foreign prison experiences in great and gruesome detail.  He also relates how he eventually ended up working for the FBI, having been fired from job after job in the civilian sector after employers found out he was an ex-convict.  Thanks to the efforts of the reformed Abagnale at educating bankers and clerks, kids today would have a far more difficult time pulling off the capers that he did.  But now, we have the Internet. . .Internet. . .	2004-07-14
589910:US	51917998	R1R5PJP1V1O4T8	0876901445	51913883	The Good Life Album of Helen & Scott Nearing	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Great pictures	This book is a photographic album of Helen and Scott Nearing's 50 years together.  The book is presented in roughly backwards chronological order, starting with two large sections covering their homesteads in Maine and Vermont.  At the end of the book are short sections covering highlights of their world travels, their individual lives before they met, and their early childhood pictures.  Some of the homesteading pictures are well-known, having been published in The Good Life, but most have not been published elsewhere and constitute fascinating photographic documentation of their projects.<br />The introduction to the book, written by Helen, is exceptionally well done.  In it, Helen contextualizes the pictures by providing brief yet informative biographies of both herself and Scott, and summarizing the goals of their homesteading projects.  She tells how Scott was ousted from academia in the Teens because of his political beliefs, and how she had spent her youth traveling the world studying music and meditation.  Soon after they met, Scott encouraged her to get a factory job, if only to experience real labor for the first time.  Then the sentence made famous by Living the Good Life, \\"We decided we would rather be poor in the country than poor in the city,\\" so they moved to Vermont.  Helen summarizes the goals of their Vermont project, and why they ultimately decided to move on to Maine.  She describes how they decided to balance their days in Maine, dividing time each day between communing with nature, doing a daily stint of bread labor, carrying on professional activities, associating with community members, and cultivating the life of mind and spirit.<br />By studying the pictures and the captions closely, the reader can glean some interesting tidbits of information about the Nearing's homesteading projects that are not described in words in their books.  In the photos one can see who the frequent visitors to their projects were, everyone from unnamed hippies to well-known people like Pearl S. Buck.  There is even a photo of Helen together with Masha, Scott's Russian daughter-in-law, in the Soviet Union.  John Scott's published account of his experiences in the Soviet Union (Behind the Urals), gave no indication that his parents had been to visit him there (or who his parents were), and evidence of such a visit certainly throws new light on his description of the events that forced him to return to the US.  The album is filled with small facts like these, waiting for the sharp-eyed reader to observe.o well-known people like Pearl S. Buck.  There is even a photo of Helen together with Masha, Scott's Russian daughter-in-law, in the Soviet Union.  John Scott's published account of his experiences in the Soviet Union (Behind the Urals), gave no indication that his parents had been to visit him there (or who his parents were), and evidence of such a visit certainly throws new light on his description of the events that forced him to return to the US.  The album is filled with small facts like these, waiting for the sharp-eyed reader to observe.	2004-07-14
590010:US	51917998	R3FV5XBUYPLBR0	0525164243	121035450	The Natural History of the Mind	Books	3	7	7	N	N	The mind works in mysterious ways	This book is an elaboration on the mysterious ways of the mind.  The book is divided into 5 parts: Scene Set (the introduction), Consciousness (theories of mind and brain), Inputs (the senses), Processing (memory), and Outcomes (conclusions).  In turn, each part consists of 3-5 chapters about individual topics related to the topic under discussion.  Each chapter begins with a famous literature quote, followed by a description of an extraordinary case as a lead-in.  The remainder of the chapter synthesizes known facts about the brain or the mind, great debates between philosophers and neuroscientists, and quite a few remarkable case histories.  The book ends with source notes (referenced by keywords rather than note numbers), a 15-page bibliography, and an index.<br />The book is filled with a wide range of interesting facts and phenomena.  Taylor's conversational style isn't for everyone though.  Each time he mentions a researcher by name, he also points out the researcher's nationality, frequently slipping in some disparaging remarks if the researcher is not British.  Main points are often lost amongst the details, especially the odd case histories, but the material is generally comprehensible to the general reader.	2004-07-14
590343:US	51917998	R3VS0SFJZFTO6O	0671709828	941921650	The Great Divide: How Females & Males Really Differ	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting	This book is a conglomeration of statistical information about men and women, their preferences, their bodies, and their lives.  The book is organized into topics, including: marriage, divorce, and home life; crime and drugs; romance and sex; work and money; school; social and political issues; knowledge and beliefs; TV, movies, and books; sports and leisure; bodies and beauty; food; health and death; and miscellaneous factoids.  Each piece of statistical information is presented with a pair of numbers, one for each gender, facilitating immediate comparison between the results for women and men.  The source for each piece of information is also noted by number, with the corresponding reference listed in full at the end of the book.  There is no topical index.  Cases where there are striking or unexpected differences between women and men are pointed out in bold type.  Groups of related facts that tell interesting stories when taken as a whole are highlighted in boxes with gray backgrounds.<br />Many of the data are unexceptional.  Yes, we all know that men are, on average, larger and more powerful than women.  In quite a few cases, like the opinion on whether there should be a beverage can deposit, the answers for men and women look virtually the same, yet in other cases, like whether a high school student has badly injured another during the past year, the numbers are very different across the genders.  One weakness with the presentation is that Weiss does not note which differences reached statistical significance and which could have been due to chance.  Presumably, he and the publisher may have felt that doing so would have detracted from readability for the general reader, and presumably, an interested researcher can use the end notes to find the associated p values in the original sources.<br />From reading this book, one gets the impression that men are more willing to take risks than women.  As a result, they have higher death rates at all ages, they have higher rates of drug and alcohol abuse, but they also take very challenging courses in college and aim for high-pressured and (high-paying) professions.  Women seem to prefer the safe route, are more interested in health issues, and express greater interest in religion and spiritual matters.  Much of the book, however, seems to bring across the idea that on a surprising number of issues, women and men have the same opinions after all, and with these issues, one gets a picture of how society in general views the issue.  Although the book was assembled from statistics and surveys gathered in the 1980s, much of the material is probably still valid today (with the likely exception of the overwhelming antagonism on the part of both men and women towards \\"car\\" phones).higher rates of drug and alcohol abuse, but they also take very challenging courses in college and aim for high-pressured and (high-paying) professions.  Women seem to prefer the safe route, are more interested in health issues, and express greater interest in religion and spiritual matters.  Much of the book, however, seems to bring across the idea that on a surprising number of issues, women and men have the same opinions after all, and with these issues, one gets a picture of how society in general views the issue.  Although the book was assembled from statistics and surveys gathered in the 1980s, much of the material is probably still valid today (with the likely exception of the overwhelming antagonism on the part of both men and women towards \\"car\\" phones).	2004-07-14
590418:US	51917998	R1TO4IJ9HNIMBE	0839772378	944079291	Rough Road Home	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Runs out of steam	This book chronicles the arrival in rural Vermont in the early 1950s of a widow and her five young children, and how they established a new life for themselves together there.  Melissa Mather had been living on an army base in Virginia with her husband and children.  The Korean War was looming, and it became obvious that her husband would be deployed overseas.  Meanwhile, one of her children, Mike, was autistic, and his uncontrolled behavior on the base was making him unwelcome there.  Melissa set off in search of a rural house that would be cheap and far from neighbors and traffic so that Mike would be safe living there.  At last, in Vermont, she found a house meeting her requirements.  But life seldom goes according to plan, and before she was ready to move, Mike was expelled from the base and her husband's plane went down, so it was off to Vermont in March for the grieving family, while the snow was still thick on the ground.<br />Mather must have had a phenomenal amount of inner strength, strength to feed, house, and clothe her growing brood.  She quickly learned how hospitable Vermonters can be as neighbors, how they accepted Mike's differences without passing judgment on her or her other children.  Of course, some people could still be hard to live with, like the neighbor who couldn't be bothered to fence to his cows properly, but most were fine characters.<br />As I read this book, I found myself drawn deeper and deeper into Mather's tragic story, and her heroic struggle.  For chapter after chapter, I could not put the book down.  Then, suddenly, Mather seemed to run out of steam as Vermont farm life began to define her experience, and the story began to drag.  Towards the end of the book, she devotes almost an entire chapter to the detailed history of a 1950s town politics debacle over school expansion.  By this point, it seemed almost as though she were clutching at any material she could to fill out the book to monograph size.  On another level, however, bringing out the importance of town politics certainly demonstrates how her priorities changed once she had settled in.  She was no longer focused so much on the day-to-day details of survival; she was in the slow lane at last.bringing out the importance of town politics certainly demonstrates how her priorities changed once she had settled in.  She was no longer focused so much on the day-to-day details of survival; she was in the slow lane at last.	2004-07-14
607140:US	51917998	RLSR78IL0HUA	0839701055	186084292	Aegean Summer: A Family Odyssey	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Finding family	This book is a personal family history of a special vacation that changed one family's lives.  In the 1960s, Mimi Summerskill was a divorced mother of five, who, in addition to bringing up her children alone, was also required to support her ex-husband, who was mentally ill and hospitalized.  She was working long hours trying to get her travel business established, and shared her house with another single mom.  Her eldest son was getting ready to start law school, and the remaining children were approaching university age, when out of the blue, Mimi received an inheritance of $30,000.  She could have set the money aside for the children's education, but instead, Mimi decided they would have one last vacation together, as a family.  She felt that over the years, her children had missed much of being a family, between her ex-husband's illness, and her struggle to keep food on the table, and she was determined to provide a family experience that would stay with them forever. On a whim, she took the inheritance money, traveled to Greece and rented a yacht with crew for 3 months.  All five of her children joined her on the yacht, and together they explored the islands and their relationships as a family under the Greek sun.  Over the course of the summer, Greece got under their skin, and they established a second home there together.<br />This is no ordinary travel book- -it's a very personal story about an extremely difficult time in a family's life.  Each of the individuals was poised to move on; indeed, some had already taken steps away.  This trip remade them and gave them a new center to start from.  The writing is extremely smooth, effectively balancing descriptive details and diary events with introspective analysis.  It's a great story of what a determined woman can accomplish with the help of her family.	2004-07-01
609543:US	51917998	R1C0JC9RYFZ28D	0805805524	254712487	Television and the Quality of Life: How Viewing Shapes Everyday Experience (Routledge Communication Series)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Who watches TV?	This book is an exploration into the effect television has on the viewer's state of mind.  The organization and style of the book read very much like a dissertation that has been reworked slightly for publication.  The style of writing is very academic, and is geared to academic rather than general audiences.  The first two chapters are pure literature review covering information reception and previous research about television viewing.  The next chapter discusses the research methods.  The main study involved a group of about 100 adults living near Chicago in the 1970s, who were asked to keep activity and mood diaries over the course of a week.  The data from this study were combined with data from a number of other studies that examined television viewing habits of mostly Americans and Canadians.  The remaining chapters cover various aspects of the results and discussion, including: how television fits into the scheme of leisure time, how television affects viewer's moods, how television affects family life, why some people view more than others, uses of television, television and marketing, and television and personal growth.  As with a dissertation, sources are cited within the text and each chapter has extensive endnotes for further explication and references.  The questionnaires used in the study are reproduced in the appendices.  A full list of references is included, as well as an author index and a subject index.<br />So what did they find out from their study about viewers in the 1970s?  First, participants in the study watched about 1.4 hours of TV each day, which represented 6.6% of the participants' total waking hours.  TV viewing was the most time-consuming activity engaged in at home, and TV viewing absorbed 40% of all leisure time, or another way to look at it, 25% of all time spent at home was spent watching TV.  Ninety-three percent of TV viewing occurred in one's own home.  Most viewing occurred between 7:30 and 10 PM on weekdays.  Twenty percent of the time, people watched TV because they had nothing better to do, giving TV the highest nothing-better-to-do ranking of major home activities including reading, eating, cooking, chores, talking, and grooming.<br />People tend to watch more TV when they are in a bad mood or when they just want to relax with something mindless.  When compared to work, other leisure activities, or meals, participants reported that TV required the least concentration, challenge, and skill of all, and people were most passive when watching TV than when engaging in any other leisure activity.  Watching TV had the lowest mood and activation ranking of fifteen common daily activities that included such items as resting, transit, and chores.  When compared to sports and other leisure activities, it was found that TV required much less concentration during the activity, and that participants found it harder to concentrate after watching TV than before they began.  TV viewing is quite relaxing while participants engage in it, but once they turn the set off, they tend to feel less relaxed than when they began, which is the opposite of what happens with sports and other activities. Marketers are well aware of the fact that people watch TV for relaxation and try to keep people in front of the set by offering soothing or entertaining programs rather than material that will require concentration or upset viewers.  The difficulty that people have eliminating TV viewing altogether from their lives suggests that some aspects of TV viewing may be addictive.<br />For the most part, I found the results of the study to be quite predictable- -we all hear from many sides that TV viewing is not good for our mental health.  There were a few interesting points that Kubey and Csikszentmilhalyi uncovered that weren't fully explored, however.  They note that families that watch more TV tend to get along better, and posit that one possible reason for this could be that TV watching helps to diffuse tensions, aswell as provide an activity whose skill level is so low that children and adults can participate in it together.  The authors note that surprisingly, the most well-adjusted teenagers have the highest levels of viewing, but they point out that teenagers with problems don't tend to spend a lot of time at home, and since most TV viewing is done in the home, there is probably no cause-and-effect link between level of adjustment and TV viewing.  They note that heaviest viewers tend to be women living alone and married men living with families (married women with families give up some of their potential TV viewing time to do housework).  Elsewhere in the book, they note that Blacks seem to watch more than Whites, and that viewing time increases with education.  I have a hunch, however, that the most educated people in their study may have been precisely those married men whose wives were doing the housework, and that their level of education was predicted by their gender, and that their gender and family status determined how much TV they watched, not their level of education.  It would have been worth it to pair up people of different family status and similar educational backgrounds to see if the observation that educated people tend to watch more TV really holds water.<br />By now, the data from the study are quite dated, with our cable TV possibilities far out-numbering the 3 major networks of the 1970s, as well as the advent of the Internet and development of the computer game industry to compete for leisure time with TV watching.  It would be quite interesting to re-do the study in light of these developments, to see how TV relates to our leisure time and mental state today.sions, as well as provide an activity whose skill level is so low that children and adults can participate in it together.  The authors note that surprisingly, the most well-adjusted teenagers have the highest levels of viewing, but they point out that teenagers with problems dont tend to spend a lot of time at home, and since most TV viewing is done in the home, there is probably no cause-and-effect link between level of adjustment and TV viewing.  They note that heaviest viewers tend to be women living alone and married men living with families (married women with families give up some of their potential TV viewing time to do housework).  Elsewhere in the book, they note that Blacks seem to watch more than Whites, and that viewing time increases with education.  I have a hunch, however, that the most educated people in their study may have been precisely those married men whose wives were doing the housework, and that their level of education was predicted by their gender, and that their gender and family status determined how much TV they watched, not their level of education.  It would have been worth it to pair up people of different family status and similar educational backgrounds to see if the observation that educated people tend to watch more TV really holds water.    <br />By now, the data from the study are quite dated, with our cable TV possibilities far out-numbering the 3 major networks of the 1970s, as well as the advent of the Internet and development of the computer game industry to compete for leisure time with TV watching.  It would be quite interesting to re-do the study in light of these developments, to see how TV relates to our leisure time and mental state today.	2004-06-30
611392:US	51917998	RHKJ174VFGXGS	0133889750	411529534	Hinduism: A Cultural Perspective (Prentice-Hall Series in World Religions)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Concise and comprehensible	This book is a concise introduction to Hinduism for Westerners.  It covers the early history and development of the religion, Hindu sects, Hinduism and the arts, central beliefs, worship practices, social structure, and symbolism.  The book is illustrated with high quality black-and-white photos.  It includes a glossary, a bibliography of further readings organized by topic, and an index.<br />I searched for a comprehensible introduction to Hinduism without success until I stumbled across this book.  I've read everything I could find on Hinduism from Huston Smith to Klaus Klostermaier and was still left scratching my head, wondering what the central tenets in the Hindu religion are.  I found Klostermaier informative in some aspects, but his description tends to be so detailed and technical that I lost the forest through the trees.  In contrast, Kinsley is quite succinct and writes on a level that interested Western general readers can easily understand.  He covers the central tension in the religion, the struggle to choose between serving one's earthly duties and seeking personal release from the cycle of rebirth, as well as the main religious texts exceptionally well.  He also describes many facets of the cultural connections to the religion quite well- -I found his observations on the importance of ornamentation and idealism in the arts to be especially illuminating.  Not only does it help make sense of Hindu graphic arts, but it has also helped me make more sense of the focus on ornamentation in Indian classical music.  Kinsley doesn't explain the Hindu Gods as clearly as some of the other topics that he discusses, and I find that I am still a little hazy on who's who in the pantheon, and how they are related to each other.  But over all, despite its brevity, this book has given me a much firmer grasp of Hinduism than any other books I have read to date on the topic.	2004-06-28
612190:US	51917998	R1TW68CVISHNV9	0553528874	357027775	The Web (Alex Delaware, No. 10)	Books	1	29	33	N	N	Overstepping his experience	This is a crime story featuring Alex Delaware.  In this story, Alex answers a request to help an old doctor in the South Seas organize some medical records for publication.  Once Delaware arrives on the doctor's island, people start to die, and it's up to Delaware to pull together the clues of what's been happening and put an end to the deaths.<br />I found the story to be exceptionally preposterous as a murder/crime story.  Kellerman seems to be writing from far beyond his experience, making up details and descriptions from his imagination rather than from fact or experience.  One glaring example is when he has his main characters put on swim fins on the beach and then wander into the surf- -if you've ever tried this yourself, you probably still have the bruises to show for it, and won't forget to wait until you're well into the water to put the fins on next time you go snorkeling.  Kellerman also manages to place McArthur at the battle of  Saipan during World War II, among other gaffes.  But worst is the entire premise of Delaware's trip to the island.  Supposedly, Delaware, a psychologist who is notable enough to have stories printed about him in the popular press, receives a request to collaborate on a research and writing project with an unknown medical doctor who has lived on an obscure island in the South Pacific for years.  The M.D. doesn't have any particular theories or hypotheses in mind that he is working on.  Instead, he has some 40-50 years of unorganized records (from patients whom he has never sought consent to involve or use their records in a research project), and he expects Delaware to come out to the island and sort through the records on the off chance that there might be something worth publishing.  This is the strangest notion I have ever read of how scientific collaboration operates- -obviously, Kellerman has never discussed scientific collaboration with any researcher friends that he might have.  Much of the rest of the book runs at about the same level of quality and plausibility.  The story itself takes a while to get laid out, but then picks up a bit through the second half and may hold the attention of determined readers.he same level of quality and plausibility.  The story itself takes a while to get laid out, but then picks up a bit through the second half and may hold the attention of determined readers.	2004-06-28
612424:US	51917998	RB15IH0II65CR	0882669435	977755282	Keeping Life Simple: 7 Guiding Principles, 500 Tips & Ideas	Books	2	17	17	N	Y	500 things you can do . . .	This book is a collection of bits of advice about life and how to live it.  It is intended for people who have come to the conclusion that there is more to life than consumption.  The book begins with seven guiding principles:<br />1. Relax your standards.<br />2. Free yourself of stereotypical roles.<br />3. Take time to figure out what you find most satisfying.<br />4. Create time for the things you care about.<br />5. Learn to enjoy what's in front of you.<br />6. Learn to be flexible.<br />7. Prioritize.<br />After laying out these principles, Levine recommends keeping an activity log for a week  At the end of the week, she asks readers to analyze their activities during the week to see how closely they are aligned with the principles.  She wants readers to especially focus on how satisfied each activity made them feel, and also whether each activity was an efficient use of time.  The remainder of the book consists of tips for simplifying or getting more satisfaction out of life, organized by topics like rest and relaxation, taking care of yourself, managing money, and home repairs and maintenance.<br />After reading the introduction to the book, I had high hopes for finding some useful ideas or encouragement for living a simple life.  Unfortunately, the tips section of the book doesn't quite live up to the promises.  Quite a number of the tips are general and aren't exactly focused on living simply, like the suggestion to occasionally run your dish strainer through your dish washer \\"to get it really clean.\\"  It's hard to see the connection between the simplicity philosophy and other tips like \\"learn a foreign language in your car.\\"  Others seem to be downright inconsistent with simplicity like \\"take a bubble bath with votive candles and buy a copy of Chant.\\"  The idea behind the book itself is intriguing, but it would have been much better to either describe the credible simplicity tips in greater detail or come up with a lot more credible simplicity tips and eliminate the fluff.luff.	2004-06-28
619298:US	51917998	RQ6Z8U5RS9ZW8	0679735941	861868103	The Experience of Place: A New Way of Looking at and Dealing With our Radically Changing Cities and Countryside	Books	3	20	21	N	N	from a New Yorkers point of view	This book is an exploration about what makes a place look and feel right for human habitation.  In the introduction, Hiss sets out some interesting goals.  To justify his outlook, he states \\"the places where we spend our time affect the people we are and can become,\\"  and later adds \\"the relationship with the places we know...is a close bond...a continuum with all we are and think.\\"  It follows, then, that changes in our environment will affect ourselves as well, and that \\"overdevelopment and urban sprawl can damage our own lives as much as they damage our cities and countryside.\\"  Hiss goes on to argue that before changing a place, we need to make sure that the changes will nurture our growth as people, protect the natural environment, and develop jobs and homes for all.  It's tough making the right decisions that will result in these sorts of positive changes, so Hiss advises that we need to learn to pay close attention to our surroundings, using all of our senses at once.  If we don't do this, then bad changes in our environment will come to pass, and we will experience a sense of loss as places that are dear to us disappear.<br />The introduction is an intriguing essay, but for me, the rest of the book didn't live up to the goals laid out by Hiss in the introduction.  The main text is divided into two parts: \\"Experiencing Cities,\\" and \\"Encountering the Countryside.\\"  The titles themselves of these sections make it clear that the book is told entirely from a city person's point of view, a person who experiences city life on a day-to-day basis, and only makes it out into the country for short encounters.  But even more specifically, Hiss is not just a city person, but a New Yorker, and almost all of the examples that he uses to make his points are from New York City.  This is fine for New Yorkers, but if you are not very familiar with New York neighborhoods and landmarks, his examples don't carry a strong resonance.  To really make this book approachable by wider audiences, it would have been great for him to branch out to other cities like San Francisco, Minneapolis, or even Boston, which he may have visited once or twice.  The adage goes \\"Write what you know,\\" and Hiss apparently took this to heart.<br />Topics covered in part one include: simultaneous perception, a sort of intuitive sixth sense that people use to feel their links to their surroundings (as when people find their way through a crowded rail terminal without bumping into others); connections, and how design elements can resonate with people or not; possibilities of planning, and tools for exploring the sensual impact of proposed changes; and picking up the pieces- -examining why certain urban spaces don't work well and what can be done to fix them.  Part two includes: working landscapes, or an in-depth description of the importance of the last working farm in New York City; highways, and how they connect city people to the suburbs and vacation spots; next generation- -limiting development so that city people will still have working landscapes to look at and visit; creating public value, or the importance of green spaces for city dwellers; and thinking regionally, which discusses developing urban green spaces and protecting working landscapes by clustering suburban development.  The book closes with a short bibliography and it includes an index.<br />For me, some of the most interesting parts of the book were the short asides, bits of research that Hiss had worked into the text.  For instance, I learned that researchers have found that parks should be within a 3 minute walk of residents, or they won't be used.  Or, New York City restaurants don't serve water without  a request because of habits learned during a 1965 drought.  And I never dreamed that there was a working farm, zoned for agriculture in Queens.  But I wanted so much more from this book than these factoids.  Some of Hiss's ideas were quite interesting at the outset, but made no connections to me,since I have never been to New York City, nor do I have any interest in visiting it.  The book had a lot of potential, as was clear in the introduction, but I wanted to learn more about humans' connection to natural places, wild landscapes and country villages, and not just those found on Long Island within 50 miles of the city.  In his introduction, it sounded like Hiss meant to comment on the environment at large, rather than just the New York City environment.  Perhaps a broader choice of examples (and even including some truly rural or even wild places) might have the points stick., since I have never been to New York City, nor do I have any interest in visiting it.  The book had a lot of potential, as was clear in the introduction, but I wanted to learn more about humans' connection to natural places, wild landscapes and country villages, and not just those found on Long Island within 50 miles of the city.  In his introduction, it sounded like Hiss meant to comment on the environment at large, rather than just the New York City environment.  Perhaps a broader choice of examples (and even including some truly rural or even wild places) might have the points stick.	2004-06-22
624661:US	51917998	RLDW7IWYKSXMO	067972558X	750071833	Satisfaction Guaranteed	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Detailed	This is a very detailed economic history of wholesaling and retailing from about 1880 to 1930.  The first chapter describes how Proctor and Gamble set out about creating consumer demand for a completely new product, Crisco, in 1912.  In this chapter, Strasser eloquently points out \\"Human needs...are cultural constructs....Some people need yams and breadfruit, others Post Toasties and Kellogg's corn flakes.\\"  Now there's a thought worth pondering, as we consider \\"Do we need a second car in the family?  Do we need a new TV?  Do we need dental floss?\\"<br />After reading some of Strasser's other books, I expected this book to focus more on this topic of need creation in the world of American manufacturing.  However, much of the rest of the book is devoted to documenting business practices during the period.  Subsequent chapters cover labeling and branding as a means of establishing consumer confidence and brand loyalty, the shift away from middlemen in the chain of distribution from producers to retailers, advertising as a way to introduce new products and habits to consumers, early marketing and promotion practices, the development of the self-service grocery store and the rise of retail chains and government regulations of the period affecting retailing and food.  The book is amply illustrated with black and white reproductions of period ads, photographs, and cartoons.  Source material is referenced with unnumbered endnotes; there is no separate bibliography or list of suggested readings.  The book includes an index.<br />I found reading this book through to be a tough slog.  The style is highly academic, and the details tend to obscure the big picture.  I found myself lost in the details, waiting for her to address the main points.  I wanted to learn more about how manufacturers had changed American culture.  Looking back and reflecting on what Strasser wrote, I can see that she did indeed tackle these topics, but there was so much information about the history of manufacturing and retailing and marketing that I missed what I was looking for in the first place.  That said, the book still represents a fine piece of academic research.  Her overview of the development of marketing and retailing practices in America from 1900-1930 is particularly well-researched and her illustrations are varied and well-chosen.  All in all, the book wasn't exactly what I was looking for, but it was still well worth reading.nufacturing and retailing and marketing that I missed what I was looking for in the first place.  That said, the book still represents a fine piece of academic research.  Her overview of the development of marketing and retailing practices in America from 1900-1930 is particularly well-researched and her illustrations are varied and well-chosen.  All in all, the book wasn't exactly what I was looking for, but it was still well worth reading.	2004-06-18
634486:US	51917998	R2HIVIGHDE5C1O	0395735335	505831276	Second Chances: Men, Women and Children a Decade After Divorce	Books	4	30	30	N	N	Eye opening	This book reports the results of several research projects conducted by Wallerstein to investigate recovery from divorce.  As divorce statistics were mounting in the 1960s and 1970s, conventional wisdom held that divorce was rough on spouses and children, but after one or two years, most people got over it and moved on.  Wallerstein and her team decided to see how true this was.  They interviewed spouses and children who happened to live near their offices in California during the early 1970s and who were going through a divorce at the time.  Then they found the same people a year later and interviewed them again to see how many had recovered from the divorce, and to what extent.  At the time of the second interview, they were surprised to find out how many people hadn't recovered yet, so they checked back again with the same people after five years to see when the recovery happened.  They were quite surprised to find that most people still hadn't recovered after five years, so they found the people again at ten years, and some of them even after fifteen years, and were dismayed to find that most people never really do recover completely from divorce.  Some of the spouses, often who originally sought the divorce, came out ahead, but most of the children were devastated by the divorce and hadn't recovered even by the fifteen year mark, when many were already young adults and forming families of their own.<br />Important results from Wallerstein's research include:<br />--Women who are older (40+) when they divorce are much less likely to ever remarry than men who divorce at a comparable age.  Women who are younger at the time of divorce often remarry.<br />--The age of the children plays a very important role in how well they adjust to the new family structure.  Boys are especially vulnerable if they are between the ages of five and seven when their parents divorce.  Girls who are young when their parents split up may suddenly need stronger connections with their fathers when they become teenagers.<br />--Joint custody didn't seem to be any better for the eventual development of the children than traditional single-parent custody arrangements- -but some parents enjoyed the regular time away from the kids.<br />My husband's parents divorced when he was three.  We've been together twenty years, but until reading this book, I never was truly aware of how devastated he was by the divorce.  I knew that the divorce still disturbed him, but I never understood how much or why, or why it was still so sad for him forty years later.  The book also got me thinking back to my best friend in middle school, whose parents got divorced.  I knew she was very upset about the divorce at the time, but I couldn't understand what she was going through.  Her family decided on joint custody, and for a while, it seemed every time I would call her house to ask her to come over, her mother would tell me that she was staying at her father's.  Since neither of us were old enough to drive, we stopped getting together as often as before, and eventually, I stopped calling.  We found that we couldn't maintain our closeness with all of her bouncing from house to house, and we drifted apart just at a time when she needed close friends the most.  After reading this book, I began to understand that to a child, divorce seems to be like amputating a limb- -if someone loses an arm or leg, they generally learn to compensate within a year or two, but they are never completely whole again.<br />The information and depth of research represented in this book is very good, but the story is not quite complete.  In order to determine whether the continuing problems that the children had were due to the divorce or to chance, the study would have much better if Wallerstein had included a control group of similar families who did not divorce.  It also would have been good to compare the children of divorced families with children who have lost a parent through death, and adoptedchildren, and children who are raised in single parent families from birth.  Designing a study to include all of these groups would be unwieldy, but it would have been nice to at least see for comparison results from other published studies that covered these groups. Overall, though, the book is quite well done, and extremely thought-provoking.ren, and children who are raised in single parent families from birth.  Designing a study to include all of these groups would be unwieldy, but it would have been nice to at least see for comparison results from other published studies that covered these groups. Overall, though, the book is quite well done, and extremely thought-provoking.	2004-06-10
634888:US	51917998	R3R5U4KNQCPVSU	1882412060	663202351	The Odyssey: An Epic Telling (The Odds Bodkin Storytelling Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great story!	This is fantastic telling of Homer's Odyssey.  Bodkin regales us of Homer's adventures, beginning with a scene inside the wooden horse of Troy, through confronting the Cyclops, battles with cannibals, and his long awaited return to Ithaca.  Bodkin gives each character a distinct voice and develops moods and transitions with his guitar in the background.  The changes in voices are so intricate that when I first listened to the tape, I thought Bodkin had put the recording together by blending several independently recorded tracks.  But if you listen closely, you can hear coughs in the background, evidence that this was a recording of a live performance, and Bodkin managed to create all of the rich sounds found on the tape while reciting in front of a live audience.<br />I managed to escape reading the Odyssey while I was in school.  On the one hand, that's too bad, because now, having heard this story, I realize what a tremendous influence the story has had on all literature that followed, and how much I have missed over the years by not having any familiarity with the Odyssey.  But on the other hand, it was fitting to have my first experience with Homer to be this one- -this story was meant to be shared orally, rather than read.  And Bodkin is a master storyteller, who has made the tale come alive.  Now that I've heard the story properly, I think I'm ready to study it more thoroughly with a book.	2004-06-10
638374:US	51917998	ROURW5COWCGJ6	0743506278	192801376	The Judas Judge (Kevin Kerney Novels)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Exploration of perversion	This is a Kevin Kerney murder mystery.  The book starts off with the investigation of a killing spree, which Kerney immediately assumes is actually a cover-up for a premeditated murder.  As Kerney sorts the clues and interviews the subject, he uncovers the disturbing history of a family gone mad.<br />I picked up this book with the intention of reading a light who-dunnit.  I was taken aback however, as the theme of the book began to become clear.  The book is about perversion, on many levels, involving both individuals and families, from personal life to professional life.  While following the lurid details of a family's dirty laundry can maintain interest, it wasn't exactly what I was in the mood for.  McGarrity's style is also a bit uneven at times, with jarring switches of points of view from Kerney to other characters, telling not only what they are doing, but what they are thinking and feeling inside their heads.  Kerney himself is not always believable as a character, with his instant recognition of the premeditated murder based solely on one victim of the killing spree receiving two shots in the chest instead of one and his exclusive investigation of only this one victim and his family.  If you're looking for a light book to keep you awake and pass the time, this one may do, but it's not for everyone's tastes.	2004-06-07
638539:US	51917998	R1NM37KE6S8SGZ	0140102310	248931957	Home: A Short History of an Idea	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Exploration	This book is an exploration into the meaning of the word \\"comfort\\" and its place in the home.  Rybczynski begins the volume with an examination of the Sixteenth Century painting by Durer \\"Saint Jerome in His Study\\".  He describes each of the objects and furnishings visible in the paining in turn, noting that they are not particularly conducive to comfort or reflective of individuality.  Rybczynski goes on to describe how this painting may be representative of the era in which it was painted, how houses at the time had many occupants and were spaces where people lived communally, but not necessarily as a family in the present sense of the term.  He argues that in the Sixteenth Century, the nuclear family as a residential unit was non-existent, since children were sent away to live and work with others at a young age, and households always included many unrelated servants or apprentices.  It was only later, as the concept of the nuclear family became more established that the need for privacy came to the fore, and private and public spaces began to be differentiated within the house.  Later developments in technology, especially plumbing, ventilation, and lighting also came to influence housing design.  One of the themes of the book is how the field of interior design has often been faced with the conflict between what looks good and what feels good.  Rybcynski stresses that often the style of a design wins out, leaving the residents with the very least in comfort (to the point of having to carry their toothbrushes to and from the bathroom for lack of proper storage there, for instance).<br />Some of Rybcynski's discussion is quite interesting, particularly that concerning the influences French, Dutch, and British cultures have had on the development of houses and homes over the centuries, especially in North America.  It would have been interesting to consider some of the influences of other world cultures on housing styles as well.  For example, certainly Spanish and Arabic cultures have had a strong impact on house design and interiors of North American homes.  However, considering such topics for the sake of completeness might have taken the book too far afield.  In order to explore the concept of comfort with respect to design, Rybcynski has selected only a few examples of cultures and designers to explicate his points.<br />The book is academic in style, although quite accessible and engaging for the general reader.  Sources are listed in the extensive endnotes, and there is an index.d Arabic cultures have had a strong impact on house design and interiors of North American homes.  However, considering such topics for the sake of completeness might have taken the book too far afield.  In order to explore the concept of comfort with respect to design, Rybcynski has selected only a few examples of cultures and designers to explicate his points.  <br />The book is academic in style, although quite accessible and engaging for the general reader.  Sources are listed in the extensive endnotes, and there is an index.	2004-06-07
639640:US	51917998	RWWDGU7WTTR8T	0679458182	306877497	Personal History	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fascinating	This is a very personal autobiography of Katharine Graham, one of the most influential women of the Twentieth Century.  Graham begins her story with the tale of how her parents met at an art exhibition, and relates the events of her early childhood.  She explains how her father came to purchase the Washington Post, and how she alone amongst her siblings was truly drawn to the paper from her teenage years.  She goes on to describe dating and eventually marrying Phil Graham, and how her father came to pass the management of the newspaper on to him.  Later, she details Graham's descent into mental illness leading to his suicide, and how it finally fell onto her shoulders to lead the paper.  Her most fascinating stories, however, come from her tenure as publisher of the Post, covering the turbulent period from the release of the Pentagon Papers, to the uncovering of the Watergate scandal and to the lengthy pressmen's strike against the Post in the 1970s.<br />The story is indeed a personal one, in which Graham documents events from her own point of view.  As I read this book, I was constantly aware that Graham may have chosen to leave out some details and emphasize others in order to show herself in the best light.  But since this is an autobiography, such a subjective account is perfectly reasonable.  This is history as Graham would have it told.	2004-06-07
639673:US	51917998	R71SMAB12HWSS	0671046373	314297554	McNally's Puzzle (Archy McNally Novels)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Amusing	This is an Archy McNally murder mystery.  It follows Archy's investigation of threats to Hiram Gottschalk, one of his father's Palm Beach legal clients.  Archy himself is a light-hearted socialite, who describes characters first by the labels on their clothing.  Archy works on his investigation mainly by wining and dining the suspects at parties and clubs, and manages to discover who is behind Gottshalk's eventual murder without working up a sweat.<br />Archy's character, with his unrelenting focus on fashion and the finer things of life, makes the book rather amusing.  However, the story isn't entirely believable, since Archy, is of course, able to dictate to the bad guys where and when he will confront them.  These weaknesses aside, the book makes an enjoyable light read.	2004-06-07
639761:US	51917998	RHRNIGACUUPYJ	0801492769	636734433	Bird Sounds and Their Meaning	Books	3	2	2	N	N	For avid birders	This book is an exploration into various aspects of bird sounds.  It contains 12 chapters, covering such topics as bird communication, bird sounds, songs, moods, song learning, dialects, variations, songs as identifiers, mimicry, and birdsong research.  Jellis begins by observing the purposes of bird sounds, pointing out that characteristics of bird sounds are dependent on the birds' environment.  She notes that more intricate sounds are common in areas with lush foliage, where birds must sing in order to let others know where they are.  She enumerates the times when birds sing, such as when trying to attract a mate, warning others of a threat, or expressing pain or satisfaction. She also describes how the social organization of each species affects the sounds they make.  Throughout the book, song samples are represented with sound-spectographs, and the birds described in the text are illustrated with black and white drawings in the margins.  At the end of the book are suggestions for further reading organized by chapter, endnotes for cited sources, and an index of species mentioned.<br />My interest in birdsong stems mostly from my training in linguistics, and I am not a skilled birder, although I do observe the birds in my own backyard in Vermont.  Jellis lived in Britain, and most the birds that she discusses are common in Britain or Europe, but may not be as well known to American readers.  Since I have no familiarity at all with European birds, I have no basis to understand Jellis' examples, which come mostly from European birds, so I found the text rather hard to follow.  Although I am familiar with sound-spectrographs from my linguistics studies, I could make little sense of the bird sound-spectrographs used to transcribe songs in this book- -unfortunately, Jellis provides very little guidance in this area.  I came to this book hoping to learn more about birdsong research, or at least get an idea of how to interpret the sounds in the forest around me.  I did learn a few facts here and there, but most of the book seemed more an inventory or listing of the fascinating sounds that birds might make rather than an overview of bird communication.  Serious birders may enjoy the book for the specific examples that it provides, especially with European birds, but general readers who are interested in bird communication may be better off looking elsewhere.learn a few facts here and there, but most of the book seemed more an inventory or listing of the fascinating sounds that birds might make rather than an overview of bird communication.  Serious birders may enjoy the book for the specific examples that it provides, especially with European birds, but general readers who are interested in bird communication may be better off looking elsewhere.	2004-06-07
663095:US	51917998	R3H8WSKQ0CHK5	0771087489	152082115	Much Depends on Dinner	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Fascinating facts about the mundane	This book is an exploration into the science and lore of common foods.  In the introduction, the author notes that the topic is far too broad to be covered in any detail in a single volume, so she has restricted herself to examining 9 ingredients found in a simple dinner menu: corn with salt and butter, chicken with rice, lettuce with olive oil and lemon juice, and ice cream.  Each subsequent chapter takes up one of these ingredients in turn.  At the end of the book there is an extensive section of references, organized first by general references and encyclopedias, and then by specific references corresponding to each chapter.  There is also an index.<br />The material in each chapter is quite varied, ranging from history, mythology, science, and economic botany, to health concerns and environmental issues.  We read about such topics as the history of corn flakes, the significance of salt-making for the Indian independence movement, and the preservation of lettuce through irradiation or sprinkling with sulphite.  All in all, the book is quite fascinating, with many facts and figures for those interested in food history and culture.	2004-05-18
663282:US	51917998	R1DMV5F4WUWMY4	0394510240	346636261	Never Done: A History of American Housework	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Fascinating history	This book is a history of American housework, covering common household tasks, related equipment, and the people called on to do the work.  The main topics of the book include food production and processing, food preparation and the evolution of cookstoves, home heating and lighting, the spread of domestic gas and electricity services, water supplies and plumbing, laundry, weaving and sewing, taking in paying boarders, maids, the scientific housekeeping movement and the birth of home economics, childcare, and consumption as an avocation.  The book is amply illustrated with black and white reproductions of period paintings, drawings, and advertisements.  In addition to a bibliographic note for further study, there is a section of source notes at the end of the book citing original materials, as well as an index.<br />In reading the acknowledgements of Ruth Schwartz Cowan's book \\"More Work for Mother,\\" I had noted that Strasser was listed there as an undergraduate research assistant of Cowan's.  With that in mind, I expected the thesis of this book to be similar to that of Cowan's, especially given the similar titles.  However, whereas Cowan's book claimed in an almost contradictory fashion that American women have had to shoulder more and more housework over the last century due to industrialization, Strasser takes the viewpoint that industrialization gradually wore away at the value of the contribution women could add to their households by doing work around house, leading eventually to the necessity of their taking paid work outside the home.  Strasser points out that in the pre-industrial period, both men and women worked the land with the goal of being as self-sufficient as possible, but that both men and women engaged in some activities to bring in outside resources or income.  For example, some women earned extra income for their families or supported themselves entirely by sewing or doing laundry for others.  With the advent of industrialization, these tasks were taken over by machines or factories, and while women were freed from the tasks of having to do their own sewing and laundry by hand, they could also no longer earn an income from sewing or washing clothes for others.  At the same time, women became more isolated, since they had been in the habit of doing much of their work, from sewing to laundry, in the company of other women.<br />Whereas Cowan claimed virtually all middle class American households in the late Nineteenth Century had domestic help and that a family's housework was so heavy that it could not be undertaken by one woman working alone, Strasser points out that by studying census records, we find that the vast majority of families did not have live-in maids.  In fact, enormous numbers of households included people unrelated to the family- -boarders, making the mistress of the household a kind of professional housekeeper, who undertook the cooking, cleaning and laundry not only for her family, but also for the boarders.  In general, Strasser comes across as relying heavily on her research materials for her claims, while Cowan seems more driven by her political agenda.<br />Strasser notes that industrialization simplified many household tasks, from cooking to heating, from dress making to laundry.  This enabled women to accomplish more in less time, but rather than reap the benefits of having spare time, she cites time use studies that show that following industrialization, women devoted the same amount of time to their housework, but were able and consequently expected to work towards much higher standards.  As if this weren't enough, manufacturers also pushed women to fill their spare housework time by increasing their consumption activities, to take on consumption as a new household task alongside cooking, cleaning and childcare.  But since virtually every source of income from women's work in the home had dried up by this point, in order to go along with the drive to consume, women needed to takejobs outside the home to supplement the family income. And that's why their work is never done.<br />A particularly fascinating topic was that of prepared food and its easing of the household task of cooking.  Back at the turn of the Twentieth Century, several cooperative housework ventures had been proposed that sought to make the task of food preparation more efficient by having meals cooked in a central kitchen and then delivered rather than each housewife preparing food for her own family.  These ventures had generally been started in academic middle and upper class communities, and most, if they got off the ground at all, failed in a year or two.  But Strasser points out that the idea of making such household tasks public rather than domestic has actually come to pass, although this fact has not been generally recognized because it has taken an alternative form.  Paradoxically, instead of central kitchens catching on as a cooperative housekeeping venture, the success of such kitchens has been in the capitalist world, where mothers and fathers, tired from their long work days at their cash employment, purchase their food ready to eat from fast food establishments, some of which even deliver meals to the front door, just as the early idealists had proposed.<br />Overall, Strasser's book is quite fascinating.  Her arguments are very well supported by her extensive research.  While I found certain chapters, such as those describing the history of specific household technology more engaging than others, in general the book is very well written and quite comprehensive.e jobs outside the home to supplement the family income. And that's why their work is never done.<br />A particularly fascinating topic was that of prepared food and its easing of the household task of cooking.  Back at the turn of the Twentieth Century, several cooperative housework ventures had been proposed that sought to make the task of food preparation more efficient by having meals cooked in a central kitchen and then delivered rather than each housewife preparing food for her own family.  These ventures had generally been started in academic middle and upper class communities, and most, if they got off the ground at all, failed in a year or two.  But Strasser points out that the idea of making such household tasks public rather than domestic has actually come to pass, although this fact has not been generally recognized because it has taken an alternative form.  Paradoxically, instead of central kitchens catching on as a cooperative housekeeping venture, the success of such kitchens has been in the capitalist world, where mothers and fathers, tired from their long work days at their cash employment, purchase their food ready to eat from fast food establishments, some of which even deliver meals to the front door, just as the early idealists had proposed.<br />Overall, Strasser's book is quite fascinating.  Her arguments are very well supported by her extensive research.  While I found certain chapters, such as those describing the history of specific household technology more engaging than others, in general the book is very well written and quite comprehensive.	2004-05-18
663512:US	51917998	RTQ1MBD13UCW1	0679726349	786458413	Iron and Silk	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Well written travel story	This book is an account of the two years Mark Salzman spent as an English teacher at the Hunan Medical College.  Salzman arrived in Hunan Province in 1982, fresh from Yale, where he had graduated with a degree in Chinese literature.  He took with him his cello and his experience studying Chinese martial arts.  Salzman was an ideal American emissary- -he brought his youthful yet serious enthusiasm to the classroom, and forged ties with the local populace through sharing his skills and interests.  Once he even consented to attempt to tune a piano for his supervisor, his only qualification for the task being that he was familiar with the sound of well-tuned pianos back home.  He befriended local fishermen and shared his art and music with them, but he also got to know Chinese grad students and professors through his interest in calligraphy and Chinese language.<br />Foremost in his interests was martial arts.  Before arriving in China, Salzman had studied Chinese martial arts for 9 years.  He hoped to find a teacher of martial arts, or wushu, so that he could continue his practice while in Hunan.  Because of his openness to meet others and because of his language skills, he eventually met and studied with some remarkably skilled wushu teachers in Hunan, including Pan Qingfu, perhaps the most renowned living practitioner of Chinese martial arts in the world.  Much of Salzman's account is a record of how he met these teachers, and how they helped him develop his skill, each in his own particular way and style.<br />Salzman's interest in calligraphy and martial arts opened doors for him that otherwise may never have appeared.  Practicing calligraphy and wushu gave him the excuse for meeting Chinese citizens with similar interests, and for them to seek him out.  But Salzman points out the ethical dark side of pursuing these interests as a foreigner.  Salzman is very aware of the fact that, while he has studied martial arts for 9 years, no matter how seriously he had applied himself, he had practiced only on a hobby basis, a background to his academic and professional pursuits.  On a Chinese scale, his 9 years of part-time study would barely constitute dallying with the sport.  Yet because he was a foreigner who seemed to demonstrate such a serious degree of interest in the topic, he had access to the very best teachers, famous superstars that few Chinese wushu students could every dream of meeting.  This is not meant to criticize Salzman, as he himself pointed out several times how distressed he was when his teachers would ignore their Chinese students so as to focus on his personal needs.  Situations where an interested Westerner is given attention by experts that far exceeds that merited by their skills are unfortunately, quite common.  Indeed, many Western musicians of very average talent manage to be accepted as students by famous classical Indian musicians, who may be fascinated by a Westerner who seems seriously interested in Asian music, or who may simply think that having Western students will somehow add to their prestige.  I, myself, have benefited from such circumstances while studying Indian music, finding that my teachers give me extra attention or praise that is merited only by the color of my passport.  What is remarkable about this book is how much Salzman is aware of this conundrum as he sees it playing out, and how he shows maturity in trying to address the situation both with humility and devotion to his art.lied himself, he had practiced only on a hobby basis, a background to his academic and professional pursuits.  On a Chinese scale, his 9 years of part-time study would barely constitute dallying with the sport.  Yet because he was a foreigner who seemed to demonstrate such a serious degree of interest in the topic, he had access to the very best teachers, famous superstars that few Chinese wushu students could every dream of meeting.  This is not meant to criticize Salzman, as he himself pointed out several times how distressed he was when his teachers would ignore their Chinese students so as to focus on his personal needs.  Situations where an interested Westerner is given attention by experts that far exceeds that merited by their skills are unfortunately, quite common.  Indeed, many Western musicians of very average talent manage to be accepted as students by famous classical Indian musicians, who may be fascinated by a Westerner who seems seriously interested in Asian music, or who may simply think that having Western students will somehow add to their prestige.  I, myself, have benefited from such circumstances while studying Indian music, finding that my teachers give me extra attention or praise that is merited only by the color of my passport.  What is remarkable about this book is how much Salzman is aware of this conundrum as he sees it playing out, and how he shows maturity in trying to address the situation both with humility and devotion to his art.	2004-05-18
663945:US	51917998	R63EQ1X279MP4	081380146X	698688814	Following the Milky Way: A Pilgrimage Across Spain	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Defining the term Pilgrimage	This book is an in-depth exploration of the concept of pilgrimage.  In order to understand the meaning of pilgrimage herself, the author sets off on one of the Western world's most famed pilgrimage routes, the 500-mile-long Camino de Santiago that stretches from the Pyrenees in France to Santiago de Compostela in Northwestern Spain.  As she describes her own path, she also relates to us the history of this particular pilgrimage route.  She tells us the stories of others who walked the route in the past as recorded in history or literature, and she also tells us about the people she meets herself along the way.  Feinberg notes that while some people along the route may be mere tourists, motivated by the desire to travel beyond their usual surroundings, most take up the route because they have a sincere desire for a transcending spiritual experience, an experience that will transform their souls.  The rituals connected to the route and sanctity of the sites along the way strongly affect the participants, so much so that many of those who start out as simple tourists eventually become true pilgrims by the time the final goal is in sight.<br />Feinberg's record is illustrated with maps and tourist quality black-and-white photographs.  The story unfolds as a journal, with Feinberg describing daily details of finding food and lodging, dealing with bureaucracy and local yokels and well wishers, and her relationship with her traveling companion.  Interspersed with these details are relevant snippets of Spanish history from early times through Franco's reign, or bits of information about Spanish literary figures and religious traditions.  Mostly, though, Feinberg's mind seems to be on the pilgrimage itself, as she contemplates her actions, and asks other pilgrims to describe their motivations for her. The true meaning of her pilgrimage didn't become clear to Feinberg until some months after she had completed the walk to Santiago and returned home and had time to think about it some more and discuss it with others, off the trail.<br />I learned much about pilgrimages by reading this book.  Before I picked the book up, I had a vague idea that the word pilgrimage had something to do with travel with a religious purpose.  I was certainly familiar with the word, and knew that Muslims must take a pilgrimage to Mecca, and that there were Christian and Hindu pilgrimages as well, but I thought these were simple traditional religious requirements to travel and see a little of the world or perform a ritual in a specific location.  I had very little appreciation for the level of contemplation that is undertaken by a true pilgrim, or how a true pilgrim's journey is never truly finished.it some more and discuss it with others, off the trail.  <br />I learned much about pilgrimages by reading this book.  Before I picked the book up, I had a vague idea that the word pilgrimage had something to do with travel with a religious purpose.  I was certainly familiar with the word, and knew that Muslims must take a pilgrimage to Mecca, and that there were Christian and Hindu pilgrimages as well, but I thought these were simple traditional religious requirements to travel and see a little of the world or perform a ritual in a specific location.  I had very little appreciation for the level of contemplation that is undertaken by a true pilgrim, or how a true pilgrim's journey is never truly finished.	2004-05-18
668583:US	51917998	R2J7E6AUTUOVG7	0671044532	223960215	Tis: A Memoir	Books	4	4	5	N	N	And heres what happened next	This book continues the story of Frank McCourt's life, from his return to American shores at the age of 19 through his middle age, as he finally makes peace with his parents.  McCourt tells us about his work history and his romantic involvements, and how he became a writer (or at least a writing instructor).<br />I didn't find this book as engaging as Angela's Ashes.  Perhaps the struggles of adult life, deciding whether to stay at a lousy job or quit, or how to keep a relationship alive, just aren't as immediate as those of childhood- -where will your next meal come from?  Will your father get up you up in the middle of the night again to make you swear you will die for Ireland?  Or maybe the American characters in this tale lack the spirit of the Irish ones in Angela's Ashes.  This book seemed to drag a bit, as McCourt details the slow meandering path that he took while pulling himself up from work cleaning ashtrays in a hotel lobby to becoming a teacher and a father.  One trait that McCourt seemed to inherit from his father was the propensity to let drink get in the way of his family life.  In this sense, it seems that McCourt didn't take all the lessons of his childhood to heart.  As a result, his upward progress is perhaps a bit more bumpy than it needed to be.<br />Nevertheless, McCourt can still tell stories, and as he relates the events of his wedding or first day in school, the reader is there with him in the scene as it unfolds.  I also enjoyed his description of how he found and developed the particular teaching style that suited him.  No, it's not easy to walk into a classroom as a new teacher in a tough school and establish a sense of order, let alone motivate students to learn.  But when you're trying to get the students to read moldy old classics simply because they're part of the assigned high school curriculum, and the kids find out that you never had to read these books in school yourself because you didn't even attend high school, you're in thick soup.  It's in such circumstances that McCourt truly comes into his own.k soup.  It's in such circumstances that McCourt truly comes into his own.	2004-05-14
668931:US	51917998	R1FPRLTE9A50JN	0671576089	698161422	Angela's Ashes	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Survival	This book tells the story of the childhood of Frank McCourt.  McCourt was just an ordinary boy, born in New York City of Irish immigrant parents.  After a family tragedy, his parents returned to Ireland with the children.  And that's how this little kid from New York City ended up growing up in a lane in an Irish slum, learning essential survival skills like how to keep his belly full and his feet dry.  It seemed that everything that could go wrong did- -Frank's father was a drunk who couldn't bring home a paycheck for more than a few weeks running, the house where they lived was flooded each spring from the lane's common privy, and educational opportunities were quite limited for boys without funds.  In such circumstances, the only way to survive is not to fret about tomorrow or what the neighbors might think, but to go ever forward with determined independence.<br />As I listened to this story as read by the author, I kept hearing my own grandfather's voice.  Yes, I'd heard all the stories about childhood deprivation and inner strength, about drunken fathers and run-down houses, but I'd never really listened when my grandfather told them.  \\"He's exaggerating,\\" I thought, \\"Nobody ever lived like that.\\"  But after hearing the details of Frank's childhood, I realize that my grandfather wasn't complaining about his childhood or looking for sympathy.  He was just trying to paint a picture of the experiences that he lived through, which were so very different from my own.  There was something about my grandfather's style of speaking that made him sound different from everyone else I knew.  He was born in the US so he didn't have an Irish accent at all, but there was something peculiar about the rhythm of his speech and the style of relating to others that I never noticed in other people's voices.  As McCourt narrates conversations between his parents and aunts and uncles, I can hear my grandfather jumping into the fray, a bit drunk, but not so drunk that he couldn't come out with a witty remark that still leaves people laughing when they remember it forty years later.  I understand now- -my grandfather was simply Irish.  This book is a wonderful telling of childhood with all its ups and downs, honesty and deceit, grief and joy.  McCourt's writing draws the reader into Frank's world, where they can hear his father singing in the pub and smell the bread and onions frying on the stove.e out with a witty remark that still leaves people laughing when they remember it forty years later.  I understand now- -my grandfather was simply Irish.  This book is a wonderful telling of childhood with all its ups and downs, honesty and deceit, grief and joy.  McCourt's writing draws the reader into Frank's world, where they can hear his father singing in the pub and smell the bread and onions frying on the stove.	2004-05-14
670616:US	51917998	R104TEQHRA3MMX	0800785967	159083179	Birth Order Book	Books	3	125	141	N	N	Decent presentation	This book is a general overview of Leman's beliefs about birth order, personality development, and family relationships.  It is organized into 5 parts: introduction, first-borns, later-borns, marriage and birth order, and parenting and birth order.  At the end of the book are end-note references and a short list of other works by Dr. Leman, as well as his contact information if you would like to schedule him for a speaking engagement.<br />Leman summarizes his own and others' work on birth order and personality development.  He claims that first-borns and only children tend to be well-organized and reliable perfectionists, middle-borns loyal and independent mediators, and last-borns  charming and manipulative people persons, and that these characteristics can be traced directly to the family dynamics resulting from the addition of each individual child to the family.  He notes that while many readers or attendees to his seminars may be reluctant to go along with these generalizations, he observes that specific birth orders tend to be over-represented in certain professions, such as first-borns as academic architects and last-borns as used car sales people.  He notes that first-borns tend to seek professional counseling more often than others because they are such stressed-out perfectionists, and that middle-borns tend to grow up to be relatively well-adjusted (perhaps because they had ample opportunities to learn to deal with unfairness as youngsters).  In each of his descriptive chapters, he offers self-help advice for a happier approach to daily life.  He also suggests which birth-order pairs are likely to result in better marital relations, and he provides parenting advice for children specific to their birth orders (drawing heavily from and strongly promoting another of his books entitled Making Your Children Mind So You Don't Lose Yours).<br />Leman's style of writing in this book is very informal and anecdotal.  He doesn't present or acknowledge any specific research findings concerning birth orders and personality.  He also gives no consideration to other factors affecting personality development such as genetics or family environmental factors beyond birth order.  At the end of many chapters, he brings in a spiritual dimension, but these passages often come across as pasted on, since they are not well integrated with the rest of the text.  Despite these flaws, the book is still somewhat informative, and it can provide the general reader a basic understanding of the theory of birth order and its affect on personality development.esearch findings concerning birth orders and personality.  He also gives no consideration to other factors affecting personality development such as genetics or family environmental factors beyond birth order.  At the end of many chapters, he brings in a spiritual dimension, but these passages often come across as pasted on, since they are not well integrated with the rest of the text.  Despite these flaws, the book is still somewhat informative, and it can provide the general reader a basic understanding of the theory of birth order and its affect on personality development.	2004-05-12
670638:US	51917998	R11MLTA9JEQTYY	0440990327	843779381	The Story of the Trapp Family Singers	Books	5	227	232	N	N	Curiosity satisfied	This book is a personal family history of the Trapp Family Singers.  It begins with Maria's days in the convent, traces the migrations of the family during the War years, and finishes in their family home in Vermont.<br />Ever since seeing The Sound of Music for the first time, I have always been curious about what happened next- -did the entire family manage to safely climb the Alps to freedom?  How did they pay for their journey to the US?  And what connection do they have to the Trapp Family Lodge in Stowe, Vermont?  Maria Trapp answers all of these questions in this book.  While the musical version of their life did convey many of the main episodes, the storyline of the musical compressed these episodes so that they seemed to happen one after the other: Maria leaves the convent, teaches the children how to sing, marries their father, and they flee the country at the outbreak of the war, all within 2 hours.  Phew!  Like the musical, this book also starts with Maria's last day in the convent, but more than a year passed before she and the Baron were married, in 1927.  They were married  some 12 years and had 2 additional children along the way before leaving Austria.  Yes, as unknowns, the family did win a song festival, but that was in 1936, and by the time they fled Austria, they were already quite well-known and had toured Europe as a family singing group.  Indeed, one additional reason for leaving the country when they did was that they had been invited to sing at Hitler's birthday.<br />When driving past the Trapp Family Lodge in Stowe, I have always thought of it as a ritzy place, and assumed that the money to purchase it and develop it had come from the Baron's family fortune.  In reading this book, I found that that was not the case at all.  The Baron's fortune was lost before the family left Austria, and they arrived in the US on borrowed money.  In their new American lives, they had to restart from the very bottom of the social ladder, digging themselves out of debt before they could even begin to think of buying new clothes or a home.  For years they dressed in the same simple clothes they had arrived in, and they built their first house in Vermont from the foundation up with their bare hands.  That is, the girls did, since the two boys had been drafted into the US army and were fighting in Europe at the time.<br />This book relates all of these details and many more, with a considerable sprinkling of humor.  Maria comes across as a determined optimist, a young girl barely out of her teens who arrived on the doorstep of a house filled with grief and dissension.  Through her personal character and upbringing, she created a family with strong bonds to each other that was able to withstand remarriage, loss of fortune, becoming refugees, and establishing a home and a livelihood in a distant foreign land.  The two elements that were her constant guidance and source of inspiration were her faith and the music.  This book is peppered with remarks that ring true even today: \\"The family that sings together, plays together, prays together, and usually stays together.\\"  \\"Our age has become so mechanical that this has also affected our recreation.  People have gotten used to sitting down and watching a movie, a ball game, a television set.  It may be good once in a while, but it certainly is not good all the time.  Our own faculties, our imagination, our memory, the ability to do things with our mind and our hands- -they need to be exercised.  If we become too passive, we get dissatisfied.\\"  The Sound of Music is a great story, but the story presented in this book is much better.lves out of debt before they could even begin to think of buying new clothes or a home.  For years they dressed in the same simple clothes they had arrived in, and they built their first house in Vermont from the foundation up with their bare hands.  That is, the girls did, since the two boys had been drafted into the US army and were fighting in Europe at the time.  <br />This book relates all of these details and many more, with a considerable sprinkling of humor.  Maria comes across as a determined optimist, a young girl barely out of her teens who arrived on the doorstep of a house filled with grief and dissension.  Through her personal character and upbringing, she created a family with strong bonds to each other that was able to withstand remarriage, loss of fortune, becoming refugees, and establishing a home and a livelihood in a distant foreign land.  The two elements that were her constant guidance and source of inspiration were her faith and the music.  This book is peppered with remarks that ring true even today: \\"The family that sings together, plays together, prays together, and usually stays together.\\"  \\"Our age has become so mechanical that this has also affected our recreation.  People have gotten used to sitting down and watching a movie, a ball game, a television set.  It may be good once in a while, but it certainly is not good all the time.  Our own faculties, our imagination, our memory, the ability to do things with our mind and our hands- -they need to be exercised.  If we become too passive, we get dissatisfied.\\"  The Sound of Music is a great story, but the story presented in this book is much better.	2004-05-12
671632:US	51917998	R1YVZJRHGEC844	0965038084	998199668	Our Dreaming Mind	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Fascinating	This book is a compendium of information about dreams, ranging from folklore and ancient beliefs through current scientific research.  The book is organized into 6 parts: anecdotes and famous dreams, early dream research from the dawn of history up until Freud, modern dream theorists including Freud and Jung, experimental dream research, scientific dream analysis, and paranormal and lucid dreams.  There are also two appendixes that provide contact information for dream networks and organizations, and how to keep a dream diary.  The book is extensively documented with endnotes, and there is a 20 page bibliography as well as an index.  There is a phenomenal amount of material crammed into this volume- -the pages are extra wide to accommodate two columns of text on each page.  The book is illustrated with black-and-white photographs and dream-influenced artwork.<br />The early part of the book seemed almost like an extended literature review for a dissertation or an encyclopedia.  The thoughts of dozens, perhaps even hundreds of philosophers, researchers, and other dreamers are briefly summarized in chronological order, from Plato to Artemidorus, from Erik Erikson to Calvin Hall.  I found the sections on Freud and Jung particularly illuminating.  As someone who has heard a lot about Freud, but never read his works, I found the overview of Freud's work on dreams and his school of psychoanalysis quite informative, especially when it was directly contrasted with Jung's work.  The contributions of each of these men to the topic of dream research were presented in great depth, and supplemented with example analyses in their corresponding schools.<br />I also found the section of the book covering contemporary dream research to be quite fascinating.  It would have been better, however, if this section were expanded and brought up to date with the latest laboratory findings.  One annoying habit that Van de Castle has is using this book to defend criticisms of his research methodology.  In several places in the text, he reports that other researchers disagreed with his findings, and then he launches into in-depth justification of his conclusions.  While he is certainly within his rights to defend his views, it makes no sense to do so in a popular work such as this one- -all he needed to do in this text was mention the disagreements (perhaps in an endnote) and briefly explain that he had answered the questions in print elsewhere.  By discussing the points in detail here, it makes it appear as if he is defending his research by appealing not to his scientific peers, but to the general public.  In contrast, it might have been good to explain the experimental design of his research in a little more detail in this book.  From his descriptions here, he makes it sound as if he does dream research by positing that certain elements of dreams are common or absent in a particular group of people, and then checking their dreams to see if this is indeed the case.  He never mentions whether this research is conducted using double-blind methods or control populations.  If he had mentioned here that he consistently used such methods, his research would sound a lot more credible.  (If he actually didn't use such methods, then his research would be dreamy, indeed.)<br />In any case, I found much of what Van de Castle reports to be consistent with my own experiences.  After reading this book, I am even more certain that following one's nightly dreams can be a very illuminating and worthwhile practice.  I plan to use the book's extensive bibliography to follow up on the ideas presented here.thodology.  In several places in the text, he reports that other researchers disagreed with his findings, and then he launches into in-depth justification of his conclusions.  While he is certainly within his rights to defend his views, it makes no sense to do so in a popular work such as this one- -all he needed to do in this text was mention the disagreements (perhaps in an endnote) and briefly explain that he had answered the questions in print elsewhere.  By discussing the points in detail here, it makes it appear as if he is defending his research by appealing not to his scientific peers, but to the general public.  In contrast, it might have been good to explain the experimental design of his research in a little more detail in this book.  From his descriptions here, he makes it sound as if he does dream research by positing that certain elements of dreams are common or absent in a particular group of people, and then checking their dreams to see if this is indeed the case.  He never mentions whether this research is conducted using double-blind methods or control populations.  If he had mentioned here that he consistently used such methods, his research would sound a lot more credible.  (If he actually didn't use such methods, then his research would be dreamy, indeed.)  <br />In any case, I found much of what Van de Castle reports to be consistent with my own experiences.  After reading this book, I am even more certain that following one's nightly dreams can be a very illuminating and worthwhile practice.  I plan to use the book's extensive bibliography to follow up on the ideas presented here.	2004-05-12
677799:US	51917998	R3VNWK102N5UKE	087358791X	961161523	When Kangaroo Goes to School	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Informative and cute	This book describes how to prepare your kangaroo for the daily routine of going to school.  It explains that a kangaroo should be dressed cleanly and neatly, be careful when crossing the streets, sit quietly on the bus, and follow the rules in school.  In a humorous fashion, the book answers a lot of questions that curious readers may have about what school may be like.  It has about 425 words.	2004-05-06
678361:US	51917998	RL3W5LWSIOWOV	0375802673	225636414	You're a Bear	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Daily life of a bear	The text of this book tells us about the daily life of a bear who has fleas and claws around for grubs.  Juxtaposed with the informative and rhyming text, however, are pictures of an adopted Asian girl who acts out the text while wearing a bear costume cloak.  The book is quite imaginative and not at all scary.  It has about 400 words.	2004-05-06
678737:US	51917998	R2773P8W2BJAZE	0015202461	808619485	Mud	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Mud  The Fifth Season	This book tells the story of mud season, the fifth season of the year.  It describes how mud season appears suddenly, what it looks like, and where it's headed.  The book is great for kids living in 5 season regions, but it might be a little tough to understand for other kids.  It's not at all scary, and the pictures are wonderful.  It has about 120 words.	2004-05-06
679033:US	51917998	R3MEQEB1KLAWFD	0761451242	651387976	Trucks: Whizz! Zoom! Rumble!	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great truck book	This is a great truck book for those who can't get enough trucks.  It contains a rhyming enumeration of a huge number of trucks that you might see on the road. The pictures are quite detailed, and show some rather interesting drivers.  This book is not at all scary- -it makes a great bedtime book.  It has about 250 words.	2004-05-06
679081:US	51917998	R1LDSI1F75YEN1	0688178804	392976598	Appaloosa Zebra: A Horse Lover's Alphabet	Books	5	1	1	N	N	For horse lovers	This is a great alphabet book for horse lovers. Every letter is a horse or piece of horse riding equipment.  Each letter has a sentence with lots of other words starting with the same letter.  At the end of the book are 3 pages of text for adults to answer questions that curious readers may have.  This reference section provides some very informative explanations of words used in the book.  All told, the book has about 300 words. No young horse lover's library is complete without this book!	2004-05-06
680706:US	51917998	R2ZEPEX01FH21B	0689858469	558162985	Holly Jolly Jimmy (Jimmy Neutron)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Retroville Christmas	The kids of Retroville debate Santa's existence at show and tell in school one day.  Jimmy concludes that Santa doesn't exist, based on his mathematical calculations.  His friends won't believe him, so he takes them off to the North Pole so they can see for themselves.  At the North Pole they meet \\"diminutive helpers\\" and scramble Santa's DNA, almost ruining Christmas for everyone around the world.  But with some cooperative work between Jimmy and Santa Claus, they manage to pull off Christmas once again.  The book is not scary, but it's probably not appropriate for youngsters who are still firm believers in Santa Claus.  It has about 1450 words.	2004-05-04
680856:US	51917998	R1IRH1438Q1AJF	1587880172	998830823	A Trip to the Beach (Nova Audio Books)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Blundering into success	This book is a journal of the first year in the lives of a couple who decide to cash in their chips, sell their house in Vermont, and start a restaurant in Anguilla.  Although they've had some experience in the food service industry before, having started a reasonably successful company that makes bottled sauces, they had no idea about the challenges that might face them when trying to run a business in a foreign country and culture.<br />Their first task upon arrival in Anguilla was to find a suitable location for their restaurant.  They soon discovered that the way to find a property in Anguilla is not through a real estate office, but through connections and backroom deals, sealed with a handshake.  As they moved on to the renovations and supply stage of their business, they were shocked to find out that they couldn't just run down to the local Home Depot to get construction materials.  Slowly, they became aware that things are done differently in Anguilla, and one reason why prices for tourists are so high is that most everything must be shipped in from Miami and pass customs at great expense.<br />It's very fortunate for them that Melinda is a great cook and Robert is handy and knowledgeable in so many areas, and most important of all, that they have a healthy relationship based on trust and wanting to keep each other happy.  Many people would never have the courage to even attempt what the Blanchards have done- -they would sit down first, make some calculations on the back of a napkin, check with the local business people to find out about tax laws and suppliers, and give up before they ever got started, realizing that the venture would be hopeless.  But the Blanchards aren't planners, they don't agonize over what disasters the future may bring, and as a result, with fortune smiling upon them, their little business venture seems to fit in fine in Anguilla.	2004-05-04
680869:US	51917998	R3A14RCOS0R6DA	1841483907	628619617	Bear's Busy Family (A Barefoot Board Book)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Cute	This is a rhyming book about the bears in the family and what they do, like sing, lick bowls, and pick plums.  It provides a nice review of the names of family relationships.  It's not at all scary.  It has about 80 words.	2004-05-04
680894:US	51917998	R3VCIEHJ7YWXLF	0399226168	221701055	Officer Buckle & Gloria (CALDECOTT MEDAL BOOK)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Safety tips	Officer Buckle is a friendly police officer who enjoys making up safety tips and sharing them with school children.  However, the school children find Officer Buckle's safety lectures boring, until the day when he takes his new police dog Gloria along with him to the lecture.  Officer Buckle doesn't know it, but Gloria has a habit of acting out the tips behind his back while he is speaking.  When Officer Buckle finally finds out what Gloria is doing behind his back, he decides to stop giving lectures.  But Gloria finds that she can't go on without him, and the school children also miss the fun.  The story is very cute and not at all scary.	2004-05-04
680989:US	51917998	R2NFT5B4Z3G78	0590623850	340060079	Let's Talk About Being Helpful	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Power of persuasion	Max, our narrator, is Carlos' dog.  Carlos is a little kid, about 4 or 5 years old, who is used to getting his own way and getting his indulgent parents to do most things for him, like pick up his toys or clean his room.  One day he even wants to mother to dress him.  Max and mom point out that Carlos will have more time to play outside if he dresses himself instead of wasting time by throwing a tantrum.  Max goes on to point out that tasks you don't want to do are easier if you just do them instead of complaining about them.  If you're trying to tame a child through persuasion and reason instead of discipline, this book may prove a welcome resource.  It has about 425 words.	2004-05-04
681090:US	51917998	RTJNHR42046PC	068814201X	308399831	Sugaring	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Informative and fun	Nora helps her grampa gather sap to make maple syrup.  Together, the collect the sap and pour it into big buckets.  They pour the big buckets into a tank on a horse drawn sleigh, and the horses haul the tank down to the sugar shack.  Nora is concerned that the horses get a maple treat to reward them for their hard work.  The book is quite informative and engaging.  The story is not at all scary.  The book has about 1000 words.	2004-05-04
681186:US	51917998	RZ1E3B6JH0H75	0789426390	592977495	Sophia, the Alchemist's Dog	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Historical fiction	Sophia the dog belongs to the king's alchemist.  The alchemist has the task of changing lead into gold.  He gets so focused on the task that he begins to neglect Sophia.  She is so worried about him that she takes things into her own paws.  Fortunately for the alchemist, the king turns out to be a very reasonable man.  The book is informative and not at all scary.  The story is rather long, however, with about 1300 words, so it may be more interesting for older kids.	2004-05-04
681228:US	51917998	R1YHTOVT2CVFQL	B00005WVRV	929316323	Snow	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Rhyming winter book	Two kids play in the snow and tell us what they're doing in rhymes, from skiing, to making snow angels, to building an igloo.  The text has the flavor of Dr. Seuss, although the actions and the cartoon characters are all down-to-earth and believable- -no wild and crazy critters or plants like you might see in a real Dr. Seuss book.  The story is not at all scary, and it's a decent book about winter that beginning readers can handle.  It has about 300 words.	2004-05-04
681295:US	51917998	R118WV9K7EL0HB	0688173780	428513466	Sea, Sand, Me!	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Rhyming beach day	The narrator is a small girl whose mom is packing the car for a day at the beach.  When the car is packed, they drive off to the beach, where there's another kid to play with, sand castles to build, and seaweed to wear.  The story is cute and presented in rhyme.  It has about 200 words.	2004-05-04
681521:US	51917998	R26MO1FLBCS83F	1841483117	386383819	The Story Tree: Tales to Read Aloud	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Collection of classic tales	This book is a collection of well-known tales from different cultures, including Indian, Norwegian, African-American, etc..  Some of the stories have some tension and may be rather scary, but some kids may like them.  The book includes:<br />--The magic pot: about a magical pot that is always full of food, and how it needs to be managed.<br />--Monkey see, monkey do: about a hat salesman who upsets his cart and a bunch of monkeys who steal his hats.  The salesman must be quite clever to get his hats back.<br />--Sweetest song: about a little girl who goes out to pick flowers, and forgets to mind where she is going, soon wandering off deep into the forest.  She has to think fast to get away from the wolf who follows her.<br />--Little Lord Feather-frock: about a cat, blackbird, and rooster who all lived together.  A cunning fox starts carrying them away, and the cat and the blackbird must scheme to free the rooster.<br />--Three billy goats gruff: about 3 billy goats who need to cross a bridge that has a terrible troll living under it.  They manage to get across by relying on the troll's greediness and their own brute strength.<br />--Little red hen: about a hen that finds a seed and asks other animals to help her plant it and take care of it.  But no one is interested into helping her, so she must do the work herself.  When the seed grows and ripens, she makes it into bread and keeps it for herself since no one helped her with the work.<br />--Blue coat: about a little boy with a favorite coat made out of blue fabric.  When he wears out the coat, his mother cuts it down and makes a vest out of it.  This happens again and again until the coat is reduced to a button.<br />All told, the book has about 4100 words.	2004-05-04
681549:US	51917998	R3FT7A2UUUMMR9	0241018781	121923962	Pancakes Pancakes	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great food book	This is a great book about where food comes from.  One morning Jack decides he wants a pancake for breakfast.  His mother tells him \\"Fine,\\" but first he has to go get the wheat from the field and winnow it and then take it to the mill and help mill it.  He also has to collect an egg from the chicken, milk the cow, churn the butter, and cut firewood for fuel for the stove.  By the time his pancake is finally ready to eat, he's really hungry!	2004-05-04
681681:US	51917998	R2NY2OI9KEJPX0	0606039759	95729408	Annie Bananie	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Bookmobile best seller	Annie Bananie is the narrator's best friend.  They have wild times together, parading around dressed up as queens and tickling bumblebees.  But Annie is moving away, and the narrator mourns her departure by reminding her of all the good times they've had together.  This is a funny, yet sad story of a kind loss that many kids must face at a young age when they are just making friends for the first time.  It is a best seller on the local bookmobile.  It has about 200 words.	2004-05-04
681695:US	51917998	R3F3DY9VJ79LXR	0613705009	214714579	One Monkey Too Many (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fun counting book	This is a fun counting book about monkeys who break the rules about how many people can do certain things at a time.  Whenever one monkey too many joins the group, it starts off fun, but inevitably ends in disaster.  The book is not exactly scary, but a lot of objects get broken, so it might be an uncomfortable read for kids with anxieties about breaking things.  The story is quite humorous, and it has about 500 words.	2004-05-04
681794:US	51917998	R2XNAD89IKQ3P0	0613028422	305466112	Cat, You Better Come Home	Books	4	12	13	N	N	For big kids	The narrator's cat wants to go out, and he argues with it, telling her she better come back if he lets her out.  When he finally lets her out, she takes off immediately to Europe and lives it up on chateaubriand and other fancy food, and develops a decidedly European purr.  But her life of excess results in her eventual demise, and she ends up back home again after a year and half.  The text is all told in rhyme, and the artwork is in an interesting cubist-influenced style.  The book is quite sophisticated, and may go over the heads of most small people.  It has about 1100 words.	2004-05-04
681825:US	51917998	RCLTWGF1JO10F	0060294620	84970887	Turtle Splash! Countdown at the Pond	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great counting book	In this book ten turtles are sitting on a log, but one by one, they each jump into the water when startled by other creatures of the forest, like bullfrogs, ducks, and deer.  The story rhymes, and has a lot of alliteration.  At the end of the book is a reference section with short informative descriptions of the animals mentioned in the text.  This is great for parents who are faced with follow up questions after reading the book.  The story, with its countdown plot, makes a great wind-down at bed time.  It has about 60 words.	2004-05-04
681830:US	51917998	R3CI3Q36BX14M7	061838006X	944022165	Score One for the Sloths	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Silly sloth book	Sleepy Valley has a school just for sloths.  The sloth children sleep through their classes, and they sleep through recess, too, just like their teacher.  One day, a new energetic sloth named Sparky shows up and tries to get them excited about something- -about anything! But she doesn't have much success.  Then the superintendent, a real boar, comes to inspect the school, and it's up to Sparky to single-handedly save the school.  The story is cute and not at all scary.  It might be most enjoyable for the younger school-aged crowd.  It has about 400 words.	2004-05-04
686763:US	51917998	RQX4WW1U4AYB3	1582347778	83774196	Fran's Friend	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Charming	Fred, Fran's dog wants Fran to go out and play with him, but Fran says she wants to make a card for a friend instead.  Fred does his best to help, but he can't help feeling a little jealous about this special friend who is going to receive the card.  But in the end, it's clear who Fran's best friend is, and Fran and Fred go out to play together.  The book is not scary at all, and it's an easy bedtime read with about 240 words.	2004-04-29
687788:US	51917998	RPFJ7O6XJHZIU	0374378851	370287457	The Turtle and the Hippopotamus	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Be brave, little turtle!	The turtle lives by the side of a stream that has a large hippo living in it.  But all the food is soon gone from the turtle's side of the stream.  He can see some nice food growing on the other side of the stream, but he's afraid of crossing the stream because of the hippo.  He talks to some birds and ants to try to figure out how to cross the stream without having to deal with the hippo.  They all tell him to swim, but he's still afraid.  Finally, he tries swinging across the stream on a vine like a monkey, but he falls into the stream.  To his surprise, the hippo rescues him and helps him across.  On each page, most of the content nouns are replaced with icons, so that non-readers can help \\"read\\" the story.  The book has about 500 words.	2004-04-29
688163:US	51917998	R1MAYEBDY9F1FR	0810918684	390794156	Animalia: Anniversary Edition	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fantastic alphabet book	In this book, each letter appears with an amusing gerundive phrase describing animals doing something.  The book is richly illustrated.  Each item in the drawings starts with the focused letter of the page.  The book is great for kids to sit and point at the details in the pictures and identify all the items that begin with the focused letter.  The book has about 170 words.	2004-04-29
688165:US	51917998	R1B385LF59WMZW	0006640664	742746101	Summer Story Brambly Hedge Poppy and Dusty	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Historical novel for the very young	Poppy Eyebright and Dusty Dogwood are mice that live near a stream.  One hot summer they begin to date, and then they announce their engagement.  They marry and have a very pleasant wedding ceremony with all of their mousy relatives.  The book is quite interesting with its reminders of the customs of times gone by, like engagements and trousseaus.  Kids can also learn from it how people use to survive hot weather without air conditioners.  The book has about 800 words.	2004-04-29
689355:US	51917998	R30NXAZBYF2S3T	0195145917	876774659	Music in South India: The Karnatak Concert Tradition and Beyond: Experiencing Music, Expressing Culture (Global Music Series)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Primer for Westerners	This book is a short introduction to the musical traditions of South India.  The authors are exceptionally well-suited for writing such a volume.  Viswanathan was a highly accomplished classical musician in the Carnatic tradition of South India, who taught Western music students in Wesleyan University.  Allen is also a well-known Carnatic musician and educator who teaches at Wheaton College.  Together, they have written a book that explains the basics of Carnatic music theory and music culture in terms that Western students can understand.<br />The five chapters of the book cover many types of music found in South India.  The first chapter introduces the concept of song in South Indian music, with in-depth explanations of bhajans and kritis.  The second chapter discusses the key elements of Carnatic theory, the raga and the tala.  The third chapter explains the elements and sequencing of a Carnatic concert.  The fourth chapter covers various sociological topics related to music in South India, including the differing traditional roles of women and men, recent changes in musical traditions, and musical families.  The fifth chapter includes information about a variety of other topics, special features of Keralite music, cinema music, and cross-cultural collaborations.  The book closes with a 5-page glossary, a selection or resources grouped by type (reading, listening, viewing, etc.), and an index.  The book is amply illustrated with high quality black and white photographs of performers, instruments, and common sights of India.<br />A very valuable part of the book is the music CD attached to the back cover.  Readers who have limited familiarity with the music can listen to samples of the items being discussed rather than simply read about them.  The availability of relevant samples is noted throughout the text with a CD icon.  Many samples are also accompanied by exercises described in gray boxes in the text. Technical descriptions of the pieces on the CD are kept short and concise for the text; however, more detailed descriptions can be accessed through Matthew Allen's Website at Wheaton College.  In order to read the additional descriptions though, you will need to have a very up-to-date version of Adobe Acrobat Reader (I have not been able to get the pages to work using Adobe Acrobat Reader 5.0). It's too bad that this additional material couldn't have been included in some way on the CD, and it's also too bad it's only available in a very limited format instead of simple HTML or at least something older PDF readers can handle.<br />I found this book to provide a very clear introduction to many aspects of Carnatic music.  The sections on tala, ragas, and gamakams were particularly clear to me, even as a Western reader with a limited background in Western music theory.  The explanations of kritis and the elements of a Carnatic concert were also quite well done.  Some of the suggested exercises, on the other hand, seemed somewhat artificial or unrealistic, particularly for readers with no prior background in Carnatic music.  After reading the book through, I also came away feeling as if something were missing. Technically, the descriptions are very nicely done, but the book doesn't quite communicate the enormity of the role of music in South Indian culture, perhaps due to tight space constraints.  In any case, the book would make a fine introduction to the theory and culture of Carnatic music for an ethnomusicology course, especially if the instructor modifies the exercises somewhat and adds supplemental readings about the role of music in the culture of South India.hort and concise for the text; however, more detailed descriptions can be accessed through Matthew Allen's Website at Wheaton College.  In order to read the additional descriptions though, you will need to have a very up-to-date version of Adobe Acrobat Reader (I have not been able to get the pages to work using Adobe Acrobat Reader 5.0). It's too bad that this additional material couldn't have been included in some way on the CD, and it's also too bad it's only available in a very limited format instead of simple HTML or at least something older PDF readers can handle. <br />I found this book to provide a very clear introduction to many aspects of Carnatic music.  The sections on tala, ragas, and gamakams were particularly clear to me, even as a Western reader with a limited background in Western music theory.  The explanations of kritis and the elements of a Carnatic concert were also quite well done.  Some of the suggested exercises, on the other hand, seemed somewhat artificial or unrealistic, particularly for readers with no prior background in Carnatic music.  After reading the book through, I also came away feeling as if something were missing. Technically, the descriptions are very nicely done, but the book doesn't quite communicate the enormity of the role of music in South Indian culture, perhaps due to tight space constraints.  In any case, the book would make a fine introduction to the theory and culture of Carnatic music for an ethnomusicology course, especially if the instructor modifies the exercises somewhat and adds supplemental readings about the role of music in the culture of South India.	2004-04-28
689429:US	51917998	RAIE3KYPCQBNJ	0060934913	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Great stuff!	This book recapitulates the life of Anthony Bourdain, a New York City chef.  Bourdain describes how he decided to become a chef, and his training, from washing dishes for a Provincetown surf-and-turf, to studying at the Culinary Institute of America, to boot camp with Bigfoot, an unnamed New York City restaurateur from whom he learned how to survive in the big leagues.  He introduces us to the backrooms of a busy restaurant kitchen, where we meet the people who prepare the fabulous food, learn about their tools and slang, and begin to get an inkling about the daily responsibilities of a head chef.<br />Thanks to his French heritage, Bourdain had learned to appreciate superb food as a youngster, and his parents had the resources to send him to any college he chose.  Bourdain, however, likes to live on the edge, and his desire to live life to the fullest and push the limits soon led to multiple drug dependencies and heavy alcohol usage that kept steady employment difficult to maintain for a time.  Remarkably, though not detailed exactly how in this book, Bourdain managed to beat his addictions, and has gone on to become not only a talented executive chef, but also a successful novelist and writer in his spare time. How anyone could even find spare time in a chef's life as he describes it is unfathomable- -Bourdain obviously  thrives on stress and challenges.<br />The pace of the book is relentless- -it's one of those volumes that you can race through in a single day, not allowing anyone to interrupt you.  Bourdain's language is not for everyone though- -he accurately records the words that are said behind the kitchen doors, so if you are squeamish about sex or take offense easily, this book is not for you.<br />This book confirms the importance of knowing who is cooking your food.  After all, food is something you put inside your body, so it is a real act of trust to consume something that someone else has prepared.  It's remarkable that many people are quite content to let total strangers prepare their food.  Why would  anyone frequent fast food restaurants where most of the cooks are teenagers with no talent or interest in food preparation, doing it all for minimum wage?  At least in kitchens like Bourdain's, although some of the cooks may be oversexed drug addicts with filthy mouths, only those who can consistently achieve high cooking standards manage to stay on.  Bourdain also reminds us to use our heads when placing our orders.  After all, when you tell the waiter what you want, the food isn't just going to appear on the plate out of thin air when the cook snaps his fingers.  If the fish market isn't open on the weekend, then Monday isn't a great day for ordering fish.  Today's luncheon special may indeed contain leftovers from last night's menu.  Some items take longer than others to prepare- -hence shouldn't be ordered at five minutes before closing.  This book provides a fascinating perspective on what it's like to study at the CIA, how an executive chef spends his time, and what may be happening behind those closed doors at your favorite restaurant.t to let total strangers prepare their food.  Why would  anyone frequent fast food restaurants where most of the cooks are teenagers with no talent or interest in food preparation, doing it all for minimum wage?  At least in kitchens like Bourdain's, although some of the cooks may be oversexed drug addicts with filthy mouths, only those who can consistently achieve high cooking standards manage to stay on.  Bourdain also reminds us to use our heads when placing our orders.  After all, when you tell the waiter what you want, the food isn't just going to appear on the plate out of thin air when the cook snaps his fingers.  If the fish market isn't open on the weekend, then Monday isn't a great day for ordering fish.  Today's luncheon special may indeed contain leftovers from last night's menu.  Some items take longer than others to prepare- -hence shouldn't be ordered at five minutes before closing.  This book provides a fascinating perspective on what it's like to study at the CIA, how an executive chef spends his time, and what may be happening behind those closed doors at your favorite restaurant.	2004-04-28
691066:US	51917998	R37HYGJU1EIVKC	1888580240	947111415	Infant Potty Training : A Gentle and Primeval Method Adapted to Modern Living	Books	4	217	226	N	N	A future without poopy diapers	This book is a compendium of materials about natural potty training from infancy.  It is an expansion of the author's ideas that were originally presented in a small (self-published?) volume called \\"Trickle Treat.\\"  The book is divided into 4 parts.  The first section is entitled \\"The concept and the method\\", and it includes detailed descriptions of how to establish communication bonds between infants and parents concerning elimination needs, a history of toilet training methods, a comparison between infant toilet training and toddler toilet training, and myths about infant toilet training.  The second section is entitled \\"Testimonials USA\\".  It contains brief descriptions from mothers across the US telling how they put the concept into practice, the degree of success they met, and how they and their babies related to the method.  The third section is called \\"Testimonials around the World\\".  It is quite similar in content to the second section.  The fourth section is called cross-cultural studies, and it provides a survey of toilet training information about cultures spanning the entire globe.  The book includes a section of endnotes, 12 pages of references, and an index.<br /><br />The author stumbled on this method of infant toilet training shortly after giving birth to her third child.  Her first two children had been trained conventionally as toddlers.  But Boucke was quite fortunate in having a friend from India when she had her third child who told her about how infants and mothers learned how to take care of elimination needs without diapers back in India.  Boucke asked her friend for more information about how infant elimination was taken care of in India, and the friend helped her train her baby.<br /><br />This infant training method involves establishing signals between mother and infant for elimination.  At first, the mother simply predicts or observes when the infant is eliminating, and holds the child in a specific position while making a specific sound.  Within hours or days even a newborn infant becomes aware of the position and sound and begins to eliminate on cue.  Soon it begins to signal to the mother when it is about to eliminate so that she can hold it in position over the pot.  As the infant gets old enough to move around on its own, it will crawl to the pot of its own accord when it needs to go, and by the time the child is walking, the child is already trained, without tears, arguments or battles.  Of course, this is the ideal case, and no child is ever trained without accidents.<br /><br />One of the most important predictors of success with the infant training method is the age when the method is begun, the idea being that it's much easier not to teach children to mess in their diapers in the first place than to try to get them to unlearn this habit once it has become ingrained.  For best success, Boucke recommends starting from day 1 and certainly before 6 months, although some patient parents have been able to use the method even from 1 year.  Boucke also points out that it's not necessary to use the method all day long, so that children can still be in diapers in daycare if necessary, as long as it is used regularly at some point in the day.  Many parents have even reported success after taking a long pause in the method because of extenuating circumstances- -as long as they had done some infant elimination training early, they found they could return to the method even after a few months of reverting to diapers.<br /><br />In the testimonials section, parents report that the habits Boucke teaches are much more than simple toilet training- -the habits build a line of communication between infant and care-givers that is otherwise never experienced.  In the end, it's not really the early toilet training successes that lasted in the memory of the parents, but the joy in understanding what their infants were trying to say to them.  Parents whose infants are in diapers all the time are deaf on these points, hence their infants soon learn that communicating their elimination needs is futile, since the parents seem to want the child to go in the diaper.  Parents using the infant training method also report that their children never experience diaper rash, and never have to sit around in poopy diapers.  Indeed, after using the method, they find themselves utterly disgusted at the very thought of letting their infant wallow in a messy diaper.  The environmental benefits of the method are obvious- -parents using this method simply take an end-run around the entire cloth versus disposable debate.<br /><br />The range of information contained in the book is overwhelming, to the point that Boucke could have turned the volume into a graduate thesis.  Some of the material in the last section, though interesting, isn't entirely relevant for parents trying to train their infants.  This is particularly the case when Boucke discusses cultures where toilet training doesn't begin until late toddlerhood.  In general, the book has some rough edges both editorially and with the type-setting, hence my giving it 4 stars instead of 5.  However, the quality and importance of the information is so high that it should be read universally by all parents-to-be.  (These latter problems have been addressed in the revised 2002 edition.)n learn that communicating their elimination needs is futile, since the parents seem to want the child to go in the diaper.  Parents using the infant training method also report that their children never experience diaper rash, and never have to sit around in poopy diapers.  Indeed, after using the method, they find themselves utterly disgusted at the very thought of letting their infant wallow in a messy diaper.  The environmental benefits of the method are obvious- -parents using this method simply take an end-run around the entire cloth versus disposable debate.    The range of information contained in the book is overwhelming, to the point that Boucke could have turned the volume into a graduate thesis.  Some of the material in the last section, though interesting, isn't entirely relevant for parents trying to train their infants.  This is particularly the case when Boucke discusses cultures where toilet training doesn't begin until late toddlerhood.  In general, the book has some rough edges both editorially and with the type-setting, hence my giving it 4 stars instead of 5.  However, the quality and importance of the information is so high that it should be read universally by all parents-to-be.  (These latter problems have been addressed in the revised 2002 edition.)	2004-04-26
691114:US	51917998	R27Y7P4P0LBRYZ	0465047327	185190607	More Work For Mother: The Ironies Of Household Technology From The Open Hearth To The Microwave	Books	3	70	91	N	N	History with a political agenda	This book is history of housework and household technology in America.  Cowan's thesis is that American women have paradoxically been required to take on more and more work as \\"labor-saving\\" technologies have been adopted. At the outset of the book, Cowan seems to state that she will show that developments in technology have not really made women's lives easier, but have served to bind women ever more tightly to the home.  But by the end of the book, the message seems to be slightly different: that household technology has raised society's expectations of what women should be able to accomplish in the home, and that women must now work harder because of double duty- -doing the housework in addition to holding down fulltime jobs.<br />The book is organized along chronological lines, starting with pre-industrial conditions, moving on to industrialization, and finishing with the years following the Second World War.  Food and laundry are two topics that receive heavy focus throughout the book.  Cowan points out that in the pre-industrial times, food preparation required considerable help from men, for such things as butchering animals.  But once meat was available in tins, men were released from such food preparation chores, while women's work increased, since new stove technologies made it possible for women to undertake more complicated methods of food preparation.  Cowan argues that laundry duties also increased following industrialization, since when fabric was homespun, people only owned a few items of clothing that were hardly ever washed, but once cheap factory-made fabric became available, people got in the habit of changing clothes quite often, resulting in mounds of items to be laundered.<br />But I'm not sure I fully agree with these arguments.  Cowan seems to suggest that the change from cooking over an open-hearth to cooking on a stove complicated women's lives by increasing possibilities, hence expectations and time spent on the task.  Had Cowan been able to observe first-hand lunch preparations over an open-hearth during a hot summer day, she might have been more appreciative of the benefits of a stove.  Anyone who has visited such reenactment museums as Plimouth Plantation in July, or even tried cooking a full meal over a campfire, comes away amazed at how women managed to deal with the heat and frustrations of cooking over an open hearth, especially when wearing long skirts that were constantly prone to catching fire from drifting into the coals or getting hit with sparks.  And the health benefits of having enough clothing to allow frequent laundering are also tremendous- -memoirs of even the well-to-do of the pre-industrial age are full of descriptions of the usual louse and flea colonies that were an active part of every household.  Industrialization in the areas of food preparation and laundry may have not have resulted in time savings for mother, but it certainly made it possible for her to greatly increase the health and safety of herself and her family.<br />Cowan notes that running a household in pre-industrial conditions involved so much work that no single person could manage it alone.  That's why men got married, and why anyone who could afford to hired maids.  But following industrialization, Cowan argues that maids could get better-paying factory jobs, so mother got stuck doing the work of the maids.  But is this really more work for mother?  If the work load was so heavy that a housewife couldn't get by without a maid, and the maid disappeared consequent with the adoption of household technology, it's not that mother was stuck spending more time than ever getting her housework done, but that the new technologies enabled her to accomplish more in the time she had available.  Indeed, Cowan even cites time studies that confirm that women were spending more or less the same amount of time doing housework, but they were able to accomplish far more in that time thanks to new technologies, such as automaticwashers.  And the problems of the double-duty mother never even arose until technology had improved enough so that a woman could hold down an outside job as well as keep the home running.<br />From the outset, Cowan states that this book is about the history of American housewives and their work, so she doesn't look beyond our borders for evidence that would support or negate her thesis.  Her cultural blinders seem overly tight, however, when she discusses the difficulty of finding and keeping hired help as being a peculiarly American problem.  Anyone who has tried to work with hired help anywhere in the world has had similar experiences- -nobody grows up wanting to be a maid.  Traditionally and worldwide, maids come from an immigrant class, migrating from rural to developed areas, if not across borders, and leaving at the first opportunity of higher pay or prestige elsewhere.  Living with household help has an additional disadvantage that Cowan does not consider- -the loss of privacy for the family.  Perhaps letting the family cook or laundress go meant more work for mother, but the benefits of finally getting food cooked the way you like it, and not having the maid sort through the family's dirty laundry made it all worthwhile, especially if household technology made it possible to get the chores done by yourself anyway- -and get them done right for a change!<br />I know that it's impossible to write history free from subjective judgments.  However, I have rarely encountered a history where the political leanings of the author come through so blatantly.  Although Cowan never states explicitly that she is a \\"Marxist-feminist\\", the term arises in several places in the text, suggesting a clear political affinity.  Cowan came of age and wrote this book in an earlier time.  Today, perhaps, conditions have changed, taking the edge off the urgency of the issues she was implicitly battling by writing this book.  The factual information and the window that she provides into household material culture is fascinating, if you can free it from her political agenda and wavering argumentation.washers.  And the problems of the double-duty mother never even arose until technology had improved enough so that a woman could hold down an outside job as well as keep the home running.<br />From the outset, Cowan states that this book is about the history of American housewives and their work, so she doesn't look beyond our borders for evidence that would support or negate her thesis.  Her cultural blinders seem overly tight, however, when she discusses the difficulty of finding and keeping hired help as being a peculiarly American problem.  Anyone who has tried to work with hired help anywhere in the world has had similar experiences- -nobody grows up wanting to be a maid.  Traditionally and worldwide, maids come from an immigrant class, migrating from rural to developed areas, if not across borders, and leaving at the first opportunity of higher pay or prestige elsewhere.  Living with household help has an additional disadvantage that Cowan does not consider- -the loss of privacy for the family.  Perhaps letting the family cook or laundress go meant more work for mother, but the benefits of finally getting food cooked the way you like it, and not having the maid sort through the family's dirty laundry made it all worthwhile, especially if household technology made it possible to get the chores done by yourself anyway- -and get them done right for a change!<br />I know that it's impossible to write history free from subjective judgments.  However, I have rarely encountered a history where the political leanings of the author come through so blatantly.  Although Cowan never states explicitly that she is a \\"Marxist-feminist\\", the term arises in several places in the text, suggesting a clear political affinity.  Cowan came of age and wrote this book in an earlier time.  Today, perhaps, conditions have changed, taking the edge off the urgency of the issues she was implicitly battling by writing this book.  The factual information and the window that she provides into household material culture is fascinating, if you can free it from her political agenda and wavering argumentation.	2004-04-26
691373:US	51917998	RKAFT6DRIA6TM	0865475873	28074004	Cradle to Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Interesting ideas	This book is a sometimes interesting, often meandering treatise on design.  The authors, and American architect and a German chemist, have a very sincere desire to realign the world of design of objects and buildings so that they contribute to the betterment of the environment rather than destroy it.  The title of the book \\"Cradle to Cradle\\" encapsulates their goal of designing objects that when they are no longer needed, naturally become useful inputs for the production of other objects rather than getting sent to the grave (or buried in a landfill).  For example, they would like to see the creation of food packaging that could be thrown on the ground when the contents are consumed and would become fertilizer rather than non-biodegradable litter.  (By this measure, the women concessionaires selling steamed rice treats in Indonesian trains are masters of design.  The rice is both steamed and packaged in banana leafs, which are simply thrown out the train windows once the rice is consumed.  But this practice also creates enormous problems- -since Indonesians have been accustomed to using such environmentally beneficial packaging for generations, they assume that \\"modern\\" packaging can be discarded in the same manner, much to the detriment of the Indonesian countryside.  If you are living in a world of mixed packaging, some of which can be thrown out the window, and some of which must be discarded by other means, it's hard to keep straight which stuff goes where.  That's a vital cultural issue that the authors don't explore here.)<br />McDounough and Braungart list the goals for their design program.  They challenge inventors and industry leaders to design factories that \\"produce more energy than they consume, and purify their own waste water,\\" and products that \\"can be tossed on the ground to decompose\\" or become \\"high-quality raw materials for new products\\" rather than simply \\"down-cycled\\".  At the outset, these goals can sound a bit far-fetched.  After, all, a factory that produces more energy than it consumes would seem to violate the Second Law of Thermodynamics.  But what the authors really mean here is not that the factory would miraculously produce something from nothing, but that the design of the factory would include such things as solar collectors on the roof and devices to capture heat that could then send energy back out to the power grid, perhaps even in excess of electrical energy coming in.  They illustrate their lofty dreams with concrete designs that they have helped develop and implement, such as a cosmetics plant in Germany whose wastewater is actually cleaner than the water coming in to the plant, thanks to the new chemical formulations they recommended.  What's more, they point out that such design efforts can be even be good for business, since in this particular example, the company was able to cut costs on hazardous materials handling and storage enough to more than offset slightly increased production costs with the new formulas.  Such design efforts are fabulous examples of the potential benefits of thinking \\"out of the box\\".<br />The book contains quite a few additional examples of brilliant design ideas that can save resources as well as money.  The book is also filled with surprising tidbits that haven't become general knowledge yet, like the potential hazards of wearing fabric made of recycled plastic bottles, and the fact that PET bottles were found to leach antimony when used as soap containers.  The authors point out that the decision  to use either recycled paper or virgin paper is not as clear cut as it seems- -while the production of virgin paper necessitates the cutting down of trees, recycling paper requires enormous amounts of bleaching, which produces PCBs.  To demonstrate an alternative, the book itself is printed on a paper-free composite of plastics, which could be easily recycled into more book-grade plastics.  The informative details and design goals of the book are quite interesting.  However, the text often meanders around and through topics that are at best tangential or described better in other volumes.  At times, some details or issues are also rehashed repetitively.  In these places, it would have been better to focus on explicating McDonough and Braungart's own design program more fully.  They've got some neat ideas that are well worth exploring, and it would have been great to be able to read even more about them and less about the general problems of environmental destruction that are described better in other books.g.  However, the text often meanders around and through topics that are at best tangential or described better in other volumes.  At times, some details or issues are also rehashed repetitively.  In these places, it would have been better to focus on explicating McDonough and Braungart's own design program more fully.  They've got some neat ideas that are well worth exploring, and it would have been great to be able to read even more about them and less about the general problems of environmental destruction that are described better in other books.	2004-04-26
691508:US	51917998	R17MK55YSF47DB	0312199783	442886627	French Toast: An American in Paris Celebrates the Maddening Mysteries of the French	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Surviving culture shock	This book is a practical guide to understanding cultural differences between the French, especially Parisians, and Americans, intended for Americans taking up long-term residence in France.  The author herself has lived in France for 20 years, married to a French man, and has found herself a long way from her small town Iowan origins.  The book deals with a range of topics, from food, to family, to sex and education.<br />The blurb on the cover states that the book is \\"wise and devastatingly funny\\".  I would agree with the \\"wise\\" assessment, but I'm not sure where \\"devastatingly funny\\" comes from.  The book certainly doesn't come across as \\"pompously didactic\\", and there are indeed moments that are humorous, but the book includes a very substantial amount of informed analysis and practical advice.  This is not a humor book where readers are brought in as third-hand observers to relive Rochefort's most embarrassing cultural gaffes.  Instead, Rochefort examines her experiences as a foreigner who marries into the culture.  She states in the very beginning of the book that she has found cultural differences becoming more and more noticeable the longer she lives in France.  It makes sense in a way- -the longer you live in a country, the more you think you should understand it.  When a cultural difference that has gone unnoticed for years finally raises its head, it can be even more unnerving that if one had met with it right at the very beginning.  Rochefort's description of differing expectations experienced in cross-cultural French-American relationships is particularly strong, and anyone in or contemplating starting such a relationship would be well advised to read it.  But even those who are not living in France can learn much about French culture in this book.  Her last chapter, for example, covering the French educational system starts with nursery school, and progresses through the university and Grande Ecoles (which I thought were glorified high schools until Rochefort straightened me out).hefort straightened me out).	2004-04-26
706342:US	51917998	R2K8RC5FMOMNJB	0064432548	104872842	Alligators All Around (The Nutshell Library)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Alligator antics	This is an alphabet book featuring alligators drawn by Maurice Sendak.  Each letter has the alligators doing some activity, such as getting giggles for \\"g\\" or throwing tantrums for \\"t\\".  The book is cute and not scary.  It has about 60 words.	2004-04-14
706982:US	51917998	R75E1QJO7250W	0316574074	143218929	The Rag Coat	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Bravery	The narrator lives with her parents in a small mining town.  Her father is a miner and her mother is a quilter.  The girl wants to go to school, but doesn't have a coat to wear.  Her father would like her to go to school, but dies of black lung disease before she can start.  After her father dies, the family becomes even poorer.  The women in her mother's quilting group hear about the girl's dream of going to school and that she needs a coat to make the dream come true, so they make her one out of each family's rags.  When the girl arrives at school in her rag coat, the other students tease her, but then she starts telling them the stories that go with each rag in her coat.  As a result, the children come to respect her.  The story is great for older children, and particularly engaging for girls.  It has about 2000 words.	2004-04-14
707490:US	51917998	R3F655NFB6TK3K	0525470409	60578048	A Mud Pie for Mother	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great farm animal story	A little pig wants to make a pie for his mother to give her for her birthday.  He wanders through the barnyard, meeting other animals and talking to them.  He doesn't pick the flower, because the bee likes it, and stays clear of the grain because the chicken is eating it.  In the end, thanks to his friendliness and willingness to respect the needs of others, he is able to make his mother a very fine meal indeed.  The story is not scary, and it's great for animal lovers.  It has about 300 words.	2004-04-14
707585:US	51917998	R3B1FCFRUO2X2L	1932485031	456954051	The Bear Next Door	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Moving Story	A boy named Andy is told one day that he and his family is moving.  His mother promises that at their new house he will have a new friend named Sam.  But when they arrive at the new house, Andy finds out that his new room used to belong to a girl, and that Sam is a girl, too.  Andy is so disappointed that he is ready to run away and move back to his old house.  But during the night, his teddy bear makes friends with Sam's teddy bear. In the morning, Andy and Sam go looking for their teddy bears, and end up becoming friends with each other after all.  The book is fun and not too stressful.  It has about 800 words.	2004-04-14
711425:US	51917998	R18343ZQ69WW0H	0801862485	346702123	Consumers in the Country: Technology and Social Change in Rural America (Revisiting Rural America)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Meticulous research	This book is an in-depth exploration into the social forces behind the adoption of 4 technologies into rural American households in the early Twentieth century: the telephone, the automobile, the radio, and electricity.  The book also describes some of the social changes that came about as a result of the adoption of these technologies.<br />The book is divided into three section.  The first section looks at each of the technologies in turn.  The second deals with rural electrification, and the third sums up the material.  Also included are appendices, with much statistical data about the technologies, endnotes, an annotated bibliography, and an index.<br />Personally, I found the first section most interesting.  It was fascinating to read about attitudes towards these technologies before they came to be seen as necessities.  Indeed, as Kline describes, rural families were doing just fine without them, and often resisted the technologies when they were first introduced.  But the social possibilities brought by the telephone and radio did provide a welcome social outlet, especially for women. Between listening in on party lines (which Kline is careful to point out was done by both genders), and listening to music and talk shows on the radio, women found that the hours spent in housework seemed to go by faster, even if the number of housework hours weren't necessarily shortened by technology as predicted by home economists of the times.  Indeed, some of Kline's most interesting points were about economists and home economists of the early Twentieth century.  One reason why policy makers thought it was so important for farm families to modernize and take up the new technologies was that they wanted to stem the flow of people leaving farms to work in the cities. Looking back from our perspective today, it's much more clear that the reason people were leaving the farms was to head for the greater economic opportunity of the city, not to improve social conditions.  As farm technology improved and farmers became more efficient, each increment of farm production would have become less valuable- -if the government really wanted to keep people on the farms, they should have restricted farmers from acquiring technology instead of encouraging it.  Kline describes how farmers came up with their own creative uses of technology, based on their real needs, rather than on what the experts thought they needed.  They hooked up machinery including clothes washers to the axels of their cars instead of using the gas engines that had been built for these purposes, they used automobiles to plow their fields before diesel tractors were developed, and they used telephones to broadcast home concerts for the enjoyment of all their neighbors.<br />I found the minute detail of the second section dealing with the political history of the Rural Electrification Administration (REA) to be a bit overwhelming.  Kline did some extensive research to complete this section, and it is all very well documented, but general readers might have found a more broad overview a little more palatable.  The discussion of how the REA had to find ways to get farmers to increase their electric usage was particularly illuminating.  As Kline describes the situation, once farmers were connected to a central power station, all they wanted to do was to run a light bulb or two and maybe a radio.  But such light usage would not allow the electrical co-op to pay off its loans for stringing the lines, so the REA promoted all sorts of high energy consumption appliances, from electric ranges and hot water heaters to milking machines.  It took some 20 to 40 years to get farmers to start consuming enough electricity to make their connections to the grid worthwhile to the co- ops.  So how much longer will it take to convince regular consumers as well as farmers to reduce their consumption of electricity?  Something tells me once habits have become ingrained into the culture, it's easier to build demand than to decrease it.ld demand than to decrease it.	2004-04-11
723572:US	51917998	R2GVNDTNGRV100	0231086024	72037401	Sources of Chinese Tradition: Volume I (Unesco Collection of Representative Works. Chinese Series)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Ancient Chinese History: Vol. 1	This book is a collection of readings dealing with ancient Chinese history, especially focusing on philosophy and religion.  The readings are organized into chapters related to various stages in Chinese history.  Early chapters cover antiquity, Confucius, Mo Tzu, and Taoism.  Then comes Confucian tradition, the Legalists, the Imperial Order, the Universal Order, and the Economic Order.  This is followed by the Great Han Historians, Neo-Taoism, and Buddhism.  This volume is rounded out with the Confucian revival and neo-Confucianism.  Each chapter begins with a short introduction essay that introduces the context and events of the time and goes to a selection of original texts on the topic at hand. At the beginning of the book is a chronological table of Chinese history from 2852 BC to 1849 AD that highlights various events in Chinese political philosophy.<br />This book is a great resource for the serious student of Chinese philosophy and culture.  The essays and readings provide a unique window into Chinese thought.  The authors assume that the reader will have a basic familiarity with the overall picture of Chinese history, and provide many details and insights into why history took the course that it did.  I found the reading selections, drawn from such documents as the Analects of Confucius or historical documents like Ma tuan-Lin's Introduction to the Survey on the Land Tax, particularly illuminating.  To find so many documents such as these presented in English, together with essays that explain their context and importance, is invaluable for the serious Asian studies scholar.	2004-04-01
724601:US	51917998	R3R9AWL3RDT2D1	0679412263	916608409	The Evolution Of Useful Things	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Form follows failure	This book is an extended essay about the process of invention.  In it, Petroski takes the viewpoint that the form of manufactured items is the result of an evolutionary-like process.  He stresses that for any specific item, the form it has is only an arbitrary choice from many possible solutions that the inventor could have come up with.  And the driving force behind invention, according to Petroski is failure- -each change in form that an invention takes is the result of trying to address some failure in what was done previously.<br />Petroski introduces the book with an item that very aptly demonstrates his thesis: the fork.  He details the history of the development of the fork, starting with the table manners of the Middle Ages, when people were in the habit of using knives to both spear bits of food and convey them to their mouths.  But in order to chop off bits of food from larger pieces, it was handy to have a second knife to hold the larger piece steady.  Of course, the second knife was also like to put a hole in the larger piece, and wasn't well adapted to holding things, not until someone had the brilliant idea of making a stabilizing knife with two prongs instead of one.  Eventually, this stabilizing knife began to be used for conveying food to the mouth instead of just holding food steady while cutting, and it was found that four prongs were much better suited for this task than two.  Each step of the way through the history of the fork, Petroski points out how when the implement of the time failed to accomplish its intended task satisfactorily, its form was modified, until the fork took its present customary form.  At the same time, however, Petroski also stresses that the current form of the fork is only one possible solution to the food conveyance problem.  He compares its development to that of chopsticks, which are equally well suited to the same task, but take a very different form.<br />Other objects given a detailed examination in this book include paper clips, zippers, and cans for food, as well as openers for cans.  In this last topic, Petroski brings out the point that objects are often developed and brought into use long before their supporting technology is even conceived of.  Although tin cans came into general use during the first half of the Nineteenth Century, it was to be another 50 years before the first can opener was finally developed.  Until then, producers of canned foods expected their customers to open their cans by stabbing them with hammer and chisel and (miraculously) come back for more!<br />Overall, I found the book somewhat interesting, and certainly illuminating.  While I agree that form does follow failure in many cases, I think that Petroski is too quick to dismiss aesthetic influences in the evolution of form.  He notes that some forks in modern tableware sets have only 3 tines out of a desire to look different or special, even though they aren't as efficient at conveying food as 4-tined forks.  But he dismisses this as being a minor factor, unimportant for the general evolution of the fork.  Perhaps he is right in the case of forks, but there are a number of other items where fashion plays a larger role.  High-heeled shoes, for instance, are certainly an evolutionary wrong-turn in foot attire, but not a dead end.  Colored cars are wasteful in the mass production process, as Henry Ford was quick to point out, but he learned that color options are also a selling point. Indeed, many times a better solution for achieving a task can be invented, but then never brought to market because of economics.  Or the form that finally does become standard is a less than optimal solution for the task, but cheaper to manufacture than a better one. Petroski points to tableware sets with over 200 individual items, each with a separate task.  He argues that each item was developed in response to some perceived failure of another form at doing the stated task, and dismisses the idea that it was simply manufacturers trying to develop new things for consumers to buy so that they would have a complete set.  Personally, I'm not so sure that the manufacturers really depended entirely on failure to develop the forms of their tableware.  I find it easy to imagine an artist being asked to come up with some more fancy designs that could be created in silver so that customers would have more items to purchase.  Perhaps some of these new silver utensils received their titles only after they were actually created and tested to see what they might be good at. In short, I think that economics may have a stronger influence on the form of things than Petroski seems willing to grant in this book.  But in any case, the book is very well researched and documented.  It is amply illustrated with black-and-white photos and drawings.  The text itself flows smoothly and is quite clear for general and technical readers alike although it can be a bit dry at times.ply manufacturers trying to develop new things for consumers to buy so that they would have a complete set.  Personally, I'm not so sure that the manufacturers really depended entirely on failure to develop the forms of their tableware.  I find it easy to imagine an artist being asked to come up with some more fancy designs that could be created in silver so that customers would have more items to purchase.  Perhaps some of these new silver utensils received their titles only after they were actually created and tested to see what they might be good at. In short, I think that economics may have a stronger influence on the form of things than Petroski seems willing to grant in this book.  But in any case, the book is very well researched and documented.  It is amply illustrated with black-and-white photos and drawings.  The text itself flows smoothly and is quite clear for general and technical readers alike although it can be a bit dry at times.	2004-03-31
725132:US	51917998	RZLD15XFL1495	092963408X	846360370	The Recycler's Handbook: Simple Things You Can Do	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great ideas	This book is concise guide to many aspects of recycling.  It begins with examining the basic questions of what is recycling and why should we recycle.  The introductory section also includes some ideas about sorting and storing items for recycling.  The main part of the text elaborates on different materials that can be recycled, proceeding generally from the most valuable and most recyclable to the least recyclable (i.e. from metals, to glass, to paper, plastics and hazardous waste).  The final section of the book presents ideas about how to organize recycling programs for such organizations as businesses, schools, or large apartment blocks.  At the end of the book come listings of recycling organizations and an index.<br />I already recycle most of my solid waste.  Indeed, with constant efforts at avoiding packaging and recycling what little packaging I have to buy, it takes my 2-person household almost 2 months to fill a small trash bag with stuff to go to the landfill.  But still, I'd like to reduce our waste even more, and that's why I picked up this book.  What I found most useful and interesting in the book were the descriptions of how each material can be recycled, and explanations about what can consequently go in the recycling bin and what can't.  I learned that office paper is highly desired for recycling, (and not to worry about staples, since they settle out from the sludge at the recycling plant), but magazines are rather yucky because their paper is coated with clay.  And not all glass is the same- -bottle glass is good for recycling, but window panes are not because they contain boron.  Window panes can still be recycled if you can find a buyer, but not with the bottles, since they are of a much lower grade.  This book is filled with details such as these that will help you deepen your understanding of what happens to the stuff you send away, whether you trash it or recycle it.	2004-03-31
726763:US	51917998	R6P4FEODEOW8I	081182974X	625960165	A Barn in New England: Making a Home on Three Acres	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Establishing a common home	This book documents the first year of living as a family for Monninger, his partner, and his partner's son.  The book begins with the first day Monninger and his partner went to look at the barn that would become their home together and follows them for one year as they establish their new life as one family in their home in the barn.  Monninger describes how each person adapted to living in the 6000 square foot living area inside the barn, how they remodeled some rooms, added heating stoves, and rebuilt the kitchen.  It tells how they melded their furniture together, choosing one person's or another's best pieces, and purchased some new items specifically for the new space.  After a summer of settling in, the barn finally began to make the transition into feeling like a home when extended family came to visit for the holidays.<br />The title and cover photo of the book may be a little misleading- -this is definitely not a barn story.  Although Monninger relates in passing some of the history of the barn, this isn't an ode to country traditions or barn lore.  It is much more a story of a family, of taking unrelated individuals, each with prior lives involving other relationships, and constructing a new unity together.  Monninger describes how he and his partner are quite satisfied to construct their family without a marriage ceremony.  He also tells us how close he feels to his partner's son, and how much this relationship means to him.  In reading Monninger's story however, I can't help but wonder if the young boy is as contented with his parents' unmarried state as they are.  How secure can he feel in his relationship with his would-be stepfather if his mother and this man are unwilling to formalize their commitment?  It may be perfectly acceptable for two adults to freely establish a home together without the benefit of marriage, but when children are involved, the story becomes much more complicated, and their interests should be seen to first.  Monninger is a gifted writer and tells a magical story of intentional family creation in this book, but it's not clear from this tale that he has fully taken responsibility for all he has set in motion.ifted writer and tells a magical story of intentional family creation in this book, but it's not clear from this tale that he has fully taken responsibility for all he has set in motion.	2004-03-29
727286:US	51917998	R3H4ZVSDH1R796	1861056362	597890785	How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days: The Universal Don'ts of Dating	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Cute	This book is an illustrated manual of how to drive a man away from a newly formed relationship.  It presents a list of tried and terrible actions that are guaranteed to make a man think twice before calling again- -do too many of these things, and the guy may quickly do something desperate like sign a two-year contract to work in Mongolia just to get away.  The book includes suggestions ranging from calling the guy frequently when he's not home and not leaving a message on the machine, to spraying perfume on his pillow, as well as some other stuff that can't be described in detail on Amazon. The book is definitely good for a few laughs, but if you find your life story contained on more than a few of its pages, it's time to start working on a different approach.	2004-03-29
727930:US	51917998	R3G78ORK78CX2C	1559706945	664583463	My Path Leads to Tibet: The Inspiring Story of How One Young Blind Woman  Brought Hope to the Blind Children of Tibet	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Wont give up	This book tells the story of a young woman with an impossible dream, and how she set about accomplishing it.  Tenberken was born with vision problems that led to complete blindness by the time she was a teenager.  Once while she was in middle school, she and her class visited a special museum exhibit about Tibet.  From that point on, she was fascinated with Tibet, and when she started university, she decided to major in Asian languages with the goal of going to Tibet.  Pursuing a major in Asian languages is quite difficult for any Westerner, but even more so for a blind Westerner, since Braille materials and computer software for language study in these languages are limited, if they exist at all.  Indeed, Tenberken ended up creating her own Braille system for writing Tibetan script (which proved so useful in her studies that she was even able to use her class notes to tutor sighted students in her classes).  Upon graduation from university, she set off for Tibet by herself to found a school for blind children and teach them how to read and write using her Tibetan Braille alphabet with the goal of allowing them to be integrated into regular schools once they became literate.  The very thought of just picking up and moving to a country that happens to be occupied by a communist government and establishing an independent school for unschooled children, especially when you yourself do not have teaching experience, sounds positively ludicrous.  Fortunately for the blind children of Tibet, Tenberken doesn't seem to understand the meaning of the phrase \\"you can't do that\\"- -perhaps a result of her upbringing, since her parents obviously supported her endeavors, or perhaps a simple character trait that drives her.<br />In a few places in the book, Tenberken's style is a bit stilted, or she seems to gloss over details that beg to be explained.  She carefully avoids any mention whatsoever of the political situation in Tibet, since any hint of criticism would no doubt result in the immediate closure of her school and the undoing of all of her efforts.  In any case, she taught her students Tibetan language from the start, rather than only sticking to Chinese.  The book is quite interesting for its story of how one determined person can have a tremendous impact on the lives of many, many others.in the immediate closure of her school and the undoing of all of her efforts.  In any case, she taught her students Tibetan language from the start, rather than only sticking to Chinese.  The book is quite interesting for its story of how one determined person can have a tremendous impact on the lives of many, many others.	2004-03-29
728264:US	51917998	R11IOU7UFFHWNK	0525469168	126272378	Tale of Wagmore Gently	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Self-help in action	Wagmore is a friendly, happy dog with a tail that loves to wag.  His tail wagging upsets his family however because it's always making noises or messes or breaking things.  Threatened with having to stay home from a hike because of the damage his tail wagging has caused, Wagmore curls up with some self-help books to help him conquer his habit  With hard work, he gets his tail under control, but finds there are times when tail wagging can be useful after all.  The book is engaging and there is some tension, but all ends well.  Boys, in particular, may like this story.  The book has about 600 words.	2004-03-28
728374:US	51917998	RMNIND0SI3KL0	0060527544	943364486	Pete's a Pizza Board Book	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Cute and cheerful	It's a rainy day and Pete is in a sour mood.  His dad decides to cheer him up by making him into a pizza.  He puts him on a table, kneads him, tosses him in the air, and puts toppings on.  The game continues with laughs all around until the sun finally comes out and Pete can go out and play.  The book is not at all scary.  It's a great make-believe book.  It has about 300 words.	2004-03-28
728406:US	51917998	R2QY0ZX67JKGJC	0618064877	764591343	Nursery Crimes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Clever pig!	Jambo and Marva are immigrant pigs living in Ames Town.  They have 12 children and make their living by raising topiaries and pumpkins.  One night the topiary thief Voler steals all their turkeys.  Facing financial disaster, Marva cooks up a scheme that helps them prove Voler was the culprit  The book is not scary, but it does have some tension.  It introduces some uncommon vocabulary words such as topiary.  It has about 900 words.	2004-03-28
728472:US	51917998	R2A0TXBOURAZGR	0152026223	933384540	Mountain Dance	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Geology for Preschoolers	This book describes various geological phenomena, such as the rising up of mountains and the forces behind volcanoes, all in easy vocabulary and a text short enough to hold the interest of the under five crowd.  At the end of the book are some more detailed bits of scientific information about each page, to help parents and teachers with the why and how questions that will inevitably follow.  (...)	2004-03-28
728574:US	51917998	R1UZM8RQ2MNRAR	0618149724	113202544	Tippintown: A Guided Tour	Books	4	0	4	N	N	Rhyming tour	This is a guided tour of a typical city.  The book takes us to visit a statue, an art museum, and a mountain, among many other sights.  The text is all presented in rhymes, and the pictures are quite well done.  (...)	2004-03-28
728898:US	51917998	R1LD7DZM18QW1J	0525470263	435945092	Baby Business	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Laugh out loud hilarious!	This is a collection of short rhyming babies, their moods and actions during the day.  By the accuracy of the descriptions, we can surmise that each poem is based on a real child that the author once knew, or played with, or fed.  Between the poem and the picture, I was left rolling on the floor with laughter as I turned these pages.  Children with younger brothers or sisters may find this book especially fun and engaging.  The book has about 500 words.	2004-03-28
729032:US	51917998	R5MZEY9AYKLTZ	0803704062	548808407	The Boy Who Held Back the Sea	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Classic tale	This book tells a version of the story of the little Dutch boy who holds back the sea with his finger.  In this version, the boy is a bit naughty.  He gets to skip church by offering to carry a pie to blind man, but then eats the pie himself instead of delivering it.  When he finds the leaky dike, nobody believes him because he is known to be such a troublemaker.  As a result, he ends up spending the night alone by the dike and has to endure a raging storm before he and the dike are rescued.  The book is a little scary but it's a good engaging story.  The pictures are all done in the style of the Dutch Masters.  It has about 1000 words.	2004-03-28
729084:US	51917998	R21TBH7AROU7VP	0060294035	136371139	Rocks in His Head (Avenues)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Historical story	This book tells the life story of the narrator's father, a self-educated man who managed to become museum curator due to his passion for rocks.  When the narrator's father was a young boy, he collected rocks everywhere he went.  When he grew up, he ran a gas station and kept his rocks on shelves for customers to look at.  The gas station went under during the Depression.  After hunting around, the man eventually stumbled into a job as a night janitor at the Museum of Science.  He was quite happy with this job because he got to polish the rocks in the exhibits.  Eventually he was even promoted to the position of curator of the museum because of his expertise with the rocks, even though he lacked a college education.  The story is quite appealing for older kids.  With 1250 words, it may be a bit long for the young ones.	2004-03-28
729282:US	51917998	R13V4P8I885HMJ	0810942437	504393708	Babar's Counting Book	Books	5	4	4	N	N	From 1 to 20	One morning Babar and his wife are very busy, so they send the kids out for a walk to count what they can see.  They see birds, elephants, camels, and alligators, and they learn to count to 20.  The book is a very fun counting book.  It has about 600 words.	2004-03-28
729364:US	51917998	R3BKIH4R8Z3RYI	0881066478	514784799	Looking Out for Sarah	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Working life	This book tells the true story about the life a guide dog named Perry and the blind woman named Sarah that he works for.  The book explains how the dog helps Sarah get around in the morning, how he helps her cross the street to get to the grocery store, and how he gets to go where other dogs aren't allowed.  It describes how Sarah is able to keep up with her busy schedule of activities like playing music for local schoolchildren thanks to Perry's tireless work.  The book also describes an adventure that Sarah and Perry had together when they walked from Boston to New York City.  The book is not at all scary.  It's a great description of working dogs and the kinds of help they can provide for disabled people, as well as the kinds of activities that disabled people engage in every day.  The book has about 650 words.	2004-03-28
736125:US	51917998	R2RGN5IMWWA11W	0486412318	407069839	Lichen Dyes: The New Source Book	Books	4	49	49	N	Y	Good guide, but not for complete beginners	This is a decent guide to dying with lichens.  It is a very condensed presentation of the author's academic and practical research on the topic over many years.  In terms of topics considered, the book is quite varied. It begins with a preface on ethical collecting of lichens.  Next comes 10 common questions about dying with lichens covering such topics as \\"Will lichen dyes fade?\\",  \\"How many lichens does it take to dye something?\\", and \\"How can I avoid collecting rare lichens by mistake?\\".  Following this are short chapters on the history of lichen dyes in Asian, European, and American cultures.  Then there is a very practical chapter describing in detail methods and recipes for lichen dyes, together with a list of common lichens used for dyes, grouped by dye method, and specifying final colors that can be achieved.  One of the author's pet topics is ecodyeing, and she has developed techniques for dying that are less harmful to the environment than traditional methods, and she devotes a chapter to describing some of her alternatives.  The last full chapter covers ethics of lichen dying and lichen identification.  The book ends with a 15 page annotated bibliography.  There is also an index.  The only photographs in the book are the ones printed inside the front and back covers.<br />Overall, I found this book to be clear and very well researched.  I'm quite fond of lichens, but I have no background in the dyeing field.  The author seems to forget how little some of her readers, such as myself, may know about natural dyes.  She uses words like \\"mordant\\" without definition.  Certainly, if you are already an experienced dyer, such words and their corresponding concepts will already be familiar to you.  But if you are a rank beginner like myself, you might want to find another, more basic book, or seek some instruction before trying out the instructions in this one.<br />The author works exceptionally hard in this book to convince readers that lichen collecting for making dyes is not necessarily a bad thing.  Again, she overlooks the fact that some readers may come to her book completely unfamiliar with the controversy that she is trying to argue with.  To make the issues more clear for the reader, it might have been useful to lay out the arguments against collecting lichens explicitly, enumerating explicitly what kinds of environmental costs may be involved.  Her advice to lichen collectors sounds valid, however.  She stresses above all, looking for \\"found\\" lichens, lichens that have blown off or become detached from their substrates and are lying on the ground, or collecting from sites that have been recently logged and consequently have great quantities of detached lichens on the ground.  She also cautions against lichen collecting in groups, or taking more than 10% of a single lichen species from any one location.  One obvious point that she makes is that you should consider your color needs carefully before you make your dye pot- -for example, there is no need to use lichens to make a simple brown dye, since browns can be had so easily from other materials.  She also points out that you don't need to fill your pot with specimens from just one species- -think about the color you are trying to achieve, and you can mix lichens of different species to get that color.  If you follow her recommendations, it sounds quite plausible to be able collect lichens ethically, and using her instructions, you should have some success with your dyes.ng dyes is not necessarily a bad thing.  Again, she overlooks the fact that some readers may come to her book completely unfamiliar with the controversy that she is trying to argue with.  To make the issues more clear for the reader, it might have been useful to lay out the arguments against collecting lichens explicitly, enumerating explicitly what kinds of environmental costs may be involved.  Her advice to lichen collectors sounds valid, however.  She stresses above all, looking for \\"found\\" lichens, lichens that have blown off or become detached from their substrates and are lying on the ground, or collecting from sites that have been recently logged and consequently have great quantities of detached lichens on the ground.  She also cautions against lichen collecting in groups, or taking more than 10% of a single lichen species from any one location.  One obvious point that she makes is that you should consider your color needs carefully before you make your dye pot- -for example, there is no need to use lichens to make a simple brown dye, since browns can be had so easily from other materials.  She also points out that you don't need to fill your pot with specimens from just one species- -think about the color you are trying to achieve, and you can mix lichens of different species to get that color.  If you follow her recommendations, it sounds quite plausible to be able collect lichens ethically, and using her instructions, you should have some success with your dyes.	2004-03-22
736281:US	51917998	R2UR5WM92K55L7	0805048308	843716780	Waste and Want: A Social History of Trash	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Thought-provoking	This book is a history of household waste in the United States and what we have done with it over the years.  Although Strasser takes her research as far back as colonial times, most of the focus is on the habits of the Nineteenth Century, and how they evolved with our changing society. The first chapter introduces the central theme of the book, how in the past, especially before the turn of the Twentieth Century, waste products served as raw materials for other products.  In other words, before we ever invented the word \\"recycling\\", practically everything was recycled.  Over the past 100 years, this has changed, so that now recycling seems like a new idea.  Whereas in the past, cities and households constituted one component of a closed production/consumption system that included manufacturers, following the age of industrialization and mass production, that system has broken apart, and there is now a one-way flow from the factories to the consumers.  And this flow leads eventually to mountains of garbage, for which we currently seem to have no better solution than mass burial.<br />Strasser begins her story by describing an archeological dig of a 1620s settlement, where matching pieces of potshards were discovered at great distances from each other, suggesting that if a pot was broken, residents might have been in the habit of reusing the pieces for other purposes.  Social history is notoriously hard to reconstruct, since people of the time rarely thought the details of their daily lives important enough to document.  This is especially true with the topic of waste, refuse, and garbage.  But by carefully picking through such items as housekeeping manuals and business accounting ledgers, Strasser was able to pull many of the pieces of the garbage story together.  She found that in the Nineteenth Century, household food scraps were fed to chickens and pigs.  Metal and wood items were repaired or refashioned. Before the age of industrial looms, fabric of any kind had much greater value, since all but the very youngest of children were well aware of the tremendous labor involved in weaving cloth.  Even after mass-produced fabrics became available, clothing was still stitched, often by hand, at home.  For this reason, clothing often symbolized a bond between the producer and the wearer.  It was never simply discarded, but rather mended, passed on to others, taken apart and refashioned into new garments, or made into quilts or rugs.  As a last resort, it would be used as bandages or sold to the ragman.<br />The phenomenon of the ragman, as Strasser describes him, is particularly fascinating.  This was a person who would make the rounds of rural homes with a motley collection of manufactured goods for sale, such as tin dishpans or soap.  For payment, he would accept rags, fats, and bones.  These items he would ship off to warehouses to be used as raw materials for paper, soap, and fertilizer.  As Strasser puts it \\"The very distribution system that brought manufactured goods to consumers took recyclable materials back to factories.\\"<br />Despite these widespread collection networks, early Nineteenth Century factories suffered continuously from a shortage of raw materials, and labor was also relatively scarce in North America.  This led to the development of new industrial processes that relied on mass production techniques, which became dependent on new materials rather than recycled ones.  This change, combined with the increasing urbanization of society, began to result in garbage and other unwanted items piling up inside and outside people's houses, soon leading to the need for municipal waste collection services.  But no sooner had cities organized a collection system than a new problem cropped up: \\"Paradoxically, the more trash collection there was, the more trash was generated,\\" as Strasser observes.  In just the 4 years between 1903 and 1907, the amount of garbage collected by the city of Pittsburgh, for example, increased by43%.  Cities tried various methods to deal with these huge and growing mounds of garbage, from dumping the stuff in water, to piling it up in poor people's neighborhoods, to incinerating it.  Significantly, what all of these methods had in common was that sorting of garbage by composition, such as organic material, metal, and glass, was no longer relevant.  Cities which once universally required refuse sorting by households rescinded their laws, and it wasn't until the landfill crises of the 1990s that such laws began to be considered again as part of mandatory recycling programs.<br />This book is filled with many other thought-provoking and interesting topics, such as the history and impact of the Salvation Army and Goodwill, and the patriotic scrap collecting campaigns of the World Wars.  Strasser's style is clear and interesting, academic without being stuffy.  This is a great resource for anyone interested in material culture, ecology, or American history.by 43%.  Cities tried various methods to deal with these huge and growing mounds of garbage, from dumping the stuff in water, to piling it up in poor people's neighborhoods, to incinerating it.  Significantly, what all of these methods had in common was that sorting of garbage by composition, such as organic material, metal, and glass, was no longer relevant.  Cities which once universally required refuse sorting by households rescinded their laws, and it wasn't until the landfill crises of the 1990s that such laws began to be considered again as part of mandatory recycling programs.  <br />This book is filled with many other thought-provoking and interesting topics, such as the history and impact of the Salvation Army and Goodwill, and the patriotic scrap collecting campaigns of the World Wars.  Strasser's style is clear and interesting, academic without being stuffy.  This is a great resource for anyone interested in material culture, ecology, or American history.	2004-03-22
737253:US	51917998	R319XI13NYRG0A	0688419127	659006801	Maggie and the Goodbye Gift	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great moral	Maggie is usually a cheerful little girl, but one day her dad comes home from work and says that he is being transferred.  Maggie isn't sure what that means, but her whole family seems to be rather upset as they pack their things and say goodbye to their friends.  Just before they pull away in their car from their house for the last time, Maggie's mother's friend hands her a present.  Once the family arrives at their new house, everyone is sad and grumpy.  Then Maggie gets an idea that pulls the whole family together, and helps them make friends with their new neighbors.  The idea involves that gift that Maggie's mother had received from her friend.  This is a great story, and it could well be based on true life.  It's not at all scary, although it can be a little tense or serious at times.  The book has about 1100 words.	2004-03-21
737324:US	51917998	R1KO7AZJPFDR7V	0763618519	716478108	Full, Full, Full of Love	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Delicious family feast	This book is a great story about Sunday dinner at Grannie's house.  Jay Jay's mother drops him off at Grannie's house one morning while she goes off to pick up his father.  Jay Jay helps his grandmother set the table and feed her fish, but he's quite hungry.  Finally, the rest of the dinner guests arrive and they sit down to enjoy a spectacular feast together.  After dinner, everyone is full, happy, and tired.  The book is engaging and not at all scary.  It has about 500 words.	2004-03-21
737371:US	51917998	R1QCPUDEE6T1NC	0618149724	113202544	Tippintown: A Guided Tour	Books	4	0	4	N	N	Rhyming tour	This is a guided tour of a typical city.  The book takes us to visit a statue, an art museum, and a mountain, among many other sights.  The text is all presented in rhymes, and the pictures are quite well done.  The book has about 750 words.	2004-03-21
737448:US	51917998	RFA8FKMBUMXSI	1877864145	297304091	Moving Your Family Overseas	Books	3	31	31	N	N	Potentially useful	This book describes some of the emotional and logistical issues that may arise when a family accepts an overseas assignment.  It also provides some suggested ways of dealing with common problems.  The book is divided into 3 parts: preparations, culture shock, and ongoing challenges.  Topics covered in the preparations section include: deciding whether to take an overseas offer (implications for career, education, health, divorced parents, and extended family), breaking the news to family and friends, researching the new country, logistics (storing or shipping belongings, documents, inventories), and arrival (hotel living, settling in, and emotional upheaval).  The culture shock section covers coping with culture shock, expatriate life (household help, business entertaining) and coping problems and strategies for family members.  The final section covers building new social networks, parenting, making the most of home leave, and returning back home for good.  At the end of the book is an annotated list of further readings, organized by age.<br />I bought this book when I was planning an overseas move myself with my husband.  The book reminded me of some topics that I hadn't thought of before, such as the potential for worry amongst my extended family, and the need to put extra effort into staying in close contact with them while we were overseas.  However, the emphasis of this book is very much on \\"family\\".  Since my husband and I do not have children, many issues described in the book, like the need to research educational options for the children, were just not relevant for us (although they would be important indeed for families with children).<br />As I was packing for our move to the Middle East, this book didn't make the cut- -it stayed home because a lot of other books looked far more important to take with us.  (The two books that I did deem important enough to pack were Understanding Arabs by Margaret Nydell and Survival Kit for Overseas Living by Robert Kohls)  As I look through this book again after 5 years living overseas, I notice that it does point out a number of issues that families moving overseas must consider, but the level of detail is very general, perhaps too general.  Certainly, the question of education options for children is crucial, and many American parents, who are accustomed to any local school meeting the usual standards, have to learn to be quite critical about choosing a school for their children.  If you are moving to a European country, or any country where the public schools are well-funded and well-run, then this question won't be as much of an issue.  If you enroll your kids in the local public school, they will quickly learn the language and make great inroads into the culture.  But if you are moving to a country where either your children aren't welcome in the government schools, or the schools are of a low standard, then you really need to think about what you are doing.  You need to visit the private schools and try to get into the classrooms, if possible, to get an idea of how the teachers relate to the children, and the backgrounds of the other children.  In some private schools, all the students are quite well-to-do, and as a result, they may be spoiled, have atrocious attitudes towards either locals or less well-off people, and drug problems may be rampant.  In the face of such problems, many parents choose to either homeschool their children or, when they are teenagers, send them to boarding schools in Europe (where, once again, other students may be spoiled rich kids with drug problems).  The whole process of homeschooling can be a wonderful experience here in the US, where there are many support groups and peers.  But a child who is homeschooled for lack of better options overseas may feel quite lonely and come to resent the experience later in life.  Before moving overseas, I used to think that taking a child overseas, anywhere overseas, would be an incredible educational experience, that would be universally positive.  But after living overseas myself, I realized that there are some cultures that kids would be better off not experiencing- -they would develop healthier attitudes towards learning, work, money, and other people elsewhere.  A book like this, which is so general in nature, doesn't even attempt to consider the variety or range of situations you may possibly find.<br />Overall, I found the chapter on moving most useful, possibly because it was most specific (and could be specific, since the issues are relevant and similar for everyone).  This chapter provides lists of documents you will need, things to pack, and important things to remember about your new country, like climate and electricity differences.  If you are considering an overseas assignment, and you don't have much experience with travel or relocation, this book may be of use.  But you're going to need to go a lot deeper into the topic than just reading this book.ence, that would be universally positive.  But after living overseas myself, I realized that there are some cultures that kids would be better off not experiencing- -they would develop healthier attitudes towards learning, work, money, and other people elsewhere.  A book like this, which is so general in nature, doesn't even attempt to consider the variety or range of situations you may possibly find.<br />Overall, I found the chapter on moving most useful, possibly because it was most specific (and could be specific, since the issues are relevant and similar for everyone).  This chapter provides lists of documents you will need, things to pack, and important things to remember about your new country, like climate and electricity differences.  If you are considering an overseas assignment, and you don't have much experience with travel or relocation, this book may be of use.  But you're going to need to go a lot deeper into the topic than just reading this book.	2004-03-21
737500:US	51917998	R3KHBKL602T40K	0525470263	435945092	Baby Business	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Laugh out loud hilarious!	This is a collection of short rhyming poems about babies, their moods and actions during the day.  By the accuracy of the descriptions, we can surmise that each poem is based on a real child that the author once knew, or played with, or fed.  Between the poem and the picture, I was left rolling on the floor with laughter as I turned these pages.  Children with younger brothers or sisters may find this book especially fun and engaging.  The book has about 500 words.	2004-03-21
737865:US	51917998	R16VUY9R5TGA4M	1582348006	560596435	Hector the hermit crab	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Overcoming shyness	This book is about a shy hermit crab named Hector.  One morning, Hector wakes up to find that a flower has grown on his shell.  He tries everything to get the flower off, but nothing works.  Indeed, by the next morning, the flower grows even bigger.  Hector is mortified by his odd appearance, but the other crabs seem to find it quite attractive.  They gather round Hector, and soon Hector has a new group of friends.  The story is quite cute and not at all scary.  The book has about 200 words.	2004-03-21
743434:US	51917998	R17PSE3UVKQREU	0807216259	586173981	Don't Know Much About American History	Books	4	56	57	N	N	Setting the story straight	This is a concise history of the United States, told from a decidedly liberal point of view.  Davis begins his story with the various discoveries of America, informing us of Columbus motivations, Ericksons settlements, and the Native American migrations of 35,000 years ago.  He continues with stories of the French and Indian Wars, the founding of the United States, the Civil War, Teddy Roosevelt, and the Twentieth Century events through the presidency of Ronald Reagan.<br />Each chapter begins with a list of questions on a given period of history.  Then Davis begins describing what happened during this period, taking up and answering each question in turn.  Starting with Teddy Roosevelt, Davis own political persuasion starts to come through more and more clearly.  While I myself agree with Davis comments about FDR and Ronald Reagan, I think conservative readers might find some of them a bit objectionable.  In general, I found this a very readable concise history of the United States, but its not for everyone.	2004-03-16
743500:US	51917998	RFUOW5QR7NJ8Z	0803710526	36328827	The Storekeeper (Pied Piper Paperbacks)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Accurate	This book describes a typical day in the life of the keeper of a general store.  The storekeeper rises early to welcome the donut man.  She serves the road crew and the schoolchildren.  She works very hard to choose products her customers will like, and she works especially hard at keeping the store clean and organized.  She doesn't get to go to bed until late at night, after the last customer has left.  There is nothing scary in the book, and the description is quite accurate while the pictures are detailed and amusing.  The book has about 150 words.	2004-03-16
743587:US	51917998	R1ECQW2WVY6KK	0465077145	712396982	Sexing the Body: Gender Politics and the Construction of Sexuality	Books	4	33	46	N	N	Ambivalence	This book delves into some of the biological and cultural issues regarding gender identity.  In the introduction, Fausto-Sterling tells us that as a biologist, she accepts that there are biological influences on behavior, but at the same time, she is a feminist who is determined that gender identity is also culturally influenced.  This book is framed as a kind of reconciliation between the extremes of the two camps.  The early part of the book examines hermaphrodites or intersexuals through history.  Fausto-Sterling points out that before medical intervention was standard, hermaphrodites were a recognized gender category, who even had their own rules of conduct and inheritance under Jewish law.  She then turns her attention to the modern treatment of intersexuals, describing how thanks to charlatans like John Money, many have been surgically adjusted to fit one sex, while finding that their natural gender goes the other way, and they are consequently trapped in bodies that go against nature.  She reviews many studies of the medical intervention of intersexuals and infant gender re-assignment, finding dismally few success stories.<br />The second half of the book takes up a variety of topics.  Chapter 5, for instance, discusses and dismisses reported differences between the corpus callosum in men and women.  In this chapter, Fausto-Sterling goes to great length to explain how the statistics for the corpus callosum studies may be flawed, but it seems she misses a larger point- -are there any behavioral traits that are associated with the corpus callosum anyway?  Even if women turned out to have a corpus callosum that was five times as big, on average, than that of men, so what?  We don't know enough yet about the function of the corpus callosum to hazard a guess as to what such results might point to, so finding or not finding a difference in size isn't that consequential.  Later chapters in the book cover the history of sex hormone studies, hormones and the development of the brain.  The book closes with an analysis of the author's own development of a gender identity, and an analogy of gender identity as a set of Russian dolls, where each influence on gender identity, from genetic to hormonal to cultural, fits within the larger context.  And then comes 120 pages of endnotes, followed by 70 pages of bibliography, and the index.<br />In previous work, Fausto-Sterling had proposed that there are not 2 but many human genders, including separate categories for each preference of sexual activity.  In this book she doesn't exactly argue explicitly for many genders, but she almost seems to assume the idea.  She also points out that people's sexual activities may change over time, and thus it may be hard to categorize a person as being throughout life a member of one gender or another.  I'm not sure I agree with her on this point.  I think it might be more accurate to recognize that are only 2 biological genders, each associated with specific physical and behavioral traits, but that not everyone actually fits neatly into these categories.  Indeed, if we have a very tightly defined notion of male and female together with all associated traits, perhaps no one actually matches one gender exactly.  But that's not to say that we need to multiply the gender categories- -we just need to recognize and respect each person for who he, she, or even it, is.nt of the brain.  The book closes with an analysis of the author's own development of a gender identity, and an analogy of gender identity as a set of Russian dolls, where each influence on gender identity, from genetic to hormonal to cultural, fits within the larger context.  And then comes 120 pages of endnotes, followed by 70 pages of bibliography, and the index.<br />In previous work, Fausto-Sterling had proposed that there are not 2 but many human genders, including separate categories for each preference of sexual activity.  In this book she doesn't exactly argue explicitly for many genders, but she almost seems to assume the idea.  She also points out that people's sexual activities may change over time, and thus it may be hard to categorize a person as being throughout life a member of one gender or another.  I'm not sure I agree with her on this point.  I think it might be more accurate to recognize that are only 2 biological genders, each associated with specific physical and behavioral traits, but that not everyone actually fits neatly into these categories.  Indeed, if we have a very tightly defined notion of male and female together with all associated traits, perhaps no one actually matches one gender exactly.  But that's not to say that we need to multiply the gender categories- -we just need to recognize and respect each person for who he, she, or even it, is.	2004-03-16
744238:US	51917998	RXS0VUSEU8LYO	0888946600	688830118	Walking the Line	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Interesting idea but not engaging	This book is description of the history and physical appearance of the border between Canada and the US.  The book is mainly travelogue, detailing Fraser's experiences visiting border communities, juxtaposed with some historical information about how the border was defined in each specific region.  She starts her tour in New Brunswick, and works her way West, through Quebec, Ontario, the Plains, and finally Alaska.<br />I picked up this book with the hope of learning about a particular trans-border culture that might exist between the US and Canada.  If such a culture exists at all, Fraser didn't find evidence of it.  Indeed, from her descriptions, Americans seem unaware that any land mass at all exists just a few miles North of their own communities, as all their interests and activities are focused Southwards. As Fraser traveled, it seemed that she met and talked to few characters relative to other travel writers.  As a result, she fills many pages describing the landscape near the border, making it sound as though she created this trip after getting her book proposal accepted, and needed to come with a certain number of words on the subject to fulfill the terms of her contract.  Nevertheless, she does include a few interesting anecdotes and observations so that if you're truly interested in national borders, you may find something of interest in the book.	2004-03-16
744346:US	51917998	R2WMFW71L5R9Z	019280359X	684918844	Globalization: A Very Short Introduction (Very Short Introductions)	Books	3	9	18	N	N	Concise but not entirely convincing	This book is a concise introduction to the phenomenon of globalization.  It includes chapters on history, economics, politics, culture, ideology, challenges to globalization, and assessing the future.  Annotated references are provided in a short section at the end, just before the index.  The book includes a number of short focus boxes that highlight points in the text, as well as photographs, maps, tables, and diagrams.<br />I picked up this book with the hope of learning about the evils of globalization and why we should try to fight it.  However, I still don't see the light, even after reading this book.  The book takes a definite liberal stance against globalization, but I remain unconvinced.  For example, in the chapter on culture, Steger reminds us about how American over-consume world resources.  Suppose we fought globalization by cutting off all international trade and immigration in this country- -I strongly suspect that our taste for hyperconsumption would then bound even more out of control, without international opinion or labor competition to keep it somewhat in check.  Or would the economy implode, as happened in the Soviet Union when similar constraints against foreign trade were in effect? Back in the chapter on history, Steger states that the calls for international class solidarity amongst working people in the global North (a globalistic movement) went unheeded in the face of nationalist theologies (which sure sounds like a counter-globalistic movement).  But then he goes on to say \\"There is no question that interstate rivalries intensified at the outset of the 20th century as a result of mass migration, urbanization, competition, and the excessive liberalization of world trade.\\"  Whoa there!  By brushing the issue under the carpet with his \\"there is no question\\" statement, Steger leaves me with unconvinced.  I want to believe, but the argumentation just isn't there, perhaps because the book is so concise.<br />I see globalization as involving 2 main issues: marketing and labor.  Marketing, whether explicit through advertisements, or implicit through entertainment media, is despicable since it encourages people to consume things that are harmful or that they don't need.  Labor, on the hand, is an extremely complex issue.  From the building of the US through the age of Industrialization, the US has always suffered from a labor shortage, relative to the rest of the world.  Perhaps that's why so many of our inventors worked on labor-saving devices.  As a result, American workers are amongst the most productive in the world.  On the other hand, in a global market, American workers must compete with workers from all other countries.  Workers in many other countries are paid much less than American workers.  To be fair to the other workers and allow them to support their families, they should receive compensation equal to their productivity, or else they should at least be allowed to compete with American workers.  If an American wants to remain employed while earning 10 times what a Chinese worker makes, the American must be 10 times more productive than the Chinese.  Some people point out that many overseas workers are employed in sweatshops, and they try to avoid the products of sweatshop labor.  But while living in Dubai, I had the opportunity to get know several Third World citizens who had worked in sweatshops themselves in Bangladesh and Qatar.  These people were thankful for the jobs that they had had in the sweatshops, even though it meant working 72 hour weeks for a few dollars a day, sleeping on their worktables, and no bathing facilities.  Incredibly, the sweatshops provided them safer working conditions and more reliable pay than traditional jobs in their own economies.<br />The phenomenon described in this book that disturbed me most was the fact that everywhere, the gap between the rich and poor is widening.  To me, that's an indication of capitalism out of control.  Even after reading this book, Idon't subscribe to conspiracy theories about globalization, or feel that picketing international trade meetings will do anything to help poor people anywhere.  Globalization of information, science, and economics is a simple result of the current state of communications technology.  What we need, however, is more government controls to curb the worst abuses of capitalism.  In the field of labor for instance, perhaps we could require companies that want to sell goods in one country that were manufactured in a different country to meet the minimum labor protection laws of the importing country, on every point except wages themselves.  But since money is power and power is money, the people who bought themselves a government post have very little incentive to do this.  (And where Steger recommends forgiving Third World debt completely, I think it might be a little more effective to reassign the debt to the corrupt politicians who truly profited from the loans, and go after them instead, with the hope to at least discourage future corruption, if not recover the money to develop Third World infrastructure.)I don't subscribe to conspiracy theories about globalization, or feel that picketing international trade meetings will do anything to help poor people anywhere.  Globalization of information, science, and economics is a simple result of the current state of communications technology.  What we need, however, is more government controls to curb the worst abuses of capitalism.  In the field of labor for instance, perhaps we could require companies that want to sell goods in one country that were manufactured in a different country to meet the minimum labor protection laws of the importing country, on every point except wages themselves.  But since money is power and power is money, the people who bought themselves a government post have very little incentive to do this.  (And where Steger recommends forgiving Third World debt completely, I think it might be a little more effective to reassign the debt to the corrupt politicians who truly profited from the loans, and go after them instead, with the hope to at least discourage future corruption, if not recover the money to develop Third World infrastructure.)	2004-03-16
750426:US	51917998	R3I7RUG01GMFF6	0671693808	917425546	Toilet Training in Less Than a Day	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Well done	This is a book explains a well-thought-out tested and true method for getting toddlers out of diapers.  The authors, both psychologists, had been working on a method to for toilet training mentally retarded children and adults.  After developing a toilet training method for mentally retarded people, they decided to test the method with normal children to see if the same method might work with them also.  They were quite pleased to find that normal children did very well with their method.  They made a few modifications to their original method to adapt it to the learning behaviors of normal children and tested their new method with some 300 children from the ages of 20 months and up.  They found that most of the children could be trained within hours, with very few subsequent accidents; indeed, within a week the children were reliably taking care of their own toileting needs by themselves.<br />The book is organized into 4 sections.  The first section is the introduction, in which the authors describe their motivations for creating this method.  In this section, they also include letters from mothers who are desperate to train their children.  There is also an analysis of the costs of delaying toilet training for a competent child- -from prolonged dependence, to monetary costs for diapers, to the time involved in changing diapers (9 hours a week for the average 2-year-old- -aren't there other things you would rather do with those 9 hours than fiddle around with messy diapers?).  The main part of the book explains Azrin and Foxx's method in detail.  The third section is an extended example, in which the method is described in terms of how it was used by one mother and her child.  The last section covers questions and answers that parents may have about using the method.<br />Azrin and Foxx's method does not require any magical equipment or tricks.  It relies on some very sound practices from learning theory.  First of all, they counsel parents on how to determine when a child is ready to use this method.  For one thing, the child must be able to understand and follow instructions, and must have enough dexterity to pull training pants up and down. On the chosen day, one parent should be alone with the child in the house so that there are no distractions.  The parent gives the child lots to drink at breakfast.  After breakfast, the parent and the child play dolls together.  The crucial trick of the method is that the child trains the doll to use the potty, and then rewards the doll for having dry pants.  By the time the doll is \\"trained\\", the child has probably consumed enough fluids to need a turn on the potty himself or herself.  Between the play sessions, the practice, and the edible and psychological rewards, the child quickly develops the skills and motivation needed to use the potty by himself or herself.  Accidents during the first few hours are inevitable, and Azrin and Foxx include additional training ideas to make them somewhat unpleasant for the child, without punishing the child, of course.  The child soon learns that everyone is happy when he or she has dry pants, but wet pants entail a mess to clean up and additional practice running to the potty.<br />This method promotes independence and well being for young children.  It is not coercive and it does not put undue stress on the child.  When parents use this method, children do not have to sit for hours on the pot, and they are not criticized for failing to produce excrement on command.  While not everyone who tries this method will be able to declare their child trained after just a day, the method described in this book certainly helps children develop the skills they need very quickly, with a minimum of stress and tension for the whole family.  The financial, environmental, psychological, and health costs of diapering are enormous.  There is absolutely no sense in keeping a child in diapers any longer than absolutely necessary, and this book will help you make diapers history.diapers history.	2004-03-11
758987:US	51917998	R1G7ASZVPG4XSR	0811824993	309697962	Down to the Sea with Mr. Magee	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Cool	This is a fun rhyming story about a man named Magee and his dog Dee.  One day they decide to have a picnic on their boat.  Everything is going well until a whale decides to play with their boat and they end up stuck in a tree.  Luckily, the rest of the whales notice their plight and manage to save them.  The book has a bit of tension, but it's not that scary, and there is a happy ending.  The book is printed on pages that are thicker than normal, for heavy use.  It has about 600 words.	2004-03-04
759136:US	51917998	R2G98URLAY4B2Q	0808578898	444797787	Friends (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (English and German Edition)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Animal lovers dream	Three good friends, a rooster, a mouse, and a pig, spend all day together having fun.  They sail a boat, pick cherries, and go fishing.  At night they try to stay together in each other's homes, but soon discover that each one has a home that is only suited for itself.  So the friends realize they have to part for the night after all.  But they still dream about each other.  The book has no scary bits- -it might be a good place to start when discussing the plusses and minuses of sleepovers with young children.  The book has about 500 words.	2004-03-04
759153:US	51917998	RIE64YGRAXJ7J	0060245603	167242009	Today I Feel Silly: And Other Moods That Make My Day	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Names for feelings	In this book, a little girl explains her moods and why she feels that way, all in rhymes.  The girl feels alternately silly, joyful, or cranky, and a lot of other moods as well.  The situations that put her in these moods are quite believable and real, like learning that she will have sibling, or tattling on a friend.  The book is not scary, and the story is engaging.  It has about 550 words.	2004-03-04
759187:US	51917998	R37WTLOWZ3DX8N	0688006051	361746699	All Alone	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Dreamy	This is a dreamy book about the magic of solitude.  The author, depicted as a little boy, describes the wonderful things one can imagine when one is all alone.  The book is short (about 130 words), and there are no scary parts.  Good for bedtime reading.	2004-03-04
759194:US	51917998	R1UMJH0SC31RZ2	015201912X	491294998	Time for Bed	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beddy Bye	This is a pleasant bed time book for animal lovers.  All the animals are going to sleep, the lamb, the cat, and even the bee.  The text rhymes, and the pictures are fun.  The book is short (about 250 words).	2004-03-04
759235:US	51917998	R6IFA3ZADCW6X	0888994486	465431914	Stella, Fairy of the Forest	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Cute	Stella and her little brother Sam go to play in the forest.  Sam has a lot of fears, but Stella, who is a know-it-all, dismisses them by reassuring Sam that bears sleep during the day, and snakes are too small to swallow people.  The story is cute, but not always accurate.  It has about 600 words.	2004-03-04
759237:US	51917998	R2BZRX4NF0I31Y	0152017909	338893362	Crickwing	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Controlling emotions	Crickwing is a cockroach who is grumpy because a toad have him a crooked wing and it aches.  Crickwing likes to play with his food before eating it, but several nights in a row, his meal is stolen from him by large critters like lizards or monkeys before he gets a chance to dig in.  Crickwing vents his frustration by torturing leaf cutter ants, but he gets in deep trouble, finding himself elected by the leaf cutter ants as the peace offering for the army ants.  The story has a number of points that some kids, especially young ones, may find rather scary.  But other kids may enjoy the tension.  At the end of the story are some feature articles that provide more factual information about cockroaches and ants.  The book has about 1600 words.	2004-03-04
759402:US	51917998	R1X559EBFDQJ3E	0786803142	649775932	Dear Katie, the Volcano is a Girl	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Trip to Hawaii	Katie and grandmother visit a Hawaiian volcano together.  Katie's grandmother explains to her the scientific explanation of what she is seeing, but Katie won't hear any of it.  Instead, she tells her grandmother all about the Hawaiian legend of Pele, the goddess of the volcano.  The book is not scary.  It would be good to read when preparing for a family trip to Hawaii.  It may also prove a good starting point for comparing myths and reality.  And kids who love volcanoes adore the book.  It has about 800 words.	2004-03-04
759425:US	51917998	R3JI0X7SUSPDM	0434939099	306218341	Gingerbread Boy	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Classic tale	An old woman and an old man have no kids, so the old woman makes a gingerbread boy.  When she opens the oven, the gingerbread boy jumps out and runs away.  He gets chased by the old woman and old man, a cow, a horse, and some farmers out threshing.  Eventually, a fox manages to catch the gingerbread boy through cunning, and the fox eats him up.  Some kids may find the story quite scary, and may find the unhappy ending a bit disconcerting.  But it's a classic tale and quite engaging.  The book has about 1300 words.	2004-03-04
759460:US	51917998	R38QE16DOEU6J9	0316188204	985083745	The Color Box	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Neat	A monkey finds a box and looks inside it.  Inside the box, he sees a small hole, and crawls inside it.  There, he finds a room where everything is the same color, except for a small spot with a new color.  The monkey crawls repeatedly from spot to world, from world to spot, changing the colors of his surroundings as he goes.  The story is fun, rhyming, and not scary.  It's a great way to practice colors.  The book has about 100 words.	2004-03-04
759502:US	51917998	R3KLM4SU7G86SD	0613070062	590494144	Knights In Shining Armor (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Historical info for kids	This is a history book that describes the lives of knights in the Middle Ages.  The book describes how boys could become knights, what the rules of the code of honor for knights were, and what battles between knights were like.  The book introduces a lot of factual material and vocabulary, but there is no plot or story line. At the end of the book, there is a short section describing some famous knights and their dragons.  Personally, I found the book a bit dry, but kids who are fascinated with swords and armor may show some interest in it.  The book has about 900 words.	2004-03-04
759651:US	51917998	R42WKF4ZCBE06	0895774208	901483286	A Home for Little Turtle (Little Animal Adventures)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Home is where your shell is	A small turtle decides she wants a nice home like other animals have.  So she goes around interviewing other animals about their homes.  The homes of the other animals all sound snug and cozy, but when the turtle goes to try them out herself, she can't because her shell gets in the way.  Finally, she meets a snail, who reminds her of the advantages of carrying your home with you wherever you go.  The story is quite pleasant and somewhat informative, and not scary.  The back cover has some interesting descriptive facts about turtles, for kids who want to learn more.  The book has about 320 words.	2004-03-04
759674:US	51917998	R24BANIHXA51WL	0688114490	930513654	Owen (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Blankie book	Owen (a mouse) has a wonderful blanket named Fuzzy.  He takes it everywhere and Fuzzy enjoys everything Owen does, like peanut butter and bath times.  A pesky lady who lives next door shares some ideas with Owen's parents about how to separate Owen from Fuzzy, but none of them work, and Owen and Fuzzy get to stay together.  The story is rather fun, with a little tension, but no scary bits.  The book has about 550 words.	2004-03-04
759898:US	51917998	R2W2ALVMEC8OQ5	0439293111	200672537	Juan Verdades: The Man Who Couldn't Tell A Lie	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Power of Telling the Truth	Juan Verdades is the foreman on a ranch.  The owner of the ranch places a bet with another rancher that Verdades will never lie.  He places the whole ranch on the line.  The other rancher then sends his daughter to live with the first rancher and beguile Juan.  The daughter succeeds in getting Juan to give her the apples from the owner's favorite tree.  When Juan is called on the carpet in front of the two owners and questioned about where the apples went, he says that a fool picked them, and admits that he was that fool.  Juan is eventually rewarded for his honesty by getting a ranch and the beguiling daughter.  In addition to the moral lessons about truth and gambling, there is also some potential for learning about the life of yesteryear in New Mexico.  The book is rather long, with about 2400 words, suitable for older kids.	2004-03-04
759900:US	51917998	R243K6ZIC3FTYL	0399235787	519750980	The Wolf Who Cried Boy	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Cute	This is a cute story about a small wolf who hates his mother's cooking: lamb burgers, sloppy does, and chocolate moose.  What the wolf really wants to eat is a boy.  To avoid his mother's cooking one night, he tries the ploy of shouting \\"boy\\".  It works- -his parents run out of the den in search of the boy and dinner is ruined.  Of course, when a real boy actually appears in the neighborhood, the small wolf can't get a rise out of his parents, so he has to learn to eat lamb burgers after all.  Some kids might find the book a bit scary, but for those who can handle the tension, it's a fun story.  The book has about 1200 words.	2004-03-04
759944:US	51917998	R39B5H4YICODHH	0689854544	282660734	Chasing Dad (ROCKET POWER)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Surfs up	Otto and Reggie suspect their dad is up to something when he breaks his usual routine.  They can't figure out if he's a secret agent or what.  They decide to follow him to see what he's up to, and eventually find him on the beach practicing for the adult surfing meet.  The book is not scary, but it is full of surfer slang.  It contains about 400 words.	2004-03-04
759977:US	51917998	R2EQCY5AVFP20J	0590237837	103474148	Our Goat	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Cute and short	This is a simple short book (only 27 words) that describes the things the family goat ate, in rhymes.  The book is humorous and never scary.  It would make a good short bedtime story.	2004-03-04
760056:US	51917998	RB6W5WCWM7WZ5	8484880176	224909139	Olvia	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Cute	This is a cute story about Olivia, a pig who leads an ordinary preschooler's life.  She brushes her teeth, goes to the beach, visits a museum, and even earns a time out.  The pictures are attention getting with their unique use of color.  Olivia ends her day by listening to a bedtime story, making the book a good wind down before bed.  The book has about 250 words.	2004-03-04
760180:US	51917998	R3UR1SED855QY5	0606225986	448452414	Who Hops	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Neat	This is a neat book about animals and how they move.  The book is amusing and imaginative, and informative on a level that the 2-4 year old crowd can handle.  The book is not at all scary, and quite popular with animal lovers.  It has about 60 words.	2004-03-04
760278:US	51917998	R3UFA3RZGA9125	0613644611	441858904	Best in Show! (Bob the Builder (8x8))	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dog and cat book	Scoop is helping to build Farmer Pickle's barn.  He watches Pickle training his dog for a dog show.  Scoop decides to enter Pilchard the cat in the dog show.  Pilchard first acts like a cat and ignores Scoop's training efforts.  But eventually Pilchard comes around in time to share the prize for best in show with Pickle's dog.  If your child has a heavy machinery fascination, this book may not satisfy it, since the book is more about dogs and cats than dozers.  It has about 600 words.	2004-03-04
760365:US	51917998	R14OXA88U001MP	0805053883	722565226	Polar Bear, Polar Bear, What Do You Hear? (Brown Bear and Friends)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Interactive	This is a fun interactive book about the animals in the zoo and the sounds they make.  It's a great vocabulary builder, since it uses words that small kids may not hear every day.  The book is quite enjoyable for kids who like animals, and not at all scary.  The story may get kids wound up, however, so it might not be the best choice for a bedtime story.  The book has about 200 words.	2004-03-04
762201:US	51917998	R3CK60HGXL63B7	0670241334	404665928	Corduroy	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Fun bear story	A brown teddy bear sits in a toy shop waiting to find a real home.  He catches the eye of a little girl, but her mother says she can't take him home because he's missing a button on his overalls.  Determined to find a home, the bear goes on a nighttime hunt through the store for his button.  The hunt almost ends in disaster.  But the next morning the little girl returns to the store and takes him home at last.  The book is not scary.  The human characters are shown to be African Americans.  The book has about 250 words.	2004-03-02
762274:US	51917998	R3JH7EQXWQO5CN	0529007762	907291850	The Very Hungry Caterpillar	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fun	This is a cute story about a caterpillar who spends his week eating his way through fruits and other foods.  At the end of the week he spins a cocoon and turns into a butterfly.  The book is not scary at all.  It introduces readers to the days of the week.  Unfortunately, the book isn't exactly accurate about the diet of caterpillars, since it shows the caterpillar eating salami and ice cream.  But you allow Carle to be creative with his caterpillar diet, it's worth the fun.  The page for each day of the week is a different size, and they all have holes in them, adding a multimedia dimension to the book.  All together, the book has about 200 words.	2004-03-02
762276:US	51917998	R3F8E5JLRZXGT4	0517129884	638915187	Squeak the Dinosaur	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A variation on Puff	One day while he was playing, William finds a dinosaur egg in the back yard.  He brings it home and the egg hatches, so William gets to play with the little baby dinosaur.  But it isn't long before the dinosaur grows into a big baby dinosaur and it can't hide anymore.  The adults discover the dinosaur and lock it up in a cage, where it is very unhappy.  But William manages to set it free again.  The book is not scary, but it's a bit on the long side (about 850 words), so it might be appropriate for older kids rather than younger ones.	2004-03-02
762510:US	51917998	RLYQ79DHJJKZW	0823417654	107751494	Quilt Alphabet	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An alphabet of riddles	This book features 26 short riddles where the key words are never named explicitly.  Instead, they are described with rhyming pictures and shown in the pictures.  Some of the clues are obvious, and others will cause even adults to pause and think a bit.  The blurb on the cover says \\"Each letter has a poem.  Every poem has a clue.  The answers are in the back.\\" There are no scary parts in the book.  The book has about 600 words.	2004-03-02
762565:US	51917998	R24ZONSY2PYPJT	0340501200	817917572	Animals, Animals	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Animal collection	This book contains a collection of animal poems.  The sources of the poems are quite varied, from Emily Dickinson, to the Bible, to Japanese haikus.  All sorts of animals are featured, from fireflies to hippopotami.  There are no scary bits, and the pictures are great.  At the end of the book is an index of the animals and a table of contents by first lines to help you find your favorite poems.  The book has about 2900 words.	2004-03-02
762587:US	51917998	R33Y9X0MKDWIVK	0590431196	464486526	Very Busy Spider	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Cute	This is a cute story about a spider who drops in on a farm.  All the farm animals greet her and invite her to play.  But the spider spends the day building her web instead.  The book is fun and informative, and not at all scary.  The pages are doubled so they are easy to turn, but be careful, because inquisitive little fingers may reach inside the pages and rip them.  The book has about 350 words.	2004-03-02
762702:US	51917998	R1R72LZM91F6W1	0689822154	767144257	Jimmy Zangwow's Out-of-This-World Moon-Pie Adventure	Books	1	3	27	N	N	Advertising gimmick	This book is a pure marketing book for Moon Pies.  It even includes a coupon for Moon Pies in the back.  The story itself is quite engaging.  It describes a boy who travels to outer space to get his Moon Pies.  He even pacifies a monster on Mars with a Moon Pie.  The entire book is dedicated to increasing the readers desire to purchase and eat Moon Pies- -completely despicable. The author is not content to simply market Moon Pies; he also suggests that Moon Pies are preferable to nutritious foods like Brussels sprouts and beans.  If you would like to see your child join the ranks of the morbidly obese, for heaven sakes, buy this book.  And theres an Oreo counting book youd probably like as well.	2004-03-02
762808:US	51917998	R2PIGF1YZWIUC1	0689826400	623995321	The Essential Worldwide Monster Guide	Books	4	2	2	N	N	For kids who really like monsters	This book is a rhyming field guide to monsters from around the world.  Each monster gets a two-page spread with a humorous rhyming description and a small box with some additional concise information.  The book also includes a global map showing the home locations of each of the monsters  The book is suitable for kids aged 4-9, depending on how brave they are.  Some of the pictures, while comical, arent exactly accurate, like the one showing a moose harnessed to a sled in Eskimo lands.  After all, reindeer, not moose, are harnessed to sleds, and only in Scandinavia, not in Greenland.  But overall, the book provides an interesting cultural adventure for monster maniacs.  It contains about 1200 words.	2004-03-02
762873:US	51917998	R20VCL77M7MEX8	0399237186	280471350	Twins!	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Simple and charming	This book describes the challenges of parenting for two.  The text is short (only about 125 words), simple, and rhyming.  The pictures are quite fun.  There are no scary parts.  The pages are thick- -almost like a board book.	2004-03-02
763105:US	51917998	R2N6RMAB0RCJ1O	1568581726	136095023	Fat of the Land: Garbage of New York -- The Last Two Hundred Years	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Political history of infrastructure in NYC	This book is the story behind the people responsible for taking care of waste removal in New York City.  The book begins with a chapter that traces the infamous woeful journey of the Mobro, the garbage barge that could not find a home.  The main text of the book is divided into 4 sections: Engineering Reform (public health in Europe and America in the mid-1800s, early NYC contracts for gathering bones and organic matter in the mid-1800s), Expanding Opportunities (contracts for Central Park, elevated railways, the Brooklyn Ash incinerator), Public Work (roads and rails, bridges and tunnels, parks and parkways, ports and airports, all covering the 1930s to 1940s), and Landscape Sculpture (Rachel Carson, DDT, dioxins and incinerators, landfills, transfer stations, and NIMBYs).  The book concludes with a chapter on the \\"Pew Yew Choo-Choo\\", a Mobro-like train that looked in vain for a place to unload.  The book is amply illustrated with black and white photographs and drawings. At the end of the book are 90 pages of documentary notes, but presumably to strengthen the narrative of the text, they are not linked directly to the main text with endnote numbers.<br />The subtitle of the book,\\"Garbage of the New York the last two hundred years\\", is a very inaccurate guide to the book's actual contents.  The book isn't about garbage, but about the people who wanted the garbage contracts over the years, and the politics involved with getting the contracts.  Actually, the book also doesn't focus particularly strongly on garbage contracts either, since quite a few pages or even chapters are devoted to the contracts for other infrastructure projects, like Central Park and public transit systems.  Many of these other projects do have a loose connection with garbage, in the sense that some of them depended on garbage for fill (such as LaGuardia Airport), but others seem to be included only because they involved some of the same people who were also vying for the garbage contracts.  In any case, the book can hardly claim to cover the last two hundred years, since the text begins in the 1840s.<br />I picked up this book because I was interested in learning more about how one of the largest cities in the country has dealt with its garbage over the years.  There was no description at all of early garbage disposal arrangements in NYC before the 1840s.  I did learn how dead animals and bones were boiled for grease in the mid-1800s, and there was limited discussion of incinerators, as well as some information about landfills and shipping garbage out of town.  But a few clues in the book lead to me to believe there was more to be said about garbage.  For example, at one point, Miller mentions a NYC law that required all buildings with more than 12 residential units to have their incinerators.  Does this mean that there was some sort of responsibility or expectation for garbage to be dealt with at the point of disposal?  Was this a wide-spread practice?  For how long?  To write a comprehensive history of garbage in NYC, Miller might have put more focus on questions such as these, and a bit less on issues that are only marginally, if at all, related to garbage.In any case, the book can hardly claim to cover the last two hundred years, since the text begins in the 1840s.<br />I picked up this book because I was interested in learning more about how one of the largest cities in the country has dealt with its garbage over the years.  There was no description at all of early garbage disposal arrangements in NYC before the 1840s.  I did learn how dead animals and bones were boiled for grease in the mid-1800s, and there was limited discussion of incinerators, as well as some information about landfills and shipping garbage out of town.  But a few clues in the book lead to me to believe there was more to be said about garbage.  For example, at one point, Miller mentions a NYC law that required all buildings with more than 12 residential units to have their incinerators.  Does this mean that there was some sort of responsibility or expectation for garbage to be dealt with at the point of disposal?  Was this a wide-spread practice?  For how long?  To write a comprehensive history of garbage in NYC, Miller might have put more focus on questions such as these, and a bit less on issues that are only marginally, if at all, related to garbage.	2004-03-02
763140:US	51917998	R2B48PAUJ2YRYH	B00009ZKWS	620872281	Good Night, Sleep Tight, Don't Let the Bedbugs Bite!	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Cute camp book	Gilbert is a fuzzy critter- -perhaps a possum.  One summer, his parents send him off to an overnight at camp.  Gilbert is very excited about playing with the big kids at camp, but the big kids tell a ghost story around the campfire, which makes Gilbert very scared.  Younger kids may find the book a little scary, but 4 to 6 year olds may find it quite engaging.  The book has about 850 words.	2004-03-02
763335:US	51917998	R3T2WTZU7UOE9R	0140557040	59617621	Six Snowy Sheep (Picture Puffins)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Cute	This is a cute book about sheep doing winter activities on Christmas day.  The number of sheep gradually decrease as they each end up in a snow bank, until the last sheep left standing rescues them all and they return safely home.  It's a good Christmas story without any moralizing.  It's also a fun winter counting book with a bit of humor and no scary parts.  Altogether, the book has about 200 words.	2004-03-02
766464:US	51917998	R27CY3Y4M5DEDX	0140805206	834242476	Cross-cultural Studies (Modern Psychology)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Classic readings	This book contains a carefully chosen set of readings about testing psychological theories in a variety of cultures  In the introduction, Price-Williams points out to the reader that a great deal of psychological theory has been developed by Western researchers, based on observations and work with Westerners.  Oddly, many believe that such theories can be assumed to be operant throughout the entire human race, in all cultures.  In this book, Price-Williams has collected classic papers that bring out the issues relevant for cross-cultural psychological research.  He has organized the papers so as to bring out the thread of the scientific dialogue that was carried out between the researchers of the times.<br />The book has eight sections: theory and method, tests, visual illusions, pictorial depth perception, field dependence, conservation (of quantity in the Piagetian sense), achievement motivation, and Freudian hypotheses.  Each section contains a short (one or two page) introduction that provides the context for the discussion, followed by 2 or 3 classic papers that bring out the essence of the topic. Each paper closes with the original cited references.  At the end of the book there is also a selection of references for further reading, organized by topic, as well as an author index and a subject index.<br />The topic of the book was perhaps most clearly stated in the paper by Frijda and Jahoda.  In it, they state \\"The need for additional comparisons, and for the testing of consequences of interpretations, is greatest in explanatory studies.  Partialling-out of covarying factors by more involved experimental designs, and extension of lines of reasoning to intercultural differences is often indispensable.  For instance, supposed cross-cultural influences of ecological variables should also hold within one and the same culture; white American inhabitants of the Great Plains should show as much horizontal-vertical illusion, in comparison to New Yorkers, as plains-versus-city dwellers separated by cultural boundaries.\\"  Such ideas should be obvious- -it's amazing how often they're overlooked in experimental design.  Later in the volume, R. A. Levine eloquently describes social motivations in Africa that seem to be applicable much more broadly \\"When a rural family is faced with a decline in income such as that caused by overcrowding on the land, there is a choice between lowering standards of consumption and finding new sources of income.  The former alternative, which involves becoming increasing poverty, is in fact adopted by families in economically depressed areas all over the world.  Such families operate on a principle of least effort in which the comfort of  remaining in familiar surroundings and doing familiar things, even when faced with starvation, outweighs the future economic benefits that might be gained from drastically changing their way of life.  So long as their impoverishment is gradual, they will put up with it, for it affords known and immediate gratifications that would be missing were they to seek new productive activities.\\"<br />Although this book was constructed in the late 1960s, and contains papers published mostly in the 1950s and 1960s, it remains quite persuasive and relevant today.  The papers and the issues they describe are timeless.  But are they still being reading as widely as they should?  When modern psychologists come out with statements such as \\"studying while listening to classical music increases retention of material\\", or \\"children should not be toilet trained until they are ready\\", it is amazing how many people, both in the general pubic and the scientific community concur, without a thought to how such results are obviously culture-bound, if valid at all.  If young researchers read this book and gave serious thought to the issues presented in it, they might be a lot less likely to make such mistakes themselves.sus-city dwellers separated by cultural boundaries.\\"  Such ideas should be obvious- -it's amazing how often they're overlooked in experimental design.  Later in the volume, R. A. Levine eloquently describes social motivations in Africa that seem to be applicable much more broadly \\"When a rural family is faced with a decline in income such as that caused by overcrowding on the land, there is a choice between lowering standards of consumption and finding new sources of income.  The former alternative, which involves becoming increasing poverty, is in fact adopted by families in economically depressed areas all over the world.  Such families operate on a principle of least effort in which the comfort of  remaining in familiar surroundings and doing familiar things, even when faced with starvation, outweighs the future economic benefits that might be gained from drastically changing their way of life.  So long as their impoverishment is gradual, they will put up with it, for it affords known and immediate gratifications that would be missing were they to seek new productive activities.\\"<br />Although this book was constructed in the late 1960s, and contains papers published mostly in the 1950s and 1960s, it remains quite persuasive and relevant today.  The papers and the issues they describe are timeless.  But are they still being reading as widely as they should?  When modern psychologists come out with statements such as \\"studying while listening to classical music increases retention of material\\", or \\"children should not be toilet trained until they are ready\\", it is amazing how many people, both in the general pubic and the scientific community concur, without a thought to how such results are obviously culture-bound, if valid at all.  If young researchers read this book and gave serious thought to the issues presented in it, they might be a lot less likely to make such mistakes themselves.	2004-02-28
767032:US	51917998	RPFL219OR8Z9R	087113229X	55161038	My Traitor's Heart: A South African Exile Returns to Face His Country, His Tribe, and His Conscience	Books	4	38	42	N	N	Disturbing	This book is an investigation into the attitudes of a liberal who was raised in South Africa.  In the book, Malan tells us that his original charge was to write the history of his racist ancestors, who were among the first Boer settlers in the region.  But when Malan began his project, he found he needed to first explore and develop his own perspective on race in South Africa before he could begin.  And once he began doing this, he never really got around to the history project.<br />The book is divided into 3 sections. In the first, Malan describes his own childhood and adolescence, leading up to his forced flight from South Africa, with a major focus on his youthful love for Blacks (especially in the abstract).  The second part of the book details a number of violent murders that Malan investigated upon his return to South Africa in 1986 to write this book.  In this section, Malan describes the intense violence that was occurring in South Africa at the time, and how all Whites, even doctors providing humanitarian services in the townships, became targets for Black rage.  He also explores violence between rival Black political groups.  In the closing section, Malan visits a White woman named Creina Alcock, who lived on the border of Msanga, a tribal homeland, where she and her husband had struggled to build a sustainable rural development project with the local Blacks.  The woman was widowed after her husband was killed while trying to negotiate peace talks during a tribal disturbance in Msanga.<br />The book doesn't have a strong narrative thread- -instead it seems that Malan was trying to communicate some of his own confusion and ambivalence about racial questions by presenting so many stories and sides of the picture, and flipping rapidly from one to the next.  The loose organization is effective to some degree; the reader slowly comes to understand the enormity and complexity of South Africa's problems.  Yes, many Whites provoked anger from Blacks by their abominable behavior and laws.  Blacks in turn responded with violence that was so overwhelming that even those Whites who tried as hard as they could to do the right thing were in mortal danger.  And the worst and most senseless violence seemed to occur in Black communities that had no White involvement at all.  The entire society was so focused on violence that as one White living on a farm in a rural area told Malan \\"The guy with the bigger stick wins.\\"  In closing with Creina Alcock's story, Malan tries to leave us with a little hope.  He argues that Alcock's and her late husband's love for their community has made a marginal difference in the social structure, despite the ongoing attacks on them and thefts of their property by children they had adopted and raised as their own, and even the murder of Alcock's husband.  With the infinitesimally small improvements that the Alcocks managed to make in their community by giving their entire lives over to the project, how many millions more Alcocks would it take to turn such a country around, and where might they come from?bominable behavior and laws.  Blacks in turn responded with violence that was so overwhelming that even those Whites who tried as hard as they could to do the right thing were in mortal danger.  And the worst and most senseless violence seemed to occur in Black communities that had no White involvement at all.  The entire society was so focused on violence that as one White living on a farm in a rural area told Malan \\"The guy with the bigger stick wins.\\"  In closing with Creina Alcock's story, Malan tries to leave us with a little hope.  He argues that Alcock's and her late husband's love for their community has made a marginal difference in the social structure, despite the ongoing attacks on them and thefts of their property by children they had adopted and raised as their own, and even the murder of Alcock's husband.  With the infinitesimally small improvements that the Alcocks managed to make in their community by giving their entire lives over to the project, how many millions more Alcocks would it take to turn such a country around, and where might they come from?	2004-02-28
773365:US	51917998	R4TKTNW595BY2	0153725079	176229943	This Is the Bread I Baked for Ned	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fun food book	The narrator bakes some bread and puts together a nice meal for Ned, with cheese, olives, soup, and flours.  The whole house is filled when the guests arrive, and they all enjoy the meal.  The story is quite innocuous- -nothing scary and no tension.  The book contains about 400 words.	2004-02-23
773764:US	51917998	R1M6CDAYGNI6BT	0590469762	583229669	Gracias, the Tanksgiving Turkey	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Multicultural Thanksgiving story	The narrator's dad is a long-haul truck driver who sends a live baby turkey to his son, who lives in New York City with his grandparents.  Along with the turkey, he sends instructions to fatten him up for Thanksgiving Day.  But by the time dad returns for Thanksgiving, the bird has become a pet, not a meal.  The story is quite fun, with just a little tension, but no scary bits.  There is a sprinkling of Spanish words throughout the text, and a bilingual glossary at the end of the book.  Altogether, the book has about 1300 words.	2004-02-23
773912:US	51917998	RNQT40XDY14TG	0606204709	811776667	The Day I Saw My Father Cry (Little Bill Books for Beginning Readers)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Real life and morals	This book contains 4 short chapters.  In the first chapter, the narrator meets a new neighbor, Alan Mills.  Alan Mills always seems to turn up at times of conflict to remind people about the magic of Christmas, even if it's not Christmas time.  In doing this, he gets people to focus back on the positive sides of the friends and family.  In chapter 3, Alan Mills passes away (and the narrator's father cries about this).  But in chapter 4, we find that his spirit is still alive, when the narrator and his brother remember Mills' message and stop their bickering over prime seats in front of the TV.  Altogether, the book contains about 1500 words and is suitable for beginning readers.	2004-02-23
773940:US	51917998	RLYL0HWKG9A0M	0374343659	697194683	Larky Mavis	Books	4	0	5	N	N	Odd fairy tale	Mavis finds 3 peanuts in the road and eats 2 of them.  The last one looks a little like it might be alive, so Mavis doesn't eat it.  Instead, she calls it her baby.  But the townsfolk don't believe that it is a baby.  They call it a worm, a mouse, and a bat and give Mavis a really hard time.  Eventually, the little thing grows up to take Mavis away from the cruel townsfolk.  Altogether, the book has about 900 words.	2004-02-23
774225:US	51917998	RCF53GUFQYZRR	0395796180	457672119	Burnt Toast on Davenport Street	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fun and imaginative	Arthur Crandall and his wife are dogs who live on Crandall Street.  One morning, a fly interrupts Crandall's usual burning of the breakfast toast.  Crandall doesn't believe the fly is magic, and when offered three wishes in exchange for the fly's life, he makes some pretty crazy choices.  This book plays on the time-tested theme: Watch out, or you may get what you wish for.  There is a little tension in the book, but mostly the book is humorous and not too scary.  Altogether, it contains about 800 words.	2004-02-23
778878:US	51917998	R12GI0JC8CRB9Y	0195827104	528394134	Shanghai Journal: An Eyewitness Account of the Cultural Revolution (Oxford in Asia Paperbacks)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	The Writing on the Wall	This book is a summary of the events of the Cultural Revolution in Shanghai, as recorded in wall posters at the university.  The author and his wife were hired to teach at the Foreign Languages Institute in Shanghai, where they arrived in 1965, just as the Cultural Revolution began.  For most of their stay at the Foreign Languages Institute, the Cultural Revolution was in full force, and their classrooms were consequently empty, so it appears Hunter and his wife had a lot of time to study the wall posters put up by the various factions around the university.  This book summarizes or quotes many of those posters, so that the reader can get a taste of what the Chinese were writing to and about each other at the time.<br />There are little teasing tidbits of information that Hunter includes perhaps by accident, and never sees fit to explain.  There is a black and white photo of a large group of students gathered outside, some sitting on the ground, diligently copying the words from a wall poster- -but why?  What possible purpose could it serve? What was their motivation? Throughout the book, Hunter plays down the bad aspects of the Cultural Revolution- -he tells us there was very little real violence, and mentions only a few cases of students being sent into exile in far-away peasant communities.  But then towards the end of the book, he also mentions that middle school students hadn't been attending classes and that classrooms had been vandalized.  If things outside the university were as hunky-dory as he claims, whatever happened to the schools and the school kids?  I think I would look elsewhere to get a more accurate understanding of what actually happened during the Cultural Revolution.<br />The blurb on the back of the book claims that this is a \\"fascinating and lively account\\", but I think a more accurate description would be \\"dry and propagandistic account\\".  The author only spends perhaps a few sentences in the entire book describing his own experiences, and he tells us very little of what he saw, or what people were telling him (other than helping him understand the goings on at political meetings he was attending or posters he was copying).  If you are interested in finding out exactly what was on those posters from the Cultural Revolution, with a special interest in the posters of Shanghai University, then this book could perhaps be a valuable source.  But if you simply want to know what happened during the Cultural Revolution, why it happened, what people thought about it, and what happened to foreigners who happened to be there at the time, this book will tell you very, very little.e tells us very little of what he saw, or what people were telling him (other than helping him understand the goings on at political meetings he was attending or posters he was copying).  If you are interested in finding out exactly what was on those posters from the Cultural Revolution, with a special interest in the posters of Shanghai University, then this book could perhaps be a valuable source.  But if you simply want to know what happened during the Cultural Revolution, why it happened, what people thought about it, and what happened to foreigners who happened to be there at the time, this book will tell you very, very little.	2004-02-19
778952:US	51917998	R1YKG62B1ZKPKA	0387915931	215891913	Fungal Biology: Understanding the Fungal Lifestyle	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Overview	This book is a dense review and overview of various aspects of fungal biology.  In the foreword, the authors note that the book is intended for first and second year (university) students in biology (in Europe).  The book is divided into three sections: the fungal lifestyle, including hyphae, mycelium, and substrate; the environment, including water, oxygen, light, temperature, and competition; and reproduction, including trophophase to idiophase, nuclear relationships, spores, germination, and interactions with man (sic).  Some of the chapters, like the one on hyphae, are relatively extensive, and others, like the chapters in the environment section are only a few pages long and give just the briefest overview.  As might be expected, the text is amply illustrated with photographs, drawings, diagrams, and charts.  There is a 4-page glossary at the beginning of the book, a classification scheme at the end of the book, a 4-page list of references for further readings, and an index.  There are no study questions or suggested projects.<br />I approached this book after taking an introductory course in biology and an introductory course in botany.  If I had not taken the botany course, I think this book would have been very difficult slogging indeed, since readers are assumed from the start to have a firm grasp of the life cycles of organisms that use spores for reproduction.  I found the section on hyphae particularly illuminating compared to other material that I have read about mycology- -before reading this book, I thought the hyphae were simply mysterious tubes or filaments that fungi used for some unknown purpose.  On the other hand, the section in this book on the mycelium left me scratching my head.  Many other sections weren't exactly beginner friendly; for example, there is very little in-text explanation of terminology.  If a term is unfamiliar, students are presumably expected to look it up in the glossary or use some other resource- -or else they should approach the text with a few more botany or mycology courses under their belts than I had.  Overall, I think the book might be a good choice for a concise review of the mycology field; it might also be a good source for dipping in to for readings on specific topics like hyphae.  But there are a number of alternative textbooks that might be better choices for a general introduction to mycology.oach the text with a few more botany or mycology courses under their belts than I had.  Overall, I think the book might be a good choice for a concise review of the mycology field; it might also be a good source for dipping in to for readings on specific topics like hyphae.  But there are a number of alternative textbooks that might be better choices for a general introduction to mycology.	2004-02-19
788035:US	51917998	R2W01P88ZV6IEI	0415116694	839654690	Tobacco in History: The Cultures of Dependence	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Economic and cultural history	This book is an overview of the culture and business of tobacco.  After a introductory chapter that covers the botany and chemistry of tobacco, Goodman presents a cultural and economic history of the plant and its products.  He begins with Native Americans, who used tobacco in ceremonies and approached it with reverence. He then details how European explorers took tobacco back to Europe, and how its use was quickly adopted there by the general public.  Its adoption was hastened by medical reports claiming numerous health benefits of consuming tobacco, from preventing colds to curing bowel ailments.  Goodman describes how tobacco played an important role in settling the New World and how its role in the early history of slaving cultures there.  He goes on to describe the role that tobacco growing played in colonial economies and how the invention of the mass produced cigarette helped change consumption patterns worldwide.  Towards the end of the book, he explores the history of government involvement in tobacco production and consumption, before turning to big business, consolidation and diversification of the tobacco industry.  He closes with a short chapter on modern health concerns relating to tobacco, and how they may affect the culture of tobacco consumption and production.<br />The book is very academic in tone and structure- -it reads like a dissertation.  Original sources are cited throughout the text, and there are numerous tables.  At the end of the book is a 2-page glossary and a 40-page bibliography.  Although Goodman's style is reasonably clear, he does have an annoying habit of explicitly stating his main ideas only at the very end of a section, or at the beginning of the following chapter.  If he had introduced his sections with explicit statements of his ideas, the text would have been easier to follow.	2004-02-12
788849:US	51917998	R2J56BC0V85EMW	0486202879	336134714	Snow Crystals (Dover Pictorial Archive)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Sheer art	This book is a collection of some of W. A. Bentley's finest snowflake photographs.  At the beginning of the book is a 20-page introduction to the photography and science of snowflakes (as of 1930). The photographic advice is more of value today as historical documentation about how the pictures were taken- -we no longer use photographic plates or develop and fix our own negatives.  The scientific section consists mostly of descriptive and classificatory commentary, with relatively little in the way of explanation as to why the snowflakes take on the shapes that they do.  Some of the commentary cites specific plates as examples.  The real value of the book is in the plates themselves- -two hundred pages of high-quality black and white photographs, depicting over two thousand differently shaped snowflakes.  A reader could spend many hours poring over the magical snowflakes.  In looking through the plates, it becomes clear quite quickly that Bentley was a man of genius and dedication.	2004-02-12
789613:US	51917998	R1GH1J9D7XWFYI	1889363030	780107899	Transplants: An immigration encounter of East and West : Dutch tulips and oriental poppies	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Family stories written down	This book is a collection of family stories and traditions.  In it, the author describes her childhood and adolescence in the Netherlands, and how she came to immigrate to the US with her husband and four children in 1949.  She goes on to tell how her family eventually grew to 11 children, between the seven she had by birth and the four that she and her husband adopted.  By the end of the book, the children are on their own and she and her husband are living in a cabin in the backwoods of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.<br />Van Ooyen has lived a remarkable life, and she has many tales to tell.  Unfortunately, a number of the stories that she has written down for this book aren't quite complete.  As I read about her life, I would often come across a strange new detail, and would think, \\"Whoops,\\" I  must have skipped a paragraph as I was reading.  But when I went back to re-read the section and look for the explanation, I found that chunks of vital information were definitely missing.  These bits of information are probably well known to members of her family and close friends, so such readers may not even notice that they are missing.  But outsiders to the family may be left scratching their heads.  And after reading the blurb on the back of the book and looking through the selection of black and white photos that are included, I can see that Van Ooyen also had a lot more to tell, about her involvement in the Korean adoption agency and her overseas travels, that doesn't appear in written form in this book.  Overall, the book doesn't quite live up to its potential.  A heavy hand by the editor could have rectified these problems and produced a fine book indeed.	2004-02-11
796069:US	51917998	RT87LE0KY7TFN	0060922281	906305652	Rubbish!: The Archaeology of Garbage	Books	5	40	41	N	N	One of the best books Ive read this year	This is a fascinating overview of the world of garbology, the science of garbage.  The authors begin by describing how the Garbage Project came to be, when students in a 1971 anthropology class at the University of Arizona hit upon studying garbage as a way to study people and culture.  The Garbage Project has grown to become one of the leading scientific explorations into garbage, where it comes from, where it goes, and what it does when it gets there.  Published results from the Garbage Project have covered such varied topics as changing patterns of meat consumption, using garbage volume to estimate population, and the relative quantities of diapers, newspapers, and plastics in landfills.<br />One of the most valuable contributions of the book is that it provides historical data to put garbage in perspective.  Contrary to many people's beliefs, the authors argue that garbage and where to put it is not a new problem at all.  They point out that one of the characteristics that make us human is that we create garbage, and we always have, back to the very first time a humanoid discovered how to create tools by chipping flint.  To those who worry about our non-biodegradable trash, the authors remind us that the pottery shards of ancient archeological sites are nothing more than the indestructible refuse of yesteryear.  And yet others worry about burying our trash in landfills which doesn't allow normal biodegradation to occur, but the authors point out that this also isn't new, describing an archeological dig of a putrid 2,000-year-old buried dump in Italy.  Of course, the main message that the authors express is not that garbage is benign, but that the problem isn't new, and that garbage issues have been a concern since the dawn of civilization.  They also point out that sanitation issues are even getting better.  They give an overview of the history of garbage treatment in the US, from burying it under the kitchen floor, to building dumps, incinerators, and sanitary landfills. They point out that cities in the past weren't as clean as they are now.  Cities used to produce mountains of coal dust and horse manure, and garbage would often simply sit on the corner, waiting to be dispersed by scavengers or pigs. They point out that \\"...ever since governments began facing up to their responsibilities, the story of the garbage problem in the industrialized world has been one of steady amelioration, of bad giving way to less bad and eventually to not quite so bad.\\"<br />Scientists as well as ordinary people have very inaccurate ideas of what's in landfills today and how landfills work.  Until the Garbage Project actually studied landfills, many landfill planners believed that trash would biodegrade somehow once it went into the landfill, and that the trash would eventually settle, producing large quantities of methane gas.  By drilling into landfills and studying their contents, Garbage Project scientists have found that very little biodegradation actually occurs in landfills at all- -basically, only food scraps and perhaps a few lawn clippings break down.  Since food scraps make up only a small portion of landfill volume, then settling and methane gas production is much less than expected.<br />If you think garbage is a problem, then an obvious way to address the problem is to reduce garbage volume.  So what items take up the most space in our landfills?  Many environmentalists would guess disposable diapers and plastics.  But by meticulously  analyzing landfill samples, Garbage Project scientists have determined that diapers comprise less than 2% of landfill volume and all plastics less than 20%.  Paper, on the other hand, especially newspaper, doesn't compress well, doesn't biodegrade in landfill any better than plastic, and takes up 40% of landfill volume on average.  Think of that next time you need to answer \\"Paper or plastic?\\" at the supermarket.  By studying what's in our landfills and what actually happens to the stuff once it's been down there for a few decades, we can get better ideas about what the real garbage problems are and how to address them.<br />The authors suggest that the best solutions to garbage problems may be to ensure that there are economic incentives to garbage reduction.  They point out that the weight and volume of packaging plastics has decreased dramatically since the 1960s- - plastic beverage bottles now weigh much less than they used to- -because it's cheaper for companies to pack and ship their items in lighter weight packaging.  One of the persistent problems for garbage reduction is cities that charge a flat rate for garbage removal, rather than a per-can rate.  In localities where residents pay a nominal fee for each bag of garbage to be disposed of, recycling participation rates are much higher, and garbage volume is less.  The worst thing a city can do is to adopt uniform large containers for mechanized garbage collection, since garbage production magically increases to fill the space allotted to it.<br />After reading this book, I have a new-found respect for the Styrofoam cup and disposable diapers.  I better understand why newspapers are so hard to get rid of, even through recycling.  But there is one fishy result that leaves me a little suspicious- -at one point the authors argue that processed food creates less garbage than fresh food.  The basis for this claim is a cross-cultural study they did in Mexico City and Arizona.  They found that Mexican households produce a lot more garbage than American households, and that the larger volume is mostly attributable to the fact that Americans use processed foods where Mexicans use fresh foods.  But wait, didn't the authors find in a different study that it was precisely food wastes that biodegrade in landfills, so in the end, isn't it better to produce more food scrap waste than packaging waste?  This odd loose end leaves a bit of doubt in my mind that the book is entirely unbiased.  But overall, I found the book incredibly informative and quite well written.it's been down there for a few decades, we can get better ideas about what the real garbage problems are and how to address them.<br />The authors suggest that the best solutions to garbage problems may be to ensure that there are economic incentives to garbage reduction.  They point out that the weight and volume of packaging plastics has decreased dramatically since the 1960s- - plastic beverage bottles now weigh much less than they used to- -because it's cheaper for companies to pack and ship their items in lighter weight packaging.  One of the persistent problems for garbage reduction is cities that charge a flat rate for garbage removal, rather than a per-can rate.  In localities where residents pay a nominal fee for each bag of garbage to be disposed of, recycling participation rates are much higher, and garbage volume is less.  The worst thing a city can do is to adopt uniform large containers for mechanized garbage collection, since garbage production magically increases to fill the space allotted to it.<br />After reading this book, I have a new-found respect for the Styrofoam cup and disposable diapers.  I better understand why newspapers are so hard to get rid of, even through recycling.  But there is one fishy result that leaves me a little suspicious- -at one point the authors argue that processed food creates less garbage than fresh food.  The basis for this claim is a cross-cultural study they did in Mexico City and Arizona.  They found that Mexican households produce a lot more garbage than American households, and that the larger volume is mostly attributable to the fact that Americans use processed foods where Mexicans use fresh foods.  But wait, didn't the authors find in a different study that it was precisely food wastes that biodegrade in landfills, so in the end, isn't it better to produce more food scrap waste than packaging waste?  This odd loose end leaves a bit of doubt in my mind that the book is entirely unbiased.  But overall, I found the book incredibly informative and quite well written.	2004-02-06
797270:US	51917998	R2AO4WC85BBVFQ	1568360509	891837497	Trespassers on the Roof of the World: The Secret Exploration of Tibet (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Well told	This book is a history of the outsiders who have tried to gain entry to Tibet through the centuries.  It begins with a brief description of Tibet, its geography and history, and why the political and religious leaders decided to forbid foreigners from visiting during the Middle Ages.  The book then examines each of the major attempts by foreigners to enter the country and learn its secrets.<br />The first descriptions are of Captain Thomas Montgomerie's spies, Indians who were trained in surveying and espionage skills and sent into Tibet under cover to map the country.  The information these spies provided was essential for drawing the first accurate maps of Tibet.  Hopkirk then describes the many subsequent attempts by Westerners to crash the gates and see Lhasa first hand.  These Westerners included army officers from both the British and Russian armies, missionaries, and private citizens.  All were turned back before they reached Lhasa until Francis Younghusband and the British army blasted their way through in 1903-1904.  After Younghusband's opening of the country for the British, it became a little easier for foreigners to gain access to the country, at least for British government officials, that is.  Hopkirk provides brief accounts of other subsequent adventurers and their expeditions to Lhasa, including Alexandra David-Neel, Heinrich Harrer, and Sven Hedin.  He also describes the trips of the first explorers who attempted to climb Mt. Everest, especially Mallory.  He closes the book with a description of the Communist Chinese invasion of Tibet as one final example of unwelcome trespassers.<br />As I read this book, I was again struck by the contrast between how little average Tibetans had in the way of material goods or lifestyle, and how fiercely they struggled to keep it that way and keep foreign influences out.  The descriptions of Lhasa at the turn of the century when Westerners first gained access to it make the place sound quite miserable- -open gutters, vermin, disease were everywhere.  The monks and religious leaders possessed incredible power, and subjected people to hideous corporal punishments if they stepped out of line.  When considering such circumstances, it's hard to believe that average Tibetans would really prefer to be left alone, to mire in their own dirt ruled by a strict theocracy.  Nevertheless, these days the very word Tibet evokes images of the exiled Dalai Lama and his endless missions for peace.  The idea that we have of Tibet today must somehow have been contained in the culture that the trespassers described in this book found and fought to destroy.<br />The book is quite well written and engaging.  Hopkirk does a masterful job at weaving together a coherent narrative thread from the various documents that describe the expeditions.  His organization and selection provide clear insights into the topic and a balance that is hard to realize when reading the various firsthand accounts of these expeditions..ters, vermin, disease were everywhere.  The monks and religious leaders possessed incredible power, and subjected people to hideous corporal punishments if they stepped out of line.  When considering such circumstances, it's hard to believe that average Tibetans would really prefer to be left alone, to mire in their own dirt ruled by a strict theocracy.  Nevertheless, these days the very word Tibet evokes images of the exiled Dalai Lama and his endless missions for peace.  The idea that we have of Tibet today must somehow have been contained in the culture that the trespassers described in this book found and fought to destroy.<br />The book is quite well written and engaging.  Hopkirk does a masterful job at weaving together a coherent narrative thread from the various documents that describe the expeditions.  His organization and selection provide clear insights into the topic and a balance that is hard to realize when reading the various firsthand accounts of these expeditions..	2004-02-05
803687:US	51917998	R251MTB2J9O7I4	0828902259	984453541	One Man's Forest: Pleasure and Profit from Your Own Woods	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Backwoods primer	This book is an introduction to wood cutting for the beginner.  The author describes how he and his wife retired to rural Vermont from the big city and discovered that they could make money from the wood lot that they had purchased.  They called the county forest extension agent, who helped them identify which trees they had that could be harvested, and which should be culled to make room for more valuable trees.  After working with the extension agent for several years, Stephens and his wife were able to continue on their own with an active forest management program that provided them with wood for heat, constructions projects, and cash. The book covers specific details about logging, such as felling trees, carving trees, moving trees once they're down, firewood, cash crops, and planting.  At the back of the book there is a lot of useful miscellaneous information, such as the relative values of trees for cash or for heat, how to calculate board feet of lumber, and some great black and white photos for winter tree identification from bark patterns.<br />My husband grew up on a farm where logging and splitting wood were everyday chores.  He leafed through this book and said \\"Ho hum.  It's all common sense.  Why write a book about it anyway?\\"  But I was a city kid, and I found the information in the book quite useful.  After reading this book, I can understand much better what is involved in cutting down a tree safely, and I can have a much clearer idea of the steps involved in getting from a standing tree to wood cut and split for the woodstove.  I even know the difference now between a bucksaw and a hacksaw, and which one might be useful in the woodlot.  If you're standing on the edge of your new woodlot, and you're not sure whether you should take a bucksaw or a hacksaw in with you, then this book is for you.	2004-01-31
803710:US	51917998	R3RMGUKH163FEV	0465077870	534084103	The Way We Really Are: Coming To Terms With America's Changing Families	Books	3	21	25	N	N	Its OK to get divorced	This book describes factors playing for and against the well-being of families in the US today.  The book seems to have 3 simultaneous goals: to describe and contrast the economic conditions of single- and two-parent heterosexual families, to provide self-help, support or guidance for two-parent families in crisis, and to suggest government policies to help American families thrive.  Some of the topics covered in the book include: the idealization of the 1950s, working mothers, the future of marriage, divorce, traditions that should be abandoned, who's to blame for families in crisis, societal change and risk for kids, and the strengths and vulnerabilities for today's families.<br />The title of the book misled me a little.  With a title like \\"The Way We Really Are\\", I expected the book to detail the kinds of families that exist in the US today.  I was interested in learning how many families consist of adults with their own children, or with step children, or with no children, and how these numbers are changing.  And how many families consist of homosexual couples with children, and is this number growing?  How many families are nuclear families, and how many extended families do we find in the US today?  Are there differences in these statistics according to race or ethnic background?  What about family units that consist of divorced or widowed adults and in-laws, step-parents, or aunts or uncles?  But that's not what this book is about.  Most of the book deals exclusively with the economic well-being of single and two parent heterosexual nuclear families.  Homosexual families are mentioned briefly in a few paragraphs towards the end of the book, and extended families receive no mention at all.  Even when Coontz discusses two-parent families with a breadwinner and a homemaker, she always assumes that the breadwinner is a male, and doesn't consider or describe when it's the other way around, or provide statistics about female breadwinner families.<br />The main thesis of the book seems to be that many American families are in crisis today.  The reasons for this are varied, from unrealistic idealization of the 1950s, to government policies that run counter to the needs of families.  Coontz argues that right-wing groups that claim to be pro-family by stressing the need for children to be raised in families with 2 married parents may be unrealistic and actually work against the children's welfare.<br />While I found many of Coontz's arguments convincing, I think she could have gone further by giving a lot more thought to families and economic conditions in other parts of the world rather than confining her research and hypotheses strictly to the US.  For instance, she suggests that during the industrial revolution in the US, there was a debate over \\"whether to protect women's interests by secluding them in the family, away from the rough-and-tumble competition of the capitalist market and political party system, or to grant women the same independent legal and political existence that white men had acquired, so they could claim their interests as a right.\\"  Coontz seems to be suggesting here that after the Civil War, women were being kept at home to protect them from market forces, and that that's why they weren't given property rights or allowed to open bank accounts on their own, etc.  But given what we find in the rest of the world, I think it may have been the case that women were kept on the farm because of the common trend worldwide to try to keep women in seclusion, as can still be found today throughout the Muslim world, or parts of Asia.  And property rights weren't restricted from women just because of industrialization- -I'm not sure, but I think there is a long history of such restrictions throughout European law, as well as in the rest of the world.  On the other hand, she may have found support for her thesis that two parent families aren't a panacea in themselves if she had considered modern Japanese families, which very often consist of the two-parent, two child, male breadwinner ideal, and which are quite often completely dysfunctional when judged by American standards, in which we expect the parents to have healthy emotional ties to each other and the children.  All in all, while Coontz has some interesting points, I would be more interested in seeing a book with a little less advice and a little more thought about all the various types of American families considered in a world-wide context.hich very often consist of the two-parent, two child, male breadwinner ideal, and which are quite often completely dysfunctional when judged by American standards, in which we expect the parents to have healthy emotional ties to each other and the children.  All in all, while Coontz has some interesting points, I would be more interested in seeing a book with a little less advice and a little more thought about all the various types of American families considered in a world-wide context.	2004-01-31
804112:US	51917998	R2YRW12H3ZMUM2	1568491573	402454466	Last Time I Saw Paris	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Reminiscing	This book is a fascinating window into the Paris of the inter-war period.  Written in 1942 by a well-known journalist of the time, the book contains the reminiscences of Elliott Paul, an American who chose to call a neighborhood in a little back street of Paris home for some 17 years.  In the first part of the book, Paul paints a picture of the neighborhood and the characters who populated it.  The second part of the book describes the changes to his neighborhood as Europe began to descend into war, and the book finishes with Paul's despair as he thinks over all that was lost to him and to France once the Second World War finally broke out in earnest.<br />I found the first part of the book most compelling.  Yes, it may be historically interesting to read later about how the political events of the time were interpreted by an American living in Paris and by his French friends, but it is the day-to-day details of life in Paris during the 1920s that remain fascinating today.  After reading this book, I began to get an inkling at how un-developed France was compared to the general standard of living we expect and find today throughout Europe.  From Paul's descriptions, living conditions in Paris in the 1920s were comparable to those found in many developing countries today.  In his hotel, for example, the toilet facilities consisted of what some call today a \\"Turkish toilet\\", with one shared squat toilet for the entire floor, with only a partition door for privacy.  Milk was adulterated before being distributed door-to-door in unwashed bottles by a buxom teenager.  There was no central heating in the homes of ordinary people, and those who couldn't afford a small coal stove in their rooms for heat warmed themselves by rubbing their skin with cat-fur mittens, purchased at the local pharmacy.  Women had not yet been granted property rights.  They couldn't own or sell property or bank accounts, and they weren't even allowed to travel without written permission from their husbands or fathers.  Looking back today, it's incredible to think how much French culture has changed.  I wonder what Paul would think of modern French culture if he could experience it again- -what changes would he approve of, and what would he find distasteful?  No doubt, as an outsider, Paul probably formed a few inaccurate hypotheses about French culture, but he lived long enough in the country and neighborhood to discover some truths as well.  And as an outsider, he found them interesting enough to write about.  It is only because they were written down that they survive at all- -they are just too far removed from modern realities to even be conceivable today.  This is a great written record of Paul's experiences, and well worth reading.husbands or fathers.  Looking back today, it's incredible to think how much French culture has changed.  I wonder what Paul would think of modern French culture if he could experience it again- -what changes would he approve of, and what would he find distasteful?  No doubt, as an outsider, Paul probably formed a few inaccurate hypotheses about French culture, but he lived long enough in the country and neighborhood to discover some truths as well.  And as an outsider, he found them interesting enough to write about.  It is only because they were written down that they survive at all- -they are just too far removed from modern realities to even be conceivable today.  This is a great written record of Paul's experiences, and well worth reading.	2004-01-31
813066:US	51917998	R15IR6MTH9LI44	0553024000	273618603	Crockery Cookery	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Just ask Mable	This book is a wonderful collection of crockpot recipes and ideas.  It begins with 100-page introductory section with information on menu planning, use and care of your crockpot, and a consumer's guide to crockpots, detailing differences between crockpot brands.  Next come the recipes, with chapters for beef, other meats, poultry, vegetables, appetizers and beverages, soups and sandwiches, main dishes, beans, breads and cakes, and fruits and desserts.  You name it, if you can eat it, Mable will tell you how to prepare it in your crockpot.<br />I've tried a number of these recipes, and none have ever gone wrong.  There's nothing like tossing a roast in the pot in the morning with some onions and fruit, and coming back in the evening to the wonderful aromas of slow-cooked meat.  At first, I was a little unsure of how to begin with crockpot cooking, but with Mable's guidance, everything has turned out just fine.	2004-01-24
813764:US	51917998	R3T6U2PAK1CI31	0374168628	115748839	Heading South, Looking North: A Bilingual Journey	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Pivotal moments	This book is the internal memoirs of a man whose defining moments were exile from his homelands and his languages.  Exile was a longstanding way of life in Dorfman's family, from his grandparents who had to leave Eastern Europe, to his parents who had to flee both Argentina and the US, and now Dorfman himself, who was forced into asylum after the fall of Allende in Chile.  But exile is more of a secondary or co-theme of this book.  The other major theme is Dorfman's search for identity through his languages. Throughout the book, Dorfman describes how he came to know language, and the identity traits that go along with a language.  He also describes how he came to choose which of his two languages, English and Spanish, to use in different contexts and to consciously construct different identities.<br />Rather than tell his story chronologically, Dorfman works from a repertoire of pivotal moments.  He has asked himself, when and why did I first start using English?  When did I begin to write?  When did I embrace the philosophy of non-violence?  He then describes these episodes in detail, and speculates and philosophizes on them.  The story of Dorfman's political activities in Chile and what happened to him during the coup constitute about half of the book, with these political chapters alternating with chapters about the other significant events in his life.  The bouncing back-and-forth between time periods moves almost smoothly, like the thought patterns of an insomniac reflecting back at the end of a busy day.<br />I found many aspects of this book quite interesting.  The first-person account of bilingualism, and its ties to a conflicted identity were described very clearly.  The inside perspective on the Allende regime and its fall was also informative.  What was particularly telling was the speculation on why the regime lost popularity amongst the Chilean people- -how Dorfman himself shamed people who were celebrating the Allende victory with a right-wing singer who was trying to mend fences, and told them the singer was not welcome in the revolution, or how he didn't reach out to a neighbor whose job was jeopardized and then lost because he wasn't an Allendista.  Another aspect of this story that I found intriguing was Dorfman's identity as a gringo English speaker brought to Chile against his will as a young teenager, who came to adopt the country and become active in its politics.  I couldn't help but think of another young man, Michael Townley, who was also brought by his American family to Santiago in his teenage years, and also learned the language, married a local girl, and wanted to call Chile his permanent home.  But Townley was on the other side of the revolution, and became a right-wing terrorist working for the Chilean intelligence forces.  Did Dorfman ever encounter Townley?  Of course, Dorfman wasn't actually American- -he was an Argentinean who spent a significant portion of his childhood in the US, but he looked and spoke the part. How many other young Americans adopted Chile during this period?  What was their combined influence on Chilean politics?who was trying to mend fences, and told them the singer was not welcome in the revolution, or how he didn't reach out to a neighbor whose job was jeopardized and then lost because he wasn't an Allendista.  Another aspect of this story that I found intriguing was Dorfman's identity as a gringo English speaker brought to Chile against his will as a young teenager, who came to adopt the country and become active in its politics.  I couldn't help but think of another young man, Michael Townley, who was also brought by his American family to Santiago in his teenage years, and also learned the language, married a local girl, and wanted to call Chile his permanent home.  But Townley was on the other side of the revolution, and became a right-wing terrorist working for the Chilean intelligence forces.  Did Dorfman ever encounter Townley?  Of course, Dorfman wasn't actually American- -he was an Argentinean who spent a significant portion of his childhood in the US, but he looked and spoke the part. How many other young Americans adopted Chile during this period?  What was their combined influence on Chilean politics?	2004-01-24
813824:US	51917998	R2X2QJEBMIAY5V	0345291816	877008540	New York Times Bread and Soup Cookbook	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Great book	This is a wonderful reference cookbook for breads and soups.  The author begins with chapters on basic broth and stock recipes and basic bread and biscuit recipes.  Then come chapters organized by ethnicity and culture, from New World recipes to Mediterranean to North European recipes, from Eastern European to Asian.  The book closes with a chapter on fancy breads, restaurant soups, quick and easy soups, and health and diet soups.<br />The book is great for suggesting creative ideas to use ordinary ingredients- -one of my favorite recipes that I learned from this book is a Mexican garlic tomato soup with oats.  Tasty, but I never would have thought of doing that!  The book is also a great reference when questions come up like \\"What's in buttermilk biscuits anyway?\\"  \\"How can I make my own chicken stock?\\" This isn't a picture or coffee table  cookbook- -it's for people who enjoy cooking from scratch with real ingredients.	2004-01-24
813892:US	51917998	RHAVMNXHEL3K5	0029257506	786875274	Are Those Kids Yours?: American Families With Children Adopted From Other Countries	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Grappling with the big issues	This book is an introduction to some of the major issues involved in foreign adoptions.  It is written for perspective adoptive parents, their family members and friends.  Register takes up each of the major issues in turn, and she has based the book both on her own experience as a mother of two girls adopted from Korea, and on anecdotal interviews with adopted children of various ages and their other family members.  She starts the book  with the motivations for foreign adoption, from the plight of the abandoned or relinquished children, to the parents whose reasons for adoption may range from altruism to pure selfishness.  She goes on to describe how the children may be matched with parents, and then the pivotal event in the families' lives, the moment when the child joins the family.  Next comes a discussion of how new family ties are constructed, then methods that various parents have used to inform the child about the adoption experience.  As the child grows older, major identity questions come to the fore, and children may choose to seek out their biological parents and homeland.  The book closes with a chapter on the global family, in which Register stresses that foreign adoptions should only be seen as temporary measures, while the real goal should be to ensure that every child is able to grow up in his or her homeland with a loving family, enough to eat, and meaningful educational opportunities.  At the end of the book is a list of recommended readings for further information, as well as a list of child welfare, advocacy, and adoption organizations.<br />Register takes up some of the negatives of adoption as well as the positives.  She describes how foreign adopted children have many more opportunities for education than they would have in their homelands, and they are certainly much more likely to be well nourished, both physically and mentally, following adoption.  But she also points out the burden placed on them by being taken from their home countries, where they look just like everyone else, to becoming minorities once they are here.  Their parents, family members, and friends, may soon see them as just another kid, but strangers will give them odd looks, and bullies will taunt them.<br />The one point where I disagree with Register is in her downplaying of the genetic component in personality.  At one point, she takes up the issue, and cites the example of two outgoing parents who were mystified at how their adopted daughter could be so quiet, since she grew up in their home and family.  But she dismisses this by saying that environment does indeed play a large role in personality development.  Environment undeniably plays a large role in a child's development, especially in the early years, where a poor environment can result in lifelong difficulties.  On the other hand, as a child gets older and hormones start kicking in, the genetically programmed aspects of a person's personality begin to play out more and more.  Perhaps Register wasn't aware of this, given the 1990 publication date of this volume, as much of the research on genetically controlled aspects of personality has been relatively recent.  In any case, differences between parental expectations, siblings' behavior, and an adolescent adopted child's behavior can lead to major problems for the child and the family, and this is one issue that really should have received more attention in a book of this kind.  Parental expectations are also sources of major anxiety when the question of higher education arises.  Most of the parents of foreign adopted children are middle and upper-middle class, but the children come from a wide range of backgrounds, mostly working class or poor.  Middle class parents are generally college-educated, and there is some expectation, stated or not, that their children will attend and do well in college.  Certainly, this is what parental dreams are based on- -even Register herself says that she has such dreams for her own children.  But each child has a unique set of gifts and talents, and for many foreign adopted children, their strengths are in fields other than academics.  They may put in a valiant effort at academics, and certainly, many succeed quite well in competitive colleges.  But others feel defeated by their parents' unreasonable expectations.  This, combined with feelings of confusion, abandonment by their birth mothers, and rejection by a society that is only now beginning to recognize its inherent racism, can lead to enormous psychological burdens.  This isn't to say that foreign children shouldn't be adopted, but that parents need to be aware from the outset that their children's future will be a complete unknown, and the adopted child's young adulthood may start much differently than their own.ldren.  But each child has a unique set of gifts and talents, and for many foreign adopted children, their strengths are in fields other than academics.  They may put in a valiant effort at academics, and certainly, many succeed quite well in competitive colleges.  But others feel defeated by their parents' unreasonable expectations.  This, combined with feelings of confusion, abandonment by their birth mothers, and rejection by a society that is only now beginning to recognize its inherent racism, can lead to enormous psychological burdens.  This isn't to say that foreign children shouldn't be adopted, but that parents need to be aware from the outset that their children's future will be a complete unknown, and the adopted child's young adulthood may start much differently than their own.	2004-01-24
817716:US	51917998	R2FUHC63TLJJ8K	0791421104	81721383	A Survey of Hinduism	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Great for insomniacs	This book is a very thorough description of many aspects of Hinduism.  The book is written for a Western audience, so the author assumes no prior familiarity with Hinduism on the part of the reader.  The book is organized into four sections: development and essence of Hinduism, the three Hindu paths to liberation, the structural supports of Hinduism, and the meeting of East and West in modern India.  Each section contains a number of chapters addressing specific topics that fall within the general topic of the section.  The end material, which comprises over 200 pages, contains a chronology, endnotes, a glossary, a bibliography, and the index.<br />The style of writing is extremely dense and detailed, yet the vocabulary and presentation are still quite accessible to non-Indian audiences.  The extensive footnoting, use of primary and secondary source material, and lengthy quotations make this a remarkable work of scholarship.  The text itself is more like an encyclopedia in nature; the chapters are independent articles in themselves, so there is little cohesion from one chapter to the next.  Some of the chapters are quite interesting and illuminating- -others cover material that is of more marginal interest.  I almost put the book down after struggling through chapter 1, which provides a rather detailed history of Western scholarship on Hinduism, and might have made a better appendix than an introduction.  But fortunately, I kept slogging through the material, and learned quite a bit about the core Hindu beliefs from subsequent chapters.  The book would make a good textbook for classes on comparative religion or South Asian cultures.  It may also provide some answers for independent readers with a burning curiosity about Hinduism.	2004-01-21
819478:US	51917998	R26KUQQLSQM9Y5	0614304628	15532882	The Maple Sugar Book	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	Neat book	This book is a description of way the Nearings earned hard cash to sustain their homesteading project.  When they first built their homestead in Vermont in the early 1930s, they thought they might make the cash income for purchasing things they couldn't grow on the farm by selling wood.  However, they soon found themselves owners of a sugar maple bush, and the family who had been tapping the sap up until then showed them the ropes of the maple sugaring business.  It wasn't long before they discovered that they could earn their annual cash needs during the six week sugaring season, leaving the rest of the year free to grow food, construct farm buildings, and write.<br />The book starts with a history of sugar making.  Then it includes some how-to information (current as of the 1940s).  This section includes chapters on maintenance of the sugar bush, equipment for sugaring, sap and weather, making sugar, making syrup, and marketing.  The book closes with a section that describes some of the philosophy of the Nearing's homesteading project, especially those aspects related to maple sugaring.  And in the end, there are a few recipes for using maple syrup.<br />Because of Scott Nearing's academic training and experience, the book has an academic flavor, and the chapters on the history of sugaring are quite well documented.  The details in the book about sugaring aren't quite sufficient for rank newbies to take off and try to start their own sugaring operation- -if you want to know exact details about constructing a sugar shack or using an evaporator, it would be better to look for a more technical book with a recent publication date.  The book's main value is for those who wish to learn more about how the Nearings put their thoughts about cash income and bread labor into action.  With that in mind, the book is truly a classic, and well worth reading many times through.	2004-01-20
819595:US	51917998	R20JPC8VQ5VIAM	0882664492	77149093	Cold-Climate Gardening: How to Extend Your Growing Season by at Least 30 Days	Books	5	53	53	N	N	Fantastic resource	This book is an essential resource for gardeners who dream of feeding themselves off their own land in the frozen North.  The book is organized into 3 sections and an appendix.  Section one describes the challenges of cold climate gardening in general, and provides some very useful suggestions about how to get the most out of the garden, including dealing with microclimates, building soils, and starting seeds indoors.  It closes with a chapter on ideas for lengthening the growing season, which is of vital concern when you only have 70-80 days of frost-free weather.<br />The second section covers various food crops in detail.  It includes ideas for speeding the melting of the snow from the garden in the spring, heating the soil during the growing season, and extending the season with mulches and cold frames.  It also takes up each vegetable or fruit in turn and describes whether or not it is likely to thrive in the North, with suggestions for pushing the limits, when necessary, to get a harvest.<br />The last section covers special landscaping concerns of the North, with information such as which hedges should be protected from deep snow, and how to build protective frames for decorative hedges.  The appendix includes such things as a list of recommended readings, seed companies and nurseries that specialize in Northern varieties, and sources for greenhouse materials.<br />Before attempting to garden in Vermont, I've had gardens in Pennsylvania, Upstate New York, Massachusetts, and Southern New Hampshire.  In those places, I never needed a book to tell me how to garden- -I just stuck seeds in the ground and they grew.  But gardening is different up here, where the soil never really warms up until the end of June, if then, and frosts threaten by the end of August.  Succession planting is still possible, but it takes a lot more forethought to enable two harvests on the same ground in such a short period.  This book has helped me focus my efforts on vegetables that really will grow in this climate, like root crops and cabbage family plants, and restrict my planting of heat-loving plants to the \\"experimental section\\" of the garden.  I've even been able to get a couple of melons and cucumbers to grow by following some of the suggestions in this book. I also learned through reading this book how not to waste my money on fruit trees that aren't fit for this climate, and why it is so important to buy fruit trees and seeds locally up here.  If you're stymied by gardening in snow, this book can help!ally will grow in this climate, like root crops and cabbage family plants, and restrict my planting of heat-loving plants to the \\"experimental section\\" of the garden.  I've even been able to get a couple of melons and cucumbers to grow by following some of the suggestions in this book. I also learned through reading this book how not to waste my money on fruit trees that aren't fit for this climate, and why it is so important to buy fruit trees and seeds locally up here.  If you're stymied by gardening in snow, this book can help!	2004-01-20
819962:US	51917998	R4HTLOTP8HC7S	3908161401	611226207	Strange Friends	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Odd shots	This book is a photojournal of trips that Brecelj took around the world in the 1990s, from South America to the Middle East, from Russia to Papua New Guinea.  The photos are not presented in chronological or topical order.  They don't tell a coherent story.  Instead, Brecelj was seeking to create interesting juxtapositions by pairing photos on facing pages that may have some underlying aspect in common.<br />Brecelj is a member of the art-world, and many of his Western city photos reflect this, as they mostly depict artists in their daily surroundings, doing ordinary things like washing their feet after jogging.  Pictures from Russia capture some of the desolation and ruin left by the collapse of the economic system.  In Indian, Brecelj was fascinated by funerary and post-funerary scenes on the Ganges.  Jerusalem and the various threads of religious life there are also well represented in the book, as is the traditional culture of Oman.  At the end of the book is a short section with thumbnails of each picture and a sentence or two providing more information about why Brecelj took the picture or what he sees in it.<br />This book would probably be most interesting for artists and photography buffs.  It may also have some interest for travel readers.	2004-01-19
820752:US	51917998	R2VZ176VEIOLWD	0878574751	697663814	Gardening for Maximum Nutrition	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Superlative	This book is a guide to gardening techniques to maximize the nutrition you can get from your garden.  The book begins by explaining how nutrients begin to disappear the instant a fruit or vegetable is harvested.  Minnich describes how a green pepper, for instance loses much of its potential nutritional value as it is plucked in the field and shipped to the warehouse, and then trucked across the country, then stored in a refrigerator, then sliced to appear on an appetizer plate and made to sit for several hours.  Minnich also points out that Americans are eating far fewer fresh vegetables and fruits than ever before, while consuming many more processed foods, from which the vitamins and minerals have been oxidized or cooked.  After reading this chapter, it becomes crystal clear why health food enthusiasts talk so much about the importance of buying locally grown produce in season- -by the time \\"fresh\\" fruits and vegetables reach a far-away supermarket, nutritionally, they're hardly better than the plastic they're wrapped in.  (But they're still better than highly processed food likes chips or canned veggies.)  Minnich argues that if you want to enjoy the highest levels of nutrition, you should eat produce within hours of harvest, the harvesters should be careful how and when they harvest, and there should be a minimum of processing, including slicing.<br />In a chapter on building soil for nutrition, Minnich points out that soil scientists have rarely taken up the question of how to prepare soil to grow fruits and vegetables that are nutritious.  There has been quite a lot of research devoted to plant nutrition, how to make a plant grow vigorously and have large yields.  There has been a small amount of research on how to grow crops to provide the nutritional needs of cattle.  But nobody has investigated how to grow crops that provide a maximum of vitamins and minerals needed by humans.  Minnich suggests that in order to maximize human nutrition rather than plant nutrition, the most important factors are soil structure and micronutrients.  He argues that these can best be supplied by organic composting and soil building techniques rather than with chemical fertilizers, which may feed the plant, but won't necessarily result in more nutritious products for humans.<br />Later chapters cover such topics as planning (choosing the most nutritious things to grow and the best varieties), harvest, storage, and preparation, and growing for nutrition.  One of the best features of the book is its high quality comparison charts for nutrition.  Using these charts, which list values for such things as iron, calcium, and vitamin C, Minnich points out some surprising facts.  For example, a serving of watermelon has more iron than a serving of spinach; and if you grow turnip greens, you should make a point of eating the greens, since they are quite nutritious, while the turnips themselves are almost nutritional zeroes.  Sources are very well documented with endnotes.  There is also a short list of recommended reading items and an index.<br />I have found this to be my most important gardening resource.  In fact, even while living in an apartment where I had no opportunity to garden, I still found much of the information in this book about such things as how to prepare foods for maximum nutrition (or not prepare them) invaluable.  The book has helped me choose the best plants to grow in my garden and enabled me to become almost nutritionally self-sufficient.  I would recommend it to anyone who gardens, cooks, or eats.utrition, the most important factors are soil structure and micronutrients.  He argues that these can best be supplied by organic composting and soil building techniques rather than with chemical fertilizers, which may feed the plant, but won't necessarily result in more nutritious products for humans.<br />Later chapters cover such topics as planning (choosing the most nutritious things to grow and the best varieties), harvest, storage, and preparation, and growing for nutrition.  One of the best features of the book is its high quality comparison charts for nutrition.  Using these charts, which list values for such things as iron, calcium, and vitamin C, Minnich points out some surprising facts.  For example, a serving of watermelon has more iron than a serving of spinach; and if you grow turnip greens, you should make a point of eating the greens, since they are quite nutritious, while the turnips themselves are almost nutritional zeroes.  Sources are very well documented with endnotes.  There is also a short list of recommended reading items and an index.<br />I have found this to be my most important gardening resource.  In fact, even while living in an apartment where I had no opportunity to garden, I still found much of the information in this book about such things as how to prepare foods for maximum nutrition (or not prepare them) invaluable.  The book has helped me choose the best plants to grow in my garden and enabled me to become almost nutritionally self-sufficient.  I would recommend it to anyone who gardens, cooks, or eats.	2004-01-19
824154:US	51917998	R3QIQHD6HT1UKR	060980281X	938376918	The Consumer's Guide to Effective Environmental Choices: Practical Advice from The Union of Concerned Scientists	Books	4	86	87	N	N	Thought-provoking	This book is a guide to spending your money in a way that does less harm to the environment than the way you are spending it now.  The authors began their book by undertaking a project to identify the greatest environmental problems caused by consumer activities, and find ways to measure which consumer activities cause the most damage.  First, they gathered data about environmental problems, compared the data and analyzed the numbers.  Through this research, they determined that the greatest environmental problems in the US related to consumer activities are air pollution, global warming, habitat alteration, and water pollution.<br />Having determined the greatest environmental problems related to consumption, they then looked at all the ways a household consumes, and quantified the percent of the household's total environmental damage caused by each item on their list.  This enabled them to determine which items on the list are most damaging.  Another way they looked at consumption was to take the average cost of each item on the list, and calculate the environmental damage associated with each dollar of expenditure in that category.  This is used to find which items on the list give us the worst bang for the buck.<br />Based on these numerical calculations, the authors determined that the worst consumer activities that the average household engages in are cars and light trucks, meat and poultry, fruit, vegetables, and grains, home heating, hot water, and air conditioning, household appliances and lighting, home construction, and household water and sewage.  With the worst activities identified in this way, they go on to make the following suggestions to address these specific items: choose a place to live that reduces the need to drive; think twice before purchasing another car; choose a fuel-efficient, low-polluting car; set goals for reducing your travel; whenever practical, walk, bicycle, or take public transportation; eat less meat, buy certified organic produce; choose your home carefully; reduce the environmental costs of heating and hot water; install efficient lighting and appliances; choose an electricity supplier offering renewable energy.<br />The authors also point out some non-issues, like landfill space, paper vs. plastic shopping bags, disposable vs. cloth diapers, styrofoam cups, and cotton vs. synthetic materials for clothing.  In each of these cases, either the environmental harm of the item is often played up out of proportion to the harm caused by other consumer activities, or the two choices are more or less equal in terms of environmental damage caused.  The authors argue that if we really want to make a difference, we need to focus our efforts on the big items, like transportation, food, and housing, rather than on these minor items.  There's no sense putting a lot of effort into using cloth napkins instead of paper while ignoring the fact that you have an old water-hog clothes washer and an electric full-time water heater in a room lit by incandescent bulbs.<br />The authors also include a chapter on priority actions government should take to decrease damage to the environment.  There is an epilogue by Susan Strasser covering the history of consumption in America, an appendix, where the authors describe their research methods and results, a second appendix providing resources for concerned consumers, footnotes citing sources of data and statistics, and an index.<br />Overall, I found the book quite interesting.  In reading the appendix covering the methods and results, I am not completely convinced I agree with all of their methodology.  In general though, the results the authors come to are plausible.  One direction I would like to investigate next is to complete the cost-benefit analysis.  In this book, the authors mainly focus on costs- -what are the environmental costs of each activity?  But what if we were to focus on benefits instead, and ask, what are the environmental benefits of taking each action that they suggest?  For example, if all Americans gave up their private cars and trucks tomorrow in favor of public transit and bikes, the environmental benefits would be obviously tremendous.  But what would happen if all Americans became vegetarians tomorrow?  How would the environmental impact shake out then?  It would be interesting for the authors to do a follow-up study that quantifies potential environmental improvements based on each type of consumer action aimed at reducing environmental costs.  These results could be compared with the costs of the associated actions to the consumers in terms of money and time.  Then we would have even better answers about prioritizing our actions aimed at lessening our environmental load.each action that they suggest?  For example, if all Americans gave up their private cars and trucks tomorrow in favor of public transit and bikes, the environmental benefits would be obviously tremendous.  But what would happen if all Americans became vegetarians tomorrow?  How would the environmental impact shake out then?  It would be interesting for the authors to do a follow-up study that quantifies potential environmental improvements based on each type of consumer action aimed at reducing environmental costs.  These results could be compared with the costs of the associated actions to the consumers in terms of money and time.  Then we would have even better answers about prioritizing our actions aimed at lessening our environmental load.	2004-01-16
824584:US	51917998	R15MFJMF1WRMUX	0805209700	745465161	The Good Life: Helen and Scott Nearing's Sixty Years of Self-Sufficient Living	Books	5	155	157	N	N	Essential reading	This book is a reprint of two classics \\"Living the good life\\" and \\"Continuing the good life\\".  In these books, Scott and Helen Nearing describe how they chose to live deliberately, and built for themselves a sustainable life and lifestyle in Vermont and Maine.  In \\"Living the good life\\", they explain some of the circumstances that led them to stage a strategic withdrawal from New York City and relocate to a run-down farm in Vermont during the 1930s.  They describe how they acquired and developed their land, how they built their house, and their garden and diet.  A major focus of the book is explaining their philosophy of non-exploitation, and how they wanted to implement their ideas of social justice into their lifestyle.  The Nearings believed so strongly in avoiding exploitation of any kind that they avoided resorting to animal labor or products on their farm.  They arranged their days so that they could spend 4 hours doing bread labor, 4 hours working with the community, and had 4 hours of free time each day to pursue independent interests.  They also describe how they earned cash income from maple sugaring on their property.  Towards the end of this first section, they explain that growing crowds of visitors, combined with a general lack of cooperation in the community eventually convinced them to abandon their project in Vermont and move on to Maine.<br />In \\"Continuing the Good Life,\\" the Nearings describe how they built a second homestead in Maine.  Once again, they explain how they constructed a house from stone, and how they developed a case income, this time based on blueberries.  Gardening and diet is also given more space in this volume than it had in \\"Living the Good Life\\".<br />This book is rich with both inspiration and practical details.  Scott Nearing was a well published academic in the field of economics before he started the adventures described in these volumes.  As a result, his style of writing is rather academic, and his chapters contain quite a few footnotes.  It's a little strange to read this book out of context, to dive right in without knowing anything about the Nearings beforehand.  This is what I did the first time I read the book, and I found the premise of the adventure rather preposterous- -two city people going off to establish a commune in the mountains during the 1930s.  They mentioned that they earned some money from traveling and writing.  Without further explanation, I thought they were travel writers or something.  It wasn't until I read John Saltmarsh's book The Making of a Homesteader that I began to get the full picture.  In that book, Saltmarsh describes how Scott Nearing had been a very successful economics professor in the first decade of the century.  However, he was a very outspoken pacifist, and lost his teaching positions because of his politics.  He was living in New York City, separated from his wife, when he met Helen, his soul mate.  Because of his political stances, Nearing was recruited by the Communist Party as an educator and politician.  However, he was too much a freethinker for the communists, and was soon expelled from the party for continuing to voice his independent ideas.  It was at this point, when he was about 50, when he and Helen began their Good Life experiment in Vermont.  With this background in mind, Nearing's comments and opinions stated in this book make a lot more sense.ite a few footnotes.  It's a little strange to read this book out of context, to dive right in without knowing anything about the Nearings beforehand.  This is what I did the first time I read the book, and I found the premise of the adventure rather preposterous- -two city people going off to establish a commune in the mountains during the 1930s.  They mentioned that they earned some money from traveling and writing.  Without further explanation, I thought they were travel writers or something.  It wasn't until I read John Saltmarsh's book The Making of a Homesteader that I began to get the full picture.  In that book, Saltmarsh describes how Scott Nearing had been a very successful economics professor in the first decade of the century.  However, he was a very outspoken pacifist, and lost his teaching positions because of his politics.  He was living in New York City, separated from his wife, when he met Helen, his soul mate.  Because of his political stances, Nearing was recruited by the Communist Party as an educator and politician.  However, he was too much a freethinker for the communists, and was soon expelled from the party for continuing to voice his independent ideas.  It was at this point, when he was about 50, when he and Helen began their Good Life experiment in Vermont.  With this background in mind, Nearing's comments and opinions stated in this book make a lot more sense.	2004-01-16
824631:US	51917998	RZPD68AZMZ8LF	0517193183	46937542	Harvard Med	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Inside story	This book is a somewhat journalistic account of Harvard University Med School's role in the history of medical education in America.  The author describes how students are chosen to attend Harvard Med School and the atmosphere on the day when first year students report to campus for the first time.  But Langone is a journalist, not an enrolled student, so this book is quite different from insider exposes of professional schools, like Scott Turow's One L or Peter Robinson's Snapshots from Hell.  Instead of providing us with the details of student life, Langone gives us an overview of the history of Harvard Medical School, together with a general history of medical education in America.  He describes his experiences in detail of attending the class in gross anatomy, where a cadaver is dissected over the course of a year.  He also includes interviews with medical students and anecdotes about their experiences at various stages of their education, ranging from first experiences seeing real patients, to learning how to take patient histories.<br />A major focus of the book is the differences between students who wish to go on to do medical research, and those who plan to practice medicine.  Langone explains that Harvard Medical School is quite proud of all its students who pursue research, and go on to make vital discoveries or even win the Nobel Prize.  In this book, however, Langone, is more interested in the students who would like to work with real patients, particularly those few who plan to go into general practice.  Again and again, Langone describes how a Harvard Med education, while paying lip service to the importance of the doctor-patient relationship, still seems to foster the development of specialists and researchers more than GPs.  On the one hand, Langone makes the situation sound lamentable, but on the other hand, since he also tells us that one of the special characteristics of Harvard Med is its excellence in preparing researchers, perhaps Harvard Med just isn't the place to go to look for future GPs.  Perhaps if you're going to write a description of Harvard Med, you should focus on what they at least claim to do well, which is train research doctors.  Unfortunately, Langone doesn't spotlight any future researchers in this book.d just isn't the place to go to look for future GPs.  Perhaps if you're going to write a description of Harvard Med, you should focus on what they at least claim to do well, which is train research doctors.  Unfortunately, Langone doesn't spotlight any future researchers in this book.	2004-01-16
836085:US	51917998	R1CUGMQIAXLRHP	1582432597	442776554	The Book of Sarahs:  A Family in Parts	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Eye-opening	This book tells the tale of Catherine McKinley's search for her birth parents.  McKinley, who is biracial, was adopted at birth.  Brought up in a White family, she found herself drawn towards African American culture in her search for building her own identity.  As an adult, questions about who she was and how she came to be gradually took over the focus of her life.  In this book, she details how she searched for her birth parents and eventually found them, as well as other family members.<br />From reading the blurb on the back cover of the book, I had expected the book to focus more on McKinley's experiences of growing up as an adopted biracial child.  I have very little experience myself with issues relating to adoption, and I had no idea how consuming the questions of identity and family can be for an adopted child.  Prospective adoptive parents might learn quite a bit from this book about how adopted children may have an unquenchable thirst for knowing their birth parents, a thirst that can taint relationships between them and their adopted family members if not handled appropriately.  Adoptees, on the other hand, may be quite interested to read how McKinley proceeded in her search, and how the results of her search compared with her dreams.  The emotional issues concerning adoption are never easy to reconcile; after all, every adoption starts with a tragedy that has resulted in parents having to give up their children.  The children and all of their parents, both adopted and birth, must spend the remainder of their lives putting the pieces back together.	2004-01-08
865869:US	51917998	R37L0VDKXM8KIK	0743244427	36588324	A Mighty Heart: The Brave Life and Death of My Husband, Danny Pearl	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Intense	This book tells the intense psycho-drama of Daniel Pearl's kidnapping and murder from Mariane Pearl's point of view.  Mariane begins by explaining how she and her husband came to be working in Pakistan at the time Daniel was abducted.  She then narrates minute-by-minute and hour-by-hour what happened when she discovered he was gone, and how the subsequent investigation proceeded.  In the epilogue, she details what has happened subsequently. Following this are a sampling of the sympathy letters that she has received following Daniel's death.<br />This book was quite engaging and intense.  In fact, it was a little more than I was ready for because my anger over the September 11th attacks is still too fresh and raw.  I hoped to learn more in this book about Mariane's read on the situation on the ground in Pakistan at the time of Daniel's abduction.  She does discuss some of the religious parties a little, and points out Sheikh Omar's connections to them. But due to the incredible personal tragedy that was unfolding for her, she was not able to get out and talk to ordinary Pakistanis, to take their pulse and try to understand why these things happened.  At one point, however, she does go out on a limb with a personal interpretation \\"This is how we end up in a world where people talk not to communicate but to subjugate; where ignorance keeps people hostage; where those in power simplify complexity so as not to be questioned.  This is why those same people hate journalists, at least those who reject black-and-white views of the world, because by exploring the gray zones, journalists can shed new light on issues like Arab-Israeli relations, American foreign relations, or Islamic fundamentalism. ... Thus, for those who promote hatred, we are the most hateable of all.\\"	2003-12-13
866418:US	51917998	R10NNR5WRVNMIV	0385315147	373503319	Smilla's Sense of Snow	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Intricate and not quite plausible	This book tells the story of Smilla, a half-Inuit woman living in Copenhagen, and her investigation into why a little boy who lived in her building walked off a roof.  Smilla is keenly intelligent and hard as nails.  She accomplishes physical feats that would put James Bond to shame as the bad guys try to prevent her from learning what happened to the little boy.  She is purposefully mysterious as she narrates her story, keeping readers puzzled about her actions and choices until she chooses to explain them.  The story ends not with a bang, but a whimper, leaving the reader to figure out what happened as the plot finally drifts out to sea.	2003-12-13
870632:US	51917998	R2LOBO65GQW0F8	0064434508	340098605	The Grouchy Ladybug	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Animal kingdom and clocks	This book tells the story of a grouchy ladybug who didn't want to share the juicy aphids that he found on a leaf with anyone else.  He decides to fight over the aphids with another ladybug, but then determines that she is too small, so he goes off in search of a more worthy opponent.  As each hour passes, he encounters another creature, larger and more fearsome than the last, and he dismisses each one in turn until, tired and hungry, he ends up back at the leaf again to share the last of the aphids with the friendly ladybug.  The book is not very scary, and animal lovers will get a kick out of it, since it includes so many different creatures.  There is a focus on simple time telling in the book.  The book contains about 800 words.	2003-12-09
870655:US	51917998	R1IWJ8VY202TJG	0803711794	372560486	Calico and Tin Horns	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Colonial tale	This book describes the farmers' revolt against rich New York landlords in early colonial times.  The story is told through the point of view of a young girl, whose family tries to keep her from learning about her father's and brother's participation in the revolt.  The girl is very bright however, and is able to piece together what is happening.  When her own farm comes under attack by the landlords while her father and brother are away, she has learned enough to blow the alarm horn herself to call for help.  The story is quite engaging, and might be useful for helping familiarize children with this chapter in colonial history.  Because of its implicit violence however, it might be best for older children.  The book has about 1000 words.	2003-12-09
870767:US	51917998	R2UBJTCU2FSSBQ	0688159389	876799126	A Far-Fetched Story	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A modern-day fairy tale	In this book, grandma goes out to her woodpile one fall and decides that she will need some more wood to make it through the winter.  She asks her grandson to go into the forest to get some more wood, but he gets distracted along the way, and comes back empty handed with his shirt in tatters.  Rather than berate him about not bringing back any wood, grandma simply takes his shirt away and throws it in the woodbox instead.  She sends each of the other family members to the forest in turn, with similar results.  By the beginning of winter, she gets no additional firewood, and her family are cold, since their clothes are in her woodbox.  Then grandma gets the brilliant idea of making a quilt with the tattered clothes, that will keep everyone warm much longer than the wood might have.  The story is quite engaging and full of thought, and the pictures tell stories in themselves.  All told, the book has about 1000 words.	2003-12-09
870985:US	51917998	R3JPPDEWCU0MG3	1856190382	594039280	A Shaggy Yak Story	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Furry	This book is a collection of tales from adventures that the author had in South Asia in the 1950s and 1980s.  The first third of the book covers the author's tenure as an English teacher at the Afghan Military Institute in the 1950s.  The author had just recently finished his master's degree in English literature and accepted a job in Afghanistan as a good jumping off place for explorations throughout Central Asia.  His descriptions of traveling to his post, working conditions, and the people he met in Kabul are quite entertaining.  In many respects, conditions in Kabul haven't changed much at all in the 50 years since Somerville-Large was working there.<br />At the end of Somerville-Large's stay in Kabul, a friend joined him, and they set off together to see what they could of Central and South Asia.  The second third of the book covers some of these adventures, in which they didn't get as far as they had planned.  They did manage to see some parts of Afghanistan, however, and they went hunting in Nepal and hiking in Bhutan.<br />The remaining third of the book takes place in the 1980s, when Somerville-Large retraced some of his earlier journeys in Pakistan, and met a group of nomadic Kyrghiz tribesmen who had become refugees of the Afghan war.  The tribesmen eventually were granted asylum in Turkey.  Somerville-Large visited them there and discovered that they were forgetting their native culture.  In order to help keep the memories of their former way of life alive, Somerville-Large endeavored to acquire a few yaks for the tribe.  The last part of the book describes how the yaks were transported from a zoo in the UK to Turkey, a trip fraught with delays and dangers at every step.<br />There isn't a lot unifying the stories in the book.  Yes, the visit of Michael, Somerville-Large's traveling companion, serves as a transition from the Afghan stories to the South Asian stories, and the return to Afghanistan provides a link from the first part of the book to the last part.  But the linkage isn't all that strong, and the stories come off as being a bit unrelated.  The stories might have been published independently, except they weren't quite long enough to stand on their own and perhaps that's why Somerville-Large's publisher grouped them together in this volume.  In any case, those interested in the history of modern Afghanistan or day-to-day conditions in Kabul in the 1950s will find much of interest in (the first part of) this book.t part.  But the linkage isn't all that strong, and the stories come off as being a bit unrelated.  The stories might have been published independently, except they weren't quite long enough to stand on their own and perhaps that's why Somerville-Large's publisher grouped them together in this volume.  In any case, those interested in the history of modern Afghanistan or day-to-day conditions in Kabul in the 1950s will find much of interest in (the first part of) this book.	2003-12-09
871025:US	51917998	RI9L6ZF0TD445	0399610863	885566903	The bake-off (A See and read storybook)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Eat your veggies!	This book tells the remarkable tale of a cooking contest between the animals of the forest.  Every year, Mrs. Beaver's chocolate cake always wins the contest.  Meanwhile, Mr. Hare has no luck with his healthy entries of spinach soup and the like because they're made of yucky vegetables.  But this year, Mr. Hare is quite determined and he has a stroke of brilliance- -he figures out how to make a cake out of vegetables that will be tasty as well as healthy.  The story is lots of fun and not scary at all.  The winning recipe for Mr. Hare's carrot cake is included at the back of the book.  The book would be a great starting point for discussions on food and nutrition, as well as just being a fun story.  It contains about 900 words.	2003-12-09
871130:US	51917998	R122UWIQIWBF5I	0394888480	696305131	Bears' Vacation-Pkg	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Do as I say, not as I do	This book is a humorous account of the Bears on vacation.  When the Bears arrive at their vacation house, Papa Bear points out all of the dangers and things to avoid.  But he promptly ignores his own advice, with fearful consequences.  The book has some tension, but it's not too scary.  Some children may pick up on the message that when a parent advises against doing something, there is usually a good reason and that those who ignore the advice may get hurt.  The text is presented in rhyme, and there are about 550 words.	2003-12-09
871239:US	51917998	R3V7ZR13VKD8C8	0590468871	68894648	This Is the Way We Eat Our Lunch: A Book About Children Around the World	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Food and geography for little ones	This book is a whirlwind tour of eating habits of children around the world.  In the first part of the book, we see and learn about regional menu items that North American children might eat for lunch, such as clam chowder or gumbo.  In the remainder of the book, we visit other continents, and see lunches in countries such as Ghana, Israel, Italy, and China.  There is a map at the end of the book, and recipes for fruit salad, hummus, and soup.  There is a also a glossary of some of the new words used in the book.  The text rhymes, and there are about 270 words.	2003-12-09
871248:US	51917998	R1AZDUW7SMUC9T	0670911437	640923071	Baloney (Viking Kestrel picture books)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Jabberwocky variant	This book tells about a little boy who is late for school.  When the teacher asks him for his excuse, the boy comes up with a whopper of a tale full of some very strange words.  Some of the words are almost familiar, while others sound like they are from outer space.  That is, if you don't know Latvian, Finnish, or Inuqtitut, since each of the words is a real world from some language of the world.  Despite the strangeness of the words, the story is perfectly understandable due to the excellent illustrations.  The book includes a glossary at the back, explaining the source and meaning of each of the strange words.  The book is not scary at all, and it is good fun, especially for boys.  It contains about 500 words.	2003-12-09
871325:US	51917998	R2M26SOY7VP3NH	0785753915	119805853	Dragon's Merry Christmas	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Delightful dragon story	This book contains four short stories about a young dragon and his adventures at Christmas time.  In the first story, The Perfect Christmas Tree, dragon goes in hunt for a perfect Christmas tree, but when he finally finds it, he doesn't have the heart to cut it down, so he decorates it where it stands.  In the second story, The Candy Wreath, dragon makes a wreath out of candy, and finds he can't control himself in the presence of so much sweetness, so he eats himself sick.  In the third story, Mittens, dragon begins to clip his mittens to his coat sleeves so that he won't lose them, but he still ends up losing them.  And in the final story, Merry Christmas, Dragon, dragon discovers for himself the joy of giving.  The stories are quite amusing for young and old alike, and not at all scary.  It's a great Christmas book, all in all.  It contains about 850 words, and can easily be read at one sitting or in small chunks.	2003-12-09
871771:US	51917998	RQBEI85PTXYWS	0862641438	546953115	The Polar Express	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Engaging Christmas story	In this book, a small boy sets aside his friends' doubts in Santa Claus.  That night, a special train comes to pick him up.  The train travels through the forest and around the world, picking up other lucky children.  The train finally arrives at the North Pole where Santa is waiting to give the children gifts.  Later, the boy returns home with his magical gift from Santa.  This book is quite engaging, it although it may not be appropriate for children who have never been exposed to the idea that Santa does not exist.  The book contains approximately 1000 words.	2003-12-09
871880:US	51917998	R6RK26Y26YX0X	059042694X	460243293	Freight train	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Simple book for young train lovers	This book is a fun look at a freight train as it passes by.  The book points out each of the elements of the train, naming the cars and the tender.  Then it mentions some of the things that the train passes, and whoosh, before you know it, it is gone.  It contains lots of good train vocabulary and pictures, but no plot to speak of.  It is a short book, with only about 100 words- -good for kids with short attention spans.	2003-12-09
871908:US	51917998	R9PAVCZ814VX9	0676307329	83270127	Arthur Goes to Camp (Arthur Adventures)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Homesickness	This book tells about the time Arthur's parents decided to send him off to camp.  Arthur isn't sure he wants to go, and is a bit homesick.  The children at camp play pranks like setting off smoke bombs, putting frogs in people's beds, and hiding their clothes.  Arthur writes home postcards about how lonely he is.  He still manages to enjoy himself somewhat, however, when he helps his team win the intercamp scavenger hunt.  Arthur fans may get a kick out of this book, as well as kids who dream of going to summer camp.  The book about 700 words.	2003-12-09
876958:US	51917998	RWGRFTD7AERGK	0679726012	246141487	Innumeracy: Mathematical Illiteracy and Its Consequences (Vintage)	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Innumeracy as irrationality	This book is an extended rant about instances involving numbers where people act irrationally.  It begins with a long enumeration of examples such as the inability to comprehend the immensity of extremely large numbers, the misinterpretation of statistics and probability, and various types of what Paulos terms `pseudoscience' (including fire-walking, whose relevance for a book of this type is not clear).  Following this extended introduction, there is a short section where Paulos points his finger at the ones to blame for our blatant disregard for numbers, especially elementary school teachers.  Then he goes on to discuss a few points about how numbers should be interpreted.<br />Many of Paulos' examples are engaging or even amusing.  However, the book wasn't quite what I was expecting, given its title.  For me, a word like `innumeracy' sounds like `illiteracy', so I thought the book would be about people who are unable to do simple everyday math, and the consequences of this problem.  For example, what about people who can't balance a checkbook, who go to a sale and can't determine whether $100 off or 15% off of a $1000 purchase is a better deal, who can't estimate how it will take them to drive 30 miles at 65 mph?  To me, these people are truly the `innumerate', and the consequences of their ignorance are far more serious for them and for society than the people Paulos rails against.  Paulos doesn't discuss such problems at all. Instead, he complains about people's irrational interpretations of probability, such as when people avoid travel because of fear of a terrorist attack, but think nothing of the much greater probability of injury or death while commuting in their cars every day.<br />Paulos points out the large differences in the probabilities of engaging in activities such as these, and he seems to expect that \\"numerate\\" people should calculate the corresponding probabilities and act logically, like computers.  He seems to miss the really interesting point- -why do people act the way they do?  Why do they persist in irrational behavior when they know the numbers?  At one point, Paulos does describe some psychology research, in which investigators found that given exactly the same odds, people are more likely to take risks in order to avoid loss, and less likely to take risks in order to gain something.  But in the rest of Paulos' examples, he simply describes the irrational behavior of humans, and assumes that the irrational behavior is due entirely to a lack of an ability to deal with numbers, rather than having a deeper psychological explanation.  One example of \\"innumerate\\" behavior that Paulos cites is a sports writer, who suggests that a baseball manager could create the perfect team by trying out every possible combination of players and positions on the team until he finds the optimal combination.  As Paulos points out, when you calculate the number of possible combinations in this case, it would be so high that the players would be dead long before the trials were over.  But ordinary people, who aren't necessarily `innumerate', understand what the journalist meant- -that the manager should try out only those possible combinations that make sense, and to use his intuition to try out the more likely possibilities first.  By using intellect and intuition, the manager might be able to complete the task in a few seasons, perhaps.  This ability is quite fascinating, but after dismissing the mathematical absurdity of following the suggestion literally, Paulos does not go on to investigate what was actually meant, or how people can hone in on good choices and reject bad ones out right in such a situation.<br />In his blame-assigning section, Paulos goes as far as to suggest that elementary schoolteachers and university professors should be required to exchange places for a few weeks every year.  Paulos suggests that the schoolteachers would improve their math skills by learning from the university students in the classes they would take over, and that the professors would make classroom math fun for elementary students by bringing in games and such.  Get real!  I'm sorry, but it is the schoolteachers who bring to the classroom creative approaches to teaching math, not university professors.  When was the last time you ever heard of a university professor playing games in math class?  The vast majority of them simply stand at the board with a piece of chalk and write out example problems and solutions for students to copy in their notebooks.  It's no wonder that many of the schoolteachers, who were supposed to learn math in college, didn't master the skills they needed. What is really needed is better math instruction at the tertiary level for elementary school teachers, who are in general, very good teachers, even if their math skills may be weak.<br />All in all, while this book is occasionally interesting, it is much more a discussion of probability and statistics and how people choose to interpret them rather than a discussion of a general lack of math skills in society.lasses they would take over, and that the professors would make classroom math fun for elementary students by bringing in games and such.  Get real!  I'm sorry, but it is the schoolteachers who bring to the classroom creative approaches to teaching math, not university professors.  When was the last time you ever heard of a university professor playing games in math class?  The vast majority of them simply stand at the board with a piece of chalk and write out example problems and solutions for students to copy in their notebooks.  It's no wonder that many of the schoolteachers, who were supposed to learn math in college, didn't master the skills they needed. What is really needed is better math instruction at the tertiary level for elementary school teachers, who are in general, very good teachers, even if their math skills may be weak.<br />All in all, while this book is occasionally interesting, it is much more a discussion of probability and statistics and how people choose to interpret them rather than a discussion of a general lack of math skills in society.	2003-12-04
877088:US	51917998	RUKM2JKFJH6JE	0791417530	753731303	Children's Play in Diverse Cultures (Suny Series in Children's Play in Society)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Varied collection of papers	This book is a collection of papers describing various aspects of children's play around the world.  The rationale for the book is stated clearly in the introduction to chapter 2: \\"It can safely be said that most of the studies on young children's play are based on observations and assessment conducted on North American and European children,\\" but most of the world's children live elsewhere, in other cultures, so \\"in order to develop more valid general theories of play, we need data from children in other cultures as well.\\"  Countries covered include India, Taiwan, Japan, Polynesia, children of Puerto Rican heritage brought up in the US, Italy, Africa, and Eskimo Alaska, while ages of the children range from infants through middle school-aged. Some of the papers discuss research projects or questions, while others describe what is happening at daycare centers in other countries to bring them into line with suggestions from Western research on the educational value of play.<br />One of the more interesting papers in the volume is the one by Mary Martini, in which Martini describes how Polynesian children are pretty much left to their own devices around the age of toddlerhood, and how they spend most of their time playing in groups with other preschoolers with no adult supervision.  The children learn to survive in hazardous environments, they must withstand hazing, teasing, and abuse from older children, and most importantly, they learn their place in the social hierarchy of their peers.  Martini's results are quite compelling, but at the end of her paper, she makes some rather odd comparisons of Polynesian children and American children, pointing out where Polynesian children seem to be ahead of American children: \\"American children's concern with the sanctity of self makes them vulnerable to the vagaries of social life.  The everyday social hazing that Marquesan four-year-olds learn to handle with poise and humor would devastate most American preschoolers and would be considered emotional abuse by our courts.\\"  While many of the points Martini makes in this comparison may be valid, she neglects to consider the balance- -certainly there are some aspects of American upbringing that make American children stronger or healthier in some ways than Polynesian children.  If a comparison is made, it should not be as one-sided as is done here.  But perhaps it's not valid to attempt such comparisons at all.<br />The last chapter of the book seems to suggest that the book was intended as training material for preschool educators on multicultural aspects of play.  While the book has some material of interest to researchers and students, there aren't really any ideas to implement here.  In the best of its chapters, it is more a description of some of the ways play is organized in other cultures, and how play serves to prepare children for their roles in society.  The chapters describing how certain preschools in other countries are striving to adopt Western play practices don't have much at all that could be applicable for Western preschool educators.ld be considered emotional abuse by our courts.\\"  While many of the points Martini makes in this comparison may be valid, she neglects to consider the balance- -certainly there are some aspects of American upbringing that make American children stronger or healthier in some ways than Polynesian children.  If a comparison is made, it should not be as one-sided as is done here.  But perhaps it's not valid to attempt such comparisons at all.<br />The last chapter of the book seems to suggest that the book was intended as training material for preschool educators on multicultural aspects of play.  While the book has some material of interest to researchers and students, there aren't really any ideas to implement here.  In the best of its chapters, it is more a description of some of the ways play is organized in other cultures, and how play serves to prepare children for their roles in society.  The chapters describing how certain preschools in other countries are striving to adopt Western play practices don't have much at all that could be applicable for Western preschool educators.	2003-12-04
877277:US	51917998	R2AD2WFY8Y09P1	0906495865	241137379	Sicilian Lives	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Political snapshots	This book is a collection of life stories of Sicilians as told to Danilo Dolci.  Dolci, a Northern Italian, arrived in Sicily in 1952.  The poverty that he confronted there every day was overwhelming, and he was determined to help the local people improve their lives through political organization and education.  As he helped build unions and charity institutions, Dolci talked to the people he was working with.  He asked them about their backgrounds, how they came to be poor or rich, what their values were, and their dreams.  The stories are organized into groups according to Dolci's view of their role in society: the indigenous, the parasites, vicious circles, plagues, waste, those who endure, and those who resist (exploitation by the capitalists).<br />Many of the stories are simply amazing: the orphan who is trained to be a pickpocket and then grows to be a respectable trained worker, the man who gets his revenge on women by seducing them and purposefully infecting them with syphilis, the healer who specializes in extracting intestinal parasites and other worms.  The overall message of the book seems to be how miserable society can become when there is a complete lack of trust and honesty.  Perhaps this was Dolci's goal- -to get people to begin to build a community for themselves by starting with a little trust.  The stories of this book will help you understand just how far behind Southern Italy was from Northern Italy and the rest of Europe only a generation or two ago, and perhaps the reasons behind the differences, as well.	2003-12-04
877365:US	51917998	R1JK5Q71Y4BKDK	0814316328	660917768	The life of music in north India: The organization of an artistic tradition	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Highly readable	This book is a highly readable description of the relationship between music and society in North India.  Topics include: becoming a musician, being a musician, social organization of specialist knowledge, gharanas (musical traditions), adaptive strategies of Hindu music culture, ecology of Hindu music culture, and the cultural structure and social organization of a music tradition.  As an outsider, Neuman is quite attuned to the special characteristics of Hindu music culture that make it unique.  He points out that in the Indian culture,  \\"there is a high premium on musical knowledge.  The more esoteric, the more it is valued,\\" which goes a long way towards explaining the complexity of Indian rhythms and modes.  In the chapter on becoming a musician, Neuman relates how beginning students are evaluated not so much on how well they play, but on the thicknesses of their calluses.  Students are expected to practice 8, 12, even 18 hours a day, just as mature performers do.  Neuman describes the relationships between the teacher and the student, and between the soloist and the accompanists, between the musicians and the audience.  In his chapter on gharanas, he discusses the history of gharanas and how this ancestral system of musical `heredity' works.  He also provides an informative discussion of All India Radio, and what it means to be employed as a musician at AIR.  The appendices include a variety of material, from charts diagramming connections and marriage links between gharanas, to types of musicians employed at AIR and the fees they receive.  There is also a glossary, in addition to a list of references and index.	2003-12-04
877746:US	51917998	R16RI6M9TDXHAG	0060929596	316982155	As Nature Made Him: The Boy Who Was Raised as a Girl	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Amazing story	This book tells the story of David Reimer, who was born a boy, but raised as a girl after a botched circumcision.  The book explains much more than Reimer's story- -it explains the scientific controversy over the plasticity of sexual identity that had arisen just before Reimer's accident, and how Reimer's psychological development was central to the controversy.<br />Colapinto begins David's story with some background on his parents, how they met, married, and had their first children, identical twin boys named Bruce and Brian.  He details the events that led to Bruce's catastrophic accident at the age of 8 months, and then how his parents were led to the decision to raise him as a girl named Brenda.  Extensive interviews with all of the family members enabled Colapinto to present vivid images of Brenda's difficulties in adapting to life as a girl.  Brenda was under the care of John Money, a psychologist who, in Colapinto's account, almost single handedly persuaded the world that children developed their sexual identity based on their genitalia and societal practices.  The lone dissenter at the time was Milton Diamond, whose research studied the effects of prenatal exposure to sex hormones and later development of sexual behaviors- -in guinea pigs.  Unfortunately for Brenda, Money turned out to be a abusive psychologist and dubious scientist, at best.  Brenda endured enforced girlhood against all instincts for 14 years, until she finally discovered her birth gender and was allowed to return to it, this time with the name of David.<br />Colapinto does a masterful job at presenting the scientific aspects of the story.  He explains Money's background, and how he opened the first transgender clinic in the US, and how well his hypothesis of gender plasticity was aligned with the behaviorist establishment in psychology.  He describes how it was Diamond who posed the problem for Money of finding a normally developed infant to undergo an experimental sex change, and how vital it was for Money, his theories and reputation, for the experiment to be a success.  Colapinto details how Money used the Reimers' story in his books and research as evidence supporting his theory, while the real facts went in exactly the opposite direction.  Most significantly, Colapinto explains how David Reimer's case became an essential precedent for treatment of intersexuals, infants who are born with ambiguous genitalia or genitalia that are not in agreement with their chromosomal gender.  Because Money claimed that Reimer was doing marvelously after his infant sex change, many other infants around the world were subjected to similar treatment, and were to suffer as Reimer did.<br />Money's claim that sexual identity and gender-related behaviors were driven primarily by societal mores was also heard by feminists, who demanded changes in child rearing practices to make them more unisex and less gender-biased.  In light of Reimer's experience and Diamond's work, it might be good to rethink some of these ideas now.  While it is wonderful to encourage all children, not just boys, to play with construction toys, and all children, not just girls, to play with dolls, it might be a good idea to draw the line at specifically discouraging boys from being rowdy, or trying to draw girls away from their social games.  Instead of actively encouraging unisex behavior and agonizing over the appearance of gender-related behavior, it might be better to just observe who each child is by nature, and supply activities and toys accordingly.ital it was for Money, his theories and reputation, for the experiment to be a success.  Colapinto details how Money used the Reimers' story in his books and research as evidence supporting his theory, while the real facts went in exactly the opposite direction.  Most significantly, Colapinto explains how David Reimer's case became an essential precedent for treatment of intersexuals, infants who are born with ambiguous genitalia or genitalia that are not in agreement with their chromosomal gender.  Because Money claimed that Reimer was doing marvelously after his infant sex change, many other infants around the world were subjected to similar treatment, and were to suffer as Reimer did.  <br />Money's claim that sexual identity and gender-related behaviors were driven primarily by societal mores was also heard by feminists, who demanded changes in child rearing practices to make them more unisex and less gender-biased.  In light of Reimer's experience and Diamond's work, it might be good to rethink some of these ideas now.  While it is wonderful to encourage all children, not just boys, to play with construction toys, and all children, not just girls, to play with dolls, it might be a good idea to draw the line at specifically discouraging boys from being rowdy, or trying to draw girls away from their social games.  Instead of actively encouraging unisex behavior and agonizing over the appearance of gender-related behavior, it might be better to just observe who each child is by nature, and supply activities and toys accordingly.	2003-12-04
889384:US	51917998	RXAOW3D2QG8WB	0824802721	250712149	Unsui: A Diary of Zen Monastic Life	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Life in a Japanese monastery	This book is an illustrated description of daily life at a Japanese Zen Buddist monastery.  The book is based on a series of watercolors illustrating the daily life in a monastery that were painted by a dying monk in the 1940s.  Nishimura has organized these paintings so that they tell the coherent story of new recruit, who decides to join a monastery, and his first year living as a monk.  They take us through the two-day ordeal of the applicant, as he demonstrates his determination and submission at the gate of the monastery, the daily chores of the monks, the meditation schedule, the begging rounds through the city, and the yearly holidays.  The pictures are very expressive, and they constitute the character of the book.  The accompanying text is quite informative, and opens a window into the mysterious customs of a traditional Japanese monastery.	2003-11-24
889847:US	51917998	R3A4OWNO7ZHR7J	0671250582	46074275	Arabia: A Journey Through The Labyrinth	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Travels through Arabia of the 1970s	This book is a travelogue of a journey Jonathan Raban took through some Arabian countries in the late 1970s.  Raban's journey started in Bahrain, followed by Qatar, Abu Dhabi and Dubai, Yemen, Egypt, and Jordan.  Although the trip took place in the 1970s, much of what Raban observed and commented upon is still very much visible today.  Today, more than ever, Arabia is divided into the have and have not countries, with Saudi Arabia setting the cultural standard for the haves.  Yemen, Egypt, and Jordan still export labor to the have countries, with Yemen leading in the supply of police officers, Egypt with schoolteachers, and Jordan with technicians.<br />Raban set off on his journey with a little training in Arabic from an Egyptian teacher in London, and had only 3 months to observe life and conditions throughout the lands on his itinerary.  Three months is a very short time to take in much of consequence, particularly with his language limitations.  Nevertheless, Raban was able to cut to the quick and make some very astute observations that still ring true twenty years later.  He picked up on intense respect locals had for museum exhibits and other efforts to preserve local culture in the face of rapid development.  He found someone who pointed out to him the incredible love Arab men show for their children \\"You see an Arab father, he's fantastically proud of his kid...They'd do anything for their children, the Arabs.\\"  Raban's description of the landscape in the Gulf is very apropos: \\"It was at that moment in the evening when the low sun goes squashy in the Gulf and coats everything it touches with a soft, thick light the color of broom.  It gilded the wailing six-lane highway.  It gilded the sandy roadside where I walked.  It gilded the long trail of garbage- -the crushed Pepsi cans, discarded refrigerators, torn chunks of auto tire, cardboard boxes, broken fan belts lying the dust like snakes, the building rubble, polystyrene packing blocks, and a rather-long-dead goat.\\"  But here Raban didn't attempt to capture the accompanying smells, the essences of the well-used slaughterhouse wafting over the sand at the end of another hot day, the rotting diaper washing up on the sand of what could be a picturesque beach, the sweating Bangladeshi municipal worker in his one uniform, who makes his living and puts all of his children through school back in Bangladesh by chasing the garbage across the dunes, day in and day out for twenty years.<br />At the beginning of his journey, Raban assessed the state of cultural exchange going on in the cosmopolitan Gulf: \\"What appeared to be unique to Bahrain was the way in which so many nationalities had landed upon one small patch of ground, coming together to create not a cosmopolitan city but a multitude of tiny provincial hamlets.  Few expatriates ever bothered to learn more than a word or two of Arabic; they had no Arab friends; they were comfortably ignorant of the lives of the people with whom they shared this meager acreage of land.  The same was true, apparently, of the Arabs themselves, the Iranians, the Indians, the Pakistanis.  The different groups exchanged contracts, employed one another, purchased things at each other shops, were each other's landlords and tenants- -but they didn't mix.\\"  A longer stay might have explained some of the reasons behind these facts.  Firstly, the Arabs in the Gulf, through importation of labor, have made themselves into tiny minorities in their own countries.  Perhaps as a result of this, they are very reluctant to share their lives with the faceless multitudes of foreigners who they bring in to serve them.  Because of the small numbers of Arabs living in these countries, expatriates are much more likely to come into daily contact with Hindi, Urdu, and Pashto speakers than Arabic speakers, so learning Arabic won't get them very far in this environment.  The shop owners and landlords are, by law, locals, but they employ South Asians to run the day-to-day operations of their businesses, so the languages of the shops is English, Hindi, Urdu, or Malayam, not Arabic.  The people of the majority culture, the South Asians, are generally working 80 hours or more a week, so there is very little time left over after work for mixing with others.  Raban was able to make contact with a few Arabs in the Gulf, but didn't comment on the fact that with the exception of those he met at the offices of the government sponsored writers, he was meeting expatriate Arabs, generally at bars, looking for Western playmates to drink with who weren't encumbered by Muslim dictates against abusing alcohol.  He also met a few of the lonely breed of Brits, who find that Arabia seeps into their blood, and who cannot bear the thought of leaving the sunny sands to return to their cold Northern culture.<br />Somewhere in Yemen, Raban becomes a little fatigued with his journey.  After this, the quality of his observations begins to slip, and the book becomes simply another travelogue through Arabia, with more to say about Raban and his mental state than about the people he had set out to encounter.  The first part of the book, however, written while Raban was still fresh in his travels, is quite entertaining and worthwhile.  Despite its age, it encapsulates a great deal of what can be found in the countries of the Gulf today.day operations of their businesses, so the languages of the shops is English, Hindi, Urdu, or Malayam, not Arabic.  The people of the majority culture, the South Asians, are generally working 80 hours or more a week, so there is very little time left over after work for mixing with others.  Raban was able to make contact with a few Arabs in the Gulf, but didn't comment on the fact that with the exception of those he met at the offices of the government sponsored writers, he was meeting expatriate Arabs, generally at bars, looking for Western playmates to drink with who weren't encumbered by Muslim dictates against abusing alcohol.  He also met a few of the lonely breed of Brits, who find that Arabia seeps into their blood, and who cannot bear the thought of leaving the sunny sands to return to their cold Northern culture.<br />Somewhere in Yemen, Raban becomes a little fatigued with his journey.  After this, the quality of his observations begins to slip, and the book becomes simply another travelogue through Arabia, with more to say about Raban and his mental state than about the people he had set out to encounter.  The first part of the book, however, written while Raban was still fresh in his travels, is quite entertaining and worthwhile.  Despite its age, it encapsulates a great deal of what can be found in the countries of the Gulf today.	2003-11-24
889978:US	51917998	R179X12N5U77W9	0595167551	450856942	A Naturalist Indoors: Observing the World of Nature Inside Your Home	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Indoor field guide	This book is a field guide to critters, plants, and natural organisms that might be encountered in the average North American house.  It is divided into 5 chapters: an indoor natural kingdom (about pets and fleas), an indoor plant kingdom (about houseplants), other kingdoms in the kitchen (about yeasts and molds), household ecology (about insects and rodents), and household natural history (economic botany of a variety of household products, such as cedar chests and pencils).  Each chapter contains a selection of 3 or 4-page articles that describe a little of the history of the domestication of the item, its mating habits, and a little of the author's personal experience with the item.  Despite the book's subtitle \\"Observing the world of nature inside your home\\" and the title of the chapter on household ecology, this isn't an ecology book at all, since it rarely mentions any interactions between organisms.  Instead, the focus is on simply enumerating living or once living creatures or plants that may make their homes in people's houses, and describing some details of their life cycles.  One of the most useful aspects of the book is the way in which Lawrence delineates the differences between common creatures, such as guinea pigs, hamsters, and gerbils, or houseflies and cluster flies.  The book includes an annotated list of reading suggestions for further research.	2003-11-24
890072:US	51917998	RIHXPJCZFDX0S	039683048X	639222384	Nima a Sherpa In Connecticut	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Culture shock extraordinaire	This book details the experiences of an average upper-class American family who befriend and bring home a tubercular Sherpa guide from Nepal.  In 1980, Fuller and her husband visited Nepal in the hopes of gathering some material for a new book.  They didn't speak any Nepali or Tibetan, and their guides didn't speak English well enough to translate interviews with the mountain-dwelling monks, so the planned book never materialized.  However, one of their Sherpa guides, Nima, turned out to be exceptionally endearing.  When they learned that his persistent cough was actually TB and that local treatments were not making him well, they determined to bring him home with them to Connecticut for treatment.<br />When Nima arrived at JFK airport in New York, he weighed only 80 pounds and was quite feeble with his disease.  They had to carry his pack, and almost had to carry him back to their house in Connecticut.  There, they deposited him in a room fully equipped with bed, color TV, posters, etc- -all the trappings of an American teenager.  Neither Nima nor the Fullers were prepared for the cultural misadventures that were to follow.  Nima had little knowledge of modern conveniences like indoor running water or electric ovens, and he thought everything that appeared on TV was true.  Although the Fullers had spent 40 days living in Nima's world in Nepal, they had developed virtually no understanding of how incomprehensible American life would be for Nima.  Nevertheless, through their bumbling good well and Nima's adaptability and resourcefulness, they eventually achieved a working understanding of each other's cultures.  This was, no doubt aided quite a bit when the carpenter the Fullers hired to put on an addition to their house turned out to be a returned Peace Corps worker, who took Nima under his wing as an unofficial apprentice.  Miraculously, Nima was able to return to Nepal and readapt to his own culture when his six month US visa was up.  With its amusing anecdotes and dire warnings of the consequences of cultural ignorance, this book would be a source of delight, reference, and discussion for those considering taking in an exchange student or otherwise participating in a cultural exchange.  The book is illustrated sporadically with black and white tourist quality photographs.and dire warnings of the consequences of cultural ignorance, this book would be a source of delight, reference, and discussion for those considering taking in an exchange student or otherwise participating in a cultural exchange.  The book is illustrated sporadically with black and white tourist quality photographs.	2003-11-24
895886:US	51917998	R1YKR8T4J2NRYS	0439266815	978870777	Monkey Mo Goes to Sea	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Monkey see- -monkey do	This book describes the antics of a pet monkey named Mo who is invited for lunch on a fancy ocean liner.  The monkey is admonished in the invitation to act like a gentlemen.  He tries to, but unfortunately, the gentleman he decides to imitate is not a very well-behaved man, since he makes a habit of walking on railings and such.  As a result of his poor choice of role model, Mo gets a tongue lashing, but then his hero falls overboard, Mo saves him, and is declared a real gentleman.  Despite the tension of misbehavior, scolding, and a fall into the ocean, many kids love the humor of Mo's antics, and of course, there is a happy ending.  The book contains about 300 words.	2003-11-18
895970:US	51917998	R2ALL76839YHLL	059022297X	196551430	Town Mouse, Country Mouse	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Classic tale with beautiful illustrations	This book tells the \\"grass-is-always-greener\\" story of the city mouse and the country mouse.  One day, the city mouse wakes up and decide he is unhappy with his lot in life.  He and his wife pack a picnic lunch and go off for a holiday in the country.  There they meet the country mouse, who is enthralled by the smell of city cheese, and the mice decide to do a house swap.  However, they each find that they don't have the skills and knowledge necessary for survival in the other's environment.  Attacked by cats and besodden in a thunderstorm, they rethink the arrangement and return home.  Very young children may find some of the predators a bit scary, but older children should be able to handle the tension and enjoy the humor as well.  The book has about 1100 words.	2003-11-18
896068:US	51917998	R3THXPLKHP03JN	030768993X	427013814	The Mother Goose book (A Golden book for early childhood)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Mother Gooses Greatest Hits	This book contains a collection of favorite children's nursery rhymes.  These are rhymes that all English-speaking children know and love.  The book includes most of the well-known rhymes, and a few lesser known ones as well, including:<br />--Humpty Dumpty<br />--Jack and Jill<br />--Hickory Dickory Dock<br />--Three Blind Mice<br />--This Little Pig<br />--Little Boy Blue<br />--Little Bo Peep<br />--Pussy Cat, Pussy Cat<br />--Pussy Cat Ate the Dumplings<br />--Jack Sprat<br />--Peter, Peter, Pumpkin Eater<br />--The Old Woman in the Shoe<br />--Elsie Marley<br />--Mistress Mary<br />--Rub-a-Dub-Dub<br />--Old Mother Hubbard<br />--Sing a Song of Sixpence<br />--Little Miss Muffett<br />--Little Tommy Tittlemouse<br />--Wee Willie Winkie<br />Each rhyme is illustrated with delightful images.  The book has about 225 words.	2003-11-18
896347:US	51917998	R28V7VOQ7H8PD2	0606293981	980345478	More Parts	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dealing with pain and confusion	This book tells the story of a small boy who is quite confused over the things people say- -everyone around him always seems to be saying the scariest things, and it's making him upset.  One day, he accidentally breaks his red truck, and his mother tells him that it must have broken his heart.  He takes his mother's words literally, and then sets to worrying about all the other upsetting things that people say, like hold your tongue, and cry your lungs out.  Finally, his mother explains the meanings of these phrases so that the boy can find something else to worry about.  The story is quite cute and may provoke a lot of thought in young minds about words and language.  The book might also be a good one to read to youngster who is bereaved over breaking something.  It has about 450 words.	2003-11-18
896449:US	51917998	R129Z773ASZN1I	061335558X	533495173	The Pumpkin Fair	Books	5	0	0	N	N	All things pumpkin	This book tells the story of a pumpkin fair or pumpkin fest.  The rhyming text describes about all the events at the fair- -the pumpkin band, pumpkin bowling, and pumpkin meals.  The book is quite fun, but some kids may be unnerved by the broken pumpkins at the pumpkin basketball hoop (and some parents may not like the pumpkin stew being termed gooey and not edible).  The rhymes and easy to read font will make this book a delight for beginning readers.  The book contains about 550 words.	2003-11-18
896454:US	51917998	R3TK0A1IN0JXAT	0671702971	822169586	I Love You, Good Night	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Smootchy bedtime book	This book is a short bedtime book (about 100 words) filled with comparisons of a parent's love.  The narrator loves you like blueberry pancakes, like the wind blows, etc.  Some of the comparisons are rather humorous, and the book ends with the message \\"Now go to bed!\\".	2003-11-18
896632:US	51917998	R3QOSSSSMC0MFF	0590075470	964269432	Grey Lady and the Strawberry Snatcher	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Wordless and scary	This book tells the story of an old ladys nightmare.  One day, she went shopping in a crowded market somewhere in the Middle East (other shoppers included a woman in Middle Eastern clothing on a skateboard).  A mysterious stranger saw her buy some strawberries, and began to follow her, in order to steal the strawberries.  The stranger followed her into the woods, up a tree, and through a bramble.  Fortunately, the bramble had blackberries, which distracted the stranger and allowed the old lady to get home to her family safely.  The story is told entirely in pictures, and there are no words in the book.  The pictures are very rich with detail, and evoke the dreamlike experiences of the old lady.	2003-11-18
896652:US	51917998	R391RCLDMYJ2NT	0006606725	451115295	Meet Babar and His Family (Armada Picture Lions)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Babar introduces the Four Seasons	In this book, Babar, the King of Elephants, takes us on a tour of the four seasons.  He tells us about different things that his family does during each of the seasons.  The book ends with Santa Claus at Christmas time.  Generally, the story is quite innocuous, with little that might scare young ones, except for a very bloody skinned knee.  But we're reassured that the doctor says it's not serious.  All told, the book has about 750 words.	2003-11-18
896705:US	51917998	R2NOBOKU91UCVR	0201092972	629274120	On Christmas Eve	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Mystery of Christmas	This book builds up the mystery of Christmas.  It begins with children snuggled in their beds, just as in Twas the Night Before Christmas.  But these children can't sleep- -they want to touch the Christmas tree.  They go downstairs and look at the tree and all the gifts.  Then instead of hearing the clatter of hooves on the roof, they hear Christmas carolers out in the yard.  Listening to the carolers, they return to their beds.  The pictures and words capture the mystery and excitement of Christmas, without trying to impart a lesson or moral.  All told, the book contains about 550 words.	2003-11-18
896712:US	51917998	R157N6ULJCHGPD	0395510066	263639118	Annie and the Wild Animals	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Lessons about animals	This book tells the story of some valuable lessons that Annie learned about animals.  One day, her cat started acting strange.  Then it went away.  Annie was lonely, so she tried to find herself another pet by attracting wild animals with corn cakes.  Indeed, a veritable menagerie of wild animals was soon hanging around her door, including a moose, a wild cat, and a bear.  But none of these animals were friendly like Annies cat, and soon the corn meal gave out so she couldnt make any more corn cakes.  Just then the cat appeared again, followed by some new kittens.  Animal loving children may be fascinated with Annies tale, although some may be a little frightened by the press of wild animals at her door.  The illustrations by Brett, as always are intricate and very attractive.  The book has about 375 words.	2003-11-18
896801:US	51917998	REYPBVR7ASO5C	B00005WG3U	510431103	Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Enduring classic	This book is a classic tale about technology and obsolescence and the consequences for the people whose jobs are eclipsed by the advancement of technology. Mike Mulligan has a wonderful steam shovel (have you ever seen such a beast yourself?).  The steam shovel was very important in the past- -it built canals, airfields, and even moved mountains.  But nowadays, people use diesel-powered diggers, not steam shovels, and Mulligan's poor steam shovel is no longer in demand.  In a tiny town out in the countryside, Mulligan gets one last job for his steam shovel, digging the foundation for a new city hall.  Once the job is finished, the future does not look bright for Mulligan and his steam shovel.  However, a small boy points out that they can be retrained- -the steam shovel can become the boiler for the new building, and Mulligan its janitor.  Brilliant solution- -the last page shows the steam shovel sitting in the cellar, happily belching out steam to all parts of the building while Mulligan shovels coal into its hopper.  The book doesn't have any elements that would scare young readers, and children with a fascination for heavy equipment will be delighted with the action.  The big message can bring out a lot of questions and food for thought, however.  The book has about 1100 words.	2003-11-18
896972:US	51917998	R2Z61XY9MME52V	0152000410	565506821	Oh My Baby, Little One	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Snuggly book	This is a very snuggly hugs and kisses book for the very young.  In the book, a parent bird talks to her offspring in rhyming declarations of love, telling and reassuring the baby bird that she will love it at all times and through everything it does.  It is a very cute and touching read for parents.  And rather short, with only about 350 words.	2003-11-18
896974:US	51917998	R7E80T0VJHCZ2	0399222642	584353349	Finding Foxes	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wilderness poem	This book is a long free verse poem about the ways of the fox in nature.  There is a lot of elegant descriptive language, but no real story line.  Some of the vocabulary could be challenging for younger readers.  One scene shows the fox eating an animal, which could be disturbing for some young readers.  The font is relatively large, and there are few words (about 200).	2003-11-18
897039:US	51917998	R1LFLSWNK1ONK3	0606200835	157712912	Amish Christmas	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Christmas cultural adventure	This book is filled with the details of how Christmas is celebrated in the Amish community.  It traces the actions of a boy and his younger sister, during Christmas Eve, the two days of Christmas, and the following day.  We meet the boy's family and learn about their Christmas customs.  Interspersed in the text are Pennsylvania Dutch phrases, together with their meanings.  The book both satisfies and develops curiosity about cultural differences.  It shows children an example of how people do things differently, yet deep-down, many of the beliefs are the same.  The book is suitable for older kids, with about 2000 words.	2003-11-18
904740:US	51917998	R10KEK7SUADO3L	0136005039	642767641	Moongame	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hide-and-seek bedtime story	This book tells the story of a young bear who learns to play hide-and-seek from his friend the bird.  He spends all day taking turns hiding or counting to 10 before searching for his friend.  At night he decides to play the same game with the moon.  The natural world of the moon and the clouds astounds him.  The animals of the forest come out and help.  The book is charming, and a good short read before bed, with about 700 words.	2003-11-11
904752:US	51917998	R1BVDK8VRKBPZV	0590454889	439502165	Moondance (Moonbear Books)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Meteorology in miniature	This book tells the story of a bear who wants to make friends with the moon.  Over the course of the day, the bear observes and plays with the moon, clouds, fog, and rain.  The bear is very well behaved- -he helps out around the house and eats his dinner when he is supposed to.  He faces disappointment when he doesnt always get what he wants, but he learns to appreciate what he gets.  This is a delightful little story (about 750 words), that contains nothing likely to incite anxiety amongst youngsters.	2003-11-11
904776:US	51917998	R1LRZ8T0IXB66H	0689825811	448646951	With Love, Little Red Hen	Books	4	7	7	N	N	New perspective on an old tale	This book tells the familiar story of a the little red hen who gets others to help her plant a garden to feed her brood.  The story is told through a series of letters to and from the Little Red Hen and Hetty Hen, Little Red Riding Hood and Goldilocks, the Wolf, and even Peter Rabbit.  Because of the continuously changing perspective in the authorship of the letters, the storyline would probably be too sophisticated for young readers to follow- -the book might be most appropriate for children 7 years and up.  The plot, with its premeditated murder of the chicken, may also be a little scary for young ones.  The vocabulary is fairly advanced and includes some suitable challenges for older readers.  The book includes about 1200 words.	2003-11-11
904828:US	51917998	R2YQ979LL4L50H	0374361487	533558175	The Puddle	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good story for a wet day	This book tells the story of a small boy who goes out to play in a puddle on a rainy day.  He follows his mother's instructions carefully, about not stepping in the puddle.  But the animals who come to visit have no such limitations and their antics are quite entertaining.<br />Although the story is fairly innocuous, small children who become anxious over breaking things may become uncomfortable when reading this story- -an alligator rescues the boy's boat from the puddle, and in the process cracks it with his mouth.  In the final scene of the book, the boat is shown in the boy's bathtub, and several small readers lamented that the crack was still there.  The book is quite short, with only about 200 words.	2003-11-11
904854:US	51917998	R33C3O95HWRBWD	0440409578	806773846	SHEEP, SHEEP, SHEEP, HELP ME FALL ASLEEP (A Picture Yearling Book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great bedtime book for animal lovers	This book is a great book to go to sleep by.  In a first person voice, Alda tells us that her mother suggested counting sleep as a way to go to sleep.  Alda then imagines lots and lots of animals doing funny things, and shares with us photographs of what she is thinking about.  After about half the book, she finally begins to see some sheep, and proceeds to count them.  There's very little in this book that could potentially cause anxiety, let alone be scary for little ones.  The book is a good short read before bedtime, with only about 300 words.	2003-11-11
904876:US	51917998	R2MHX3237TVAAN	0827345070	52165576	The Real Princess (Early Bird Series Little Books) (English, Danish and Danish Edition)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Readers Digest version	This book is a no nonsense retelling of the Princess and the Pea.  It is told very simply, with few details or humor.  The pictures are fine, but not particularly exciting.  The story is calm, and not scary.  The book is printed in a sans serif font, easy to read for beginners.  It's a short book, with only about 350 words.	2003-11-11
905015:US	51917998	R2DKQE40KPNCXY	0394884167	348443696	Piggybook	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Simply put--men are pigs	This book tells the story of the Piggot family, whose male members are, down deep, really just pigs.  In the beginning of the book, we are introduced to the father and two boys (in their British school uniforms), who are treated to a clean house and fine meals by the housewife mother, but who never lift a finger to help out or even say thank you.  The mother finally gets fed up and leaves, at which point, the father and sons are turned into pigs and find that they are completely incompetent at doing the chores. Eventually, of course, mom comes back, the males turn back into people again, and everybody does the chores together, and mom even tries fixing the car.  The book can be read through relatively quickly, since it contains only about 500 words.	2003-11-11
905091:US	51917998	R6HN6EGIS4NLH	0394884027	437010987	The Steadfast Tin Soldier	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Classic tale, well told	This book tells the classic tale of the one-legged tin soldier who falls in love with a paper ballerina.  The soldier suffers a series of misadventures, including being placed at the helm of a doomed paper boat, being chased by a rat, and swallowed by a fish.  It's a wonderful tale that will hold older children spellbound.  The illustrations are delightful.  All told, the book has about 2000 words.	2003-11-11
905111:US	51917998	R2RLPA0LSEHONR	0929627016	368311234	Moving Upcountry	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beginners guide to Vermont	This book is a hilarious account of the adventures of a pair of suburban flatlanders who buy a hillside farm in Vermont in the 1970s.  At the beginning of their sojourn, they try to keep heifers out of their campsite with a fence constructed of clothesline, being unfamiliar with the eating habits of young bovine.  Through painful experience, they learn how to site a garden, pour concrete, raise sheep, chickens, and ducks, and fix their own vehicles.  Mitchell's style is full of detail and his humor is simply fabulous.	2003-11-11
905410:US	51917998	R1CSBZD73AO8IF	0698113942	923322089	Grandfather Twilight (Paperstar Book)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Modern myth	This book is a mystical bedtime story that tells a modern myth of where the moon comes from- -Grandfather Twilight takes a pearl out of his trunk each night and places it in the sky.  The book is big on pictures and light on words (only about 100), with fewer and fewer words as the story progresses.	2003-11-11
905548:US	51917998	R38R8QWWPWZ84B	0140509763	771019405	The Man Who Lost his Head (Picture Puffins)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Waking up from a bad dream	This book tells the story of a terrible dream that a man had- -that he woke up one day and couldnt find his head.  In the story, the man wakes up without his head and remembers that he had visited the fair the day before to sell a pig.  Perhaps he left his head at the fair.  So he returns to the fair in search of his head.  In order to avoid stares, he tries out a few prosthetic devices, including a carved jack-o-lantern and a carved parsnip before he settles on a wooden head.  He has a great time during his return visit to the fair, but doesnt find his head until a ragged little boy claims he might be able to help and gives him a heck of wallop in his wooden face that finally wakes him up.<br />Older children (especially boys, since all the characters are male) may enjoy the tale quite a bit, with its black-and-white cartoon-like illustrations that are full of detail.  However, parts of the story may be much too scary for younger kids, from the premise of the story itself through playing with the hungry lion, and the final punch.  The book, at about 1500 words, is rather long for reading aloud.	2003-11-11
905557:US	51917998	R1DE49Z3UA8BRO	0691024227	569561861	Medicine, Mind, and the Double Brain	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Detailed philosophical account	This book is a detailed account of the development of neuroanatomy during the nineteenth century, particularly in France and Germany.  Harrington delves into dust-covered scientific literature to discover the original speculations and discussions about why the brain is divided in two.<br />Most medical or scientific history books trace how modern theories developed from one experiment or observation to another.  They don't give much space to tracing wrong turns, unless the wrong turn eventually led to some worthwhile insight.  In contrast, Harrington spends relatively little time in this book describing how various facets of our modern understanding of brain structures and functions were deduced.  Instead, most of her focus is on the scientific process itself, with a great deal of material about the wrong turns and why they were taken.  Early in the book, Harrington states explicitly that \\"one might begin to understand this wider phenomenon in neurology by looking at the way scientific and medical concepts can function in a society as metaphorical resources and by looking again at the specific social and cultural context that informed neurological research in different European countries at this time.\\"  She compares the political atmosphere in France and Germany at the time, and traces how this atmosphere may have affected interpretations of observations concerning hemispheric functions.  Harrington describes how hypotheses about the purposes of the two hemispheres changed, and how this seemed to affect observations of symptoms.  She points out that \\"one is struck by how theoretical expectations appear actually to change what people perceive.\\"<br />The book includes an appendix with diagrams of brain structures that can be useful for readers who are not familiar with standard brain terminology.  Since so much of the focus of the book is on the philosophy of science rather than on the development of our understanding of how the brain works, the book may be of interest more to philosophers than to those interested in neuroanatomy.erest more to philosophers than to those interested in neuroanatomy.	2003-11-11
905765:US	51917998	R277DFCXZA0YT2	0394550382	312810069	Song of Solomon	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Rich	This book tells the epic story of a African American family during the early part of the twentieth century.  The book is rich with African American culture, from naming customs to children's songs, family myths and ancestry, friendships and enemies, and African secret societies.	2003-11-11
905832:US	51917998	RAHW21PYCRHG2	0786809027	45566190	Milo's Hat Trick	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Teamwork	This book tells the story of Milo, a totally inept magician, who is pressured to improve his performances or lose his job.  He goes off to the forest in search of a rabbit to put in his hat.  Of course, he is unsuccessful at finding a rabbit, but instead finds a very generous and helpful bear.  The dedicated bear proceeds to help Milo improve his act.<br />There is extremely little to cause anxiety in this book, although some children may express a little concern at the original appearance of the bear.  However, Milo learns to trust others, and the bear does some wonderful good deeds to help a complete stranger.  The book is printed in a sans serif font, that would be easy for beginning readers to deal with.  It contains about 650 words.	2003-11-11
915008:US	51917998	R6TV09R5V04UH	068980198X	259581999	Halloween ABC	Books	2	7	15	N	N	PG-13 not Ages 4-8	This book is a collection of positively gruesome rhymes about violence, ghouls, and monsters in the vein of Edward Gorey.  Some young adult readers might find the rhymes amusing, but many other readers, especially young children, will find them quite disturbing.  As one example, for the letter \\"I\\", we read that \\"I\\" is for icicle, the murder weapon that mysteriously vanished leaving the police puzzled.  If your kids like grim reaper stories for Halloween, they may find a lot to amuse them in this book.  However, the kids who are old enough to potentially appreciate the book's warped humor will probable overlook the book since they are way too old to be practicing their ABCs.	2003-11-03
915204:US	51917998	RZUCBKQOBXF8H	0670460451	663483379	The Masks of God: Oriental Mythology	Books	3	49	53	N	N	Heavy reading	This book is a massive summary, comparison of, and commentary on oriental mythology.  It is divided into 3 major parts: Western Oriental mythology, Indian mythology, and the mythologies of the Far East.  Campbell's incredible scholarship is very impressive, and rather overwhelming at times.  He obviously had a great familiarity with the mythologies and religions of practically all areas of the planet.  However, his explanations for general readers of foreign mythologies weren't always clear, as evidenced in this book.  Much of this book focuses on developing the idea that Oriental mythologies had one major origin, in the Egypt of the Pharaohs. According to Campbell, traces of the religion and mythologies of the Pharaohs, as well as implements of their material culture, could subsequently be found in every major culture heading eastward, from Persia to India, from China to Japan.<br />This idea is not exactly clear in the beginning of the work, and the initial chapters about the Pharaohs start with a jerk, leaving some readers wondering \\"Why start here, so far west?\\"  The idea is stated more and more explicitly as the book progresses, so that by the time we reach the Chinese section, Campbell writes about the \\"primacy of the West-to-East cultural flow\\".  Later in the same section, Campbell writes \\"the question of the impact of sentiments and ideas carried from one domain to another, which is basic to our study, is ...well illustrated by the annals of the settlement of Buddhism in China...\\" Is there really enough evidence to support the idea of a single common mythology that spread from West to East?  Is this theory accepted by modern specialists in mythology?  A reader who comes to this book independently of a class or other mythology background can only speculate on these questions.<br />Campbell does a masterful job of laying out similarities across cultures, such as his description of the \\"archetypal Savior Biography\\", where he lists the following elements (among others):<br />--scion of a royal line<br />--miraculously born<br />--amid supernatural phenomena<br />--of whom an aged holy man prophesies a world-saving message<br />--whose childhood deeds proclaim his divine character<br />--engages in arduous forest disciplines<br />--which confront him with a supernatural adversary<br />He points out that this list applies to the Jains, Buddhists, as well as Christians, and, if I read him correctly, presents it as one piece of evidence for linkage between Western and Oriental mythologies.<br />The lucidity of Campbell's descriptions and summaries of myths vary.  Sometimes he quotes stories or myths at great length.  But other times, he passes over the details quickly with such statements as \\"We need not rehearse the legends of his miraculous birth...\\" in his haste to get to commentary about the stories in question.  For newcomers to the topic, this can be somewhat of a disappointment, since the commentaries are difficult to understand if one is not already familiar with the stories, and it is to learn about the stories themselves that some readers pick up this book.  The book itself seems to have developed from Campbell's notes.  Thus, there is considerable explicit enumeration of points, as well as the occasional sentence fragment.  This style of writing requires very active study from a reader who is determined to wrestle the kernel of meaning from Campbell's words.<br />The one disappointing chapter was the chapter on Tibet, which actually includes only a few paragraphs about the mythology of Tibet.  The remainder of the chapter is a brief collection of ideas from Maoist communism, juxtaposed with stories of atrocities during the Chinese takeover of Tibet.  While the story of Tibet is indeed extremely lamentable, perhaps these details would better fit in a political description of Tibet in order to make more room for an overview of Tibetan mythology.others):<BR>--scion of a royal line<BR>--miraculously born<BR>--amid supernatural phenomena<BR>--of whom an aged holy man prophesies a world-saving message<BR>--whose childhood deeds proclaim his divine character <BR>--engages in arduous forest disciplines<BR>--which confront him with a supernatural adversary<BR>He points out that this list applies to the Jains, Buddhists, as well as Christians, and, if I read him correctly, presents it as one piece of evidence for linkage between Western and Oriental mythologies.<br />The lucidity of Campbell's descriptions and summaries of myths vary.  Sometimes he quotes stories or myths at great length.  But other times, he passes over the details quickly with such statements as \\"We need not rehearse the legends of his miraculous birth...\\" in his haste to get to commentary about the stories in question.  For newcomers to the topic, this can be somewhat of a disappointment, since the commentaries are difficult to understand if one is not already familiar with the stories, and it is to learn about the stories themselves that some readers pick up this book.  The book itself seems to have developed from Campbell's notes.  Thus, there is considerable explicit enumeration of points, as well as the occasional sentence fragment.  This style of writing requires very active study from a reader who is determined to wrestle the kernel of meaning from Campbell's words.  <br />The one disappointing chapter was the chapter on Tibet, which actually includes only a few paragraphs about the mythology of Tibet.  The remainder of the chapter is a brief collection of ideas from Maoist communism, juxtaposed with stories of atrocities during the Chinese takeover of Tibet.  While the story of Tibet is indeed extremely lamentable, perhaps these details would better fit in a political description of Tibet in order to make more room for an overview of Tibetan mythology.	2003-11-03
915317:US	51917998	R1DBMUF4XPBQXQ	0395968674	740934790	Henry Hikes to Fitchburg	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Great place to start	This book is an introduction for young children to the philosophy of simplicity.  Johnson has adapted the true story of Henry Thoreau's hike to Fitchburg into a children's tale that kids can understand and cherish.  As the book begins, Henry is talking to a friend, and they decide to go to Fitchburg.  The friend thinks it would be faster to take the train, but contrary old Henry says it would be faster to walk.  Rather than argue their points, the two friends each set off to Fitchburg in their own by their own method.  Of course, the friend has to earn money to pay the train fare, so he spends all day doing various odd jobs before taking the night train.  Henry, on the other hand, sets off walking, and enjoys the beautiful scenery along the way.  They both eventually get to Fitchburg, but they had very different experiences in meeting their goal.<br />The format of the book, with one side of each page devoted to Henry and the other to his friend, gets children to focus on a constant comparison between the experiences of the two characters.  By the end of the book, the children see that there are many ways to reach a goal, and contrary to common practice, sometimes those methods that don't cost money may be preferable- -it all depends on what you value in life.  This book would be a great starting point for conversations with children about the choices that they or their families are making.  And the pictures are wonderful, too!	2003-11-03
915322:US	51917998	R32HO293UD88V9	0816772207	874344640	Too Many Monsters	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Delightful and not too scary	This book is a fun children's book about the monsters who come out to haunt children in their bedrooms at night.  Yes, these monsters frighten the little boy who tells the story, but they're really not all that scary.  They have amusing body shapes, along the lines of Monsters, Inc., and instead of saying \\"Boo\\", they engage in forbidden activities like sitting on the dresser or playing ball in the house.  When faced with this monster problem, the boy seeks the aid of his parents.  Together, they discuss the problem and brainstorm a solution.  Then they enact the solution together as a team, and the monsters all jump out the window so that the boy can feel safe as he goes back to bed.  The pictures are very engaging, and many young children get the giggles upon seeing the monster with the painted toenails.  With only one or two sentences per page, the book is a great choice for a short story-hour selection.	2003-11-03
920397:US	51917998	R1UYKPYCG38M5U	0060009705	86601151	A Cook's Tour: In Search of the Perfect Meal	Books	3	6	17	N	N	Lots of good food	This is a travelogue about eating.  Bourdain decides he wants to sample the best of what's out there, and he travels far and wide to find what he's looking for.  He doesn't exactly find THE perfect meal, but he does get to eat a lot of perfect meals and taste some darn good cooking.  On the other hand, he also sampled some truly vile stuff, like raw cobra bile, that wiser souls would not allow past their lips.  Bourdain's style is rather wild- -if profanity offends you, this book is not for you.<br />Bourdain is an evangelical meat eater.  Indeed, a central theme of the book is his relationship to the animals that are slaughtered for his consumption.  In the beginning of the book, he attends his first pig slaughter, describing to us such details as pulling the excrement out of the dead pig's anus.  Similar stories are told of slaughtering a lamb in Morocco and a turkey in Mexico, culminating in his swallowing a still-beating cobra heart in Vietnam.  At several points, he dissolves into a rant about the evils of vegetarianism, and he declares that the worst meal that he ate in the tour was a vegan meal in California.  On the issue of to eat or not to eat meat, I am open-minded- -I will eat steaks or vegetarian lasagna with equal gusto.  The question for me boils down to whether the cook knew what he or she was doing, has chosen fresh items, and is capable of preparing them appropriately.  Everyone needs to make their own choices about what they put into their bodies, and nobody (with the possible exception of your own parents) should have the presumption to tell you what you should or shouldn't eat.  Bourdain might have saved his anti-vegetarian rants for a specifically political tome.  After all, I'm sure he enjoyed a number of completely vegetarian dishes in Asia, but considered them acceptable because their ethnicity was Asian and not vegan.<br />For a world tour to find the perfect meal, Bourdain picked an odd itinerary.  Yes, France, Portugal, Mexico, and Vietnam were all musts.  He only had one year, so he couldn't fit in Italy, Thailand, or Argentina. But somehow he found time for Russia, England and...Scotland?  He must have had ulterior motives for choosing these locations besides looking for good food.  Let's see- -in Russia, every good meal was accompanied by enough vodka to drown a sailor, so it's hard to believe he could remember the meals afterwards accurately enough to write about them.  And in Scotland, I'm sure even the deep-fried Mars bars that he tried tasted good with enough beer.  And in the end, it's hard to take this guy seriously as food connoisseur because he's a smoker.  Face it, Tony, your taste buds are dead.  If you want to really taste good food, you've got to give up the smokes.m were all musts.  He only had one year, so he couldn't fit in Italy, Thailand, or Argentina. But somehow he found time for Russia, England and...Scotland?  He must have had ulterior motives for choosing these locations besides looking for good food.  Let's see- -in Russia, every good meal was accompanied by enough vodka to drown a sailor, so it's hard to believe he could remember the meals afterwards accurately enough to write about them.  And in Scotland, I'm sure even the deep-fried Mars bars that he tried tasted good with enough beer.  And in the end, it's hard to take this guy seriously as food connoisseur because he's a smoker.  Face it, Tony, your taste buds are dead.  If you want to really taste good food, you've got to give up the smokes.	2003-10-30
922999:US	51917998	RMQU2U3GWY52F	8173043957	469772333	Music in India: The Classical Traditions	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Great resource and reference	This book is an introduction to both Hindustani and Carnatic classical music with a comparative approach that is quite explanatory for Western readers.  Wade's explicit goal is to make the fundamental concepts of Indian music clear to a Western audience without confusing them with the terminology and classification that is standard in most similar books written by Indian authors.  The book's topics include the following: the listener and relationship to the performer (with a brief overview of Indian geography and culture), notation systems and ragas (with side-by-side comparisons of Western, Hindustani, and Carnatic notation), melody instruments, meter, rhythm instruments and drumming (with very technical descriptions including the drumming syllables of both Indian traditions), performance genres of Hindustani and Carnatic traditions, and musicians and performing contexts.  The book also includes an annotated bibliography, a discography and filmography, a glossary, and an index.  The book is written for newcomers to Indian classical music, who may have some familiarity with the music itself, but who don't necessarily know the standard terminology.  The material is well sequenced to use for an introductory study of Indian classical music.  In taking a comparative approach, the book is unique and quite useful- -it's very hard to find such books written by people who are conversant in both Indian classical traditions.	2003-10-28
923313:US	51917998	R2WI37330HY8QX	8174360786	710497449	Madras Quartet: Women in Karnatic Music	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Overview of women in Carnatic music	This book is an introduction to women musicians of the Carnatic tradition.  It is organized into 3 sections.  The first section is a general history of Carnatic music, especially focusing on the Trinity composers, and later how women temple dancers lost their social status and subsequently transformed themselves to become respected classical musicians.  The second section of the book provides a concise overview of Carnatic music theory, especially the varnam and kriti.  It also includes information about the instruments used in Carnatic music, their history, structure, and playing techniques.  The final section of the book takes up the biographies of the four women vocalists featured on the cover: M. S. Subbulakshmi, T. Brinda, D. K. Pattammal,  and M. L. Vasanthakumari.  These women did not actually form a quartet, but they were all well known musicians from Madras over the same time period.  The descriptions of the women vary from biographical details to scholarly critique of individual performances.  At the end of the book are appendices including a listing of charity concerts given by Subbulakshmi, a select discography of women musicians, a glossary, and a select bibliography.<br />The first two sections of the book do an excellent job of establishing the context that the women from Madras were working in.  However, the linkages between the earlier sections and the remaining chapters are very weak.  Menon also tends to name-drop occasionally, seeming to include mention of as many contemporary musicians as possible.  On occasion, she also uses terminology that may not be clear to Western readers who have not studied Carnatic theory previously.  Nevertheless, the book does an admirable job of describing how women came to be accepted in the male-dominated world of Carnatic classical performance- -without any help or influence by Western feminists.  Menon also makes clear why one's musical heritage is so vital in Indian music by describing how ones learns not only style from one's teacher, but also the very compositions themselves.  Compositions are given to students as gifts from the guru, and thus they cannot be learned by outsiders unless \\"stolen\\" from recordings or the like.  For this reason, and also to maintain the elite status of Carnatic music by controlling where it could be played, some Carnatic virtuosos would not allow any recordings of their music.style from one's teacher, but also the very compositions themselves.  Compositions are given to students as gifts from the guru, and thus they cannot be learned by outsiders unless \\"stolen\\" from recordings or the like.  For this reason, and also to maintain the elite status of Carnatic music by controlling where it could be played, some Carnatic virtuosos would not allow any recordings of their music.	2003-10-28
923659:US	51917998	R1854ZAWCCEGZK	0195643828	924116582	Illustrated Companion to South Indian Classical Music	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Reasonable reference book	This book provides an overview of the field of Carnatic music, the classical music of South India.  In includes chapters on a wide range of topics, such as variety in Carnatic music, music education for children, instrumental music, voice training traditions, types of audiences, sruti (tones and tunings), gamaka (ornamentations), music education, melakarta (organization of the ragas or modes), classification of the ragas, tala (rhythms), concert music, and dance music.  In its scope and details, the book is somewhat reminiscent of Sambamurty's standard music theory series.  However, this book is not as repetitive, a little more organized, and a little more clear about terminology than Sambamurty's texts, making the material easier to understand for Western readers.  The book includes extensive appendices, including a very informative glossary of musical forms with explanations that often run to 3 or 4 paragraphs or more.  There is also an annotated biographical list of composers and musicians, a reference list of mudra (names included in the lyrics of classical compositions that identify the composer, raga, tala, etc.), a bibliography, a discography, and a list of ragas.<br />From the title of the book, one might expect to find the text full of illustrations on every page.  Illustrations are indeed used where necessary to explicate a point, but you won't find one on every page- -this is not a coffee table book.  In addition to drawn illustrations, there are some black and white photos and 8 color plates of paintings of famous composers.  All in all, the book is a good resource for dipping into, but it doesn't provide a sequenced introduction to Carnatic music.	2003-10-28
931519:US	51917998	R3TJYJQNEA94JI	1877058017	565962708	The Tarasov Saga: From Russia Through China to Australia	Books	4	2	2	N	N	What a family!	This book details the adventures of a large family as they seek safe haven from communism.  In the beginning of the book, the author's mother and father are living in Czarist Russia, where his father is an officer in the army just prior to the outbreak of World War I.  The small family grows to five children during the war.  As the revolution begins to take hold, the father joins the loyalist White Russians and is dragged further and further east with them.  His mother is left to manage alone with the five children.  As it became clear that, as White Russians, they were not welcome in the Soviet Union, the mother decides to make her way east with the children, although she had no money and only a vague idea of where her husband might be.  After a series of misadventures in which she is forced to leave the children behind, she eventually finds her husband and gets all five children back with her in a city in China that had a large Russian refugee population.  The entire family made its home in China for the next twenty years, until a second communist revolution made them refugees once again.<br />The story is quite well written, with amazing recall of details from long ago adventures.  The stories describing everyday life in the Russian refugee communities of pre-Communist China provide a fascinating glimpse into a very little known way of life.  On the one hand, it is amazing that the entire large family was able to make it out of Russia and then out of China, but on the other hand, it was precisely because they had so many people working together in the family that made it possible.	2003-10-21
932221:US	51917998	R30PKDWZ9QFVTK	1854112597	806071440	Mila and Mervuysa	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Frustration at every corner	This book details the story of an impetuous young man who likes to adventure in the Soviet Union and found himself quite over his head.  Matthews studied Russian at university and later got himself posted to a minor job in the British embassy in Moscow.  While working there, he was befriended by Soviet who was eager to entertain him and travel with him, and who also introduced him to a KGB agent.  Matthews was not interested in helping out the KGB, despite their hospitality, but he was interested in spending more time in Moscow.  He managed to get himself assigned as an exchange student at the Moscow State University (MGU) and while there began to meet more representative Soviet citizens.  It was on a subsequent exchange assignment when he met Mila and they decided to marry.  Unfortunately, by this time, he had frustrated the KGB officers watching him so much that the wheels were already in motion for his expulsion from the country.  He and Mila were not able to pull off their marriage before he was forced to leave, and he spent the next five years in a desperate campaign to convince political leaders in both countries to allow them to marry.  Eventually, he managed to get Mila included in a deal in which Soviet spies imprisoned in Britain were exchanged for an imprisoned British academic and 3 Soviet would-be spouses.<br />In this book, Matthews comes across as having been a bit unrealistic in his expectations all along.  He notes that he once wrote a nasty letter to a fast food company to complain about their tasteless coffee- -now what kind of coffee would you expect at a fast food joint?  During his dallying with the KGB, he seemed to think that he could enjoy their hospitality and travel arrangements without offering anything in return.  Later, he tries to cut a deal with Russian &eacute;migr&eacute;s in France to purchase some Lenin manuscripts that he could exchange for Mila, even after the &eacute;migr&eacute;s had declared they would not have any dealings with the Soviets.  During his endless battles to get his bride, he would call the press in whenever he thought it might be to his advantage, but was dismayed when they would show up unbidden.  With attitudes like these, it is no wonder that he had such a difficult time getting his rewards.  Nevertheless, the story is quite interesting in its details of KGB recruitment tactics during the Cold War.g his endless battles to get his bride, he would call the press in whenever he thought it might be to his advantage, but was dismayed when they would show up unbidden.  With attitudes like these, it is no wonder that he had such a difficult time getting his rewards.  Nevertheless, the story is quite interesting in its details of KGB recruitment tactics during the Cold War.	2003-10-21
938602:US	51917998	R3GNYHHZ58WMG	1582432422	714562311	The Trouser People: A Story of Burma in the Shadow of the Empire	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Eye opening	This book is a travelogue of journeys the author took into Burma to retrace George Scott's adventures of the 1880s.  The author, Andrew Marshall, seems to be a journalist based in Thailand, from where he has been able to travel to Burma relatively easily.  While in Burma, he tries hard to make contact with tribal people, especially the Shans, who Scott spent so much time with 100 years before.  The narrative is split between Scott's travels in the nineteenth century, and Marshall's present day experiences.<br />Occasionally, Marshall's informal style of writing, with his use of British slang, gets a bit thick for me.  Nevertheless, the case that he makes against the Burmese military is quite compelling.  I've heard friends and acquaintances argue on both sides of the question of whether traveling to or working in modern day Burma provides support for the brutal government there.  After reading this book, however, I don't see myself going anywhere near the country until there is a regime change.	2003-10-15
939577:US	51917998	R20ZERUCPFN6EP	1582341354	930586325	The Flaneur: A Stroll Through the Paradoxes of Paris	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Fun little frolic	This book is a meandering discussion of both the ideal of Paris and its geography.  White has lived for over 15 years in Paris, and he provides an introduction of sorts to the city for Americans with an intellectual bent.  The book can't really serve as a guide book or book with city walks, since there are no directions or street names, and certainly no itineraries.  As White explains, a flaneur is someone who just wanders around, allowing himself to be drawn in the direction of anything of interest.  Thus, White strolls with us through several Paris districts, commenting at length on artists or authors who lived there.  Along the way, we find entire chapters on African Americans in Paris, gays in Paris, and Jews in Paris.  The book assumes a certain familiarity with both the city itself and Parisian people.  If you're a complete newcomer, you may find parts of the book somewhat confusing.  But if you're an American who has spent at least several weeks in the city, you may find this book to be a delightful diversion.	2003-10-15
946951:US	51917998	R2C5NPVV48ZIW7	0679731148	669003939	A Year in Provence	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fun	This book is a journal about the adventures of a British family who have recently moved to an aging farmhouse in rural Provence.  The author, Peter Mayle, is resolved to let nothing get under his skin, whether it be the unexpectedly cold winter weather, the unpredictable work schedules of the crew fixing up his house, or the unending stream of acquaintances from rainy London who decide that they would like to spend their vacations at Mayle's home in the sunny south.  Mayle's style is to treat all of these happenstances with humor, in a British sort of way.  At the same time, he manages to squeeze in many details of typical life in rural France.  If you've spent any amount of time yourself in the French countryside, you will recognize the scenery that Mayle describes immediately.  Mayle also expounds on the pleasures of eating in France- -don't pick up this book if you are trying to control your appetite.  Occasionally,  Mayle's descriptions of the people he encounters come across as a little too flippant, but overall, the book is quite enjoyable.	2003-10-09
949471:US	51917998	R1C59S3B99UTYJ	031220809X	757581022	Reeling In Russia: An American Angler In Russia	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Glimpse into todays rural Russia	This book is a travel journal that takes us through the far corners of rural Russia, from Murmansk to Kamchatka.  Montaigne's fly-fishing hobby takes him well off the beaten path, to explore the wilds of the backwoods and streams.  Along the way, of course, he must pass through small towns and stay with friends and acquaintances in tiny villages.  Most of the text is a very vivid, journalistic description of conditions in small town Russia and Siberia today, almost 10 years after the fall of Communism.  His analyses of conditions on the ground are comparable to those of other travel-journalists, such as Robert Kaplan. However, he visits places that are unknown for even people like Kaplan, since he avoids the big cities altogether.  What struck me while reading this book was how much backwoods Russia is a poor, developing country, with no running water or functioning government services.  This makes aspects of Montaigne's travel journal quite comparable to those of writers visiting Nepal or India. Yet, one rarely reads of travel adventures in a European Third World, making this book very unique.<br />All of the prose is not about people and their problems, however, since this is after all, a fishing trip.  Montaigne does an admirable job of describing his efforts at fly fishing.  Through reading this book, I began to get an inkling for the first time of what the sport of fly fishing is all about.  I'm much more interested in culture and travel than fishing, but Montaigne's fishing episodes were written well enough to hold my interest.  On the other hand, serious fly fishing enthusiasts may be looking for more about fish than this book provides.	2003-10-07
949658:US	51917998	R2UGHHECL2GMVY	0895264862	306166914	Operation Solo: The FBI's Man in the Kremlin	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Incredible story	This book details the history of a little known FBI espionage operation that may have changed world history.  It tells the story of Morris Childs, his wife Eva, and brother Jack and how they came to be secret agents working for the FBI while aiding the highest echelons of the US Communist Party and serving as advisors to the Kremlin throughout the Cold War.  Barron begins with a description of Morris Childs' early life, how he immigrated with his family to the US from Russia at the age of 5, how he became a Communist Party activist in the early part of the 20th century, attended training school in the Soviet Union, and was eventually abandoned by the party when stricken by heart disease in his 40s.  During the McCarthy era, the FBI approached his brother Jack to see if he might be interested in providing information about US Communist Party operations, and Jack got them in touch with Morris.  Subsequently, Morris rose to become the number 2 man in the US Communist Party while Jack served the role of supplying cash from the KGB to the US Communist Party leaders, all under the auspices of the FBI.  According to Barron's account, Morris was so trusted by Kremlin leaders, that they hardly dared make a foreign policy decision without consulting him.  Brezhnev even sought his advice on what clothes to wear while meeting with Nixon.  As a result of Morris' consultations with the Kremlin and his later debriefings with the FBI, US leaders were aware of what the Soviets were thinking as they entered into negotiations with them and with Chinese leaders.  Barron suggests that world history during the Cold War would have been much different if it hadn't been for Morris Childs helping to calm Soviet fears and letting US presidents know how far the Soviets were willing to go.<br />Throughout the book, Barron stresses that Operation SOLO had been a very secret FBI operation, and very few people in the FBI, let alone others outside the FBI, such as CIA operatives knew about the project.  This secrecy was what enabled Operation SOLO to continue for decades undiscovered.  But with so few people aware of its existence, it's hard now to develop an objective measure of how important Childs' information really was.  A few weeks ago, I asked a former CIA operative, who had been a Soviet specialist very high up in the Agency during the Cold War, about Operation SOLO- -was he aware of it?  How significant was it?  The CIA operative told me that he had never heard of Operation SOLO, and doubted that it amounted to much at all since it was connected with FBI.  Such a reaction is just what one would expect, given Barron's description of the secrecy of the project.  But it still leaves me with the nagging question, just how significant were Childs' efforts after all? Is there any way to get an answer to this beyond taking Barron's word?oject.  This secrecy was what enabled Operation SOLO to continue for decades undiscovered.  But with so few people aware of its existence, it's hard now to develop an objective measure of how important Childs' information really was.  A few weeks ago, I asked a former CIA operative, who had been a Soviet specialist very high up in the Agency during the Cold War, about Operation SOLO- -was he aware of it?  How significant was it?  The CIA operative told me that he had never heard of Operation SOLO, and doubted that it amounted to much at all since it was connected with FBI.  Such a reaction is just what one would expect, given Barron's description of the secrecy of the project.  But it still leaves me with the nagging question, just how significant were Childs' efforts after all? Is there any way to get an answer to this beyond taking Barron's word?	2003-10-07
949990:US	51917998	R3RW9O8FWPVRN3	0841914176	574164038	Red Blues: Voices from the Last Wave of Russian Immigrants (Ellis Island Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Interesting	This book is a collection of interviews with recent Russian immigrants to the US.  The authors have organized the book in sections according to the reason for migration or the immigrant's occupation in either the Soviet Union or the US, including Privilege Lost, God and Religious Dissent, Artists, Scientists and Engineers, Entrepreneurs, and the Gray Zone (sex industry workers).  The very first interviewee, Georges Nakhitchevansky actually came to the US from France, but he provides a very insightful overview of the historical waves of Russian immigrants to the US, from the first refugees of the Bolshevik regime, to the Cold War immigrants, and the modern wave.  He also notes how little communication or understanding there is between these groups once they arrive in the US.  In the first few sections of the book, most of the focus is on the immigrants' motivation for leaving the Soviet Union, and there is relatively little reflection on life for Russians in the US.  In later sections, however, a few interviewees make interesting observations about how life differs in the US and how they have had to struggle to survive here.  One point mentioned over and again is how much harder people work at their jobs in America.  On the other hand, some interviewees note that the average worker back home seems better educated and more capable than the average person here, yet we still seem to get more out of our workers here than they do in Russia.  With its deeply personal interviews, this book shines a light on many aspects of the lives of recent Russian immigrants.	2003-10-07
963457:US	51917998	R12W5C0LYM9QXC	0971304599	157085026	Weather of the Heart: A Child's Journey Out of Revolutionary Russia	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fascinating	This book details the events that brought an immigrant family to safe harbor in the US after escape from the Russian revolution.  The viewpoint is that of a young girl, just 3 years old at the beginning of the story.  This young girl is the only daughter of a bourgeoisie family.  Her father left the farm as a penniless young man, and through his own enterprise came to own a small shoe factory in Samara.  As the revolution takes hold, Percival's father is named as a criminal against society because of his social standing, and he is forced to flee to Manchuria, leaving his wife and daughter behind.  Percival describes to us how she and her mother gradually lose their life of relative luxury and ease, how their German governess fled, and how they had to abandon their home and move in with her paternal grandparents.  The circumstances that follow develop her into a mature young woman by the time the main narrative ends when she is 8 years old and living in New York City.<br />Occasionally, especially in the first chapter, Percival's writing style can be a little annoying.  Nevertheless, the story that she has to tell is riveting.  She provides unique details of the daily life of ordinary people in the time just before, during, and after the Russian revolution.  She also tells us much about the conditions and rules faced by immigrants to the US during the early part of the 20th century.	2003-09-25
963467:US	51917998	R2142WFXE0QI5A	188691608X	15544445	In Search of the Russian Bear: An American Writer's Odyssey in the Former Soviet Union	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Simple travel journal	This is a simple travel journey of a two week trip to the Soviet Union that the author made in 1983.  Smith provides detailed accounts of his daily activities, what he saw, who he met, and what he ate during each day of the trip.  Compared to other travel books, there is relatively little analysis or commentary.  Smith comes across as having minimal prior experience or knowledge of the Soviet Union (or foreign travel in general) before the trip.  The book is illustrated with low resolution black and white tourist quality photographs.<br />Smith was invited to the Soviet Union by the Soviet Writers Union possibly because his fiction works on American social issues  including Seminole Indians and migrant farm workers presented an image of American society that the Soviet authorities of the time wanted to promulgate.  Indeed, from Smith's descriptions, these works of his seemed to be quite well known in the Soviet Union.  In the beginning of this journal, Smith and his wife are met at the airport by a representative of the Soviet Writers Union and treated to a tour of Moscow, Uzbekistan, and Leningrad, all with luxury accommodations.  Smith comments constantly on his tour guide's infatuation with the fresh vegetables available in the Uzbekistan markets and fancy hotels where they were staying.  In doing so, he seems to be ignorant of how rare fresh vegetables were for common Soviet citizens, even those with good connections like his tour guide.  Details like this could indicate a deeper ignorance of the conditions he was being shown, or perhaps Smith simply wanted to put a positive light on the tour since he went as a respected guest.  In any case, despite the author's blinders, the book still has some interest today in its description of how general society seemed to be functioning ok in places like Tashkent back then, in contrast to the situation today after the demise of the Soviet Union (see Eastward to Tartary by Robert Kaplan, for example).	2003-09-25
963641:US	51917998	R2JHFFD6RGGFVK	0375705767	585847413	Eastward to Tartary: Travels in the Balkans, the Middle East, and the Caucasus	Books	5	15	16	N	N	6 stars at least	This book is a detailed political, historical and social analysis of Central Europe, Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Jordan, and the countries of the Caucasus.  Kaplan begins his journey in Budapest.  After visiting with friends there, he boards the train to visit Romania, Bulgaria, Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Israel and Jordan.  Later, he arrives again in Turkey to head east to travel through Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Turkmenistan. At each stop along the way, he discusses politics and history with political leaders, dissidents, friends, and ordinary people.  He combines comments from these sources with skilled observations of how society is working from the ground up in each locale to create extremely well-thought out and informed analyses of the social and political situation in the countries that he visits.<br />By happenstance, I read this book immediately after reading Peter Theroux's Great Train Bazaar.  What a contrast- - although their journey followed the same route for much of the way, Theroux told us little more about the countries he visited than the wines available within easy reach of the train station- -Kaplan sees so much more.  Theroux sets off on his trip because he wants a trip to write about and he likes trains.  Kaplan also takes his trip to get material to write about, but Kaplan first begins by writing a very clear list of questions that he plans to research during the trip.  He wants to understand \\"the future borders of Europe, the underpinnings of the coming meltdown of Arab dictatorships, and the social and political effects of new Caspian Sea energy pipelines.\\"  He also wants to know \\"how people saw themselves.  Were national or ethnic loyalties giving way to new forms of cosmopolitanism, through globalization?  If so, what did that mean for the future of authoritarian regimes?  If dictatorships gave way to more democratic rule, would that mean more stability or less- -more civility or less- -in the countries through which [he] would pass?\\"  These are very heavy questions, and answers to them should be of interest to all global citizens, (especially policy makers, we would hope).<br />Kaplan's observations and quotations cut to the quick of global society and culture.  Kaplan's phrases like \\"social anarchy\\", \\"kleptocracy,\\" and \\"moral vacuum\\" are brilliant descriptions of so many parts of the new Eastern Europe-Western Asia.  In Romania, he is told \\"When we buy computers, compact disks, and clothes, we borrow the material consequences of the West without grasping the fundamental values that created such technologies in the first place.\\"  In Turkey, a human rights activist tells him \\"Westernization here is interpreted as secularization, not as democratization.\\" In Bulgaria, his observations lead him to comment \\"The illusion that human progress is inexorable arises from the accident of one's historical and geographical good fortune.\\"  In Syria, he notes \\"Arab society was a conundrum: Among themselves, and in the privacy of their own homes, honesty, civility, and cleanliness reigned, yet none of these attributes overflowed into public life and spaces.\\"  After exploring the ritzy facades and partially hidden poverty of post-war Lebanon, he notes \\"Lebanon suggest that the 'end of history' is not democracy or humanism but materialism.  People wanted goods and the money with which to buy them more than they wanted the rule of law.\\"  Later, \\"Middle East politics are like those of the ancient world- -a Greek or Roman could understand them better than an American.\\"  (Could this be why we're having so much trouble in Iraq?) Near the end of his journey in Turkmenistan, he looks back \\"But what were my conclusions after almost four thousand miles of travel?...  That power and self-interest would shape the immediate future, at least in this part of the world.\\"  On the bright side, he states that the greatest lesson that he learned in Israel was that \\"Self-interest at its healthiest implicitly recognizes the self-interest of others, and therein lies the possibility of compromise.\\"  But he goes on to warn \\"A rigid moral position admits few compromises.\\"<br />This is a scary book, and many of its comments and conclusions are out of alignment with \\"political correct\\" ideology.  But after traveling through parts of this region, and living on the margins of it for five years where I was in constant contact with people from this region, I find Kaplan's observations to be incredibly accurate.  They are based on thorough research and observation, not wishful thinking or armchair travel.  Is Kaplan a pessimist?  No, he's just well traveled.-interest of others, and therein lies the possibility of compromise.\\"  But he goes on to warn \\"A rigid moral position admits few compromises.\\"<br />This is a scary book, and many of its comments and conclusions are out of alignment with \\"political correct\\" ideology.  But after traveling through parts of this region, and living on the margins of it for five years where I was in constant contact with people from this region, I find Kaplan's observations to be incredibly accurate.  They are based on thorough research and observation, not wishful thinking or armchair travel.  Is Kaplan a pessimist?  No, he's just well traveled.	2003-09-25
973926:US	51917998	R195KFV9M00XEW	014024980X	247468717	The Great Railway Bazaar: By Train Through Asia	Books	4	16	20	N	N	Not bad at all	This is a journal of a trip covering the major rail routes available in the 1970s across Europe and Asia.  Theroux, an American, sets off from London on a tour where the journey itself was the goal.  He wanted to sit back, observe, and absorb the atmosphere of the trains.  In the book, he details his experiences on the trains, tells us about his fellow passengers, and describes what he was seeing out the windows while the trains wound across the tracks from Paris to Italy, Bulgaria to Turkey, Pakistan, India, Ceylon, Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Vietnam, Japan, and the Soviet Union.  Occasionally, he stopped for a night or two in a hotel along the way, and he also tells us of his adventures at these stops.<br />It's been years since I read a book by Paul Theroux.  In the past, I found his attitude a bit off-putting.  There's something about deciding to write a travel book, then taking a trip for the specific purpose of having something to write about that makes the whole genre somewhat useless.  But now that I have traveled a bit more myself and have visited many of the countries that Theroux describes here, I can appreciate the accuracy of his descriptions much more.  In traveling through a country in a few days by train, no one would be able to make enough observations to make worthwhile analyses of the culture or the society of a country, but that's not Theroux's goal in this book.  Instead, it is the journey itself that he is describing- -the focus is on the trains, and the particular subculture of train travel.  Theroux provides us with images of the trains themselves and the people one meets on them as he describes his experiences of months spent living on the trains.<br />Theroux's best descriptions are towards the beginning of the journey.  By the end of the trip, he is reduced to a drunken stupor and his observations dwindle in the steppes of Siberia.  The only reason for including his final chapters in the book are simply for the sake of completeness, to get him home again.  The section on Vietnam is a remarkable snapshot of ordinary life trying to continue between the '73 ceasefire and the '75 withdrawal.  It is images like these that give this book its enduring value.him home again.  The section on Vietnam is a remarkable snapshot of ordinary life trying to continue between the '73 ceasefire and the '75 withdrawal.  It is images like these that give this book its enduring value.	2003-09-16
980738:US	51917998	R1ZJ5X48HDQ3KA	1890132217	411374040	Scott Nearing: The Making of a Homesteader (Good Life Series)	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	Fills in the gaps	This book is a political biography of Scott Nearing, focusing on his life before his homesteading experience in Vermont.  The research and degree of detail that Saltmarsh presents are extensive.  In order to allow understanding of the context of Nearing's times, Saltmarsh describes many of Nearing's contemporaries, and goes into great detail about many of the controversies that Nearing stirred up.  Original sources are cited in the extensive end notes.  The book also includes a few black and white photographs covering Nearing's entire life, a Nearing bibliography, and the list of sources that Saltmarsh used in preparing the book.<br />When I first read Nearing's Living the Good Life, I wondered long and hard about who this Nearing was, and what was his motivation for undertaking such a project.  I wasn't sure how to relate to authors who had abandoned an undescribed life in New York City to live in rural Vermont, and when they mentioned that they wrote books for cash, I wondered what kinds of books they wrote- -travel books perhaps?  After reading Saltmarsh's biography of Nearing, it made much more sense.  Saltmarsh describes what a well known political figure Nearing was, how he was fired from university positions for preaching against child labor and being a peace activist in a time of war.  Saltmarsh goes on to describe how Nearing ended up in the Communist party, and then was thrown out for being an independent thinker.  This is one of the strongest themes that permeates the book- -how Nearing developed and followed through on his economic and political ideas independently, all with a deep religious basis.  With these facts in mind, Nearing's later work becomes even more sensible.<br />One striking aspect of Nearing's early life as a radical was how much freedom of speech and academic freedom on campuses has changed since the time when he was dismissed, perhaps in part due to the battles that he lost.  True, we still don't have perfect freedom of speech, but conditions are a lot better now than when Nearing became the American first university professor to lose his job because of his political activity.  Looking back, would someone like Chomsky have been able to be so outspoken against the Vietnam War if Nearing hadn't fought his battles for free speech during the First World War?<br />One sad aspect about Nearing's life that comes through in this book is his inability to listen to his own children.  Years ago, I read the book Behind the Urals by John Scott, having no idea that John Scott was actually Nearing's son.  In Behind the Urals, John Scott describes how he went off to the Soviet Union in the 1930's as an energetic idealist, and how he gradually came to view the Soviet Union in a much different light.  In this book, Saltmarsh tells us that Nearing would never accept Scott's criticisms of the Soviet Union. Despite John Scott's 10 years of personal experience in the country, Scott Nearing always thought he knew better.  Was this inability to listen to others a general characteristic of Nearing, or did it only apply to his children?  Saltmarsh leaves this question respectfully open.onditions are a lot better now than when Nearing became the American first university professor to lose his job because of his political activity.  Looking back, would someone like Chomsky have been able to be so outspoken against the Vietnam War if Nearing hadn't fought his battles for free speech during the First World War?<br />One sad aspect about Nearing's life that comes through in this book is his inability to listen to his own children.  Years ago, I read the book Behind the Urals by John Scott, having no idea that John Scott was actually Nearing's son.  In Behind the Urals, John Scott describes how he went off to the Soviet Union in the 1930's as an energetic idealist, and how he gradually came to view the Soviet Union in a much different light.  In this book, Saltmarsh tells us that Nearing would never accept Scott's criticisms of the Soviet Union. Despite John Scott's 10 years of personal experience in the country, Scott Nearing always thought he knew better.  Was this inability to listen to others a general characteristic of Nearing, or did it only apply to his children?  Saltmarsh leaves this question respectfully open.	2003-09-10
981953:US	51917998	R26KC3PLW0NS69	0679731180	799831883	The Origin of Satan: How Christians Demonized Jews, Pagans, and Heretics	Books	3	281	309	N	N	Not exactly what I was expecting	This book is a historical study of early Christians and their relations with opposing groups.  Pagel starts with a detailed interpretation of the Gospel according to Mark as a historical document, juxtaposed with a description of the rebellion that was raging amongst the Jews in Palestine at the time the account was written.  She then goes on to some Old Testament interpretations of the word and concept of Satan.  Following this, she takes up the remaining gospels in turn, interpreting their historical content in the political context of the times when they were written.  She also considers lesser known Christian religious writings, such as the Gnostic scriptures.<br />Reading this book made me a lot more familiar with some of the political issues that were of concern to early Christians, and how these issues may have been reflected in the writing of the Gospels.  But I was a little disappointed in the book because I felt that most of the focus was on general Christian history and politics and not on the central questions posed on the back cover concerning the origin of Satan. It seemed that the idea of using the question of the invention of Satan as the central theme of the book was almost pasted onto individual articles as an afterthought.  In reading each chapter, it often felt like the chapter was meant to be a self-standing entity, and details concerning the conception of Satan were added simply to glue the book together.  Many times, Pagel's comments  touched on how the early Christians related to opposition, and how they might even demonize opposing groups, but how this led to the invention of the concept of Satan is still unclear to me after reading this book.	2003-09-09
982239:US	51917998	RXG5XZ6Z6UFOP	0811720187	882228230	Field Guide to Edible Wild Plants	Books	3	26	31	N	N	Dont throw away your hoe and spade yet	This book is a catalog of mostly uncultivated plants that are edible or have medicinal purposes.  The entries are arranged alphabetically by common name, so there is no key system- -if you're looking at a plant and you don't already know it's name, you'll have to leaf through every page of the book to see if it's there.  For each entry, there is a short article that provides other names for the plant, and description, distribution, and information about uses.  There is also an idealized color illustration of the plant to aid identification. The description sections are not consistent in the types of information that they provide- -some descriptions cover the plant, the fruit, or the flowers, while others cover history, varieties, and more distribution information.  The uses section tells us which parts of the plant can be consumed, and how they must be prepared to eliminate any toxins that might be present.<br />I was quite excited after reading the introduction to this book- -wow!  So many plants are out there in the forest just waiting for those in the know to come by and eat them.  Why plant a garden?  But as I read the entries for each individual plant, I began to recognize that it would be hard to get your sole nutrition from the wild plants mentioned here.  A great many of the plants are leafy greens, that are too bitter or too toxic to eat without at least soaking and often boiling, possibly several times.  That got me wondering about how much nutrition could be left in a plate of well boiled wild greens, if we are cautioned not to cook cultivated greens in a similar manner because all the vitamins will be washed away.  If you have to boil the heck out of these things to make them edible, wouldn't you be better off with greens that have been cultivated for thousands of years to be tender enough to consume them raw, straight out of the garden?  In addition to the leafy greens, Angier includes a few fruits like blueberries and cranberries (the illustration for blueberry leaves is like none I've ever seen in the wild before), some trees like maples and others where you can eat the inner bark lining (hopefully without killing too many trees), and some edible tubers.  The descriptions of the edible tubers seem the most promising, nutritionally.  Overall, I found this book an interesting read as well as somewhat informative, but I think I will keep on gardening after all.blueberry leaves is like none I've ever seen in the wild before), some trees like maples and others where you can eat the inner bark lining (hopefully without killing too many trees), and some edible tubers.  The descriptions of the edible tubers seem the most promising, nutritionally.  Overall, I found this book an interesting read as well as somewhat informative, but I think I will keep on gardening after all.	2003-09-09
982822:US	51917998	R3VVU7UOV7A5FC	0971279004	15468787	Wildflowers of Vermont	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Well done!	This is an excellent field guide for wildflowers in Vermont.  It is extremely easy to use for beginners, since it is arranged first by the colors of the blossoms.  You can open the book to the right section immediately, since the colors are printed on the page margins.  Then you leaf through the beautiful high-quality color photos to find the flower that you're looking at.  To aid in identification, the height of the plant and the flower dimensions are also provided in the margins.  For each flower, there is a brief and informative description, an indication of the blooming season, and the habitat.  By using this book, I have finally been able to put names on the flowers that I see everyday in my backyard or on hikes.  If you live in Vermont (or even in nearby states), I would highly recommend this book.	2003-09-09
986614:US	51917998	RJIZAHSJTBSB7	0898231825	527833815	The House on Via Gombito, Second Edition: Writing by American Women Abroad (A New Rivers Abroad Book)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Dense, varied, uneven	This book is a collection of writings about travel, some fiction, some nonfiction, by women.  The only thing that the writings have in common is that many of the authors seem to have some connection with Minnesota.  A few of the writings, such as Sarah Streed's Moroccan Memoir are extremely engaging.  Others attempt to be poetry in prose and are quite cryptic.  The fiction is mixed in with the nonfiction, and this can be a little annoying since the reader is not quite sure what is real and what is not real.  Most of the writings are new and original, but some are excerpts from longer works; this is especially the case with the fiction entries.  Short biographical blurbs about the authors are provided at the end of the book; it would have been more helpful to read them together with each author's essay or excerpt.  With its 500 dense pages, the book is quite long and overbearing, and it includes a lot of material that isn't that well written or interesting.  The editors would have been better to use a heavier hand in selecting the best of the material that was submitted to them.  But since they didn't, all the writings are there, and the reader is free to pick and choose which selections to read.	2003-09-05
995561:US	51917998	RDJTZFD9RU1J8	0415000742	610577763	Colloquial Arabic of the Gulf and Saudi Arabia: The Complete Course for Beginners (Book & Cassettes)	Books	3	39	40	N	N	Potentially useful	This is an introductory text for studying colloquial Gulf Arabic.  Arabic is an extremely difficult language to study, not because the grammatical structures are particularly difficult, but because of the particular circumstances of the language.  Modern Standard Arabic is a language that was developed from the language of the Holy Qur'an.  Books and news broadcasts are in Modern Standard Arabic, but nobody really speaks the language- -it's a theoretical rather than actual standard.  Many Arabic textbooks and courses focus on Modern Standard Arabic.  If you learn Modern Standard Arabic, you will be able to read books, and educated people from all over the Arabic world will be able to understand you.  But most likely, you probably won't be able to understand what ordinary Arabic speakers are saying because they all speak colloquial dialects.  People don't actually converse in Modern Standard Arabic; instead, Moroccans speak Moroccan Arabic, Egyptians speak Egyptian Arabic, and Saudis speak Gulf Arabic.  The pronunciation, vocabulary, and even grammar of each of these dialects is different, and many native Arabic speakers have trouble understanding other Arabic dialects.  If you manage to find a course in colloquial or conversational Arabic, you will learn to speak a local dialect instead of Modern Standard Arabic.  That will get you a lot further than Modern Standard Arabic for conversing with friends and neighbors, but then you won't be able to read, since books and newspapers are written in Modern Standard Arabic.  So if you learn to read, you won't be able to speak, and speaking classes won't help with your reading.  And if you do learn to read, reading newspapers or books won't help you with speaking either.  That's why Arabic is so difficult to learn.<br />That said, this textbook is based on the colloquial Gulf Arabic dialect.  The book focuses mainly on the dialect spoken in Saudi Arabia, but most of the vocabulary and structures are relevant throughout the countries of the Gulf, including Kuwait, the UAE, Qatar, Bahrain, and Oman. Since this dialect is only spoken and not written, all Arabic words in the book are written in Latin script, and the Arabic alphabet is not covered.  A typical chapter begins with a 2-page discussion of a grammar point, translation exercises, more grammar, more translation exercises, more grammar, more translation exercises, etc., ending with pronunciation exercises, and translation exercises of dialogs.  The accompanying tape contains the pronunciation exercises and dialogs.  At the end of each chapter is an alphabetical list of new vocabulary words.<br />I found this book extremely frustrating and difficult to use for self-study because of the incredibly long lists of poorly selected vocabulary for each chapter.  Instead of limiting new vocabulary in the early chapters to commonly used or needed words, Holes introduces words like blind, palace, and outer wall already in the 4th chapter.  Between the lack of variety in the exercises and the impossibly long lists of vocabulary, I wasn't able to progress beyond chapter 5 in my efforts at self-study.  This, combined with the surprisingly few chances to actually use the language during my extended stay in Dubai meant I made little headway.  What progress I did make in Arabic was due to actual conversation, and not through using this book. Despite the shortcomings of the book, if you want to learn the basics of the Gulf dialect, this is one of the only resources available. The grammar explanations are, in general, clear and useful. With a talented and patient instructor who is willing to supply more reasonable vocabulary words, the book might prove effective.untries of the Gulf, including Kuwait, the UAE, Qatar, Bahrain, and Oman. Since this dialect is only spoken and not written, all Arabic words in the book are written in Latin script, and the Arabic alphabet is not covered.  A typical chapter begins with a 2-page discussion of a grammar point, translation exercises, more grammar, more translation exercises, more grammar, more translation exercises, etc., ending with pronunciation exercises, and translation exercises of dialogs.  The accompanying tape contains the pronunciation exercises and dialogs.  At the end of each chapter is an alphabetical list of new vocabulary words.<br />I found this book extremely frustrating and difficult to use for self-study because of the incredibly long lists of poorly selected vocabulary for each chapter.  Instead of limiting new vocabulary in the early chapters to commonly used or needed words, Holes introduces words like blind, palace, and outer wall already in the 4th chapter.  Between the lack of variety in the exercises and the impossibly long lists of vocabulary, I wasn't able to progress beyond chapter 5 in my efforts at self-study.  This, combined with the surprisingly few chances to actually use the language during my extended stay in Dubai meant I made little headway.  What progress I did make in Arabic was due to actual conversation, and not through using this book. Despite the shortcomings of the book, if you want to learn the basics of the Gulf dialect, this is one of the only resources available. The grammar explanations are, in general, clear and useful. With a talented and patient instructor who is willing to supply more reasonable vocabulary words, the book might prove effective.	2003-08-28
996070:US	51917998	RS6YOV8QYFWAX	013958661X	491964394	Understanding and Using English Grammar (Third Edition) (Full Student Edition without Answer Key)	Books	4	178	182	N	N	For those who crave grammar	This book is a comprehensive reference grammar/workbook for non-native speakers of English.  If you are trying to choose between Azar's grammar books, the \\"Blue\\" book is intended for intermediate to advanced students, while the \\"Black\\" book is for beginning to intermediate and the \\"Red\\" for raw beginners.  A grammar outline from the \\"Blue\\" book is also available without exercises.<br />The book is divided into chapters covering notorious grammar points, including: verb tenses, modals, passive voice, gerunds and infinitives, singular and plural, adjective clauses, noun clauses, connecting expressions, and conditional sentences.  There are also appendices covering terminology, question formation, negation, articles, phrasal verbs, and error correction.  On average, each chapter has 15-20 articles covering a  single grammar point or contrast in detail.  Atypical article starts with a grammar description, which is usually presented in the form of a diagram or chart, supported with several examples and explanations.  Then follow several exercises, which mostly require the reader to write in the correct form of the word, although oral exercises are common, and there are occasional editing exercises.<br />The book's strength is the clarity of its grammatical explanations, and Azar's simplified diagrams of verb tenses are now standard in many ESL classrooms.  Students who crave grammar instruction will adore this book.  They like to read the grammatical descriptions, and they get a sense of accomplishment from filling in all the blanks.  But will this really improve their grammar?  If a student is completely unaware of how a grammatical rule works, then this book will go a long way towards making the rule clear.  The exercises help reinforce each topic, but it takes a lot more implementation of a rule than the 20-50 sentences found in each set of follow-up exercises in this book to make a rule automatic.  Does doing exercises improve grammar at all? The jury is still out on that one, but from my own classroom experience, even students who zealously complete every exercise in the book correctly show little consequent progress in their written or spoken grammar.  My own personal belief is that students improve their grammar mostly through extensive exposure to grammatically correct language, either spoken or written, and what little exercise they get from this book won't make that much of a difference (as long as they understand the rules they should be watching out for).<br />Nevertheless, many students enjoy working with this book because they think they are spending their study time on a worthwhile topic.  That leaves the way open for hidden collateral gains.  Azar uses a wide range of vocabulary in her examples and exercises, and most students will develop their active vocabulary by using this book, especially if they are encouraged to pay attention to new words.  Many of the dialogs that Azar uses are inane classroom dialogs- -if they could only cover real information worth learning about, then she could maintain the readers' interest more, as well as expose students to real world information.  In any case, if grammar is what you want, it would be hard to beat this book, due to its clarity, accuracy, and exercises.that one, but from my own classroom experience, even students who zealously complete every exercise in the book correctly show little consequent progress in their written or spoken grammar.  My own personal belief is that students improve their grammar mostly through extensive exposure to grammatically correct language, either spoken or written, and what little exercise they get from this book won't make that much of a difference (as long as they understand the rules they should be watching out for).<br />Nevertheless, many students enjoy working with this book because they think they are spending their study time on a worthwhile topic.  That leaves the way open for hidden collateral gains.  Azar uses a wide range of vocabulary in her examples and exercises, and most students will develop their active vocabulary by using this book, especially if they are encouraged to pay attention to new words.  Many of the dialogs that Azar uses are inane classroom dialogs- -if they could only cover real information worth learning about, then she could maintain the readers' interest more, as well as expose students to real world information.  In any case, if grammar is what you want, it would be hard to beat this book, due to its clarity, accuracy, and exercises.	2003-08-28
996112:US	51917998	RGEEXWYZ4A9V3	0394820371	595713080	The Phantom Tollbooth	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Essential reading	This is an all-time classic children's book.  It follows the story of a young boy named Milo as he meets strange characters in his mission to bring Rhyme and Reason back to the Kingdom of Wisdom.  Milo is continually confronted with logical conundrums and challenges to his assumptions and attitudes.  He is transformed from a boy who felt he had nothing to do to someone who considers his actions (or inactions) consciously.<br />This was the first \\"chapter book\\" that I ever read, at the age of 7.  Its influence on me has been immeasurable, from knowing that the only escape from the Doldrums is to think one's way out, to an unshakeable conviction that there is an inherent unity between words and numbers, and isolating the study of one from the other will limit achievements in both.  This book is a delight to read, whether you are pointing to the words with your finger and sounding them out as you go, or reading the book aloud to your grandchildren.	2003-08-28
996146:US	51917998	R3K7DGJTIJ5X5K	0769259693	640530641	The Music of Eagles Made Easy for Guitar: Includes Their Greatest Hits (The Music of... Made Easy for Guitar Series)	Books	5	107	107	N	N	Nice book for beginners	This is a collection of the Eagles' early hits, all made easy for beginner guitarists.  It includes:<br />--Already Gone<br />--The Best of My Love<br />--Desperado<br />--Doolin'-Dalton<br />--Heartache Tonight<br />--Hollywood Waltz<br />--Hotel California<br />--James Dean<br />--Lyin' Eyes<br />--One of These Nights<br />--Outlaw Man<br />--Peaceful Easy Feeling<br />--Saturday Night<br />--Take it Easy<br />--Take it to the Limit<br />--Witchy Woman<br />As with all books in the Made Easy Series, chords are shown in full diagram form, showing you where to put your fingers, which strings are open, and which strings aren't played.  Strum marks are also included to let you know how many times to strum each chord.  Only the melody line appears together with the lyrics, so you can't really play these songs on the piano- -unless you know your piano chords real well.<br />Some of the songs in this collection are a lot easier to play, learn, and sing than others, perhaps because their melodic structure is more linear, or whatever the musical term is.  More difficult pieces include Doolin' Dalton, Hotel California, and Heartache Tonight.  Beginning guitarists may not be able to play every song in this book, at least not right away, but the book puts many old favorites within their reach.	2003-08-28
996545:US	51917998	R34DJNP78UBYZV	0452255821	204244585	Nikki and David Goldbeck's American Wholefoods Cuisine	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Essential vegetarian cookbook	This is a fantastic reference cookbook for vegetarians and others interested in healthy cooking and eating.  Recipes are organized into chapters including short-order cooking, appetizers, soups, main courses, side dishes, condiments, sauces, breads, snacks, desserts, and beverages as well as a chapter on making your own yogurt, spouts, and convenience mixes from scratch and putting up produce.  The authors also include chapters on vegetarian nutrition, meal planning, stocking your pantry, food handling, cooking habits, kitchen math, and healthy habits for eating out.  In order to cram as many recipes as possible into a small space, there are no pictures, and there are 2 columns of recipes on every page, with over 1300 recipes in total.<br />The recipes are gathered from throughout the world, as well as created in the Goldbeck's own kitchen.  A typical chapter includes Kisheri (India), Kedegree (Egypt), and Arroz Con Queso, followed by Rice with Cabbage and Cheese (Italy), and Paella (Spain).  Vegetarian versions of all the standard American dishes are also included, like Mac &amp; Cheese, Sloppy Joes, and Apple Pie. One of the great strengths of this book is that the authors provide instructions for making just about any food from scratch, from French onion dip to quick cornbread mix.  Such recipes will not only save you money, but they will also introduce you to the delicious flavors of what food should taste like without all those yucky chemical additives.<br />Having been a vegetarian for 20 years, I have dozens of vegetarian cookbooks, including most of the Moosewood cookbooks, Horn of the Moon, etc.  But when it comes down to it, if I needed to choose just one vegetarian cookbook to get by on, this would be the one.  The comprehensiveness, variety, and creativity in this book just can't be beat.	2003-08-28
996934:US	51917998	R1JSHNUL9VW5EQ	0877275319	767716973	Beginning Indonesian Through Self-Instruction, Book 3: Lessons 16 - 25	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Comprehensive and Effective	This set of 3 books provides a comprehensive introduction to Indonesian.  Book 1 contains the answers to exercises, an Indonesian-English glossary, and an index.  Book 2 is the main book that beginners will need, with lessons 1-13, and Book 3 contains the remainder of the lessons.<br />The book uses the audio-lingual approach, in which students memorize dialogs and repeat copious oral exercises.  Through these practices, they develop a fairly accurate spoken fluency relatively quickly (as long as they stick to the topics and structures that they have learned.)  Students who use the audio-lingual approach generally end up with relatively good pronunciation and excellent intonation compared with students from other approaches.  This approach isn't for everyone, and there's a lot of controversy in the language teaching field about whether it works for real language acquisition at all.  In any case, in using this book under the guidance of a skilled teacher, I along with the other ten students in my class, was able to fairly strong conversation skills in Indonesian in just one year.  Following my year of study, I traveled to Indonesia for the first time, and found myself able to converse freely in the language from the time the airplane touched down.<br />A typical chapter starts with a dialog (presented bilingually) which students are supposed to memorize with the aid of the corresponding audiotape.  A short list of new vocabulary follows, and then cultural notes related to the dialog.  Then come a set of oral questions related to the dialog, followed by many mechanical substitution exercises, to be done orally under the guidance of a teacher.  Each chapter may contain several sets of these dialogs, notes, and exercises.  Then come several pages of grammar points and explanations.  Following this are more exercises, both oral and written, a set of translation exercises, and suggested conversations for role play.<br />The strong points of this book are the detailed grammar explanations and the wealth of exercise materials.  Used as intended, in a classroom setting with a skilled native speaking teacher, students cannot help but develop strong oral skills in the language with accurate pronunciation and intonation.  I'm not sure how the text would work for self-study- -but it's worth a try.mar explanations and the wealth of exercise materials.  Used as intended, in a classroom setting with a skilled native speaking teacher, students cannot help but develop strong oral skills in the language with accurate pronunciation and intonation.  I'm not sure how the text would work for self-study- -but it's worth a try.	2003-08-27
997165:US	51917998	RX3FD5H8UX7TC	0878400265	294705775	001: Portugus Contemporneo I (Portugues Contemporaneo I) (Portuguese Edition)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Audio-lingual introduction to Brazilian Portuguese	This book is a standard audio-lingual introduction to Brazilian Portuguese.  In the audio-lingual approach to language learning, students memorize dialogs and repeat oral exercises endlessly.  Through these practices, they develop a fairly accurate spoken fluency relatively quickly (as long as they stick to the topics and structures that they have learned.)  Students who use the audio-lingual approach generally end up with relatively good pronunciation and excellent intonation compared with students from other approaches.  This approach isn't for everyone, and there's a lot of controversy in the language teaching field about whether it works for real language acquisition at all.  In any case, in using this book under the guidance of a skilled teacher, I along with the other ten students in my class, was able to develop basic conversation skills in Portuguese in just one semester.<br />Each chapter begins with a dialog in Portuguese that is to be memorized, followed immediately by the translation of the dialog in English.  Then come cultural notes related to the dialog, and pronunciation practice.  This is followed by the grammar point for the chapter.  And then the endless mechanical substitution drills to be done orally, and many times over ad nauseum.  Early vocabulary tends to stick to common words and student needs, while the cultural notes introduce many interesting aspects of Brazilian culture.<br />Because this is an audio-lingual text, it would be very difficult to use it successfully for independent study.  At the least, you would need to get copies of the corresponding tapes, but it would be hard to get the requisite practice that is needed for the audio-lingual approach to work without a teacher.  On the other hand, if you're just interested in gaining a reading knowledge of Portuguese, this book might prove satisfactory.	2003-08-27
997588:US	51917998	R16JEXCMDUGJHJ	0897241711	981121288	The Music of Neil Young Made Easy for Guitar: Easy Guitar (The Music of... Made Easy for Guitar Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great place to get started	This is a collection of Neil Young's early hits, all made easy for beginner guitarists.  It includes:<br />--After the Gold Rush<br />--Birds<br />--Cinnamon Girl<br />--Comes a Time<br />--Country Girl<br />--Cowgirl in the Sand<br />--Cripple Creek Ferry<br />--Don't Let it Bring You Down<br />--Down by the River<br />--Everybody Knows this is Nowhere<br />--Four Strong Winds<br />--Harvest<br />--Heart of Gold<br />--Helpless<br />--Hey Babe!<br />--Hold Back the Tears<br />--I am a Child<br />--I Believe in You<br />--Love is a Rose<br />--Ohio<br />--Old Man<br />--Only Love Can Break Your Heart<br />--On the Way Home<br />--Sea of Madness<br />--Southern Man<br />--Sugar Mountain<br />--Tell Me Why<br />--Till the Morning Comes<br />--Walk On<br />As with all books in the Made Easy Series, chords are shown in full diagram form, showing you where to put your fingers, which strings are open, and which strings aren't played.  Strum marks are also included to let you know how many times to strum each chord.  Only the melody line appears together with the lyrics, so you can't really play these songs on the piano- -unless you know your piano chords real well.<br />This book was the key to learning guitar for me.  I had struggled and struggled through various beginning guitar method books, but none of them did the trick.  I couldn't understand how chords came together to make a song.  But Neil Young writes many tunes with a very limited range of notes and chords, just right for beginners.  The chords are easy to remember, and the melodies are easy to sing, even for those who have trouble carrying a tune.  The first song I mastered from this book was Helpless.  My college roommate used to tease me whenever I played the song: \\"There is a song with only 3 chords, and it is Hopeless, Hopeless, Hopeless, Hopeless\\".  But after learning to play this song, I went on to learn After the Gold Rush, and more.  It wasn't long before I could progress from this book to other Made Easy books, and soon to regular song books without full chord diagrams. If you like the music of Neil Young and you want to play his songs on guitar, this is a great book to use to get started.diagrams. If you like the music of Neil Young and you want to play his songs on guitar, this is a great book to use to get started.	2003-08-27
997824:US	51917998	R38ZS8MP2XH44J	0864426674	632916504	Lonely Planet Bangladesh	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Dont leave home without it	This is an essential guide for travel in Bangladesh.  Like all the books in the Lonely Planet travel series, it begins with Facts about the Country, Facts for the Visitor, Getting There and Away, and Getting Around.  Next comes a detailed description of Dhaka and the surrounding district, and then separate chapters for each of the major political and geographical divisions in Bangladesh.<br />Before traveling to Bangladesh, do take the time to read the Dos &amp; Don'ts article in the Facts about the Country chapter.  People in Bangladesh are generally friendly and polite, but they tend to be more friendly if you follow their rules for politeness.  Men should give local women some distance, and even women should let other women approach them first.  People who wear shorts in Bangladesh are risking at least their reputations, if not more.  Going about in shorts in public would be akin to wearing a bikini bathing suit on Wall Street- -sure to gain a lot of unwanted attention.  Western women will find themselves much more comfortable in local clothing, salwar kamis or saris as absolutely no woman wears Western clothing in Bangladesh.  Women packing for a trip in Bangladesh might be better off packing no clothing at all, and just shopping for local clothing upon arrival because what they find in the local markets will be appropriate for both the climate and the culture.  (That will also leave more room in your suitcase for gifts on the way in and souvenirs on the way out.)<br />Many educated people in Bangladesh speak English quite well.  But the average person on the street doesn't, so take the time to study the useful expressions from Facts about the Country chapter when you get a chance.  While you're at the airport waiting for departure, look around- -surely there's someone there who can help you with your pronunciation.<br />As for any travel in the developing world, make sure your immunizations are up to date before you go to Bangladesh.  Hepatitis A vaccinations are highly recommended and get your travel doctor to write you a prescription for a full run of Cipro (strong antibiotic) to carry with you, and take plenty of rehydration packets.  If you get seriously ill while in Bangladesh, it's better to try to get to Dr. Wahab's office (listed in the Dhaka section of this book), rather than the Cholera Hospital, as recommended elsewhere in the book.<br />As the book mentions, there's a lot to see in Dhaka.  There's even more to see outside of Dhaka, where the air is better and the people are friendlier.  A great way to get out of town is to book a tour with Prajatan or The Guide (info in the Dhaka chapter).  We had a spectacular all-inclusive boat cruise through the Sunderbans with The Guide (Prajatan's boat had recently sunk).  Don't miss shopping in the NGO handicraft stores, particularly Aarong (info in the Dhaka chapter).<br />As with any guidebook, the info for specific hotels and eateries tends to change between the time the authors visited and publication, but the historic sites and regional highlights will always be there.  Read this book over several times before you go, and you will be ready as ever to start your adventure.are highly recommended and get your travel doctor to write you a prescription for a full run of Cipro (strong antibiotic) to carry with you, and take plenty of rehydration packets.  If you get seriously ill while in Bangladesh, it's better to try to get to Dr. Wahab's office (listed in the Dhaka section of this book), rather than the Cholera Hospital, as recommended elsewhere in the book.<br />As the book mentions, there's a lot to see in Dhaka.  There's even more to see outside of Dhaka, where the air is better and the people are friendlier.  A great way to get out of town is to book a tour with Prajatan or The Guide (info in the Dhaka chapter).  We had a spectacular all-inclusive boat cruise through the Sunderbans with The Guide (Prajatan's boat had recently sunk).  Don't miss shopping in the NGO handicraft stores, particularly Aarong (info in the Dhaka chapter).<br />As with any guidebook, the info for specific hotels and eateries tends to change between the time the authors visited and publication, but the historic sites and regional highlights will always be there.  Read this book over several times before you go, and you will be ready as ever to start your adventure.	2003-08-27
997894:US	51917998	R7I8NHX4NHMS7	0064600343	364179828	German Grammar (College Outline)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Outstanding for independent study	This book is an excellent introduction to written German.  In a very organized fashion, it covers all key parts of German grammar from the copula to passive voice and participial constructions.  A typical chapter starts with grammar points and explanations with examples.  Then comes a short bilingual list of new vocabulary, followed by a reading text and translation exercises.  At the back of the book are an appendix of irregular verbs, and bilingual vocabulary lists.<br />With this book, you can develop a reading knowledge of German very quickly.  I was able to cover the entire book in just over 2 weeks of intensive study, doing 4 chapters a day.  Afterwards, I was able to make my way through just about any German text, with the help of a dictionary.  Since I didn't have any oral component in my studies, I still can't speak very well, but when pressed, I can get my points across.  In any case, thanks to this book, I know my grammar, and it's just the pronunciation that gives me problems.<br />A special feature of this book is that all the German is written in old script.  Yes, it takes a few minutes to get used to this script, but after working your way through this book in old script, you will be able to read German in any script.  I've had friends who were German majors in college who were stymied whenever they came across a text written in old script.  \\"I can't read THAT,\\" they would complain.  And yet, I who had only ever studied German with this book, have no trouble with such texts.<br />This book was originally recommended to me for self-study by the head of a German Department at a well-known university.  He said to me \\"If you are serious about learning German, get this book.\\"  I would pass on that recommendation to anyone.	2003-08-27
998336:US	51917998	R32RSVUSRPWQBV	0452011469	627640630	HERE I STAND: A Life of Martin Luther	Books	5	117	122	N	N	Food for thought	This is a philosophical biography of Martin Luther.  Although it provides some details about Luther's personal life, early upbringing and later family life, the focus of the book is on Luther's struggle to reform the Catholic church.  The book is dense with summaries of Luther's writings, and it appears in a relatively small font, so it is not a quick or light read.  It assumes a familiarity with Christian ideals and scripture; nevertheless, you don't need to be a Bible scholar to appreciate its discussion.<br />This book is filled with passages that made me stop, think and reflect, and then dog-ear the page for return visits.  Bainton quotes Luther: \\"Faith is a living, restless thing.  It cannot be inoperative.  We are not saved by works; but if there be no works, there must be something amiss with faith.\\"  Later, \\"Music is to be praised as second only to the Word of God because by her all the emotions swayed...The Holy Spirit himself pays tribute to music when he records that the evil spirit of Saul was exorcised as David played upon his harp....This precious gift has been bestowed on men alone to remind them that they are created to praise and magnify the Lord.\\"  Through reading this book, I became much more aware of the tremendous influence that Luther had on shaping numerous aspects of modern Western society.  Anyone with any interest in any form of Christianity should become acquainted with the ideas of Martin Luther, and reading this book would be a good start.	2003-08-26
998337:US	51917998	R38FQDOF00099K	0060527706	609092523	All the Birds of North America (American Bird Conservancy's Field Guide)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Nice for beginners	This book is a very useable field guide for beginning birders.  The book is organized to help you identify birds as quickly as possible.  First, you decide whether you are looking at a water bird or a land bird; the first part of the book covers water birds, and the second part land birds.  If you're looking at a land bird, you next decide whether you've got a large bird or a small one.  The section on large birds has small silhouettes of the birds' shapes in the margin, while the section on small birds shows the birds' beaks.  By flipping through these small drawings in the margins, you can easily narrow down the bird you are looking at to a few pages.  Then you look at the numerous color illustrations, the range maps, the short descriptions, and the song patterns to help you determine the identity of your bird.  For further information, each chapter starts with a short article that describes the morphology and behavior of the group of birds that are covered in the chapter.  Scientific names are included for each bird, and rare or endangered birds are highlighted.<br />As a rank beginner bird watcher, I found the book extremely easy to use and informative.  The color illustrations, because they are idealizations, were much more accurate and easier to use than the color photographs that appear in some other field guides.  The descriptions of each bird are rather short, leaving me hungry for more details, but this book is a great place to start.	2003-08-26
998695:US	51917998	R3QJU9ECWJV5FO	9517171269	154006709	Suomea suomeksi (Suomalaisen Kirjallisuuden Seuran toimituksia) (Finnish Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fantastic- -but not for everyone	This book is an excellent introduction to the Finnish language.  The approach of the book is to stay entirely within Finnish itself, with no resort to translation or even explanation in any language but Finnish.  This approach would make the book extremely difficult to use for self-study by someone who doesn't know the language; you really need a teacher to help you through at least the first few chapters.  On the other hand, by the time you master those first chapters, you will have the knowledge you need to get through the remainder on your own.<br />What makes this book stand out from other Finnish texts is its extremely strong and well-presented grammatical rules which refer to and rely on the predictable phonological processes of the language.  Students are introduced to vowel harmony and consonant gradation as early as chapter 3, making the regular sound changes consequent with the addition of word endings for case or agreement entirely predictable.  For the linguistically inclined, this approach showcases the beauty of the language.<br />Each chapter begins with a small box giving a brief overview of the new grammar focus for the lesson.  Then follows a text or set of short dialogues in which the grammar point is demonstrated and new vocabulary is introduced.  Following this is usually another grammar box, with more details or notes about the grammar point, and then more text or dialogues.  Finally come written exercises, which focus the grammar points.  The texts and dialogues are often related to aspects of Finnish geography or culture, and the vocabulary is well chosen from common words or words related to student life.  The progression of the grammar presentations is very conducive to communication, starting with simple sentence structure with the copula, then locative cases, plural, genitive, partitive, numbers, transitive, and intransitive verbs, etc.  If you make if all the way through this book, volume 2 completes the grammar with the possessive suffixes, lesser used cases like the abessive, comparative and superlative forms of adjectives and adverbs, and the potential mood.  Of these later grammar points, only the possessive suffixes are essential for everyday usage, and it would have been useful to see them presented early on in the first volume.<br />While extremely well executed in its linguistic approach, this book is not for everybody.  The Finnish-only approach makes it an excellent text for mixed language groups studying in Finland.  For such groups, there are also bilingual vocabulary lists for the book sold separately in a variety of languages.  But at the same time, the Finnish-only design also limits the usability of the book for independent study.  I would highly recommend the book for linguists.  For others, I would suggest giving it a try, but keep in mind the target audience.fixes, lesser used cases like the abessive, comparative and superlative forms of adjectives and adverbs, and the potential mood.  Of these later grammar points, only the possessive suffixes are essential for everyday usage, and it would have been useful to see them presented early on in the first volume.<br />While extremely well executed in its linguistic approach, this book is not for everybody.  The Finnish-only approach makes it an excellent text for mixed language groups studying in Finland.  For such groups, there are also bilingual vocabulary lists for the book sold separately in a variety of languages.  But at the same time, the Finnish-only design also limits the usability of the book for independent study.  I would highly recommend the book for linguists.  For others, I would suggest giving it a try, but keep in mind the target audience.	2003-08-26
998839:US	51917998	RB60HJDL6DF0K	0812909186	247021607	Jean Hewitt's International Meatless Cookbook	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Loose definition for meatless	This is a decent collection of non-red meat recipes.  Hewitt has a very relaxed definition for \\"meatless\\" that seems to include both chicken and fish.  The book is divided into chapters covering appetizers, soups, fish, chicken, vegetables, and salads.  It also includes an appendix with some very useful metric conversion tables and an index.  The recipes span the world, from Mexican to French, Turkish, Swedish, Japanese, and Indian.  There are quite a few Italian and Greek recipes.  This is a cook's workbook rather than a dreamer's coffee table book, since descriptions before each recipe are terse and there are no pictures.  If you're a white-meat vegetarian, or simply looking for new ideas for serving chicken, fish, or beans, you'll find some interesting recipes in this book.	2003-08-26
999253:US	51917998	R2FYAY7WRY70NU	0375420274	65275932	The Northern Lights: The True Story of the Man Who Unlocked the Secrets of the Aurora Borealis	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Biography/travelogue/history of science	This book is a very intriguing biography of one of the great minds of the early twentieth century.  It tells the story of Norwegian scientist Kristian Birkeland and his obsession with the aurora borealis.  The book starts off with his first expedition in Lappland, observing the Northern Lights from a mountaintop observatory over a winter season.  Jago then takes us through the results of the expedition, and Birkeland's dreams for further research, and his inventive projects for funding his research.  She follows Birkland through the rest of his life, including his role in starting Norskhydro, his trip to Egypt, and his death in Japan.  What struck me about Birkeland's genius was how he turned design failures or accidents into new discoveries and further inventions- -how a high-voltage switch became a magnetic cannon, and how a magnetic cannon was transformed into a fertilizer furnace.  Jago's descriptions of Birkeland's expeditions carry the details that are usually only found in travel narratives.<br />The narration by Michael Cumpsty is quite clear throughout, and I was especially impressed by his ease with pronouncing the Danish, Egyptian, and Japanese names.  One of the challenges of listening to a book of this type is following the scientific explanations orally.  Although I got a basic idea of Birkeland's theories, I think reading them on paper instead of listening to them on tape would have been a little easier.  I also missed the footnotes and biography that must have surely been available in the print version.  Nevertheless, the tape was quite enjoyable and very informative.	2003-08-26
999473:US	51917998	R18LWW99QOL5XZ	0871563983	285615154	Women in the Material World	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Wow!	This book is a superlative sequel to the early Material World by Peter Menzel.  I have read the earlier book so many times that when this new volume came out, I bought it immediately sight unseen.  In this book, Faith D'Aluisio revisits 19 of the 30 families featured in the Material World to find out about the women's lives.<br />The articles are organized alphabetically, together with short features on marriage, laundry, work, education, childcare, hair, food, water, and friends.  At the back of the book, we find statistical charts about women, and a useful statistics glossary.  Each article has an extended interview with the mother of the family that reveals parts of her life story as well as her attitudes towards topics such as marriage, child care, education, money, and possessions. The articles are of course filled with numerous color photos, large and small, of the women at work and with other family members.<br />The Material World itself is a monumental book, but it was hard to go back to it after reading this book, where we find that the details presented in the Material World were so incredibly superficial.  For example, family life for Maria dos Anjos Ferrerira in Brazil or Carmen Balderas de Castillo in Mexico isn't nearly as rosy as one might guess from looking at their original smiling photos in the Material World.  On the other hand, Zhanna Kapralova from Russia continues to be a survivor.  No matter how much you learn from the Material World, it will be far eclipsed by this book with its extended interviews and additional photographs.	2003-08-25
999942:US	51917998	R3OJKM2S6B7IAJ	0671709240	949127783	Romanov's Russian / English Dictionary	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Road-tested	This is a great all-around pocket dictionary for Russian and English.  With its 35,000 entries, I found it adequate for most of my daily needs in Russian, although I occasionally needed something a little more specialized when reading heavy literature texts.  Full pronunciation information is given for the English entries; Russian entries are marked for stress only.  Additional features include a reference chart of the Russian alphabet, a short article on Russian pronunciation, lists of Russian, American, and British abbreviations, and a quick reference list of numbers, weights, and measures.	2003-08-25
1000400:US	51917998	R1GOE7GFTYDNV1	9511081454	579341494	Finnish for Foreigners 1. Text book	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Adequate but not ideal	This is a classic introductory text to the Finnish language.  After a few pages of basic pronunciation instructions, it starts students off with simple sentences like \\"What is this?\\".  By the end of the 40th lesson, students are able to read and discuss extended dialogs about daily life.  Each chapter starts with a dialog, presented simultaneously in Finnish and English in bilingual columns.  The dialog is followed by a short pronunciation section, then some grammar explanations, and then a list of new vocabulary presented in alphabetical order.  Each chapter is quite short, usually consisting of only 4-6 pages.<br />The choice of vocabulary is rather good.  The beginning chapters introduce the most commonly used words in the language, as well as words that might be needed by students or new arrivals to Finland.  Cultural details are also inserted in the readings, such as asking directions in downtown Helsinki, shopping on market squares, and Jean Sibelius.<br />My main complaint with the text is that it presents some perfectly predictable phonological processes as irregular.  That really rubs me the wrong way because Finnish has to be just about the most regular language in the world, as long as you learn how to apply the rules correctly.  Personally, and as a linguist, I much prefer mastering the regular phonological rules of a language rather than memorizing different forms of individual words as Aaltio has her learners do.  Aaltio does explain the rules eventually, in chapter 23, but I would think these rules would help even new beginners.  This textbook may work well for some students, but it's not my personal favorite.	2003-08-25
1002905:US	51917998	RLXBOOF2HNZQM	963170971X	302664913	Learn Hungarian	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Traditional classroom textbook	This book provides a traditional introduction to Hungarian for students in a classroom setting.  Each chapter begins with extensive texts, then Hungarian-English word lists ordered chronologically according to when each new word was introduced in the texts.  Following this comes the grammar points for the lesson, usually 3-5 points, and finally exercises, mostly of the translation or mechanical substitution type.<br />In general, the grammatical explanations are relatively clear.  However, they don't do as good a job at helping students master overall sentence structure as Erdo\\"s et al's Hungarian in Words and Pictures.  The reading texts for each chapter tend to be quite long, and the vocabulary lists are impossibly long for beginning students.  The choice of vocabulary is not well thought out- -instead of introducing words essential for daily life and conversation in the very beginning chapters, we find words such as stork, peasant, and sour.<br />I purchased this book with the intention of using it for self-study and tried to use it earnestly.  I tried and tried, made little progress, and gave up twice.  After taking formal classroom lessons where we used the Erdo\\"s textbook with much success, I found that I could come back to this book for supplemental readings or grammatical explanations.  But I wouldn't recommend it as a main text either for self-study or classroom purposes.	2003-08-22
1003073:US	51917998	R16UFXY0GDMTE6	0062735241	12333433	Tracking and the Art of Seeing: How to Read Animal Tracks and Sign	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Excellent introduction	This book provides an excellent introduction to reading animal tracks.  In the first chapter the author explains why we should try to understand the tracks around us in the forest, and what we might see.  He then delves into the kinds of observations we need to make, such as trail widths and trail patterns and scat.  The rest of the book is divided into chapters by animal family, including chapters for rodents, rabbits, weasels, dogs, cats, bears, and hoofed animals.  There is also an extensive bibliography and index.<br />Each chapter is comprised of short articles about the specifics of tracking the individual animals that make up the family covered in the chapter.  Rezendes provides a short informative description of the animal with a color photograph.  The descriptions cover behavior, range, and diet.  Rezendes also includes black and white photos of the animal's feet, both front and back.  The next section of the article covers tracks and trail patterns, and it includes illustrations or diagrams, photographs, and typical trail width and stride measurements, as well as a lot of information to help you sort out this critter's tracks from all the others out there.  He also includes short sections on signs, such as dens, food caches, kill sites, and scat, also with photographs or illustrations.<br />I purchased this book after moving out into the country because I wanted to identify the critters that visited at night leaving their tracks in the snow around our house.  I found Rezendes' approach captivating and easy to understand, even as a beginner.  Rezendes explains how tracks can tell us much more than just the identity of an animal- -through a careful study of tracks, you can determine how fast the animal was moving, whether it was browsing, being chased, or chasing another.  This book is a highly informative reference; it's also a delightful read on a blustery winter afternoon.	2003-08-22
1003354:US	51917998	R1G38U1LQIUYRM	0940666359	249171781	Green Chile Bible: Award-Winning New Mexico Recipes	Books	5	26	27	N	N	The title says it all	This book is an excellent collection of Southwest American chile recipes.  The recipes are divided by meals or usage into chapters including breakfasts, appetizers, salads, soups, vegetables, breads, main dishes with meat, main dishes without meat, accompaniments, and sweets.  The recipes are at once creative and inspiring.  While some of the recipes are clearly influenced by traditional New Mexican cuisine, such as sweet chile albondigas, some are of native American origin, like summer squash bake, still others are clearly 100% Midwestern American, like crusted green chile loaf.  In any case, all of the recipes are united by their common use of chiles.<br />For reading pleasure, there is a short section on tips, facts, and fancies- -did you know that wild chiles on the bush are also attractive to birds?  At the back of the book you will find a glossary, and for those who don't live in New Mexico, a list of chile suppliers.  There are no pictures, but that's OK- -more room for recipes.  If you like chiles, you need to have this book.	2003-08-22
1003356:US	51917998	R2LK2HUFMT5FFE	0871564300	161733718	Material World: A Global Family Portrait	Books	5	102	106	N	Y	Fantastic	This book is a fantastic picture book and statistical reference of our world.  Menzel's idea was brilliant- -to identify a statistically average family in every corner of the world, and photograph them and all of their belongings, as well as capture aspects of their daily life on film.<br />The book is organized by continent, and then by country within each continent.  Each entry begins with a multi-page photo of the family in front of their house, with of all their possessions.  Beside the photo is an enumeration of the possessions that appear in the photo.  The remainder of the article is found on the next 3 or 4 pages.  There is usually a short summary of statistics about the country, covering such topics as area, population, population density, life expectancy, and rank of affluence among U.N. member countries.  But much more informative are a variety of high-quality color photos showing family members going about their daily activities, at work, at school, or eating a meal in the family home.  There is a brief text about the family itself, who they are, what they do, and where they live.  The photographer also provides a brief summary of his or her experiences while living with the family and taking the photographs.  In the photographer's notes are statistics about the work week, the number of radios, telephones, televisions, VCRs, and automobiles.  The photographer also asks each family member to identify their most valued possessions and their dreams for the future.<br />The choice of the family to convey both the ideal and the reality of a typical \\"American\\" family was perfect.  They have the requisite two children, one of each gender, and a dog.  They are shown outside their ranch-style house, with a fairly new pickup truck and minivan in their attached garage.  The photographer's idea of commandeering the entire cul-de-sac of the sub-development to showcase the family's possessions for the main photograph does an incredible job at capturing Americans' need for and use of space.  (It makes an incredible contrast with the Japanese family, who have just as many possessions or even more, but are photographed with everything crammed together in a tiny block just the width of their house.)  The picture of the American family appears on the cover of the book, juxtaposed with the family from Bhutan, with their house and meager possessions perched on a mountainside with no roads in sight.  Despite the innumerable differences between the families, there are also many parallels.  Both families are obviously proud of what they have and who they are.  And in these pictures, and throughout the book, over and over again throughout the world, the family members identify religious objects as their most valued possessions.<br />In addition to the main chapters, the book also includes short features on televisions of the world, meals of the world, and toilets of the world, as well as appendices with more statistics, contributing photographers' biographies, and a list of more possessions that couldn't be included in the photographs.<br />Through its photographs, this book does an amazing job at explaining who we are as a human family, and how we are all similar.  It also lets us know what life is like for average people around the world, and does a better job at this than any simple listing of statistics or geography text.  When I read this book for the first time, I laughed, and even cried upon seeing how little some people in the world actually have to call their own.  This was especially moving when I remembered that each family was chosen not because it was picturesque or poverty-stricken, but because it was statistically average.  This book should be in every public library, it could be used by homeschoolers as a geography text, but everyone will find something of interest in it.  It is one of the 10 most personally influential books that I have read.<br />If reading this book isn't enough for you, the project also produced a multimedia CD-ROM with added features and a series of children's books with more photographs and information for children about each family.  An even more moving sequel called &quot;Women of the Material World&quot; is also available and highly recommended.ultimedia CD-ROM with added features and a series of children's books with more photographs and information for children about each family.   An even more moving sequel called &quot;Women of the Material World&quot; is also available and highly recommended.	2003-08-22
1003536:US	51917998	R2N7IV5J0ENJFX	0836412281	121362878	History of Indian Music	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Diverse articles	This book contains a collection of widely diverse articles having to do with various aspects of the history of South Indian music.  It does not provide a coherent story of Indian music- -for that, you will need to look elsewhere.  Instead, the author takes up numerous topics related to South Indian music history in turn, and relates a few facts, observations, or anecdotes about each one.  Highlights include an enumeration of uses of types of South Indian classical music, anecdotes about famous musical contests and famous musicians, and a history of the various instruments termed vinas.<br />The writing style is extremely Indian in nature, with an enormous emphasis on classification and enumeration.  The author uses Indian musical terminology extensively without much explication.  While most of the terminology and names are written in Latin script (with occasional spelling variations), the book also contains a light sprinkling of words and phrases in Sanskrit and Tamil scripts.  I believe this book may be used as a textbook in music colleges in South India, where students may be required to memorize its main points and details, hence the extensive enumeration as a memorization aid.  For Western readers, the book would be quite difficult to understand without the aid of an Indian teacher who can explain the terminology.  Nevertheless, a determined outsider may be able to glean some useful information from it.	2003-08-21
1003599:US	51917998	R1KE3VGAXHMNBY	9631831426	242394723	Hungarian in Words and Pictures: A Textbook for Foreigners (Magyar nyelvkonyv) (Hungarian and English Edition)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Sound approach	This book is a well-thought out introduction to an incredibly complex language.  Its approach is at once conversational and grammar focused.  The grammar is presented with an absolute minimum of text, but lots of diagrams and pictures that gradually make the ideas clear.  Hungarian sentence structure, which is notoriously unlike English, German, or Japanese with their fixed word orders, is presented in this book as a framework in which the verbal phrase is third in the sentence, following an optional subject and focused element.  That may sound a bit complicated, but it works, and works effectively because of the book's carefully designed and consistently applied diagrams.<br />Early in the book, each chapter in the book introduces a different grammatical topic, starting with basic sentence structure, first with and without the copula, then locative cases, and intransitive verbs in the present tense.  Transitive verbs and the accusative case don't appear until relatively late, which can be a limitation for early attempts at communication.  Each chapter starts with a short reading text, and the texts are loosely related to a visit to Budapest.  The texts are actually quite effective at preparing students for their own visit to Budapest, since they manage to cover districts of the city, transportation options, shopping, eating in restaurants, and tourist highlights.  Inside the front cover is a handy chart summarizing the main types of verbal conjugation.<br />The standard organization of the chapters is pedagogically sound, especially for classroom usage.  Following the short introductory reading is a graphical overview of the new grammar point for the chapter, then a variety of picture-based exercises to practice the grammar and vocabulary.  A graphical lesson about sentence structure often follows, again with pictorial exercises for either verbal or written practice.  A longer text often comes next, followed by a word list of new vocabulary for the chapter in Hungarian and English, organized by part of speech.  The chapter closes with dialogues and review exercises that can be done orally, and finally a few bilingual translation exercises.  What is especially strong about the exercises is that most of them are not simple translation or mechanical exercises.  Instead, since they are pictorially-based, they get the students to create communicative attempts at the language without relying on visual memory of words or rote memorization.  My only complaint about the book is that the word lists tend to be rather long- -much too new much vocabulary is tackled in each chapter.  This book would be an excellent choice for classroom usage.  Individual learners may find the textless grammatical points hard to understand without a teacher, but linguistically inclined students find the diagrams illuminate the heart of the matter.ngarian and English, organized by part of speech.  The chapter closes with dialogues and review exercises that can be done orally, and finally a few bilingual translation exercises.  What is especially strong about the exercises is that most of them are not simple translation or mechanical exercises.  Instead, since they are pictorially-based, they get the students to create communicative attempts at the language without relying on visual memory of words or rote memorization.  My only complaint about the book is that the word lists tend to be rather long- -much too new much vocabulary is tackled in each chapter.  This book would be an excellent choice for classroom usage.  Individual learners may find the textless grammatical points hard to understand without a teacher, but linguistically inclined students find the diagrams illuminate the heart of the matter.	2003-08-21
1003811:US	51917998	R2BSBT7NF7J2	0395659701	939560235	AMERICA BY THE NUMBERS PA	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great fun- -well worth reading	This book is a statistical compilation of who Americans really are.  The book is arranged alphabetically by topic, covering everything from actors' salaries, adoptions, adultery, cosmetic surgery, motorcycle ownership, to women-owned businesses and much more. But it's not dry numbers.  Instead, Krantz provides a 4 or 5 paragraph write-up to back up the numbers on each topic.  Many of the articles also include black-and-white photographs.<br />I was quite taken with this book when I first read it, and tried it out with great success as a reading textbook for an English language class for foreign graduate students studying in the US.  In class we had terrific discussions analyzing the statistics from the articles, and the students were able to use the topics as springboards for conversation amongst their American colleagues.  The articles were so interesting that most of the students read the entire book, not just the assigned articles- -I don't know of any other reading textbook that has reached that level of popularity.  In short, the book has a tremendous number of uses, aside from being just plain fun.	2003-08-21
1003993:US	51917998	R36WCJF0Y1MFD6	0415207053	815141038	Finnish: An Essential Grammar (Routledge Essential Grammars)	Books	5	39	40	N	N	THE Finnish reference grammar	This book is a comprehensive, yet concise reference grammar of Finnish.  Karlsson starts with a brief overview of history, then turns to pronunciation and sound alternations.  Following these topics, he presents the general nominal declensions and the conjugation of verbs.  He then delves into much deeper detail with the case system and the verb systems, followed by the comparison of adjectives and word formation.  He closes the main text with an extremely useful chapter on the colloquial spoken language, in which he explains which rules discussed above were only theoretical, and what people actually say.<br />This book has pictures of intonation patterns, nominal declension charts in all 15 cases in both the singular and plural, and a handy appendix of complete verb declensions.  Important grammatical rules are printed in eye-catching boxes, while key grammatical endings are printed in bold in the numerous examples.  I've found this book to be tremendously useful at all stages of my development in Finnish language skills.  I read it intensively when I was first studying the language, and I continually turn to it for reference today, although I can now speak Finnish fairly fluently.  If you want to learn Finnish or learn about Finnish, you need this book.	2003-08-21
1004026:US	51917998	R3D24DYHRAGR6T	0671728849	760549921	Fruit: A Connoisseur's Guide and Cookbook	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fantastic reference	This book is an illustrated dictionary of just about all of the fruits and nuts in the world.  Each entry covers a family of closely related fruits, such as grapes, raisins, white raisins and currents.  The entry includes a full page color illustration of the fruits in the family.  The illustrations are tremendously useful for identifying less familiar fruits such as cape gooseberries or langsats.  Many of the illustrations also include foliage or peels to help with identification.  The illustrations are so well done that each one is worthy of framing as art.  The written article for each entry includes information about where and how the fruit is cultivated or consumed.  In the margin are the Latin scientific names for the fruits and common names for the fruits in just about any language that has a name for the fruit, including in most cases French, German, and Spanish, but also less widely known languages where the fruit is eaten or grown, such as Japanese, Hebrew, Turkish, Hindi, Indonesian, or Thai.  At the end of the book are about 40 pages of recipes for fruits and nuts, which are also noted in the margins for each individual entry.  The book includes an extensive bibliography and index with scientific names, common names, and recipes.  I would recommend this book as an essential reference for libraries.  But it's useful for anyone who wants to know about fruits, where they came from, and what they look like.	2003-08-21
1004787:US	51917998	RVRK88JQ5THY0	0517347202	23096781	Concise Dictionary of Twenty-Six Languages in Simultaneous Translation	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Multilingual word lists	This is a set of word lists of 1,000 entries in 26 languages.  As a dictionary, it's not very satisfying since chances are, the word you are looking for won't appear in the 1,000 entries.  Also, each entry is only one word long, so there are no explanations to clarify meanings.  On the other hand, the word lists can be somewhat illuminating if you're studying the inter-relatedness of vocabulary across the Indo-European languages.  In that case, you can choose any particular entry at random and see at a glance how close the Indo-European words are to each other and how different they are from the non-Indo-European words.  The multilingual words lists comprise the first half of the volume.  In the second half are 26 monolingual indices that allow you to look up the meanings of individual words from each of the covered languages.  The languages in non-Latin scripts (Russian, Greek, Arabic, Hebrew, Yiddish, and Japanese) only appear in their native scripts in the indices.  To see their entries in Latin scripts, you need to check the word lists- -and vice versa, since the word lists only show the entries for these languages transliterated in Latin script.  Due to the small number of entries, the uses for such a book are limited.  On the other hand, if you are doing research that involves cross-linguistic comparisons, this dictionary can come in handy.	2003-08-20
1004922:US	51917998	R1QC0XP8HRZA1L	0553274112	667290433	The Bantam New College French & English Dictionary (Bantam New College Dictionary Series)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Very usable dictionary	This is a very usable bilingual dictionary.  With 70,000 entries, it's all I've ever needed to get through daily life in French or even read non-technical books.  Complete pronunciation information is given for entries in both languages.  At the beginning of the French-English section is a very comprehensive summary of French grammar, including the complete declensions of 76 irregular verbs.  With such a summary, you don't need to carry a grammar book along if you have this dictionary with you.	2003-08-20
1004956:US	51917998	R3B5F89XWH47V2	067974195X	775641653	The Death and Life of Great American Cities	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fascinating and right on	This book is an amazing analysis of cities and how they work.  Jacobs begins by observing the city around her, New York.  She takes note of which neighborhoods are thriving and which ones should be avoided and analyzes their differences.  For instance, she notes that neighborhoods with mixed usage have people of different ages and backgrounds on the street in public places all day long.  Since there are people around all day, no one is going to get away with doing anything antisocial.  But empty streets or neighborhoods that don't have eyes constantly watching what is happening are risky places to leave your car or other valuables.  Similarly, Jacobs discusses what kinds of park design are likely to be successful, and which parks will be shunned, and why.  She argues for the necessity of diversity of people, buildings, and development.<br />What's most amazing about this book is that Jacobs wrote this in the beginning of the 1960's, at a time when government redevelopment projects were leveling the inner-cities.  At the time, Jacobs must have sounded like a crackpot because her ideas where so diametrically opposed to the accepted standards of the time.  However, time has shown that she was indeed correct on so many of her points.  This book is essential reading for city planners and social scientists.  But it would be of interest to all.	2003-08-20
1005311:US	51917998	R26OZEJO30WBLA	0471396842	308278695	On Giants' Shoulders: Great Scientists and Their Discoveries From Archimedes to DNA	Books	1	9	10	N	N	British scientists talk about their heroes	This book is a collection of write-ups of BBC radio show programs about the heroes of British scientists.  Each chapter considers a prominent scientist of the past, such as Archimedes, and then presents a synopsis of interviews and discussions with modern-day British academic scientists about the featured scientist of the past.  Through the interviews, we gain an understanding of the opinions of the modern-day scientists concerning their academic heroes, mixed in with some of the facts concerning their lives and discoveries.  The book is thick with opinions and philosophy compared to the amount of factual information it contains about the featured scientists.  If you are interested in what modern British scientists have to say about some famous scientists of the past, then this book is for you.  But if you're looking for a book where you can learn something about the famous scientists themselves or a summary of their discoveries, you should look elsewhere.	2003-08-20
1005756:US	51917998	R2G0H2889OQ04F	0785917373	97956522	Les Contes du Chat Perche (French Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Delightful short stories	This book is a collection of short stories about two little girls and the animals who live on a farm in rural France.  All of the animals on the farm have their own personalities and talk.  Indeed, they have a lot to say.  The little girls get into some dreadful fixes, and more often than not run astray of their parents' strict rules.  The stories often have moral undertones, and while some of the attitudes may be dated by the standards of modern society, the tales themselves transcend time.<br />My training in French consists of a year of college study some 20 years ago.  Nevertheless, with the occasional assistance of a bilingual dictionary, I was able to read this book with ease.  Reading this book provides a delightful way to brush up on or polish your skills in French.  Of course, if you read French fluently, you will appreciate this book for the classic that it is.	2003-08-20
1005922:US	51917998	R2ZCBBN43H2D84	0881504203	723490874	Reading the Forested Landscape: A Natural History of New England	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Great book	This book provides an excellent introduction to forest ecology.  Wessels begins each chapter with an etching that captures a typical feature of northern forest.  He then guides us to understanding what one can learn from the etching through asking key questions and making more detailed observations.  The book focuses on central New England forests, which he defines as reaching roughly from the Southern half of Vermont to the Northern half of Massachusetts, and stretching eastwards to the coast of Maine.  The book will help even beginners understand more about the forests surrounding them, although it helps if readers can at least recognize a beech tree from a maple or a pine before they start.  The book is full of so many details that one reading through it is not enough; this is a book to dip into over and over again as one explores the forest.  The book includes a number of useful appendices, covering such varied topics as a chronology of New England history, key kinds of evidence to look for in the woods, common woody and non-woody plants, a glossary, and a bibliography.	2003-08-19
1006185:US	51917998	R3BJ5C20OXTK5I	0828805334	874585633	FinnishEnglishFinnish Dictionary  SuomiEnglantiSuomi Taskusanakirja	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Decent little dictionary	This is the best small Finnish-English bilingual dictionary that I've seen that will fit in your pocket.  It doesn't quite have every word that you might encounter, but it has most words that you will need for daily use.  If you're going to be reading academic books, Wuolle's opiskelusanakirja is a bit more comprehensive, but it's twice as thick and a little taller, so it doesn't quite fit in your pocket as easily as this one.  Pronunciation guidance is limited to stress marking in English.  Added features in this dictionary are 20 pages of bilingual foods and drinks, and a 50-page bilingual story of \\"a visit to London,\\" which is good to browse through if your plane is delayed and you don't have anything else to read.  At the very end of the dictionary, there are also some useful features such as days of the week, months of the year, telling time, and traffic signals, although these are intended mostly for Finns visiting the UK.  If you're looking for a good pocket dictionary, it's hard to beat this one.	2003-08-19
1006373:US	51917998	RZEZTCJPB2UWE	0671502476	56563840	The Serpent and the Rainbow: A Harvard Scientist's Astonishing Journey into the Secret Society of Haitian Voodoo, Zombis and Magic	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fascinating	This book details the adventures of an ethnobotanist as he tries to uncover the mystery behind zombies in Haiti.  In the beginning of the book, Davis describes how a New York psychologist named Nate Klein described to him the odd story of Clairvius Narcisse, who was pronounced dead and buried, yet showed up 18 years later back in the market place of his hometown claiming that he had been made a zombi and made to work as a slave until he escaped with some other zombies.  Klein was completely convinced of the veracity of Narcisse's story, and wanted Davis to travel to Haiti to discover which herbs and other toxins were used to \\"kill\\" Narcisse and then bring him back to life again.  Davis accepts the mission, and then travels to Haiti to investigate zombies and Haitian Voodoo.  But in order to discover how people are changed into zombies, he has to first gain the confidence and respect of the Voodoo leaders.  Davis eventually accomplishes most of what he set out to do, along the way relating much about Haitian history and culture as well as Voodoo beliefs.  The book is very compelling and well documented, including an extensive annotated bibliography, as well as a glossary and index.	2003-08-19
1006426:US	51917998	R3P8RW7S7B37JN	0070169985	346375245	Assassination on Embassy Row (McGraw-Hill paperbacks)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Well done	This book details the strange story behind the murders of Orlando Letelier and Ronni Moffitt in 1976. Dinges, a journalist with extensive experience in Chile, and Landau, director of the institute where Moffitt worked, are exceptionally qualified for telling this story.  Orlando Letelier was the Chilean ambassador to the USA under the Allende administration, and was at the time of the murders, serving as the director of the Transnational Institute, where Moffitt worked.  Dinges and Landau present the background behind the murders from many points of view, going back to Allende's rise to power, and CIA connections to groups opposing him.  They tell the life story of Orlando Letelier, how he came to serve as ambassador, how he was tortured under the Pinochet regime, and how he was eventually assassinated by a Chilean government terrorist team led by Michael Townley, an American who had adopted Chile as his home.  The text is exceptionally well written and well documented, although it does get a little bogged down in legalistic detail towards the end.<br />Fifteen years ago, I met a Chilean named Juan in the streets of Stockholm.  At the time, I had never heard of Allende or of his overthrow.  Juan told me that I should learn about his story because the CIA were behind the assassination of this democratically elected leader.  At the time, I found Juan's tale a little hard to believe- -would the CIA really dare to murder a foreign leader in his own country, and why would they care about the politics of a small South American country anyway?  On the other hand, I could see that Juan's life had been ruined by the coup.  Identified as an Allende supporter, he had been jailed and tortured.  He had escaped to Sweden, but his life was in tatters.  He  was a middle school Spanish literature teacher by training, but the only work he could find in Sweden was as a school janitor.  Juan spent his spare time studying Swedish and English.  Meanwhile, all his family and friends were 10,000 miles away.  After meeting Juan, I have always wanted to learn more about the CIA connection to Allende's overthrow.  This book provides a lot of documentation concerning that period in Chilean history.  It answers some of the questions that I had, but it has also given me many more to think about.10,000 miles away.  After meeting Juan, I have always wanted to learn more about the CIA connection to Allende's overthrow.  This book provides a lot of documentation concerning that period in Chilean history.  It answers some of the questions that I had, but it has also given me many more to think about.	2003-08-19
1006432:US	51917998	R156ZKXS5KNQMQ	2879392330	522694166	Prehistoric Art: The Mythical Birthing of Humanity	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Great pictures	This book is a coffee-table photo album of prehistoric art from around the world.  The largest chapter is organized geographically,  with examples from Africa, Europe, Asia, Australia, the Americas, and Oceania.  Another chapter is organized according to where the art is found, including caverns, rock shelters, and open-air art.  The remaining chapters discuss other features such as possible interpretations for the art.  The images are delightful and quite representative.  Each image includes an extensive informative caption that describes where it is from and why it is of interest.  The main text, on the other hand, is not as satisfying, as it jumps around or mentions irrelevant details or speculations.  Buy this book for its images, and don't bother reading the text.	2003-08-19
1006517:US	51917998	R3GVV4W3KDGTZS	0738203068	17239351	Take Care of Yourself: The Complete Illustrated Guide to Medical Self-Care	Books	5	2	3	N	N	You should have this book	This book is a consumer's guide to staying out of the doctor's office.  The authors' goals are to help ordinary people recognize when they need to seek a doctor's help, and when they can get along fine without a doctor.  The book mostly focuses on symptoms and common injuries.  As a reader, you say to yourself, \\"I have a rash,\\" or \\"My daughter has a sore throat.\\"  Then you look up the symptoms in the index, which points you to a short 2 page article about what might be the possible causes and likely outcomes of your problem.  Each short article includes a flowchart with questions that help you determine whether you should apply home treatment, make an appointment with a doctor, or head for the emergency room.  The articles also describe what kinds of home treatments are effective, and what you can expect if you decide to see the doctor.<br />Naturally, this book can't substitute for proper medical care.  It is quite limited, for instance, on descriptions of formal medical diagnoses- -in general, it is not a good source for patient information if your doctor says you're sick with a disease that you've never heard of. On the other hand, it does an excellent job of letting you know when you need to see a doctor, and when you don't.  The language is very non-technical and easy for ordinary people to understand. My aunt, a nurse practitioner, gave me a copy of this book when I first went away to college since I would be making decisions about when to seek medical care on my own for the first time.  Since then, I've used the book innumerable times, and it is one of the very few that I take with me when I move from place to place.	2003-08-19
1006923:US	51917998	RDT3483HI4IMV	0749535229	16348435	Touring Atlas France 2003 (AA Atlases)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Mostly good	This is a pretty good atlas of France.  The scale, at 1:180 000, is small enough to include all the paved roads that you're likely to find yourself on, and even some of the unpaved ones.  On the inside cover is an overview of the entire country overlaid with the page numbers of the individual map pages covering each section.  That's very handy when you find yourself driving in downtown Paris and looking for the highway heading north, and the roads are not marked north or south of course, but rather with cities such as Lille or Bordeaux, leaving those of us who didn't study French geography seriously circling the roundabout endlessly while we hunt for the terminal city names in the atlas.  There's also a route planning map in the first few pages, so that you can get the big picture of your trip easily, and 20 pages of city maps that cover most of the larger cities in the country.  The index will help you find just about any small town you need, and a chart on the back cover will let you know the distance and driving time between large cities.  Overall, the accuracy of the atlas is pretty good, but it has some real blunders around the Charles de Gaul Airport in Paris.  They neglect to show the connection between the A1 and the A104 at the airport- -according to their map, there is no connection at all between these major highways.  After a few times of driving around the airport, I can confidently say that there is indeed a connection between the 2 highways, and it wasn't built yesterday, so it should be on the map (if you already own this atlas, just draw a line straight from the A104 to the A1).  There may be a few other omissions such as this one in the atlas, but overall, they've done a reasonably good job and you can probably find your way around the country with this book.  One suggestion for future editions would be a bilingual guide to \\"international\\" road signs.	2003-08-19
1007029:US	51917998	R2XA2ZWBAYCF4Z	0874779642	251799285	The Cosmic Serpent: DNA and the Origins of Knowledge	Books	1	23	47	N	N	Weird	This book develops a hypothesis that DNA expresses information about itself to humans through consumption of hallucinogenic plant substances.  As support for his idea, Narby notes that many cultures worldwide worshiped serpents or used serpent symbols in some form or another.  Narby attributes this to the serpentine nature of the form of DNA which is expressing knowledge of itself to people.  According to Narby, people from less-developed cultures, especially religious people, are more likely to be receptive to the messages from DNA because training in rational thought processes doesn't get in the way of transmission of the messages.  For me, the most valuable observation that Narby makes is that through meditation, one may connect with new ideas and ways to look at problems that the unconscious mind has discovered while the rational mind was chasing down facts.  Unlike Narby, however, I think I personally would look for a few more pieces of hard evidence to support the wild ideas of the unconscious mind before publishing them.  The book includes extensive references; in fact, there are 60 pages of endnotes and 20 pages of bibliography in the 246 page text.	2003-08-19
1007153:US	51917998	R1FIVBAK3D0BW6	2831509432	237125945	English Swedish, Swedish-English/Engelsk-Svensk, Svensk-Engelsk Ordbok Dictionary (Berlitz Pocket Dictionaries)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Small and limited	This is a very minimalist bilingual dictionary.  It might be useful for some travelers, but with only 12,500 entries, it is too limited for any other purposes.  It certainly wouldn't be satisfactory for students trying to read Swedish books, for example, because too many words just aren't there.  Pronunciation guidance is provided in both languages.  Special features included in the dictionary are food and drink lists in both Swedish and English, irregular verbs and abbreviations, numbers, and how to tell time, in both languages.  If you are planning on traveling to Sweden and don't know the language at all, perhaps this dictionary might be useful.  It's certainly small enough to stick in your pocket.	2003-08-19
1088525:US	51917998	RB8SIIRHCII31	1566492173	37116986	Raga Mala: The Autobiography of Ravi Shankar	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Fascinating	This book is a fascinating account of the life of Ravi Shankar.  I was a little reluctant to pick up this book at first- -I thought to myself, \\"Ravi Shankar- pop star, a musician who lives on hype - who wants to read a fan book?  If George Harrison hadn't stumbled across him, he would have been just another sitar player.\\"  But after reading this book, I have a much greater understanding and respect for Shankar and all that he has accomplished.<br />Shankar's early life was simply amazing.  His first tour of the US was in 1932, when he was all of 12 years old.  With that in mind, it makes perfect sense for Shankar to be the leader in bringing Indian classical music to the West, since he spent so many of his formative years in Paris and on tour throughout Europe and the US.  During this time, he became familiar with Western audiences and their expectations, as well as with Western music traditions.  It is this familiarity that has enabled him to be so successful at explaining Indian music to Westerners.  But as this book details, Shankar was not only popular in the West, but long before George Harrison met him, he had built a very successful career in India.  For example, he was the one who did the music for film director Satyajit Ray's Apu Trilogy, among so many other projects.<br />Shankar's influences on music in both India and the West are enormous and far-reaching.  He was one of the first musicians to gain a following in world music, and he fought strongly against the marginalization of world music as a field only fit for ethnomusicologists. As described in this book, in India, he helped change attitudes towards musical performance and performers by demanding full attention from audiences and formal venues, much like classical performers in the West expect.<br />Interspersed throughout Shankar's text are short interludes from friends such as Yehudi Menuhin and George Harrison. The book includes hundreds of pictures that span Shankar's entire career, including the pre-World War II tours with his brother Uday.  There is also a very informative glossary at the end, as well as a chronology and index.the pre-World War II tours with his brother Uday.  There is also a very informative glossary at the end, as well as a chronology and index.	2003-06-14
1097658:US	51917998	R1J84LS14M4ZWI	0226868419	802620895	Imaging Sound: An Ethnomusicological Study of Music, Art, and Culture in Mughal India (Chicago Studies in Ethnomusicology)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fantastic pictures	This book is an exploration of 16th century Mughal paintings that include musicians and instruments.  Much of the book is devoted to explaining the stories behind the paintings, starting with who was Akbar the Great?  Wade elucidates the history of Akbar's family, and how they came to rule India.  She relates the chronicles to scenes depicted in specific historical paintings.  Each of the paintings includes musicians in some form, and Wade describes in detail the instruments that the musicians are playing and the reason for their inclusion in the work.  The paintings themselves are exquisite, with 165 plates reproduced in black and white and 20 in full color.  The book also includes family trees of the Mughals, maps, and a glossary of musical terms.<br />Although the book is extraordinarily well done, it wasn't quite what I was looking for.  From the title of the book, I had expected Wade to focus the text on the music of the Mughals rather than on their general history.  I had expected more of the book to consider questions such as which instruments were played in Mughal times, how the instruments changed from then until now, and more generally, how much we can learn about the history of music by examining contemporary visual art works.  Nevertheless, the book exemplifies excellent scholarship and it is, in itself, a magnificent work of art.	2003-06-06
1123063:US	51917998	R1SL0H76KTA1DA	0252010396	917745838	STUDY OF ETHNOMUSICOLOGY: Twenty-nine Issues and Concepts (Music in American Life)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very well done!	This book is an overview and introduction to the field of ethnomusicology.  In the introduction, Nettl mentions that the book could be used as an introduction to ethnomusicology for graduate students.  However, the text is quite accessible and the terminology and concepts are easily comprehensible to the general reader.  The book consists of essays by Nettl on numerous topics that cover the field of ethnomusicology.  Many of the essays have catchy titles that address commonly-held beliefs about ethnomusicology directly, such as \\"The Non-Universal Language\\", or \\"Music Hath Charms\\".  The book is very well referenced, and it provides a succinct introduction to the ethnomusicology literature.  If you want to know what ethnomusicologists do (or think about), this book will be quite useful.<br />As a linguist, I was struck when reading this book by how relevant much of linguistic theory and research could be for the field of ethnomusicology.  The methods of historical linguistics could be quite useful for researchers studying the spread of instruments or musical forms.  Formal theories of syntax and phonology could also be applied to intervals in scales and rhythms.  Nettl considers many of these possibilities, and reviews published research in these areas.  One important area that could receive even more focus is the association of form and meaning, a concept that is at the foundation of linguistic research, but doesn't seem to be a central issue for ethnomusicologists, at least as discussed in these essays.	2003-05-15
1123563:US	51917998	R2PVRBYRBBWW5B	812150807X	96385521	Essays in India Ethnomusicology	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Ethnomusicology for Indians	This book is a collection of essays by Ashok Ranade about various topics in Indian Ethnomusicology.  Similar to Bruce Nettl's classic \\"The Study of Ethnomusicology\\", Ranade takes up a wide range of topics in his 27 essays.  Some of the essays are about general musicology, and might be of interest to Indians who would like to know more about the field.  Ranade seems to be writing for an Indian audience, since he often uses Indian terms without explaining or translating them.  Specialists in Indian music can probably understand these terms, but others may be at a loss.  Ranade doesn't seem to fathom how deep an outsider's ignorance of Indian music theory can be.  In virtually every essay, Ranade's approach is definition and classification.  While this approach may be useful for some purposes, at least for Western audiences, it doesn't lead easily to an understanding of the big picture.<br />I picked up this book with the hopes of finding out what issues might be of interest to Indian musicologists and to find some clues about how to develop my comprehension of Indian classical music.  I found a few details of interest in the book, such as an explicit mention that rhythms in Indian art music are intentionally difficult to comprehend, and why some teachers of Indian music do not welcome questions during lessons.  Overall though, I came away wishing that the book provided more information about the role of music in Indian culture, and a little less general theorizing and classification.  On a meta-level however, perhaps that is the message- -perhaps it is precisely classification and definition that control the structure of Indian music.	2003-05-15
1123682:US	51917998	RE5IXNJ8517JP	1568980973	294656855	How to Photograph Buildings and Interiors	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Breaking into the field	This book is an introduction to architectural photography for professionals and talented amateurs who want to break into the field.  It is also intended for architectural firms who would like to designate someone to function as an in-house photographer.  The book contains chapters about how to work with a professional photographer, where professional architectural photos can be marketed, and the diary of an architectural photographer when working on a project.  In addition, there are chapters on types of cameras, film, lenses, lighting, and where to buy equipment.  Aesthetic considerations for architectural photography are covered in a few chapters.  The organization tends to jump around a bit- -sometimes it seems like the chapters are presented in an almost random order.  The book includes a short section of color plates and a glossary, in addition to the index.<br />This book is intended for people who already have some skill in photography.  I like to take pictures of houses as a hobby, and I picked up this book with the hope of learning how to make my pictures look better.  After reading the book, I am better able to spot some obvious mistakes in my house photos, but I didn't learn that much that will help me on the hobbyist level- -a book for beginners would have been better for my purposes.  On the other hand, professional photographers may find much of interest in this book.	2003-05-15
1146348:US	51917998	R2GL7XMBA7E7TK	0534377289	128053891	Musical Acoustics, 3rd Edition	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Fascinating	This book is a thorough overview of physics behind music.  In the first part of the book, Hall lays the foundation with an investigation into waves, sound propagation, sound measurement, and the human ear.  The middle third of the book takes up families of instruments, and how they work to create musical sounds.  The last part of the book investigates room acoustics, sound reproduction, and the perception of intervals, tunings, and musical structure.  Each chapter includes references and suggestions for further reading, numerous mathematical exercises for practicing the concepts covered in the chapter, and a list of potential projects for further investigation.  The book includes a glossary and answers to selected problems, as well as an index.<br />I read quite a few textbooks for work and occasionally just for interest's sake, but this one really stands out.  After reading the first few chapters, I found myself wishing I could sit in on Hall's lectures.  His style is intensely personal, and his explanations are incredibly clear.  I'll admit that sometimes my eyes glossed over while slogging through some of the numbers and charts, but it was mainly my fault for not being a more active reader.  In order to get the most from this book, you really need to read it with calculator in hand, or better yet, an Excel spreadsheet open, ready to try out the numbers and scenarios that Hall provides us with.  Nevertheless, the math is kept quite simple- -no calculus; if you can do algebra, you should be able to get through the book.<br />I've found the information in the book to be quite useful.  Hall's description of how resonance works in drums has helped me make sense of my tabla teacher's pickiness about where my fingers strike the tabla heads.  And at last I understand the physics behind why some rooms in my house are acoustically dead, and others are alive.  Hall has opened up a new world of ideas for me, and I will be thinking them through for years to come.  I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to know how music really works.ommend this book to anyone who wants to know how music really works.	2003-04-25
1170089:US	51917998	RUL1ANMXTOZEJ	0201596261	925507095	Information Visualization	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Promises a lot- -doesnt quite deliver	This book is an overview textbook of information visualization techniques.  The first chapter is very enticing- -it describes many visualization problems, and provides some historical examples of specific visualization techniques of the past.  The rest of the book takes up assorted topics such as representation, internal models, and connectivity, and provides some examples of visualization techniques.  Unfortunately, the text is too concise to be used for independent study.  I found myself puzzled over how to interpret most of the new visualization techniques.  For most of the techniques, Spence provides little or no guidance about interpretation, and few suggestions about how to make effective use of the techniques.  An instructor who is a specialist in the subject would presumably be able to provide the missing information, but readers who pick up this book on their own might not be able to gain the information they are seeking.  The publisher has also developed a companion Website for the book, with exercises and answers, dynamic examples, and OHPs for classroom use.  It would have been nice, however, to also provide the materials on a CD-ROM for users who do not have continuous broadband access to the Net.	2003-04-04
1174889:US	51917998	R15VFWQBR6LUFY	0893891134	754598095	Indian Music, Vol. I	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Wow!	This book is a primer for classical Indian vocal training.  The introduction and first two chapters provide an incredibly lucid and concise introduction to Indian music theory for Western audiences.  Most other descriptions of Indian classical music that I have read that were written by Indians are virtually undecipherable for non-Indian readers.  Most other texts overwhelm the reader with statements like \\"Ragam is the outcome of factors of the avohana and avarohana.\\"  Swami Rama actually makes these terms clear, and presents them in a way that makes perfect sense.  Reading these chapters has filled in many gaps in my own knowledge of Indian music theory that have persisted despite 3 years of formal study.  I wish I had begun my studies with this book- -then I wouldn't have spent so much time lost in confusion.<br />The remainder of the book consists of 30 alankars (exercises), followed by 10 classical raags and 12 classical taals (rhythms) in musical notation.  The musical notation is presented \\"bilingually\\", that is, first in sa-ri-ga-ma notation in Western script, and then in Hindi script.  The raags and taals are all from the Northern Indian tradition, but much of the theory itself and terminology applies to Carnatic music as well.  The book also includes a glossary to help the user get a handle on the many terms that are used to describe facets of Indian music theory.  A fresh beginner would probably need to work closely with a teacher in order to put the theory contained in this book into practice; indeed, this is what Swami Rama recommends.  But a student who already knows the basics of Indian music may be able to progress independently with this book.	2003-03-31
1176465:US	51917998	R3H2MDTQNXFR6Y	0193213303	140313144	Indian Music (Oxford Topics in Music)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good introduction	This book is a concise introduction to Indian music for middle-school readers.  The text is very clearly written and highly informative.  It includes chapters on Indian culture, styles of Indian music, Indian music theory (ragas and talas), Indian instruments, and Indian music history.  Each topic is covered in one or two pages, followed by a short list of questions, and a musical activity or suggestion for further research.  The book is filled with photographs and illustrations (all in black and white).  There is a short list of further references at the back, and apparently an accompanying cassette can be purchased separately.  The book is designed to be used for formal study; it could easily be used by interested homeschoolers or by any curious youngster.<br />Overall, I found the book quite engaging.  However, I was a bit disappointed with the superficiality of the summary questions, which were little more than reading comprehension questions, requiring no synthesis or analysis.  The musical activities were well done, but I was quite surprised to see that the Indian names of the notes, Sa Ri Ga Ma Pa Da Ni, were never mentioned anywhere in the text, and this is a very serious omission in an introduction to Indian music.  (On the other hand, the basic rhythmic syllables on the tabla are covered).  Maps of India in the book consistently omit the easternmost states- -whoops.  The section on music theory also covers only Northern classical music, and does not include any examples from other areas.	2003-03-30
1176680:US	51917998	RU7PZ39H6YPR3	1560988797	776987653	Lichens (Smithsonian's Natural World Series)	Books	5	46	46	N	Y	Excellent overview	This book provides a great introduction to the study of lichens.  In concise text that assumes very little specialist knowledge, Purvis explains what lichens are and how they grow.  He goes on to explain their role in ecosystems and many of the various uses that have been developed for lichens over the years.  He delves into the use of lichens for biomonitoring at great length, and provides many examples of how lichens have been used to monitor or detect air pollution or metals contamination.  The book includes color pictures, illustrations, and graphs on each page.  At the end of the book, Purvis includes some suggested serious lichen research projects that even beginners could undertake. There is a glossary, an index, and list of books and Websites for further study.  This book is a great place to get started in lichenology.  It would also make a great science or ecology text for older homeschoolers.	2003-03-30
1176742:US	51917998	R266J94BVYSCKQ	0312269021	421563176	Why Elephants Have Big Ears: Understanding Patterns of Life on Earth	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Never thought paleontology could be this interesting	This book is an extended essay on the continuity of evolutionary trends.  In it, Lavers examines the extremes of the animal world, the very large, the very small, animals that can withstand very hot climes or very cold ones, mammals that fly and birds that run.  For each of these beasts, Lavers argues that their shape and special characteristics must have been the result of adaptation to their environment or ecological niche.  He investigates not only why elephants have big ears (to cool down their enormous rotund bodies in hot climates), but also why we don't have elephant-sized lizards or birds (at least these days).  Throughout the book, Lavers draws on results of research in paleontology.  For example, he explains the two sides of the debate about whether dinosaurs were warm blooded, and what the implications would be for giant cold-blooded lizards.  I, for one, never really cultivated an interest in dinosaurs before.  But after reading this book, it's much more clear to me that the animals we see around us today are just one chapter in the overall life of the planet.  The book is written in an informal style, without footnotes, but key sources are identified in endnotes at the back of the book, along with a bibliography containing hundreds of references.	2003-03-30
1192684:US	51917998	R163MSGAF5E8N6	0534567959	572665685	Fundamentals of Air Traffic Control	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Full of historical detail	This book is a college text about how the American air traffic control system works.  Nolan was an air traffic controller himself, and is quite familiar with the history of air traffic control procedures in the U.S.  The book contains chapters on the history of air traffic control, navigation systems (that have been used throughout the history of air traffic control), airspace classification, air traffic control communications, air traffic control procedures, non-radar separation, radar operations and separation, oceanic air traffic control, the future of air traffic control, and employment within the Federal Aviation Administration.  Appendices cover IFR chart legends, aircraft models, and airport 3-letter identifiers.  Each chapter begins with a list of explicit goals and ends with a vocabulary list and review questions.  There is also an extensive glossary at the back of the book.<br />I think the book may give a firm historical perspective on American air traffic control to students who wish to be employed by the FAA.  It provides a general overview of the tasks of air traffic controllers, but reading this book is clearly just the first small step along the way towards formal training as an air traffic controller.  I found the historical coverage quite complete, and the book may be valuable as an archive of air traffic control hardware and procedures.  The chapter on the future of air traffic control is very telling, however.  It describes many new software products that will hopefully very soon make many of the procedures and equipment described in the remainder of the book obsolete.<br />One striking aspect of the book was its intense focus on US air traffic control to the extent that the existence of air travel beyond the borders of the US is barely acknowledged.  (The map on p. 84, for example is quite telling- -it seems to depict the continental U.S. as an island, surrounded by water on all sides.)  In a general college textbook about air traffic control, it would have been at least somewhat interesting to learn a little about how US air traffic control procedures differ from those in other countries, and why, or how our air traffic control rules have influenced or been influenced by those of other countries.  Certainly a summary of such topics would be at least as valuable to future air traffic controllers as the detailed political history of the U.S. air traffic control system that is presented in chapter 1.t would have been at least somewhat interesting to learn a little about how US air traffic control procedures differ from those in other countries, and why, or how our air traffic control rules have influenced or been influenced by those of other countries.  Certainly a summary of such topics would be at least as valuable to future air traffic controllers as the detailed political history of the U.S. air traffic control system that is presented in chapter 1.	2003-03-15
1209271:US	51917998	R3QDSQJ1JNBQI8	1575213966	826558252	Sams Teach Yourself XML in 21 Days	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Documentation for the pie in the sky	This book provides a somewhat technical introduction to several aspects of XML.  Its 21 chapters are designed to be covered in 21 days over 3 weeks.  The basics of XML are covered in the first week, followed by more advanced XML topics such as XML linking, and viewing and processing XML in the second week, and finally by programming and using style sheets with XML and real world XML applications in the third week.  The book contains many examples, and a blurb on the back cover states that the code for the examples are available online at the publisher's Website.  (There is no accompanying CD.  A CD would really have been handy, since it could have contained all of the freeware validators and editors featured in the text, as well as the examples.)<br />Having just been assigned to teach a course in XML,  I hoped that this book would not only contain a clear set of lessons for mastering the language as I have found in other SAMS Teach Yourself books, but also provide strong justification for adopting XML.  I found the lessons to be less than clear.  At times they seemed to be little more than simple documentation for various XML rules of syntax.  Statements such as &lt;element.type.name attribute.name=\\"attribute.value\\"&gt; leave me scratching my head and wondering \\"How do I use this?\\"  Quite a few chapters in the second week and beyond are little more than introductory documentation for various bits of freeware editors or validators for XML.  On the back cover, the publisher suggests that the book is written for beginning and intermediate levels.  It may indeed be appropriate for beginners in XML, as long as the XML beginners happen to be already quite adept at HTML and fairly confident with JavaScript as well.  It's definitely not a good starting place for Web newbies.<br />As for reasons to adopt XML, I found the following preface to chapter 21 very telling \\"Although I have tried to relate everything you have learned about XML in this book to something practical, and preferably something visible, that hasn't always been easy...In today's lesson I'm going to stick to that policy and although I will review some of the more esoteric applications, I will try to concentrate on XML applications that already work.\\"  In many areas in the book, the authors drag us through arcane details of XML syntax, only to point out that these features aren't actually usable yet because the required application software hasn't been completed yet, and that the specific syntax may change once the feature is finally implemented.  It's all a bit too much too soon.  This book may be of interest someday to historians of the Net, who want to learn about directions that XML might have taken as of 1999, but it's a bit frustrating as a guide to the future (if XML really does turn out to be the Web language of the future).and preferably something visible, that hasn't always been easy...In today's lesson I'm going to stick to that policy and although I will review some of the more esoteric applications, I will try to concentrate on XML applications that already work.\\"  In many areas in the book, the authors drag us through arcane details of XML syntax, only to point out that these features aren't actually usable yet because the required application software hasn't been completed yet, and that the specific syntax may change once the feature is finally implemented.  It's all a bit too much too soon.  This book may be of interest someday to historians of the Net, who want to learn about directions that XML might have taken as of 1999, but it's a bit frustrating as a guide to the future (if XML really does turn out to be the Web language of the future).	2003-03-02
1209728:US	51917998	RA768DFF66G2H	0449906140	697481412	May You Be the Mother of a Hundred Sons: A Journey Among the Women of India	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Impressions of womens lives	This book is a collection of articles about various aspects of Indian women's lives.  Bumiller lived and worked as a journalist in India for 3 years with her husband in the 1980s.  She didn't intend to write about Indian women at the start of her stay, but found herself getting drawn into women's issues through her friends and activities.  In the book, Bumiller describes and analyzes such topics as arranged marriage, bride burning, female infanticide, women in politics, women in Bollywood, women artists, housewives, and population control.  Overall, I found Bumiller's descriptions quite accurate and interesting, but for my tastes, the range of topics seemed too broad.  The book lacks the focus found in Bumiller's second book, \\"The Secrets of Mariko\\", which describes a year in the life of a Japanese housewife. Nevertheless, it provides a very readable introduction to Indian women's lives for Western readers.	2003-03-02
1218327:US	51917998	R2P3HHADVA70DE	0198166869	132486988	Time in Indian Music: Rhythm, Metre, and Form in North Indian Rag Performance with Audio CD (Oxford Monographs on Music)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Illuminating	This book is an in-depth academic analysis of meter in North Indian music.  Based on the author's doctoral research, the book includes theoretical perspectives, types and uses of tal, rhythm and meter in performance, and cross-culture perspectives.  Clayton crafts his descriptions of meter and rhythm carefully so that they are general enough to cover all genres of North Indian music.  As a result of this generality, much of the analysis can be applied to South Indian music as well.  He points out that meter in North Indian music is hard to reconcile with \\"universal metrical\\" theory, such as that proposed by Lerdahl and Jackendoff, and he argues that any universal theory of meter must take into account North Indian music.  Much of the book is highly technical and may only be accessible to specialists in music theory.  Nevertheless, novices who are interested in Indian music will still find much of interest, as Clayton explains such topics as the sequence of events in an Indian classical concert, and the cyclic nature of Indian rhythms quite clearly.  The accompanying CD contains clips that demonstrate many of the rhythms and meters discussed in the text.	2003-02-22
1248190:US	51917998	R1WYHGFN11KMQF	9055940399	468249319	The Low Sky: Understanding the Dutch	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Very revealing	This book is a very interesting and very revealing analysis of Dutch culture and Dutch character.  Although Horst is an insider, he seems to be well aware of the kinds of questions that outsiders have about Dutch culture.  As an insider, he has a thorough understanding of what makes the Dutch tick.<br />The book is organized into the 6 broad tropics that anthropologists at the Tropen Museum in Amsterdam have identified as characterizing the Dutch: egalitarian, utilitarian, organized, trade-oriented, privacy-minded, and having a debt of honor.  At times, however, this division seems to be overlaid onto the book, rather than providing an essential framework.  Inside each chapter, Horst meanders through a wide range of information, interweaving such details as a synopsis of Dutch history, an analysis of modern politics and politicians, lyrics from popular music, and sample lonely heart classifieds.  At all times, the focus is on the Dutch mindset, Dutch attitudes, and where they come from.  I found the book to be very informative, and I would recommend it to anyone planning a long or short visit in the Netherlands.	2003-01-29
1277980:US	51917998	RGB4CZ3NN95R0	0782129900	203465612	The Complete PC Upgrade & Maintenance Guide, 12th Ed.	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Ultimate Hardware Book	Some of the best advice I've ever had about computer books came from a pair of friends who happened to be married to each other.  The husband told me, \\"If you're looking for a reference manual, always buy the smallest one on the market so that you'll carry it around with you.\\"  The wife said \\"Always buy the biggest, fattest book on the market because it has all the answers.\\"  In this case, the wife happened to be right- -with its 1400 pages and 2 CDs, this book is certainly the biggest, fattest PC hardware book that I've seen on the market.  It also contains the clearest writing and most useful information that I've seen for books of its type.  This book will tell you how to upgrade your hard drive, choose a new video card, protect your computer from lightning strikes, and a lot of other important facts besides.  But it's too big and bulky to make it easy to carry around.<br />The book is written at a level that just about anyone can understand.  If you are comfortable plugging in the wires in the back of your computer and you can tell one end of a screwdriver from another, you should be able to tackle just about any hardware installation or upgrade job using this book.  It's not just for beginners, however; even experienced technicians will find useful information in the book.  The book is not written specifically for the A+ Certification exams, but it covers the core hardware concepts for the exams.  A lab manual is also available for the book.  The lab manual contains study questions as well as detailed instructions for common tasks.<br />Almost every chapter of the book starts with a \\"QuickSteps\\" section that summarizes what you need to do to complete common hardware tasks.  The remainder of the chapter explains how the piece of hardware works, a little about its history, and provides more detailed installation information.  The first of the 2 accompanying CD-ROMs contains video clips that demonstrate some common tasks.  The other CD-ROM contains some useful utility programs and some A+ review materials (in a very clunky interface- -not very well done compared to others on the market) as well as some additional chapters and appendices.  I had trouble running the video clips in the DVD-CD drive of my new IBM laptop running Windows 2000.  However, they seem to run fine in the CD drive of my old IBM laptop.tility programs and some A+ review materials (in a very clunky interface- -not very well done compared to others on the market) as well as some additional chapters and appendices.  I had trouble running the video clips in the DVD-CD drive of my new IBM laptop running Windows 2000.  However, they seem to run fine in the CD drive of my old IBM laptop.	2003-01-07
1287617:US	51917998	RFONUSQO0ER32	0778700569	722592586	Artificial Intelligence: Robotics and Machine Evolution (Megatech)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Stuffed with facts	This book presents an exciting and challenging introduction to artificial intelligence and robotics for young people (probably ages 8-12).  Jefferis describes many aspects of artificial intelligence, from the history of the field, to how computers work, robot sensors, gaming, neural networks, robot companions, and robot ethics.  Each topic gets a 2-page spread, with at least as much space devoted to pictures as text.  The text itself is clear and understandable, yet it doesn't come across as being dumbed down for kids.  At the end of the book is an AI historical timeline, a glossary, and an index.	2002-12-31
1290043:US	51917998	R1RH8JL8882IKB	0691006393	177046624	The Private Life of Plants	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Big picture botany	This book presents an overview of many areas of botany.  The book is written in an informal style for the general reader rather than specialists or university students.  Nevertheless, it contains a wealth of facts and information about hundreds, if not thousands of plant species.  What I especially liked about the book is that it doesn't get bogged down in details when discussing topics such as seed dispersal or pollination.  Instead, Attenborough has done an admirable job of explaining the issues in very clear language.  He also provides numerous examples and anecdotes, along with several full color photos on every page.  The photos certainly make this book a fine volume for the coffee table.  As an aside, Attenborough is a British author, so some of his examples are of British or European plants that Americans may not be familiar with.  At times, Attenborough's almost anti-academic style can also go a little overboard, such as when he rejects the standard practice of italicizing Latin species names.  Nevertheless, the book is quite well written, and will be of interest to anyone who likes plants or photography.  It could also serve as a science resource for home schoolers.	2002-12-29
1296386:US	51917998	R30CX1SXDENP7V	0198167172	622156607	Indian Music and the West (Clarendon Paperbacks)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Quite interesting	This book presents numerous examples of interactions between Indian music and the West since the 18 th century.  The book is organized into chronologically ordered chapters, starting in the late Eighteenth century, proceeding through the Nineteenth century, the early Twentieth century and the late Twentieth century.  It includes a discography for the late Twentieth century chapter, as well as an extensive list of sources and bibliography.  The book is scholarly in style, and well footnoted.  Nevertheless, the text is quite engaging throughout.<br />The coverage of the material is in some places overly general, going beyond musical topics to such issues as race relations and colonialism.  Early in the book, Farrell briefly discusses Edward Said's \\"Orientalism\\", and some parts of this book examine Orientalism in music in light of some of Said's ideas.  On the other hand, other parts of the book are quite detailed, even discussing individual concerts that took place 100 years ago.  This juxtaposition of general comments and details feels at times as if the book was actually written as individual papers, to be published separately, rather than as one long coherent work.  In contrast to the broad title, the text focuses mostly on Hindustani classical music, although Carnatic classical music is occasionally mentioned, as well as film music<br />Farrell's discussions center around the lack of understanding of Hindustani music displayed by British and American audiences and musicians.  He describes how British colonialists tried to transcribe Indian music in the Eighteenth century, how British and American audiences couldn't distinguish between fake and authentic Indian music, and how rock musicians tried to play sitar without any understanding of Indian music. He puzzles over why only jazz and rock musicians have experimented with Indian music, and not classical musicians, and why Indian classical music has been interesting to fans of world music, but not Indian pop music.  I don't find such issues so mysterious- -after all, classical music is by definition based on a conventional standard, so we wouldn't expect experimentation with Indian music by Western classical musicians.  On the other hand, world music fans want to hear something new and different.  Indian classical music is certainly different, but Indian pop music, even though it might use some traditional instruments or rhythms, sounds too much like pop music everywhere else to be particularly interesting to outsiders.<br />I find other facets of the interactions between the West and Indian music to be much more interesting, such as the possible historical links between many classical Western music instruments and classical Indian instruments (the nagaswaram and the oboe, for instance, or the sitar, oud, and guitar).  Or the willingness of Indian classical musicians and their audiences to adopt new instruments from the West, such as the violin, saxophone, mandolin, or even Hawaiian steel guitar.  Since they are adopting these instruments into their own classical tradition, it seems very different from Western rock musicians experimenting with sitar.  From the title of this book, I expected at least some exploration into issues such as these, but Farrell never mentions them.I don't find such issues so mysterious- -after all, classical music is by definition based on a conventional standard, so we wouldn't expect experimentation with Indian music by Western classical musicians.  On the other hand, world music fans want to hear something new and different.  Indian classical music is certainly different, but Indian pop music, even though it might use some traditional instruments or rhythms, sounds too much like pop music everywhere else to be particularly interesting to outsiders.  <br />I find other facets of the interactions between the West and Indian music to be much more interesting, such as the possible historical links between many classical Western music instruments and classical Indian instruments (the nagaswaram and the oboe, for instance, or the sitar, oud, and guitar).  Or the willingness of Indian classical musicians and their audiences to adopt new instruments from the West, such as the violin, saxophone, mandolin, or even Hawaiian steel guitar.  Since they are adopting these instruments into their own classical tradition, it seems very different from Western rock musicians experimenting with sitar.  From the title of this book, I expected at least some exploration into issues such as these, but Farrell never mentions them.	2002-12-22
1305462:US	51917998	R1KTVOCXSDJ7FL	0679772626	943567493	The Secrets of Mariko: A Year in the Life of a Japanese Woman and Her Family	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Window into another lifestyle	This book provides glimpses of the lifestyle of an average Japanese housewife.  Written by a journalist rather than an anthropologist, the author explores the life and important events of Mariko over the course of a year.  Through the author's interviews, we learn the history of the family and the views of Mariko, her husband and children on such topics as family life, parenting, and work.  As a journalist, Bumiller is quite interested in Japanese opinions and attitudes about current events, so Mariko and her family explain some of their complex feelings about the U.S.  We visit the children's schools and work places, and see where they go on vacation.  Along the way, Bumiller also interviews prominent Japanese who are in some way connected to aspects of Mariko's life, such as politicians, the head of the mob, and a talk show host.  By the end of the book, readers are familiar with many details of average Japanese family life, something that would be unattainable unless one were to either grow up in Japan or live for long enough in Japan to develop close friendships with locals.  But even Bumiller points out that she has only scratched the surface, and there is much about Mariko's life that we can never comprehend just by reading a book.	2002-12-14
1328899:US	51917998	R1UB0G8XB9S8DS	0937321052	276300073	Women of Mongolia	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Snapshots	This book is a series of short interviews with Mongolian women about their wives.  The author was apparently in Mongolia in the early 1990s to conduct archeological research.  While she was there, she talked to women of all walks of life about their jobs, their families, and their dreams.  Included in this collection are talks with diplomats and doctors, camel herders and street sweepers.  Avery presents these interviews as short first person monologues.  Many of the stories are accompanied by photographs.  I found the book quite fascinating, and wished that the photographs could have been printed in color. This book will be of interest to anyone who wants to learn about the conditions of Mongolian women shortly after the fall of communism.	2002-11-24
1329074:US	51917998	R39BZ3JVLZ0E6E	8185163251	403271097	Carnatic Music and the Tamils	Books	2	2	2	N	N	For insiders only	This book is a history of Carnatic music from ancient times (the Sangam age = 0-300AD) to the turn of the 19 th century.  It is organized according to the major musical treatises in Indian music history, including separate chapters for the Sangam age, the Silappatikaram age, the Pallava age, etc. on through Tyagaraja and the post-Trinity composers.  For each age, Kuppuswami summarizes the contemporary conception of music theory, the ragas and talas that were commonly used, and the instruments that were popular.  The book is focused on music history, and has very little, if any information about general Tamil culture.<br />As someone who is not a specialist in Carnatic music, I found the text to be extremely oblique.  A typical sentence might be as follows: \\"The `Navagraha kritis' were composed at the request of `Suddamaddalam Tampiyappan', who could not propitiate the nine `grahas' as enjoined by the rigour of the `Sastras.'\\"  If the terms make sense to you, then you may find the book quite interesting.  On the other hand, if you are not South Indian or are not familiar with Carnatic music, you will spend a lot of time scratching your head as you try to deduce the meaning.  In general, I found sections of the text to be rather disorganized and repetitious, and rules of capitalization were unique.  Nevertheless, the book may prove a valuable resource, since it collates information from many sources (which are very well documented) and presents the information in English.  Carnatic music specialists may find valuable gems if they dig deeply.  Read quickly though, because the paper that the book is printed on is not designed to last.	2002-11-24
1339939:US	51917998	R323L2F4B140KR	0824049462	175044443	South Asia : The Indian Subcontinent (Garland Encyclopedia of World Music, Volume 5)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Fantastic resource	This is a very informative collection of articles covering many aspects of South Asian music.  It includes articles about North and South Indian classical traditions, folk traditions, dance, and popular music.  There are also many articles about the role of music in society, women in music in South Asia, and South Asian music worldwide.  Each region of South Asia is also covered with individual chapters.  Many of the musical concepts and structures are exemplified in the accompanying CD; the relevant CD tracks are clearly noted in the text.<br />Living in Dubai, I have found myself immersed in South Asian culture, and recently started studying carnatic music on the veena, simply because it was here.  Lacking all knowledge of the contexts in which the veena is played, I found myself floundering in my studies.  The first teachers I worked with here either haven't had enough English or enough music theory studies to explain the music.  I searched on the Net for information about carnatic music, but found that most of the information was written by Indians for Indians, using terms that I don't understand or can't make sense of.  What makes this book different is that it is written for Western audiences, and the Indian terms are fully explained.  As a result, this book has been a tremendous resource for me in explaining the music theory that I was struggling with, as well as the context of the music in Indian society.  I've never read an encyclopedia cover to cover before, but once I got started reading this one, I couldn't stop.	2002-11-14
1340802:US	51917998	RJNX8SFNPRDZ9	0072193638	934474595	Mike Meyers' A+ Certification Passport	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Fairly concise and easy to read	This book is a study guide for the A+ Certification exam.  Like the exam, it is organized into 2 parts, hardware and operating systems.  The text is quite easy to read compared to other technical guides of its type.  The book is clearly a study guide, and would not be very useful as a guide for fixing hardware or software problems.  The chapters and information are quite concise and geared towards letting the reader know what kinds of topics and questions might appear on the exams. Nevertheless, Meyers does include comments based on his own experience with computer work that seem quite useful.  Each chapter identifies exam objectives and includes exam tips as well as sample questions and answers.  The book includes quite a few high quality photographs that are very useful for clarifying information.  The accompanying CD-ROM has two sample exams, one for hardware and one for software.  Users can choose to view answers and explanations for the exam questions.  I had no problems installing the exam software on my computer in Win2000.<br />Overall, I found the book somewhat useful, but not perfect.  There were a few areas where I needed more information that goes beyond the simple review format found in the book.  In several chapters, at least one of the review questions covered material from another chapter.  I wasn't sure, but it seemed that the topics of a few of the questions from the CD-ROM exams weren't mentioned in the book at all.  If you already have pretty good knowledge about computer hardware and operating systems and you are looking for a concise A+ test review guide, this book may help you.  But if you are looking to learn more about how hardware works and how to upgrade hardware yourself, it might be better to look for a book with more in-depth coverage.	2002-11-14
1351723:US	51917998	R17GWIY2YET481	0891760083	12200435	Pioneer, Go Home!	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A real gem	This book tells the saga of the Kwimpers of Cranbury County, New Jersey, who decide to teach the government a lesson by homesteading on the fill that was trucked in to support a highway bridge.  The story is told through the voice of Toby Kwimper, the family's eldest son, an elementary school football star (he never got much further than elementary school on account of repeating so much), who the girls all find irresistible.  Of course, Toby has his own way of resisting the girls so that they don't get the better of him.  In fact, through honesty and good will, Toby manages to persevere through all the calamities that the government, the neighbors, and Mother Nature can think to throw at him, his family.  This book was sheer delight to read.  I just hope Toby's still out there on his land in Columbiana because I would love to meet him someday.	2002-11-04
1372336:US	51917998	R20AA2M5HZYRY	0201703394	269746503	Stop Stealing Sheep & Find Out How Type Works (2nd Edition)	Books	4	38	49	N	N	Not for beginners	This book presents a graphic designer's overview of typography.  It begins with an anecdote to explain its odd title: \\"In 1936 Frederic Goudy was in New York City to receive an award for excellence in type design.  Upon accepting a certificate, he took one look at it and declared that `Anyone who would letterspace black letter would steal sheep.'\\"  The authors note at the end of the anecdote that they hope the readers \\"will understand and be amused by Mr. Goudy's pronouncement\\" by the end of the book.  As a typography beginner, I never did understand exactly what Goudy was saying, even by the end of the book.  Spiekermann and Ginger assume that readers are already familiar with terms like \\"letterspace\\", and never explain them explicitly in the book.  As a result, I'm still scratching my head- -just what did Mr. Goudy's certificate look like?  What was so wrong, and why?  As someone who does not have a background in typography or graphic design, I found quite a few other sections of this book equally perplexing.<br />Nevertheless, graphic designers who are somewhat familiar with typography will find a lot of valuable information in this book.  Throughout the book, the authors describe situations and tasks, and provide samples of various fonts that would be suitable for these tasks.  In each instance, they discuss reasons for choosing one font over another, or why the fonts were developed.  If you're a designer or an artist who works frequently with type, then you probably have the necessary background to make sense of this book.  But real beginners in typography may find Robin Williams' books (for example, \\"The Non-designer's Design Book) more helpful in developing a basic understanding of the subject.	2002-10-18
1383300:US	51917998	R2NMB92UL0887G	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Eye opening	This book describes all aspects of the fast food business, from the potato fields to the plastic playgrounds.  Schlosser details the stories of the founding of the big fast food chains in California in the 1940s and 1950s, noting the reasons why the concept of assembly-line food took off there and then. He then continues by describing the modern companies that the early fast food chains have developed into.  He investigates who minds the herds, slaughters the meat, peels the potatoes, and fries the burgers.  He paints a very frightening picture, which includes slaughter houses filled with homeless, uninsured migrant workers from Mexico, under-aged teens at the fry-olators whose \\"training\\" minimum wage is subsidized by taxpayers, and franchising systems that border on pyramid schemes.  And then there are all those ads aimed at children, hoping to get them hooked on the fast food habit early and learn successful techniques to manipulate their parents into taking them to fast food restaurants as often as possible, keeping those seats warm.  It's been about 10 years since I last set foot in a McDonald's.  After reading this book, it'll be at least 100 more before I would ever consider visiting again.  Overall, the book is very well written.  Interested readers will find Schlosser's sources documented in notes at the end of the book, as well as an extensive bibliography.	2002-10-08
1387237:US	51917998	R1SDI8KRHO3L5Y	0716732106	425781487	Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers: An Updated Guide to Stress, Stress Related Diseases, and Coping (2nd Edition)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Great writing	This book provides an excellent introduction to the physiology of stress and stress hormones.  Although it includes a few suggestions for stress reduction at the end, this is much more of a science book than a self-help book.  Starting from the first chapter, Sapolsky describes the hormones that the body produces in stressful conditions, and the effects that the those hormones have on the various systems of the body.  Throughout the book, Sapolsky reminds us that he is describing truly stressful situations--such as when an individual is being chased by a lion.  In such situations, the stress hormones concentrate energy to the muscles needed for escape, and bring long-term processes such as digestion to a halt.  This is great for escaping from lions, but if stressful conditions continue or are frequent, the effects brought about by these hormones can lead to a reduced immune system response, depression or heart disease, among other problems.  Sapolsky also describes how the response to stressors differs across individuals, and how certain groups of people are more prone to stress and stress-related diseases than others.  The book is quite dense, and can't be read in an afternoon.  However, Sapolsky's writing is exceptionally clear and enjoyable.  It's one of the best written general science books that I've come across in quite a while.	2002-10-05
1402024:US	51917998	R15BHTUGMB951I	0684832674	794734184	Where Wizards Stay Up Late: The Origins Of The Internet	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great story	This book provides excellent documentation about the origins of the Internet.  The authors conducted hundreds of interviews, which they combined with facts gleamed from thousands of pages of archived materials dating back to the very beginnings of the Net.  I've been teaching courses about the Internet for several years, and so I was already familiar with the general timeline of who did what and when.  What was fascinating to me about this book was that the authors made it possible to get to know the personalities behind the names and faces.  They discussed the motivations of these leaders, the challenges they faced, and the tremendous amount of cooperation that they engaged in.  The early part of the book was especially engaging, when the authors discuss the early motivations for setting up ARPANET through the construction of the first 2 nodes.  As the Net begins to grow, adding more nodes monthly, Hafner and Lyon must cut back on the level of detail they provide about the main players because so much happens so fast.  At that point, my eyes glazed over a little, but overall, I found the book incredibly exciting, and a very important contribution to the history of the Net.	2002-09-21
1402063:US	51917998	RH70WQHN5HSED	1560983574	203189811	The Chocolate Tree: A Natural History of Cacao (Smithsonian Nature Books)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Very informative	This book is very aptly titled.  It is exactly a natural history of the cocoa tree, a biography of a plant.  I've never read a book quite like this before- -an entire book written about the detailed life cycle, evolution, and economic uses of a single plant.  Although the book covers all aspects of the cocoa tree, it does emphasize the author's research on the pollinators of the cocoa tree.  It was fascinating to learn how difficult it is to cultivate this rain forest plant commercially, and the science behind why it is difficult to do so.  The book is written in an academic style with many citations to the published literature on the cocoa tree.  The book also includes a listing of common names and scientific names for all plants and animals mentioned in the text.  Despite the academic bent, the book is written for general audiences, and is not too technical.  Anyone with a deep interest in the cultivation of cocoa will be interested in this book, as well as anyone with a general interest in the botany of the tropical rainforest.	2002-09-21
1402559:US	51917998	R2Y3H6SES2MSJ7	0781807662	299219637	Taste of Romania: Its Cookery and Glimpses of Its History, Folklore, Art, Literature, and Poetry (New Hippocrene Original Cookbooks)	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Excellent cookbook	This book is an all-around great cookbook.  To be honest, I had never heard of Romanian cuisine before and picked up the book on a whim.  I'm glad I did because the book introduced me to a delicious culture that I had never sampled before.  The recipes in the book are grouped into the following chapters: appetizers, salads, egg dishes, soups, polenta, fish dishes, meat dishes, poultry dishes, vegetable dishes, dumplings, sauces, desserts, wines, preserves, and Jewish dishes.  I found good recipes in each chapter, some fancy, and some that can be whipped up in minutes.  Interspersed throughout the book are short history lessons about Romania, fairy tales, and poetry, as well as Klepper's comments explaining the cooking culture.  The book also includes a bibliography, a place and personal name index, and English recipe index, a Romanian recipe index, a brief pronunciation guide, an English-Romanian-French food dictionary, and even an American-British food dictionary (surprisingly useful!).  If you're looking for a Romanian cookbook, this is a great one.  And if you're just looking for some interesting and tasty new recipes, you'll find some here.	2002-09-21
1408840:US	51917998	R35EFAKJZZNJVU	014027555X	550012820	Spoiled: The Dangerous Truth about a Food Chain Gone Haywire	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Will change the way you eat	This book is a brilliant investigation into the present state of our food supply.  Many of us have read scattered news items about food poisoning outbreaks here and there, but have never really noticed what's been happening to our food supply.  In this book, Fox brings together hundreds of stories of outbreaks, and through them, brings the elusive big picture into focus.  Fox takes us behind the burger counters back to the factory farm, where chickens are sick, and cows are fattened up on the dung and bedding from the sick chickens.  The manure from the chicken-dung eating cows is spread on apple orchards, and all of the sudden organic apple cider must be pasteurized to kill the e. coli.  Before reading this book, I wondered why eating raw cookie dough never made me sick as a child, but now we're cautioned never even to consider such dangerous habits.  As Fox explains, eating raw eggs wasn't dangerous before, but thanks to modern agribusiness practices, chickens have salmonella in their ovaries, so all eggs must be assumed to be tainted  As a result, the only safe egg these days is one whose yolk is cooked solid- -eating eggs sunny-side up is akin to Russian roulette.<br />Fox's main message is that it is vitally important to know who grew your food and how, as well as who cooked your food.  If you choose to eat meat, you should know where the meat came from.  In the interests of making a profit, factory farms feed meat and milk animals waste products including diseased animal parts and dung.  Even if the animals are able to digest such a diet, bacteria and other pathogens from such a diet eventually end up on our plates.  Hamburger meat is exceptionally risky since a single pound can include meat from hundreds of individual cows, and if any one of those hundreds carries a pathogen, the entire lot of meat will be tainted.  The only way to be reasonably sure of getting healthy meat is to purchase it from a farmer that you know, someone whose farm you can visit in person.  Meanwhile, food handlers and preparers seem to be less and less familiar with basic rules of food safety.  Fox mentions supermarket workers who don't know the dangers of dented or bulging cans, and teenagers earning minimum wage frying meat at burger joints who have never cooked anything before in their lives.  She stresses how important it is not to assume that food is safe just because it is on sale.  Sure, the USDA, FDA, and threat of lawsuits give the consumer some protection, but a lawsuit is of little use in bringing a child back to life after a little case of food poisoning.<br />Living in Dubai, my husband and I experience at least one incidence of food poisoning per month, despite being cautious about where and what we eat.  We have learned to inspect every package carefully in the supermarket, considering the country of origin, the condition of the container, and the manner in which the goods are stored.  In restaurants, we choose our food not by what looks tastiest, but instead by what is least likely to be tainted.  We've seen supermarket food handlers at the deli counter blithely lift dripping raw chickens over cooked ones and we've become vegetarians out of necessity. In this book, Fox argues that it's up to American consumers to see that their food supply doesn't continue to go the same way.erson.  Meanwhile, food handlers and preparers seem to be less and less familiar with basic rules of food safety.  Fox mentions supermarket workers who don't know the dangers of dented or bulging cans, and teenagers earning minimum wage frying meat at burger joints who have never cooked anything before in their lives.  She stresses how important it is not to assume that food is safe just because it is on sale.  Sure, the USDA, FDA, and threat of lawsuits give the consumer some protection, but a lawsuit is of little use in bringing a child back to life after a little case of food poisoning.<br />Living in Dubai, my husband and I experience at least one incidence of food poisoning per month, despite being cautious about where and what we eat.  We have learned to inspect every package carefully in the supermarket, considering the country of origin, the condition of the container, and the manner in which the goods are stored.  In restaurants, we choose our food not by what looks tastiest, but instead by what is least likely to be tainted.  We've seen supermarket food handlers at the deli counter blithely lift dripping raw chickens over cooked ones and we've become vegetarians out of necessity. In this book, Fox argues that it's up to American consumers to see that their food supply doesn't continue to go the same way.	2002-09-14
1415282:US	51917998	R2Y6ZPQ76V6WBU	0072909382	32731359	Economic Botany: Plants in our World	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Comprehensive	This book is a comprehensive introduction to the botany of economically important plants.  Approximately half the book is devoted to food plants, with separate chapters for temperate fruits, tropical fruits, grains, legumes, and vegetables.  In each of these chapters, a basic botanical description is provided for each major crop as well as snippets of information about this history or culture usage of the crop.  The remainder of the book covers non-food uses of plants, with chapters devoted to spices, herbs, and perfumes; vegetable oils and waxes; hydrogels, latexes, and resins; medicinal plants; psychoactive drugs and poisons; stimulating beverages; alcoholic beverages; fibers, dyes, and tannins; wood, cork, and bamboo; ornamental plants; and economically important uses of algae.  The text, especially in the later chapters, also explains how the plants are processed to form the finally product and includes numerous diagrams as well as pictures.  The book includes suggested readings, a glossary, and an index, but it does not have study questions.  The authors note that they saved money by not using any color photos, since they are so readily available on the Internet, but it would have been nice to point readers to specific sites to view such pictures if they so wished.<br />Overall, the text is fairly complete, although there are a few omissions and sloppy errors.  For example, I was quite puzzled over lack of coverage of the entire ribes family in the temperate fruits section.  Perhaps currants and gooseberries aren't well known in the US today, but they were in the past, and they are certainly important in Europe.  In the vegetable section, the authors note that spinach is a good source of folic acid and they suggest that \\"It may have been the folic acid . . . as well as the iron that helped give Popeye his energy.\\"  Unfortunately, they didn't critically examine spinach as a source of iron; it is well known today that many other vegetables have much more iron and that the iron in spinach is not as readily absorbable as that found in other vegetables.  Such cursory treatment will ensure that readers who are not aware of the limited value of spinach as a source of iron will continue to be misinformed.  Rather than treating such subjects so briefly, it would have been better to set the facts straight.  In addition to these minor problems, there were a few strange typos that should have been caught, especially in a third edition, such as \\"Uzbeckistan\\", and mis-converting Celsius to Fahrenheit \\"Deciduous trees on the south and west sides . . . reduce temperatures as much as 5 C to 5.5 C (41 to 42 F) inside.\\"  Wow!  Those are some trees!<br />Aside from these small limitations, the book might be useful as a textbook for an undergraduate  economic botany class.  It might also be of interest to garden enthusiasts, although it's rather dry reading.that the iron in spinach is not as readily absorbable as that found in other vegetables.  Such cursory treatment will ensure that readers who are not aware of the limited value of spinach as a source of iron will continue to be misinformed.  Rather than treating such subjects so briefly, it would have been better to set the facts straight.  In addition to these minor problems, there were a few strange typos that should have been caught, especially in a third edition, such as \\"Uzbeckistan\\", and mis-converting Celsius to Fahrenheit \\"Deciduous trees on the south and west sides . . . reduce temperatures as much as 5 C to 5.5 C (41 to 42 F) inside.\\"  Wow!  Those are some trees!<br />Aside from these small limitations, the book might be useful as a textbook for an undergraduate  economic botany class.  It might also be of interest to garden enthusiasts, although it's rather dry reading.	2002-09-08
1415736:US	51917998	R2DS58JUTQ8VW0	0198504438	692033161	Was It Something You Ate?: Food Intolerance: What Causes It and How to Avoid It	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Very informative	This book presents a very informative introduction to foods that make people sick.  The authors, a university chemistry professor and an allergist MD are quite knowledgeable. They present the mainstream scientific research on food intolerance in a way that is easy to comprehend for the general reader.  Dr. Emsley's interest in chemistry is evident throughout the book as he explains the biochemistry of what happens to the food we put in our bodies as well as the chemistry behind food intolerance symptoms.<br />Emsley and Fell are very clear on what is a food allergy and what is not.  They explain that a person is properly said to have an allergy to food only if his or her immune system is involved in a negative response, and that true food allergies are not very common.  On the other hand, many other people, perhaps as many as 20%, are intolerant of certain foods.  According to the authors, this intolerance is because they lack the ability to break down the food into usable chemical substances.  Food intolerance can cause many of the same symptoms as food allergies, but it is also implicated in such problems as headaches or mood disorders; in rare occasions, food intolerance attacks can even be fatal.<br />With their definition of food intolerance as any situation where the body is overwhelmed by the chemicals in what has been consumed, the authors go beyond standard \\"problem foods\\" identified in other books on the topic (such as biogenic amines, salicylates, and sulfites).  For example, they discuss how alcohol is broken down chemically in the body, and the chemistry behind drunkenness and hangovers.  They also discuss the toxins involved in food poisoning, a very extreme type of intolerance reaction that everyone is susceptible to.<br />Overall, I found this book highly informative, much more so than books that lump all food problems into the allergy category.  The book includes a brief guide to nutrition and food for a healthy lifestyle, but these sections seem almost an afterthought.  The book doesn't include a special diet or treatment plan.  Instead, its main strength is the scientific explanations of what happens in a food intolerance attack.  I think it will go a long way towards helping me understand why I can nibble some foods, but not indulge freely.  In general, it's great for patient information, but MDs and naturopaths may also find much of interest.almost an afterthought.  The book doesn't include a special diet or treatment plan.  Instead, its main strength is the scientific explanations of what happens in a food intolerance attack.  I think it will go a long way towards helping me understand why I can nibble some foods, but not indulge freely.  In general, it's great for patient information, but MDs and naturopaths may also find much of interest.	2002-09-08
1469765:US	51917998	R8J6SRMTUITOI	0253205360	852029960	Behind the Urals: An American Worker in Russia's City of Steel	Books	5	43	46	N	N	Fascinating	This book is a first-person account of work life in the Soviet Union in the 1930s.  Disenchanted with opportunities in Depression America in 1931, Scott takes off for the Workers' Paradise.  He finds a job as a welder building the massive steelworks in the new Soviet city of Magnitogorsk in the Ural Mountains.  Altogether, he spent six years living and working in Magnitogorsk until he lost his job due to Stalin's purges.<br />The conditions that Scott found himself working in are simply incredible.  He rose well before dawn and went to work outdoors in -30 degree temperatures with no breakfast.  Lunch, the major meal of the day, was a hunk of bread and some watery soup with perhaps a slice of tough meat.  Work place injuries were extremely common, due to the cold, lack of food and lack of training or safety equipment.  For example, Scott describes an incident where he was working high above the ground and saw something, or rather, somebody, go sailing past only to the pipes below.  As a foreigner, Scott knew some first aid, so he was always called on to care for such injuries when they occurred at the work site.  In addition to describing work life and living conditions, Scott also discusses the educational and training systems that were in place and spare time activities such as vacations.  He also includes some anecdotes about ex-pat workers who he met in Magnitogorsk.<br />Scott remains objective throughout the book, making the message of the book extremely powerful, much more so than if he had pressed political arguments or personal viewpoints.  A particularly interesting facet of the book is its discussion of the purges of the 1930s and speculation on their cause.  Few other outsiders were living inside Soviet society at the time, so Scott's views can be uniquely enlightening about how Soviets perceived what was happening to their society and why.  Scott identifies several possible causes for the purges, but seems to place great emphasis on the fear of foreign saboteurs and does not mention Stalin's personality at all as a possible cause.  Area specialists and historians will find much of interest in this book, as will casual readers.saboteurs and does not mention Stalin's personality at all as a possible cause.  Area specialists and historians will find much of interest in this book, as will casual readers.	2002-07-19
1474916:US	51917998	R3311WOMC42YWL	8020200878	260211406	Tricet let na zlatem severu (Edice Slunovrat) (Czech Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Details of a life long ago and far away	This book (published in English in 1932 as &quot;Thirty Years in the Golden North&quot; by MacMillan) is the memoirs of man who set out for adventure in the northernmost corners of the world in 1893.  At the time, Jan Welzl was working on the Siberian Railway.  Co-workers told him that \\"the Far North was a country where any man with a good pair of hands and good head on his shoulders could make himself independent.\\"  So Welzl struck off for the North, first with a horse, later a team of reindeer, and finally, with a pack of dogs.  After several years journey, Welzl ends up in New Siberia, where he sets up housekeeping, and later shop, in a cave far above the Artic Circle.<br />This book is long on stories and short on historical detail that can pin down exact dates and locations, so we might expect some facts to be muddled or exaggerated.  Nevertheless, the overall story is quite believable, and some of the details that Welzl provides about life in the North can be quite revealing.  For example, Welzl describes Northern \\"dentistry\\", and other medical procedures, and he explains the relations and interdependencies between the settlers, Eskimos, and whalers, as well as the typical methods used for finding gold.  Welzl boasts of hundreds of thousands of dollars of profit that he made in his trading business, which sounds a bit less credible, but perhaps this potentially reflects a separate currency system in operation in the Far North during those times.  This book cannot be taken as an accurate historical record of the Far North, but it does contain many hints and could be a very useful starting point for further research.  It's also quite captivating in its own right.	2002-07-15
1475469:US	51917998	R17TNCTQ1XU1XI	0394412524	182772491	The Wild Boy of Burundi: A study of an outcast child	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Strange book	This book tells the story of how an urban myth played out in the hands of the two writers.  A 1976 Johannesburg Times article about a Burundian boy raised by a band of monkeys fell into the hands of Harlan Lanes.  Lane was recognized as an expert on feral children, having recently published a book on Victor of Aveyron, the well-documented feral child of nineteenth century France.  When writing about Victor, Lane had naturally had to rely exclusively on the incomplete written records of the time.  Given what he could discover from the written records, Lane speculated that Victor was not autistic, as some people claimed, and that his persistent communication and social disturbances had more likely come from a different source.  As presented here, the story of a modern boy raised by animals in the wild was an opportunity for a potentially fascinating and awe-inspiring research project for Lane.<br />The book flips between a travel memoir and an ordinary prose discussion written for general audiences about the scientific research on feral children.  As travel memoir, it also flips between the two authors, Lane and Pillard.  About the first third of the book describes in detail the preparations for their expedition to Burundi, leaving some readers wondering when they will actually get on with the trip.  However, as the book progresses, and it gradually becomes clear that the story is a hoax, and that the boy in question is an ordinary developmentally disabled boy who probably is autistic and had spent almost of all of his life in orphanages, we begin to see that there almost wouldn't be a story at all if the authors hadn't written so extensively about their preparations.  After the stories of the pre-trip press conferences and talk show appearances, it almost seems as if the authors had to write the book.  Whether the book was written to justify their expenditures and publicity, to satisfy a prior book contract, or to give the public closure to the tale, it's hard to judge at this point, some 25 years later.<br />What does this book offer us today?  As a book for general readers on feral children, it's rather limited, especially since it doesn't contain citations to other work or a bibliography.  Perhaps it's greatest value is the honest tale it tells of academics who were originally taken by an urban myth.ge at this point, some 25 years later.  <br />What does this book offer us today?  As a book for general readers on feral children, it's rather limited, especially since it doesn't contain citations to other work or a bibliography.  Perhaps it's greatest value is the honest tale it tells of academics who were originally taken by an urban myth.	2002-07-15
1495931:US	51917998	R7HD5FLTY8IFS	0060958049	751684216	Letters from the Field, 1925-1975	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Interesting	This book is a collection of letters written by Margaret Mead to friends and family while she was working in the field.  The letters span her entire career, from 1925 until 1975, and are accompanied in every chapter by photos by and of Mead.  I found the letters quite intriguing, both for what they said as well as for what they didn't say.  Some of the letters provide travelogue-like details of what conditions were like at her research sites.  Some tell us a little more of what she was really thinking about the people and cultures that she later wrote formal descriptions of.  Some of the later letters are quite formal, more journal entries than personal letters.<br />I found some of the most interesting materials actually to be the short introductions that Mead wrote at the beginning of each chapter, where she glosses quickly over the enormous upheavals in her personal life.  In chapter 1, she says goodbye to her \\"student husband, Luther Cressman.\\"  In the next chapter, she notes that she stopped in Auckland on her way to the Admiralty Islands to marry Reo Fortune before starting her 1928-29 research project in Manus.  Then in chapter 5, she stops in Singapore to marry Gregory Bateson in preparation for their 1936-1939 project in Bali.  Since I had only read Mead's professional writings before, the book's casual mentions of frequent successive marriages aroused some curiosity about her personal life.  A quick Web search revealed quite a bit more, including a long-standing connection with Ruth Benedict (see for example &quot;Margaret Mead and Ruth Benedict: The Kinship of Women&quot; by Hilary Lapsley).  If you are interested in the life and work of Margaret Mead, this book will give you some insight into Mead's own opinions of what she was observing that go beyond the objective descriptions found in her formal works.	2002-06-27
1515662:US	51917998	R2JF2XQX9HMV1P	041511425X	638370981	Sociology on the Menu: An Invitation to the Study of Food and Society	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Comprehensive overview	This book provides an overview of many topics in the sociology of food and eating.  It is organized topically into chapters, and each chapter reviews the relevant literature for the area in question.  Featured topics include: early human diets, eating out, food and community, conceptions of diet, food risks, body image, meat diets, vegetarian diets, and the role of sugar.  Overall, it is an impressive work of scholarship and it would make a good reading text for a course on food sociology.  However, a few of the chapters tend to be a little broad, and refer to the literature more than explain or summarize other authors' work.  The book is written by British-based authors, who naturally tend to focus on British statistics and research.  This may disappoint American readers who would like more statistics that are particularly relevant to them.  The entire book is written in a rather small font, which can be a bit tiresome at times, but without the small font, it doubtless would have been a much more massive volume.	2002-06-08
1530949:US	51917998	R2NRSNDYYQWX2T	0631168249	362058461	Autism: Explaining the Enigma	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Highly informative	This book explains very clearly what autism is and what it isnt.  The book reads almost like a detective story as Frith guides the reader gradually into building an understanding of the nature of autism.  She begins by simultaneously attacking the questions of how long autism has been affecting humans and whether bad parenting causes autism by reviewing the literature concerning wild or neglected children.  She notes that some of the famous cases of wild children, such as the wild boy of Aveyron were probably autistic, based on their behavior following discovery, while others such as Genie were not, in spite of extreme neglect.  Her argument is that if horrific abuse and neglect did not result in autism in Genie, then certainly any parents who treat their children better than Genies parents treated her could not be blamed in any way for causing autism in their children.<br />Friths central claim is that autism consists of a lack of drive towards central coherence.  That is, autistic individuals are unable to or unmotivated to put different pieces of information together to construct a whole.  This results in delayed language development, since autistic children  lack the drive to distinguish speech sounds from random background noises, or deduce rules of grammar from sentences they are exposed to.  Autistic individuals also have trouble learning social skills for the same reason, and they develop a very literal understanding of language.  To support this theory, Frith draws on numerous ingeniously designed psychological studies that tease apart what autistic individuals can and cannot do.<br />While Frith doesnt have any definite answers of what causes autism or how it can be prevented, she notes that there may be genetic causes in some cases.  She also points out that about 75% of autistic individuals also have additional mental handicaps.  She suggests that in many cases, perhaps even the majority, autism is just one of the problems in a brain that has suffered some sort of damage or injury during development.  Towards the end of the book, the author notes that she doesnt provide many specific ideas for treatment.  Instead, she offers her scientific explorations into the nature of autism, in the hope that others might use this information to help autistic individuals develop ways to cope with or compensate for their challenges.<br />This book is highly academic and it draws on hundreds of published studies.  It will be an essential reference for anyone interested in the topic.suffered some sort of damage or injury during development.  Towards the end of the book, the author notes that she doesnt provide many specific ideas for treatment.  Instead, she offers her scientific explorations into the nature of autism, in the hope that others might use this information to help autistic individuals develop ways to cope with or compensate for their challenges.<br />This book is highly academic and it draws on hundreds of published studies.  It will be an essential reference for anyone interested in the topic.	2002-05-26
1531451:US	51917998	R26UCQLDZC6OAN	0300075979	650494777	What a Blessing She Had Chloroform: The Medical and Social Response to the Pain of Childbirth from 1800 to the Present	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent	This book presents the historical background behind obstetric anesthesia.  In covering the developments in anesthesia, the author also summarizes major developments in the general field of medicine, especially since the 1840s.  He stresses how much medicine changed from 1800 to 1900, and how the discovery and development of anesthesia played an important role in these changes.  He also points out how medicine evolved from being based on tradition and assumptions into a truly scientific field during this period, and how by the end of this period, doctors could no longer simply claim that a procedure worked- -they actually had to prove it with carefully designed studies.<br />One trend that Caton identifies in this book is how much power patients have wielded in the decision to adopt or disregard anesthesia in childbirth.  In the 1840s, many leading women demanded the use of anesthesia from doctors who were reluctant to try the new-fangled and untested idea.  The turn of the twentieth century found feminist groups campaigning for access to anesthesia for all women who wanted it.  Nevertheless, modern feminists protest against the medicalization of childbirth, and eschew the same anesthesia that their great grandmothers fought so hard for.<br />This book is very well written.  Abundant citations to primary sources are found in the endnotes.  Some readers may find the style a bit academic.  This book isn't really intended to help a reader decide for or against a \\"natural\\" childbirth, but readers will find sound information here that gives them the background behind both sides of the debate.	2002-05-26
1539550:US	51917998	R2JXEV9N894A4V	0930031741	549301100	The Contrary Farmer (Real Goods Independent Living Book)	Books	5	62	64	N	Y	Plain talking	This is a highly enjoyable book about how to make a profit on a small farm.  The author's contention is that few people will ever get rich any more farming, but a family that's willing to work hard should be able to earn the money they need on a farm with considerably less than 100 acres.  Logsdon stresses that if you calculate a dollar value for your labor, you'll find that your hourly wage is rather low, but on the other hand, if you enjoy what you're doing, then perhaps it isn't really valid to calculate the hourly wage anyhow.  There's no arguing that farm labor is hard work, but how many city people pay large sums of money for gym memberships in order to get the exercise that they miss while sitting at their desks?  Hoeing a garden provides great exercise at no cost, as well as an income when the produce is sold.  However, on a huge factory farm, weeds must be controlled with herbicides or expensive gas-driven machinery, which brings down the profitability of the enterprise as well as damaging the environment.  Logsdon's golden rule is never to finance farming by borrowing.  He points out that \\"rates of money growth (interest) seldom match rates of biological growth,\\" so borrowing money to buy farm or equipment or land is almost always the start of a losing proposition.<br />After the first few chapters about what he terms \\"pastoral economics\\", Logsdon devotes separate chapters to each of the parts of his small farm ecosystem, the garden, the animals, water, meadows, trees, corn, mechanics, and pastures.  Although he eschews wide-spread use of pesticides, he's not an organic purist, which may rub certified organic farmers the wrong way.  He's very keen on maintaining animals like some sheep and chickens, a few pigs, and a cow or two.  Many of his observations and suggestions center around maintaining the land and feeding the animals while getting the farm to yield a modest living for himself and his family.  This book is thoroughly enjoyable to read, and contains many practical bits of advice as well as some interesting ideas to chew on.ns many practical bits of advice as well as some interesting ideas to chew on.	2002-05-18
1539921:US	51917998	R2WKDPWPKKIGJ1	0201696134	673207181	Audio on the Web: The Official IUMA Guide	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Intro to Web sound	This book provides a reasonably clear overview of how to prepare and publish audio files on the Web.  In the first few chapters, the authors explain sampling, resolution, and compression.  Then they provide instructions about how to digitize audio by plugging playback equipment into a computer sound card or ripping tracks from a CD.  Specialized terms are defined in boxes on the bottom margin of the page where the words are found.  The authors compare common Web formats, including AIFF, WAV, AU, MPEG, and RA.  They give a brief tutorial about the HTML codes for including sounds in Web pages.  Finally, they devote the last third of the book to streaming audio, with a chapter each devoted to common streaming formats, RealAudio, StreamWorks, and Liquid Audio.  The accompanying CD is very well done, providing sound samples to illustrate the concepts explained in each chapter, as well as demo or free versions of virtually all the software described in the book, including CoolEdit, SoundEdit, and RealAudio.  The book provides many detailed step-by-step instructions of procedures in the various software.  Since these kinds of instructions go out of date so quickly, I would have liked to find more in-depth general descriptions of the procedures, but overall, I found the book quite useful.	2002-05-18
1540075:US	51917998	R29OETLPEDYEXY	0226519228	660017018	Killer Algae	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Highly political	This book describes how an invasive alga was released into the Mediterranean and details the political story of why it was allowed to spread.  The alga, caulerpa taxiflora, was first discovered growing under the windows of the Oceanographic Museum of Monaco in 1989.  When Meinesz saw the alga, he approached the director of the museum and was told that the alga, being tropical in nature, would never survive the winter.  However, it did indeed survive the winter, flourished, and over the next few years spread beyond Monaco to the coast of France, Spain, and as far away as Croatia.<br />Although one section of the appendix describes the biology of the alga, the vast majority of the book is devoted to documenting the various political battles that the author fought to try to convince the authorities to take action against the spread of the alga.  Some of the behind-the-scenes tales of how the academic publishing establishment works were quite illuminating.  After reading this book, I will also be rather skeptical when I come across scientific articles in the popular press, especially newspapers, since Meinesz points out how often reporters got the details wrong or pulled other facts out of context.  When I picked up this book, I was more interested in learning the scientific and environmental implications of an invasive species, but that's not the focus of this book.	2002-05-18
1540107:US	51917998	R1W90QH5XIIJWX	047138268X	269770430	Food Allergies: The Complete Guide to Understanding and Relieving Your Food Allergies	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Now it all begins to make sense	This book is practically an encyclopedia of food allergies written for ordinary people.  The author is a physician and allergy specialist with almost 40 years of experience in the field.  He describes how in the beginning of his career, he had not been trained to recognize food allergies in his patients, but over the years, he became more and more sensitized to the kinds of symptoms that food allergies can cause.  Over time, he noted that many of his patients were allergic to the same common foods, especially what he calls the MALS foods, MSG, acidic foods, low calorie sweeteners, and sugar.  The skin tests that are so much relied on for detecting environmental allergies are less informative with food allergies.  In response, he has developed a method for identifying food allergies that uses a diet that eliminates common allergy causing foods and then gradually re-introduces them while the patient notes when the symptoms lessen or begin to reoccur.  This diet is described in the book, together with possible rotation menus and lists of additional foods that cause problems for some people and may need to be avoided.<br />If you try to read this book from cover-to-cover, you will find that it is rather repetitive at times, and the organization seems in some places to be more stream-of-consciousness rather than logical.  At times the avoidance of technical language or explanations seems almost evasive, and it's amazing how a doctor could write an entire book about allergies without once using the word histamine.  Since the book is addressed to general readers, it does not contain in-text references to scientific studies.  Nevertheless, the bibliography is replete with such references, adding credence to Walsh's message.<br />This book confirmed many of the phenomena that I had observed about my own food sensitivities.  For example, Walsh explains that allergies are additive, so that's why I can pet a cat so long as it's not hay fever season, or I can drink a small glass of milk now and then, but not a big glass every day.  Walsh also suggests that readers should trust their instincts- -if they have a strong feeling that a food is making them sick, there is a good chance that it really is. After reading this book, there is no longer any question in my mind- -food can make you sick, and you can feel a lot better once you figure out what you've been eating that is causing you trouble.ss of milk now and then, but not a big glass every day.  Walsh also suggests that readers should trust their instincts- -if they have a strong feeling that a food is making them sick, there is a good chance that it really is. After reading this book, there is no longer any question in my mind- -food can make you sick, and you can feel a lot better once you figure out what you've been eating that is causing you trouble.	2002-05-18
1564039:US	51917998	R1XVO3KRWU7XBD	0130895687	549318267	Robotic Explorations: A Hands-On Introduction to Engineering	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Taking the next step	This book presents an introduction to various aspects of robot building and planning.  It is written as an undergraduate textbook, and contains numerous exercises throughout the text.  The book assumes that students and other readers will have access to Handyboards and LEGO Technic equipment, as well as a desktop PC and hobbyist-level soldering equipment.  The book walks the reader through analyzing a Handyboard, how to use it, how to build custom sensors and motors, and how to write programs in assembly language.  All of this information would be very useful to first-year engineering students as it would help them put theory from many of their other classes into practice.  Nevertheless, most of the tasks and programs described in the book could actually be built with a standard LEGO RCX brick.  On the other hand, a person who masters the material in this book would be able to take advantage of the extra sensors and motors that the Handyboard supports and build far more sophisticated robots than would be possible with LEGO Mindstorms equipment.  Anyone who builds robots using LEGO equipment, whether with a Handyboard or an RCX, will find information in this book about Braitenberg vehicles, LEGO design, control theory, and robotics contests quite useful.  The introduction to Assembly language in Appendix A is also presented in an easily accessible style.	2002-04-27
1564645:US	51917998	R12LM0XT1LXMOM	0684844257	306214571	Deadly Feasts: The "Prion" Controversy and the Public's Health	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Frightening	This book has the stated goal of frightening the readers, which it accomplishes quite well.  In the message to the reader at the beginning of the book, the author compares spongiform encephalophies (Mad Cow and related diseases) to Ebola, pointing out how much more common the encephalopies are, how much harder they are to kill, and how much more virulent they are.  Rhodes then traces the history of research on spongiform encephalophies, starting with Carleton Gajdusek's research on kuru in New Guinea starting in 1957.  He describes how scrapie and Mad Cow came into the picture, and how they were all found to be in the same family as Creutzfeld-Jacob disease.<br />The author seems to have several goals.  In the beginning of the book, he goes a bit overboard in trying to shock the readers, deliberating choosing questionable vocabulary such as \\"Mangrove swamps fouled its tropical coasts\\" or \\"Marriage barely tamed them\\" to describe Papua New Guinea and its inhabitants.  Later in the book, he switches his focus to the controversies created by the researchers working on spongiform encephalophies, going into great detail why Prusiner and his work on the topic is not universally accepted in the scientific community, although \\"prion\\", the word he invented to describe the pathogen behind the diseases, is now well known.<br />Overall, the book is quite informative, providing an extensive background about a family of diseases that may bring about frightful epidemics in the future.  It's also interesting as a behind-the-scenes story about how real science gets done, about what gets published by whom, and what doesn't.	2002-04-27
1568855:US	51917998	R2NYGTPJRUXK6K	0802713599	771306796	Macular Degeneration: The Latest Scientific Discoveries and Treatments for Preserving Your Sight	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Makes sense	This book gives a broad overview of this extremely common and debilitating eye disease.  The co-authors, a leading ophthalmologist and a patient with macular degeneration, present the information from both the technical point of view and the laymen's point of view.  The book covers many aspects of macular degeneration, including its definition, types, diagnosis, treatments, and coping methods.  The treatments section includes a comparison of alternative therapies as well as standard medical treatments.  There are also chapters on possible causes of macular degeneration and potential ways to lower the risk of developing the disease.  The book includes a glossary and a list of resources for further information or help.  If you or someone you know is diagnosed with macular degeneration, this book will be invaluable.	2002-04-23
1569040:US	51917998	R16LPHMXW7RVIW	0716736489	898469506	Cheating Time: Science,Sex, and Aging	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Interesting	This book provides a non-technical overview of the role that sex hormones play in aging.  The title led me to think that the book would address the entire field of aging; however, it mostly focuses on the relation of sex hormones to aging.  The first five chapters actually do summarize the general subject of the science of aging, but the information contained in these chapters is covered in more detail in other books (see Steven Austads 1997 book, for instance).  However, starting with chapter 6, Gosden hones his focus more specifically on the sex hormones and how they affect aging.  He presents the story of the discovery of the sex hormones, starting with investigations by Brown-S&eacute;quard in 1889.  In the remaining chapters, Gosden interweaves the history of sex hormones with recent discoveries about how they affect aging.  The book is written for general audiences, so there are no in-text citations, although Gosden provides a chapter-by-chapter list of suggested readings at the end.	2002-04-23
1569085:US	51917998	R3UQVZ6A9UQ6J2	1563680858	317489074	Deaf Children in China	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fact-filled	This book presents a comprehensive description of conditions for young deaf children in China.  The author is a medical doctor specialist in Ear, Nose, and Throat with experience living in China.  In 1994 she traveled back to China to conduct the research presented in this book.  On this trip, she collected volumes of information about the conditions and educational opportunities for all children, as well as the status of the deaf, particularly young deaf children.  She interviewed 26 families of children attending a deaf preschool, visited and observed classes at the preschool, and surveyed hundreds of letters written by relatives of deaf children to a leading Chinese educator of the deaf.  Callaway has integrated the information from all of these sources into a wide-ranging and extremely informative report.<br />In general, Callaway finds that there are few groups or institutions providing support to parents of deaf children in China.  Almost all parents are left to their own devices upon diagnosis.  As a result, most of them spend vast amounts of money that they don't have searching for a \\"cure\\" rather than investing in hearing aids or learning sign language.  It was encouraging, however, to read of the existence of preschools for the deaf, and that some schools for the deaf in China use a form of signed Chinese as the medium of instruction rather than sticking to a purely oral/aural method. A very disturbing fact that Callaway points out is that the third leading cause of deafness in China is entirely preventable, namely deafness due to ototoxic drugs- -inappropriately prescribed antibiotics.  Callaway found little evidence of a strong Deaf culture in China such as found in many Western countries.  She hypothesizes that the lack of Deaf culture may be more likely in a homogenous society like China.  Personally, I think that the explanation for the lack of evidence of a Deaf culture may be more closely linked with a long-standing educational tradition for the deaf and acceptance of sign language.  It would be interesting to explore these ideas in a society such as the UAE which is highly heterogeneous but does not have a long history of deaf education.f and acceptance of sign language.  It would be interesting to explore these ideas in a society such as the UAE which is highly heterogeneous but does not have a long history of deaf education.	2002-04-23
1569185:US	51917998	R39UW61LPOP3T	0201708957	421515871	Creative Projects with LEGO Mindstorms	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Great stuff	This book is a great introduction to the world of LEGO Mindstorms robots.  I've been working with the LEGO Mindstorms kits for about 6 months, and I've often been frustrated by the lack of detail in the manuals for the kits.  This book provides quite a bit of the missing information.  For instance, it explains that you lose your firmware if you take your batteries out of your RCX for more than a minute or two (I wish that I'd seen that in a manual somewhere!).  It provides a broad overview of alternatives to programming in RCX code, together with examples from each alternative mentioned for comparison.  These coding examples are discussed in the text and they are also included on the accompanying CD.  In addition to the coding examples, the CD also includes videos and stills of the robots described in the book.  The book includes descriptions of a broad range of robots, from the very simple Acrobot robot featured in the Constructopedia, to robots designed by school kids, to robots designed by parent-kid teams, to advanced robots using IR communication and data logging.  In each case, Erwin provides the details of the development process, how the robot was first conceived, how it was developed,  and how the design problems were identified and solved. This approach makes the book much more than a simple code cookbook- -it explains to parents, teachers, and older kids how robots actually come about.  Scattered throughout the book are \\"Asides\\" that explain various topics such as LEGO geometry, how to calculate gear ratios, understanding compound gear trains, programming decisions, etc.  The book includes appendices of useful information, a bibliography, an excellent glossary, and an index.	2002-04-23
1569504:US	51917998	RM75A1EGO1UR4	0534526292	645656155	Video Basics (Non-InfoTrac Version)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Superlative	This book gives a broad overview of the field of video.  It is intended as a textbook for students in a university video course, however, the information that it contains will be valuable for anyone interested in improving their video skills, especially in professional contexts.  Since the book is a textbook, each chapter begins with a list of key terms and definitions, and key concepts are highlighted in the text and repeated at the end of the chapter.  Each chapter also contains instructions for a lesson in Zettl's Video Lab on CD (not included).  The book covers many topics related to professional video production, including the video production process, the video team, video cameras, lighting, sound, editing, and the studio.  I found the language to be very straightforward and highly informative.	2002-04-23
1579707:US	51917998	R5R5ZX2ZUALOD	0679751238	939095964	The Ends of the Earth: From Togo to Turkmenistan, from Iran to Cambodia, a Journey to the Frontiers of Anarchy	Books	5	72	72	N	N	This book will make you squirm	This book is not your average travel memoir.  It is an introspective analysis of the social and political conditions of developing countries from West Africa to Thailand.  Typical travelogues can be titillating, but because the authors actually know so little about the cultures that they are visiting for a short time, readers learn more about the authors themselves than about the countries being described.  However, this book is quite different in that respect--Kaplan obviously knows this region well, having worked as a journalist in the region for years.  As a journalist, he knows which questions to ask and from whom.  He describes conversations with high government officials (many of which wish to remain anonymous), as well as tidbits that he picks up from traveling companions and encounters with ordinary people.  He backs up all of these personal anecdotes with hard facts and statistics footnoted to hundreds of resources listed in the bibliography.  What he has to say can about the countries and cultures that he visits can be quite disturbing.<br />One of Kaplans goals for his trip is to try to discover why some regions of the developing world are bordering on anarchy, or have actually slipped over the edge, and others seem to be working well for the community.  By observing societies and talking to leaders as well as ordinary people, he attempts to discover what works to build a civil world.  He considers the varying influences that tradition, religion, education, government, and environment may have on a society.  While he points out that education, particularly literacy, seems to be vital for maintaining civilization, he finds that there are no absolute factors that can predict which societies will succeed and which will devolve into barbarism.<br />Many of Kaplans observations are quite disturbing, such as when he points out entire regions where per capita income has fallen dramatically since the 1960s, yet population has risen, in contrast to other regions with similar levels of development in 1960 where exactly the opposite has happened.  Whats more, Kaplan points out that many of the reasons for these problems are internal to the societies themselves, such as corruption and traditional practices.  The people are understandably frustrated, they have little or no education, and they have easy access to powerful weapons.  Unscrupulous or ill-educated leaders can easily point the blame for these problems entirely at the West, redirecting the  anger of the masses so that the society does not implode with its own violence.<br />Some readers may find some of Kaplans comments racist or bigoted, but having lived for 4 years in a place where the majority of the population comes from the countries that Kaplan describes, I find that every word rings true for me.  Kaplan has put into words my own observations and speculations about what I see around me.  The book is filled with hundreds of short remarks that capture so much of my experience here, such as when he quotes an Indian educator as saying Only when children are taught to categorize and to analyze, rather than merely to memorize, can they achieve anything in the modern world.  Intercommunal and tribal hatredsarise from too much faulty oral memory and too little self-motivated analysis.  But the one that will stick with me for years is his point that you cant give wealth, and you cant pump it out of the ground.  You can only create wealth.  This book will be of interest to anyone who is trying to understand the forces behind current world events.  It should be read by all top-level policy makers.egions with similar levels of development in 1960 where exactly the opposite has happened.  Whats more, Kaplan points out that many of the reasons for these problems are internal to the societies themselves, such as corruption and traditional practices.  The people are understandably frustrated, they have little or no education, and they have easy access to powerful weapons.  Unscrupulous or ill-educated leaders can easily point the blame for these problems entirely at the West, redirecting the  anger of the masses so that the society does not implode with its own violence.  <br />Some readers may find some of Kaplans comments racist or bigoted, but having lived for 4 years in a place where the majority of the population comes from the countries that Kaplan describes, I find that every word rings true for me.  Kaplan has put into words my own observations and speculations about what I see around me.  The book is filled with hundreds of short remarks that capture so much of my experience here, such as when he quotes an Indian educator as saying Only when children are taught to categorize and to analyze, rather than merely to memorize, can they achieve anything in the modern world.  Intercommunal and tribal hatredsarise from too much faulty oral memory and too little self-motivated analysis.  But the one that will stick with me for years is his point that you cant give wealth, and you cant pump it out of the ground.  You can only create wealth.  This book will be of interest to anyone who is trying to understand the forces behind current world events.  It should be read by all top-level policy makers.	2002-04-14
1579709:US	51917998	R32GFQ9AYTOUAZ	0060914254	963322417	A Loss for Words: The Story of Deafness in a Family	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Window into another way of life	This book details the life story of hearing child raised by deaf parents.  It gives a remarkable account of the special challenges faced by deaf people in a hearing world, and of the petty bigotries that they face every day.  It also answers many questions- -how can deaf parents deal with a hearing child?  What is it like for a hearing child to grow up in a deaf family?  Walker found her life greatly affected by her parents' deafness.  As soon as she could talk, she found herself translating for her parents, helping them fill out forms, and correcting their written English.  Nevertheless, I couldn't help feeling that some of the discomfort that she attributes to her parents' deafness may have more to do with her own personality and general upbringing.  For example, the story of her leaving the Midwest to go off to Harvard is repeated over again every year, not only by children of deaf parents, but also children of farmers, factory workers, and drug dealers.  No matter who their parents are, it takes quite a bit of adjustment to learn to survive in Cambridge.  How different would Walker's life had been if she had known other children like herself in her extended family or neighborhood?  Perhaps she might not have felt so isolated, so strange.  No family situation is perfect- -each family has its own unique features. This is the story of what works for one family.	2002-04-14
1579751:US	51917998	R3G6UX622HH4JP	0881504270	278165885	Off the Leash: Subversive Journeys Around Vermont	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Open your eyes	This book describes a number of fascinating ordinary places that are tucked around the state of Vermont.  What makes the places fascinating is Husher's historical details- -for each place, she tells the story of how the site came to be and what made it famous.  Some of the sites, like the Donohue Sea Caves are eons old, while others like the Bread and Puppet Museum were developed only recently.  Some are famous, like Champ, the monster of the deep, while others are virtually unknown, like the Fenian Raids of 1866 and 1870.<br />Although Husher probably didn't intend to make a statement about art, I found the juxtaposition of the state highway rest area art and the Bread and Circus Musuem quite telling.  She describes how a group of artists, including some famous ones, in the 1970s created a series of sculptures to be displayed to ordinary people at rest stops.  Since this was to be people's art, it was made in ordinary media such as concrete.  Funny enough, even though people drive by these creations every day and walk right past them at the rest stops, nobody seems to notice them, and the concrete is rotting away in the elements.  Is this a tragedy?  For whom?  It seems to me that if the art is so unengaging that people don't notice it even when it's placed right in front of their faces, it's not art at all but a sad Emperor's new clothes kind of waste of space.  In contrast, other art described in this book, such as the puppets at the Bread and Puppet Circus are so compelling and interesting, that they draw people in to see them in such a far-off corner of the state as Glover.  Likewise, the sculpted granite headstones in the Hope Cemetery in Barre were created by artists who work in a medium that would last for generations.  That's because they were doing their art on commission, responding to the wishes of their patrons and communicating through their art to their entire community.  The abandoned highway art seems more like taunt the audience- -give them something incomprehensible and ugly, but since the audience won't appreciate it anyway, don't bother to make it last.hing incomprehensible and ugly, but since the audience won't appreciate it anyway, don't bother to make it last.	2002-04-14
1579983:US	51917998	R2OT3TK63O25R9	0201360586	388601637	Managing Multimedia: Project Management for Interactive Media (2nd Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent overview	This book provides an excellent overview into project management of multimedia projects.  It covers such topics as general project management strategy, scoping a project, contractual issues, selecting the team, team management, agreeing the content, copyright, and marketing, in each case relating the discussion directly to the special issues that arise in multimedia management.  The book also provides an introduction to technical topics such as interface design, audio assets, video assets, graphical assets, and testing.  The accompanying CD-ROM is well-done, containing useful supplemental material such as interactive forms for various stages of project management that can be used as is or edited.<br />One of the book's authors obviously has a strong connection to audio production, and the chapter on audio assets gives a very in-depth introduction into what kinds of things an audio engineer is capable of doing and is supposed to do.  I have been looking for a general introduction to sound editing, and this is the best that I have been able to find so far, but I didn't expect to find it in a book about general multimedia management.  The accompanying CD also contains audio samples for listening and editing practice, as noted in the book.  I found these samples also quite useful.	2002-04-14
1580117:US	51917998	R1OGVAFWA8582G	0738206148	556393299	The Trembling Mountain: A Personal Account of Kuru, Cannibals, and Mad Cow Disease	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Fascinating	This book tells the story of a young man who travels to Papua New Guinea to try his hand at medical research.  The book jackets accurately describes it as \\"a gripping medical mystery, an exotic travelogue, and a stirring coming-of-age story.\\"  Just one year out of college, Klitzman sets off to Papua New Guinea alone to work on a project arranged by Carleton Gajdusek to survey the incubation time for kuru.  Klitzman soon finds himself living in the Highlands, where he spends his time seeking out former cannibals who are dying of kuru so that he can interview them about when they last ate human flesh.<br />Klitzman's cultural insights are quite compelling- -instead of finding fault with all that frustrates him, he is able to put the difficulties in context and realize that people are much the same everywhere, underneath their material trappings.  One of the fascinating facets of this book is that at the time when Klitzman was doing his research in PNG, kuru was dying out- -the project that he was working on was to find the incubation period for a disease without a future, or so it seemed at the time.  When Mad Cow began popping up a few years after Klitzman finished his project, the results suddenly became extremely important for trying to estimate potential deaths due to tainted beef.  The book serves as a good reminder that basic research may prove its worth long after the fact.<br />The book's main narrative takes place in Papua New Guinea in 1983-84, 7 years after independence.  It provides interesting historical documentation of living conditions in PNG in the time immediately following independence.  In 1997, Klitzman returns to the area where he did his research, and observes how many aspects of life in PNG had deteriorated in the intervening time, despite the quantity of wealth coming into the country.  For this reason, area specialists may find much of interest in Klitzman's detailed descriptions of living conditions in the early 1980s in PNG.	2002-04-14
1580140:US	51917998	R1SR588Q2SR1QW	0881504351	199515084	Green Mountain Farm	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Fun	This book tells the story of a writer who settles in Vermont in 1934 with his family.  It is filled with personal stories of adventures that the family had and the people that they met.  Early in the book, an immigrant ski maker convinces the family to move up to the Northeast Kingdom.  Merrick describes the early days of the ski industry, when people still wore homemade equipment on the slopes.  He also describes his part in the 1930s survey of farming practices, contrasting his own experiences working his farm to supplement his writing income.	2002-04-14
1580157:US	51917998	R15NJXM1MOX8BO	0333736281	13222020	Seeds of Change:  Six Plants That Transformed Mankind	Books	3	30	39	N	N	His own way with words	This book consists of a collection of historical essays about six plants: quinine, sugar, tea, cotton, the potato, and coca.  For each plant, the author provides historical information about when it first began to be used (especially by Westerners), and how its use spread across the planet.  Some of the information was quite interesting, particularly since the author is British and presents the material from a British point-of-view, emphasizing facts that may be less familiar to Americans.  Unfortunately, no in-text citations are provided, but there is a short bibliography at the end of the book. The essays often spill over into topics that are, at best, only marginally related to the subject at hand, such as an overview of Japanese foreign trade in the tea chapter, or the role of corn whiskey in the economy of the Southern states in the early Nineteenth Century in the cotton chapter.  Hobhouse has an interesting habit of giving his own meaning to words, such when he defines \\"Negro\\" as being a West African Black with sickle cell anemia, or \\"husbandry\\" as applying to plant breeding.  He also uses the term \\"slavocracy\\" to refer to the political situation in the pre-Civil War South, presumably on analogy with \\"democracy\\" and \\"theocracy\\", but in those words, the first root identifies the rulers, not the ruled.  This book may provide a light introduction to some of the topics covered, but I wouldn't rely on it for serious study of an academic nature.	2002-04-14
1580215:US	51917998	R174VEA7H4DBQJ	0240803302	230148399	The MIDI Manual (Audio Engineering Society Presents)	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Reference manual	This book contains a collection of reference material about MIDI.  It covers the MIDI specification, MIDI hardware, instruments, sequencing, digital audio in MIDI production, synchronization, and mixing.  I'm no expert on MIDI, and I can't say that I really developed my understanding of MIDI by reading this book.  Much of the prose I found rather obtuse, such as the following definition of multimedia: \\"Basically, multimedia is nothing more than a unified programming and operating system (OS) environment that lets multiple forms of program data and playback media coexist and be routed directly to the appropriate hardware device for output, playback, and/or processing.\\"  Perhaps someone who knows more about MIDI would find this book useful, but it's definitely not intended as an introductory book for novices.  On the other hand, I get the feeling from the brevity of the book that it might not contain enough depth of detail to satisfy experts either.	2002-04-14
1645854:US	51917998	R34KNJ9HJWIDAD	1896209114	422148089	Sami Potatoes: Living with Reindeer and Perestroika	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Many questions	This book contains a collection of articles, journal entries and essays about a mapping project in the Sami lands of the Kola peninsula.  As I read the book flaps and prefaces, I kept wondering, \\"What is this book about?\\".  And then I kept wondering as I got lost in the rhetoric of the first chapter.  And I said, \\"Well, surely the topic of the book and the project that it seems to be about will become clear soon.\\"  As I read the remaining chapters, I was able to put the pieces together.  It seems that the book is one product of a Canadian-Sami joint research project to map Sami resources that was completed in about 1998.  One of the main intentions of the project seems to be to provide the Sami with maps that they could use to bolster their claims for land usage rights in Russia.<br />This book is rather a mixed bag of goodies.  The main message is not very clearly stated, yet, the information contained in various parts of the book is extremely valuable, and the stories are quite interesting and illuminating.  Despite the slimness of the volume, the essays and articles still manage to contain a good deal of historical and ethnographical information about the Sami, as well as documentation about who worked on this particular project and how.  The journal entries provide a rare view into living conditions in small villages of Northern Russia in the mid-90s, just after the collapse of the Soviet Union.  The book is filled with photographs of modern Sami landscapes, juxtaposed with color reproductions of 18th century prints by Leems. The maps, which were the reason for the project, are included in an envelope in the back, and are the main treasure of the book.	2002-02-21
1646326:US	51917998	RXPNZOUL9EWKL	0801485517	284251022	A Theory of Shopping	Books	3	10	12	N	N	A theory	This book contains a personal theory of shopping based on an ethnographic study of household provisioning in a North London neighborhood in the mid-1990s.  Miller begins by describing some of the households and some of the results from his interviews on shopping.  In the second chapter, he explores the literature on sacrifice, and in the third final chapter, he makes an argument that shopping and sacrifice, if not the same thing, can at least be considered comparable.  His reasoning, if I understand it, is that both acts involving giving something of oneself or one's resources for the greater good.<br />I remain unconvinced, however.  I've never given much thought to sacrifice before, but it seems to me that sacrifice involves giving something back to the deities as partial payment for a unearned favor.  On the other hand, shopping seems more to be choosing to trade earned resources.  For me, the comparison between shopping and sacrifice just doesn't go through, and since two thirds of the book is spent arguing for the comparison, I was a little disappointed.<br />Some minor quibbles: the book is definitely written from a British point of view, and some terms or expressions used in the book to describe living situations or shops will be unfamiliar to North American readers.  Also, Miller puts great emphasis on the fact that most of his shoppers tend to be women, and that shopping in the environment where he did his work is an activity associated with the female gender.  He relates this back to his sacrifice theory and also to feminist studies of housewives sacrificing themselves for their families.  He gives very brief consideration to the fact that a predominance of female shoppers may be culturally-based, but doesn't seem to consider it seriously.  Nevertheless, there are many cultures, particularly in Muslim areas and parts of Asia, where it would be unseemly for a woman to appear in the marketplace, and where men do all of the shopping, even for their families' clothing.  Much of Miller's argumentation would not hold in such an environment.  Thus, even if he does have something with his sacrifice/shopping comparison, it is only an artifact of the culture where he did his study, and should not be generalized beyond the shoppers of this North London neighborhood.es' clothing.  Much of Miller's argumentation would not hold in such an environment.  Thus, even if he does have something with his sacrifice/shopping comparison, it is only an artifact of the culture where he did his study, and should not be generalized beyond the shoppers of this North London neighborhood.	2002-02-21
1646375:US	51917998	R2FD51Q779MQVX	0201696878	302232433	Animation on the Web	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Heavy stuff	This book provides an insider's look at how animation is done on computers.  It goes into many of the basics, but nevertheless, is not for complete beginners, since it assumes from the beginning that you've got some conception of how animation works and are familiar with some of the vocabulary.  However, if you've worked a little with Flash, or have read books like 24 Hours to Flash, you should be able to follow along with this book.  Much of the real content of the book is in chapters 2, 3, 4, and 6, where Wagstaff explains the behind-the-scenes details of how professional animation is done, and what makes the difference between a believable animation and a hack-job.  Most of the remaining chapters provide brief descriptions of software tools that can be used for various animation tasks.  These latter chapters, are of, course, already out of date, but the materials in the preliminary chapters are so well done that the book is well worth the price and will be for years to come.	2002-02-21
1646570:US	51917998	R7RSLJKKDNZ36	0226730433	977680490	Bengali Women	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fascinating	This book provides a fascinating glimpse into the lives of traditional (upper-middle class) Bengali women and their families.  Roy presents a thorough analysis of the dynamics of extended family life in West Bengal.  She begins with an exploration of the special bonds that develop between father and daughter, then moves on to how schooling and classic literature play a role in developing a young woman's idyllic view of married life.  Later she contrasts that ideal with the reality of being a stranger competing with one's mother-in-law for the attentions of one's husband, and how this is tempered with the birth of children, especially sons.  Finally, she discusses middle age and the later years, when the children have grown and women seek companionship from their sons or religious personages.  In some respects, the dynamics that Roy describes here are probably generally found in any culture with a strong tradition of patrilineal extended families.  Other aspects of life, particularly religious life, are more unique to Hindu and Bengali culture.  The book was originally written some 30 years ago, and certainly there have been many changes in Bengali culture during this time.  But even as a window into Bengali family life of the recent past, it a very interesting and well written study.	2002-02-21
1647077:US	51917998	R7E9TIRT57NUD	0226730433	977680490	Bengali Women	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fascinating	This book provides a fascinating glimpse into the lives of traditional (upper-middle class) Bengali women and their families.  Roy presents a thorough analysis of the dynamics of extended family life in West Bengal.  She begins with an exploration of the special bonds that develop between father and daughter, then moves on to how schooling and classic literature play a role in developing a young woman's idyllic view of married life.  Later she contrasts that ideal with the reality of being a stranger competing with one's mother-in-law for the attentions of one's husband, and how this is tempered with the birth of children, especially sons.  Finally, she discusses middle age and the later years, when the children have grown and women seek companionship from their sons or religious personages.  In some respects, the dynamics that Roy describes here are probably generally found in any culture with a strong tradition of patrilineal extended families.  Other aspects of life, particularly religious life, are more unique to Hindu and Bengali culture.  The book was originally written some 30 years ago, and certainly there have been many changes in Bengali culture during this time.  But even as a window into Bengali family life of the recent past, it a very interesting and well written study.	2002-02-21
1705950:US	51917998	R1AZ4V8L9ZKWXH	0965203611	896807257	Homesteading Adventures: A Guide for Doers & Dreamers	Books	4	19	20	N	Y	Ideas for homesteading in the frozen North	This book is a collection of ideas for homesteaders or others who want to live simply off the land.  Robishaw describes a wide variety of projects and activities that she and her husband have done to survive and thrive that come with a minimum cost to the pocketbook and the environment.  These include a windmill powered well, a solar powered electrical system, a solar cooker, a solar food dryer, outhouses, homemade wine and vinegar, gardening, saving seeds, and making maple syrup.  Robishaw presents the information in the form of a series of dialogues between CindyLou and JJ, a pair of newcomers to the woods, and Sue, an old-hand at homesteading.  The dialogues are meant to be cute and humorous, and perhaps lighten the tone of the text.  However, I found them a bit tiresome and contrived in places. The book is not filled with detailed plans for constructing equipment, although there are a few useful diagrams.  Instead, its value is in stirring up ideas in the minds of the readers, and giving encouragement to go ahead and try something new because it just might work.  Set in Northern Michigan, it is especially relevant for readers from far northern climates.	2002-01-05
1706140:US	51917998	R1AP105B7SU8BL	0072355808	120295718	Technology for Teachers: Mastering New Media and Portfolio Development with Free Student CD-ROM	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Great idea- -but inside out	This is a workbook/CD text for training teachers in the field of educational technology.  The text covers topics which are central to classroom teaching with technology: learning styles, multimedia student authoring, evaluating software, classroom management, presentation with technologies, assessment, and the Internet.  The exercises are well done and promote thoughtful reflection as well as mastery of the content.<br />Unfortunately, the central premise of the workbook/CD package is inside out.  Unlike many texts with accompanying CD, the CD in this set contains the central content of the text, while the book is merely the accompanying workbook material.  On the one hand, it's nice to have a workbook for students to write in.  But on the other hand, it would be much more effective use of the technology if the students could read the texts in book format and then complete all of the work electronically using software on the CD.  In fact, many of the workbook exercises are also presented in Webpage format on the CD, but the vocabulary and review exercises do not appear there, even though they could easily be assessed online.  (The answers to the exercises are printed in the back of the workbook.)<br />A more serious problem is that all of the content text is contained only on the CD.  Thus, a student must access the CD in order to read the content materials.  The content materials vary widely in quality, from excellent in-depth articles to terse PowerPoint presentations.  Some of the content texts are a few pages long, but several run to over 100 pages.  Most are not in HTML format, but in Adobe PDF, set to display as very short pages, similar to presentation slide format.  Since the content does not appear in the workbook, students will either need to read everything online, or else print hundreds of short pages so that they can read them offline.  Students who only have access to computers on campus will have no choice but to print the pages if they want to read them at home.  I really like the idea of a CD/text package, but it would far more useful if the text included the content, while the CD focused on the exercises, with built-in automated assessment and editing capabilities.read them at home.  I really like the idea of a CD/text package, but it would far more useful if the text included the content, while the CD focused on the exercises, with built-in automated assessment and editing capabilities.	2002-01-05
1707064:US	51917998	R2PBOF54ZV2E50	0805831223	236665693	Web Wisdom: How To Evaluate and Create Information Quality on the Web	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Earning respect on the Net	This book is an in-depth analysis of the factors that make a Website believable.  The authors, two librarians, examine numerous aspects of Websites and point out how they can be used to evaluate sites as trustworthy sources of information or goods.  They begin with 5 traditional evaluation criteria: authority, accuracy, objectivity, currency, and intended audience, and give examples of how these criteria apply to Websites.  They also extend these criteria with evaluation measures that are specific to the medium.  They then apply the evaluation criteria to different types of Websites: advocacy, business, informational, news, personal, and entertainment pages.  This book is a must-have for libraries and researchers.  It would also be very useful for serious Web designers who want to understand what kinds of design factors will bring credibility and respect to their Websites.	2002-01-05
1720967:US	51917998	R3HUA89OC5ZKDM	0072190957	82493484	Multimedia: Making It Work, Fifth Edition	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent introduction	This book presents a broad overview of the field of multimedia production.  The book describes the field at large, explaining the concepts, rather than focusing on minute details of using particular software packages.  Separate chapters are devoted to the multimedia \\"building blocks\\", text, sound, images, and video, and the various special characteristics of these media (such as formats and how compression techniques work).  A typology of multimedia authoring software is developed, and brief descriptions of individual authoring packages are provided to exemplify each type.  The accompanying CD-ROM contains evaluation copies of many of the packages mentioned (such as Macromedia Director, Adobe Freehand, and SoundEdit) for further exploration by the reader.  The book also provides extensive coverage of the multimedia development process, from the roles of the members of a multimedia development team, to planning, costing, producing, testing, and delivering products.  I have found the book to be quite successful as a textbook for introduction to multimedia courses.  It would also be useful for anyone who would like to understand what the multimedia business is all about.	2001-12-25
1721002:US	51917998	R17HCZL79YPQHZ	020165895X	359679529	Adobe(R) Photoshop(R) 5.5 Classroom in a Book	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Pretty good	This book provides a do-it-yourself training program for Adobe Photoshop.  It provides step-by-step instructions that will help you explore and learn to use the main features of Photoshop.  Each lesson begins with an overview of the skills you will learn, and an estimate of the time it will take to complete the lesson.  Following that are the instructions that guide you towards completing the assigned tasks to the artwork contained on the accompanying CD-ROM.  At the end of every chapter is a short list of review questions and answers.<br />I came to this book as a complete beginner- -the only graphics software I had used before was Microsoft Paint.  I had an inkling that my supervisor would soon require me to begin using Photoshop, and I knew that I wouldn't be able to do so without training.  I managed to get about a 2 month head start in using this book before I needed to use the software for work.  Since I could manage to complete about a chapter a week in this book, that was barely enough to get by when the time came.  With no background whatsoever in graphic arts, I had a tough time understanding the minimal explanations contained in this book of gradients, masks, and channels. The explanations of how to use these tools are very clear, but even after learning how to use them, I'm still quite hazy about what they are and why a designer would use them.  For that reason, I wish this book had suggestions for further reading, to help graphic novices learn more about the general concepts behind the tools.  Nevertheless, by carefully following the training program in this book, I was able to develop the skills necessary to do small photo editing tasks.  More importantly, thanks to this book, I am now quite comfortable with the Photoshop interface and all its palettes, which seemed so formidable in the beginning.<br />Overall, the instructions and screen shots in the book were quite clear.  Even though I was using the book for Photoshop version 5.5 with version 6.0 software, I was still able to follow along on almost every task (sometimes with the assistance of Photoshop Help, to find the new location of the required tools).  The only major inaccuracy that I found was in the chapter 15 review questions, where the sequencing of questions and answers was completely disorganized.ftware, I was still able to follow along on almost every task (sometimes with the assistance of Photoshop Help, to find the new location of the required tools).  The only major inaccuracy that I found was in the chapter 15 review questions, where the sequencing of questions and answers was completely disorganized.	2001-12-25
1721020:US	51917998	RNGZ3XZG1YT9D	0938737244	390915620	Lives Between Cultures: A Study of Human Nature Identity and Culture	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Varied selections	This book contains a collection of seventeen short historical and critical essays about people who found themselves living in other cultures for a variety of reasons.  The various reasons for living in a different culture are the focus of the book- -each chapter illustrates and explores a very different reason, from a drive to spread religion to a drive for adventure, from kidnapping to deceit.  Some of the protagonists are very well known, such as Richard Burton and Paul Gauguin.  Other names might, such as Princess Caraboo of Javasu, might only be recognized by the specialist.  Material for each sketch is drawn from a range of historical sources, including, where possible, texts written by the subject.  Refreshingly, even when basing his discussion on well-known literature, the author presents enough of the background to the characters so that his summaries and quotations are comprehensible even to someone who is not familiar with the original texts.	2001-12-25
1721075:US	51917998	R1H0EHKPXV53DB	0520081587	744538320	The Inner Quarters: Marriage and the Lives of  Chinese Women in the Sung Period	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Comprehensive	This book presents a comprehensive portrait of the lives of women in Sung China (960-1279 AD).  The author explores such topics as marriage, dowries, rites and celebrations, women's work, husband-wife relations, motherhood, widowhood, concubines, and match-making.  Because of the need to rely on written materials for much of the information, and because literacy was restricted mainly to the educated and upper classes, the book naturally contains many more details about the lives of rich women than of the poor.  Nevertheless, Ebrey was still able to distill some information about peasant women and families as well.  The book will appeal to anyone interested in women's studies, Chinese history, or Asian area studies.	2001-12-25
1721310:US	51917998	R2WBJP0BXG315H	0671779974	476491260	Turkish Reflections: A Biography of a Place	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Personal journey	This book is a travelogue of a retrospective trip the author took through Turkey almost 20 years after a short residence there.  Settle sets the scene by describing the events that originally took her to Turkey in the 1970s and what Turkish village life was like for her back then.  Then she proceeds to describe the details of a tour through the country in 1989, beginning in Istanbul, then traveling for several weeks or months throughout Anatolia.  In each location, she provides some historical detail, as well as observations from an outsider who is nevertheless familiar with the culture.  I didn't find the book particularly engaging, with the exception of the Istanbul chapter, which had special appeal to me because I had recently visited the city myself.  Indeed, this book may be most interesting to those who know Turkey well, have visited it in the past, or plan to visit in the future.	2001-12-25
1739553:US	51917998	R3ICFZCLEJXOZA	1562057928	455501755	Click Here: Web Communication Design (Lynda Weinman's Web Design Guides)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Web design for graphic designers	This book is a web design book written especially for graphic designers.  In the first five chapters, Pirouz covers some basic concepts of  web design, focusing more on graphic design issues such as color and white space more than navigation design or design for usability.  In the second half of the book, he gives brief overviews of various software packages for creating Web media, such as Flash, Director, and Photoshop.  Unfortunately, these software overviews are now dated, so the information in this section is no longer very useful.<br />Overall, the book contains some worthwhile information, such as a detailed explanation of why web designers must consider their audience before beginning.  On the other hand, some of Pirouz's recommendations are not as well thought out, such as when he recommends enhancing users' Web experience with sound on the homepage.  (How long can you resist hitting the mute button after opening a page with background sound?)  Perhaps this book might be of interest to graphic designers considering switching to Web media, but I didn't find much in it for me.	2001-12-09
1739571:US	51917998	R9D4EMWIY3YUV	0517884046	840590768	Food in History	Books	4	41	43	N	N	Comprehensive	This book is a comprehensive overview of both the history of food and how food changed history.  Tannahill describes what people ate all over the world from prehistoric times through the present.  The book is divided into the following sections: prehistoric times, 3000 BC to 1000 AD, 1000 AD to 1492, 1492-1789, and 1789 to the present.  In each section, there are separate chapters on areas of the world, such as China, India, the Arab World, Europe, and the Americas.  One slightly annoying facet of the book is Tannahill's tendency to shift focus from one time or region to another as she describes a topic in detail (for example, in chapter 12 where she is describing the animals that were kept in medieval towns in Europe, she includes comments about 19th century New York.) Tannahill writes from a British vantage point, and occasionally displays some lack of understanding of American culture, which can be either amusing or annoying for American readers (such as when she suggests that America is \\"more hygiene-conscious than other countries\\" \\"because it played host to so many religious sects that held cleanliness inseparable from godliness\\").  Nevertheless, these shortcomings are quite small, and the book is extremely informative and interesting to read.	2001-12-09
1740039:US	51917998	R2RZUIGMJ5RZUL	0691070164	297034070	Magical Mushrooms, Mischievous Molds	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fascinating	This book is an interesting introduction to the science of mycology written for non-specialists.  It covers numerous aspects of the field, including such topics as fungi as pathogens of food crops, mycotoxins, fungal diseases of humans, yeasts, and mushrooms.  Hudler weaves historical information together with the biology of the fungi he describes.  Although the book assumes no specific background knowledge in mycology, I did find a few sections a little heavy-going.  I found myself wishing I had reviewed Biology 101 before reading chapter 1 on classification and naming, for example.  Overall, though, the book is extremely informative and enjoyable to read.	2001-12-09
1767229:US	51917998	R2PMKK1M461O0H	1560984066	982377899	The Lawn: A History of an American Obsession	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A book to read while lying in your hammock	This book describes the history of how lawns were first introduced to American, became popular, and then became a necessity.  Jenkins traces the early history of lawns as importations of the English country garden concept, as found in Jefferson's gardens in Monticello.  She also explains the influences that garden clubs, the golf industry, and the USDA had on the popularization of lawns.  The book is not just about lawns, however.  It also provides a very interesting analysis of how advertising was used to create demand for completely unnecessary products, and how those products, such as lawn mowers and weed whackers, later came to be thought of as indispensable.  This book will be of interest to historians of landscape architecture as well as to researchers of material culture.	2001-11-17
1767866:US	51917998	R3EN33ULEEBUDQ	0761989412	988391190	Indigenous Theories of Contagious Disease	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting	This book contains a variety of information about how people (mostly Africans) without an extensive formal education view contagious disease.  Green reports that traditional healers and their patients throughout Africa attribute diseases such as AIDs, diarrhea, and tuberculosis to such things as poor hygiene or promiscuity rather than to witchcraft or black magic.  He goes on to argue that since traditional healers are so much more numerous, accessible, and approachable than medical practitioners, public health programs must include them rather than dismiss their work out of hand, noting that their theories of contagious disease aren't irreconcilable with medical accounts after all.  As a general  anthropological book, the coverage is a little disappointing since it focuses so closely on Africa- -I would have liked to have seen more comparisons of theories of disease held by people of other cultures with similar levels of education.  Green tends to assume that readers have fairly extensive knowledge of both medical and anthropological terminology, since he uses words like \\"etiology\\" and \\"fontanel\\" without explanation.  Overall, this book should be of interest to medical anthropologists, particularly those specializing in African cultures.	2001-11-17
1776658:US	51917998	R3O2FDHRJ539QA	1565922824	927958500	Information Architecture for the World Wide Web: Designing Large-scale Web Sites	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Heavy-duty Web design	This book presents a thorough introduction to the concept of information architecture for Websites.  Written by librarians who specialize in information retrieval, this book explains why some sites are easy to navigate and others are impossible.  It explains the steps necessary to plan the architecture of a Website, especially a large Website that will be created by a team of people rather than an individual.  The authors suggest techniques for making clear to clients the importance of information architecture before work on the site actually begins.  The book covers navigation systems and labeling systems (choosing useful names for links).  It also contains a very thought-provoking chapter on search systems and factors that a Web manager should consider before choosing or building a search engine for a site.  I would recommend this book to anyone in charge of planning or maintaining Websites, especially large Websites.	2001-11-10
1785646:US	51917998	RWRLX4SHGSK6Q	0300076746	884285484	Web Style Guide: Basic Design Principles for Creating Web Sites	Books	4	30	35	N	N	Thought provoking	This book provides a concise introduction to principles of Website design.  I found the first few chapters, about process, interface design, and site design extremely good.  But towards the end of the chapter on page design, some of the advice started to get a little questionable.  For example, they explain three ways of using tables to create gutters between parallel columns, but never note what a no-no parallel columns are for Web page design, since they require the reader to scroll down, then up, then down again.<br />The graphics and multimedia chapters strayed a little from the concept of a Website design manual.  Instead of presenting guidelines for effective use of graphics and other media, they presented detailed, somewhat technical information, about media formats and optimizing media for the Web (particularly in Photoshop).  This was interesting information in its own right, but I would have liked to read more about using media effectively.  One guideline they suggest is to use background images no bigger than 100 x 100 pixels, omitting advice about how to avoid the dreaded repeating border (use width = 1280).<br />One aspect that makes this book very different from others on the market is that it draws on primarily academic or university-related Websites for examples rather than from commercial sites.  The book includes a good list of references and an index.	2001-11-03
1786108:US	51917998	R21NY1RXBQ2KBM	0525944656	559225608	Entwined Lives: Twins and What They Tell Us About Human Behavior	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Fascinating	This book provides an encyclopedic overview of research about twins.  When I first opened the book, my initial reaction was \\"ouch\\", because of the densely packed font.  The reason for the denseness is that Segal has so many topics to cover and so much information to share with us that the letters had to be squeezed to get it all into one volume.  But not to fear - - there are pictures sprinkled throughout the text.<br />Segal, a twin herself, has been researching twins for over 20 years, since her undergraduate studies.  This book sums up much of that research in a format that is approachable by general audiences (and includes extensive endnotes to help interested readers find the studies that are cited).  The many topics in her book include: identical twins, fraternal twins, twins reared apart, children adopted together, conjoined twins, non-human twins, friendship between twins, loss of a twin, famous twins, mental skills, athletic skills, and behavioral traits.<br />One of the most interesting results of Segal's and others' twin research is the strong influence that genes have on intelligence, behavioral traits, and athletic ability.  Segal reports that identical twins, reared together or apart, are remarkably similar in these areas, and become more so as they get older.  The similarity is weaker with fraternal twins, siblings, and cousins, and hardly found at all between unrelated same-aged children raised together. Certain health factors on the other hand, seem to be more dependent on environmental factors and life choices than on genetics, such as aging of the skin and heart disease.  Many of Segal's results come from research on identical twins reared apart, in whom strong similarities point to genetic programming since the environments in which they were raised were different.  The logical opposite of identical twins reared apart is unrelated same-aged children reared together, in whom any similarities would suggest environmental influences.  Segal has a short chapter on such siblings, but this area could really use more research to complement what has been done with twins reared apart.<br />This book is absolutely fascinating for what it says, not only about twins and other multiples, about the siblings and parents of twins, about adopted children, but also about humans in general.hort chapter on such siblings, but this area could really use more research to complement what has been done with twins reared apart.<br />This book is absolutely fascinating for what it says, not only about twins and other multiples, about the siblings and parents of twins, about adopted children, but also about humans in general.	2001-11-03
1794262:US	51917998	R2GJKLBNNPCSCN	0865475032	577284164	Olives: The Life and Lore of a Noble Fruit	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Well done	This book presents a very comprehensive overview of olives, olive oil, and olive producers in a style that is part travelogue, part anthropology, and part history (without footnotes).  Rosenblum takes us on a tour of the Mediterranean, from France, to Palestine, Greece to Tunisia, and Spain to Bosnia.  In each locale, he interviews local olive growers on the way they tend their trees, pick their fruit, and press their oil, and of course, he never refuses a sample.  I found the first chapter, which started with some literary-historical introductions a little shaky, but after that I couldn't put the book down.  Rosenblum's explanations as to why different olive oils have varying qualities were very clear.  They will come in handy next time I'm faced with selecting a brand of olive oil at the market.  Although Rosenblum mentions the curing of olives in each country, most of the text focuses on the production of oil.  I would have been interested in reading more about table olives, but perhaps that's because I'm living in Dubai, where every supermarket deli counter has a minimum of 20 different kinds of olives to choose from.  Even though this book is not a cookbook, it does contain a handful of recipes.	2001-10-27
1794373:US	51917998	R2XVL2O7RDHJ64	0062515861	193492666	Weaving the Web : The Original Design and Ultimate Destiny of the World Wide Web by its Inventor	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Inside scoop	This book that tells the amazing story of how Tim Berners-Lee conceived of the Web and brought it into being.  I've read many brief accounts of the early history of the Web, and could never believe that Berners-Lee managed to put together all of the necessary pieces, HTML, HTTP, client software, and server software all in one year.  Yet in this book, Tim Berners-Lee recounts not only how he pulled it off (and who helped him), but also his motivation, which was even more interesting than how he did it.  Berners-Lee covers not only the development of the Web, but also the browser wars and why they were fought.  On the other hand, I found it a little surprising that he never mentioned JavaScript and its role for the Web.  Occasionally, the prose gets a little technical for general audiences, but for the most part, it is extremely readable.	2001-10-27
1801793:US	51917998	R2CU0XGCVTB2ZP	0679720235	207253872	When the Mind Hears: A History of the Deaf	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Quite an argument	This book is a historical exploration into the question of how the deaf should be educated, through sign or through oral speech.  I wouldn't call it \\"a comprehensive history of the deaf\\" as advertised on the back of the book, and I wouldn't even call it \\"the history of relations between the society of hearing-speaking people and the community of deaf-signing people\\" as Lane suggests in his foreword.  The book stays almost exclusively on the topic of education for the deaf, which in itself is quite interesting.<br />To me, the book had a unique and rather odd approach, in which the author related the history through the vantage point of Laurent Clerc (the French deaf teacher brought to the US by Thomas Gallaudet). Throughout the first part of the book, the story is told entirely in the first person, as if Clerc wrote it, and Lane simply was the translator.  But judging from the extensive footnotes, only a 20th century author could have had access to so many primary sources, so Lane must have been the author after all.  But I was never 100% certain about the authorship, and that was a bit annoying.  In addition, if Clerc wasn't the author, then Lane stretched his historical research a bit far in projecting attitudes and opinions into Clerc's voice that we really have no way of confirming, and would probably be unlikely for people in the 19th to have.  Overall, the historical details are incredibly rich, often perhaps too much so, yet there is not a great focus on dates or chronology, making it difficult in places to identify when specific events took place.<br />The book makes an extremely strong argument for educating the deaf through sign rather than orally.  More than that, the argument is that the deaf are best educated in residential signing schools, at least from a 19th century vantage point.  It would seem that Clerc would most likely argue against modern-day mainstreaming as well.<br />I think most deaf people who read this book would agree that sign language is extremely important for all facets of life, especially education.  Nevertheless, hearing parents of deaf children who are trying to decide how to educate their children may still cling to the idea of oralism in the hopes of helping their child better adapt to majority society.  But as argued in this book, a deaf child who is mainstreamed and taught lip reading is handicapped, having curtailed abilities to interact with peers.  Meanwhile, a deaf child who attends school with other deaf children is completely normal within deaf society.  The choice between oralism or sign is really no less than choosing between making the child normal or handicapped - which would you want for your child?<br />As a hearing person, I was fortunate enough to have the opportunity to do a college exchange at a school which had a large number of deaf students.  In fact, most of the students in my dorm were deaf.  Almost immediately upon arrival, I began to observe the importance of sign language for communication.  Deaf students who had not been exposed to sign language until their teenage years had obvious communication difficulties, and I was told that many of them probably never would develop the language skills that native signers had.  It was obvious to me how much the deaf students at the school enjoyed being there and succeeded in their studies because they were supported with sign.  These experiences convinced me that the best place for a deaf child to study is in a school with many other deaf children to sign with.  On this point, I agree completely with Lane (and Clerc).e is extremely important for all facets of life, especially education.  Nevertheless, hearing parents of deaf children who are trying to decide how to educate their children may still cling to the idea of oralism in the hopes of helping their child better adapt to majority society.  But as argued in this book, a deaf child who is mainstreamed and taught lip reading is handicapped, having curtailed abilities to interact with peers.  Meanwhile, a deaf child who attends school with other deaf children is completely normal within deaf society.  The choice between oralism or sign is really no less than choosing between making the child normal or handicapped - which would you want for your child?<br />As a hearing person, I was fortunate enough to have the opportunity to do a college exchange at a school which had a large number of deaf students.  In fact, most of the students in my dorm were deaf.  Almost immediately upon arrival, I began to observe the importance of sign language for communication.  Deaf students who had not been exposed to sign language until their teenage years had obvious communication difficulties, and I was told that many of them probably never would develop the language skills that native signers had.  It was obvious to me how much the deaf students at the school enjoyed being there and succeeded in their studies because they were supported with sign.  These experiences convinced me that the best place for a deaf child to study is in a school with many other deaf children to sign with.  On this point, I agree completely with Lane (and Clerc).	2001-10-21
1807642:US	51917998	R9EA0HZ78IGLB	0789710226	367014548	10 Minute Guide to Access 97	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fast and clean	This book runs through the basics of building and using an Access database.  The text is simple enough for beginners, and each chapter can indeed be read in about 10 minutes.  I can't help feeling, though, that there is something more I need to know that wasn't covered in this book.  In any case, if you're trying to dive in and use the program, and you don't know much about databases, this book can really help you out.	2001-10-17
1808237:US	51917998	R2WD60Y560RQFS	0697154033	468576874	Education for an Information Age: Teaching in the Computerized Classroom	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Great pictures  not so great text	This book presents an introduction to the field of educational technology.  The table of contents, with all of its varied topics is quite promising.  However, the execution is not very satisfying.  Much of the text seems to be descriptive, presenting historical details of  educational technology, instead of instructing teachers how to use it, or getting them to think about it.  For this reason, it's rather dry and un-engaging-it seems to approach the issues but never quite meets them head on with details.<br />The book is filled with inaccuracies or ambiguities.  For example, on p. 278 Poole writes \\"Ironically, whereas in 1950 three out of four high school graduates went on to pursue a college education, by 1900 that ratio had fallen to two out of every four, a drop of 25 percent!\\"  Hmmmm.  As an example of computers helping students with disabilities, the author draws repeatedly on an article about facilitated communication.  Wasn't that disproven with double-blind tests years ago?  (In facilitated communication an aide helps a student with severe communication difficulties to type by \\"holding their hands steady\\" as they type.  Some researchers didn't believe it was really the students typing, so they showed pictures to both aides and students, individually so that they couldn't see each others' pictures.  Then they had the students type what they saw with the aides' help.  Funny enough, the students \\"typed\\" only what the aides saw, never what the students saw, despite the fact that the students never saw what the aides saw.)  The book includes questions at the end of chapter.  Sometimes the questions are about the material in the chapter itself, and sometimes about the feature article at the end of the chapter (not always related).<br />Some of the graphics in the book are blurry, and a few are illegible.  However, the pictures are great, and would be useful as discussion starters.  In general, though, I wouldn't recommend this text. Instead, I would choose alternatives such as Geisert &amp; Futrell's Teachers, Computers, and Curriculum, Morrison's Integrating Computer Technology into the Classroom, or Jonassen's Learning with Technology.rnatives such as Geisert &amp; Futrell's Teachers, Computers, and Curriculum, Morrison's Integrating Computer Technology into the Classroom, or Jonassen's Learning with Technology.	2001-10-17
1821262:US	51917998	R2AQVZ8HB7YER6	0201325535	640508729	Internet 101	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Contains some interesting stuff	This book contains a rather comprehensive introduction to the Internet for adult beginners.  It was written as a college textbook, but now that 3 years have passed since the book was first published, it's hard to believe that there would still be many college students out there who are complete newcomers to the Internet.  In other words, many of the topics are treated in such a basic way as to make the book too elementary for a college Internet course in this day and age.  For example, Lehnert goes into great detail about how to send and reply to e-mail messages.  She also devotes an entire chapter to Gophers and Veronica, which are almost a historical footnote to the Web at this point.  One uncommon feature of the book is that many of her examples demonstrate how to use Internet applications on a Unix platform, which may make the book more well-suited as an introductory text on a college campus.  A somewhat annoying factor is that the text contains many callout Hint boxes which, unfortunately, use a thin black sans serif font over a darkish gray background, making the hints quite difficult to read.  The book includes several chapters on HTML and Web page construction; I found these chapters extremely lucid and succinct, as well as accurate.  As one would expect with a textbook, each chapter includes a list of suggested problems and exercises.  There is also a bibliography and index, but no glossary.	2001-10-02
1821925:US	51917998	R3B9P52A7Y19J	1555582109	100480871	Web Security	Books	2	2	2	N	N	A lot of information, but not well packaged	This book contains a lot of information about Internet security for both clients and servers using Windows platforms.  Some of the information is presented very clearly, such as the explanation of how digital certificates and digital signatures work.  However, many of the chapters seem a bit disorganized and there is little coherence between one topic and the next.  The text in many of the graphics is also a little blurry.  The various versions of digital money are treated almost too thoroughly- -almost as if Tiwana wasn't sure which digital currency would prevail and so he had to describe them all in minute detail.  In the 2 years since Tiwana wrote the book, none of the digital currencies that he described have really caught on, so perhaps the depth in this section was overkill.  The CD that comes with the book contains some useful freeware and trial versions of software such as the SafenSigned Digital Signature Toolkit, the APK Cookie Killing Engine, and a Network Toolbox with utilities such as finger, ping, time sync, and traceroute.	2001-10-02
1828018:US	51917998	R5TUYC11ZCJG2	0399146113	495393406	It's Not about the Bike: My Journey Back to Life	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	Remarkable story	I don't read many sports books- -in fact, reading this book was a first for me.  But my husband kept insisting, \\"You gotta read this book!\\"  Finally, I picked it up and was hooked at once.  Certainly, the story of cancer survivorship was very compelling, but I was surprised to find myself interested even in the sports aspects of the book.  It was fascinating to read about an athlete's relationship with his body, or to learn that even super-star athletes sometimes look upon going to work as just another job that has to be done. This book is extremely well-written, and I would recommend it to anyone.	2001-09-26
1832402:US	51917998	RW3IG7VVGV91T	0133956733	122342629	House Form and Culture	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Classic- well worth reading	This book ties together many ideas from the fields of anthropology and architecture.  Rapoport methodically builds an argument for his hypothesis that \\"The different forms taken by dwellings are a complex phenomenon for which no single explanation will suffice.\\"  He supports his arguments with hundreds of examples drawn from the literature, as in the style of a review article.  I was struck by parallelism between Rapoport's evidence that houses can vary tremendously, even given similar environmental or cultural factors, and the old structural linguistics adage that languages can vary in innumerable ways.  Some of Rapoport's terminology is now outdated (e.g. \\"primitive societies,\\"), but these terms were standard at the time when the book was written so he shouldn't be singled out for using them.  The ideas presented in the book are well worth studying and the book includes numerous reference citations for further investigation.	2001-09-22
1839760:US	51917998	RPRSUY1PDW66B	013271891X	64412208	Learning with Technology: A Constructivist Perspective	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Extended essay	This book is a very long essay into how to use computers to help students learn.  It begins with a short and very readable explanation of constructivism, one of the first that I've been able to understand.  It then goes on to argue for constructivist uses of technology in the classroom, suggesting ways to use technology to do more than drill and practice or even simple training in productivity software.  The main technology topics in the book are: video; hypermedia; e-mail, chat, and bulletin boards; and simulations.  Many examples of specific software or websites are examined in great detail, with suggestions about possible learning processes, student roles, teacher roles, and assessing learning.  References and thought questions are presented after each chapter, and there is an index.  Nevertheless, I wouldn't use this as a textbook in an introductory educational technology course where students have limited expertise with technology.  I think it might work well, however, if the students are thoroughly familiar with technology and are ready to give careful thought to its role in the classroom.	2001-09-14
1840178:US	51917998	RTHZO8QOBW8MA	0945454120	117231183	Enchanting Powers: Music in the Worlds Religions (Religions of the World)	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Philosophy and anthropology	This is a collection of papers that are related in some way to the topics of religion and music.  I approached this book with several questions: What is the role of music in the religions of the world?  What is the attitude of world religions towards music?  However, very few essays in this book address these questions directly.  In most similar books of edited papers, the introduction contains an overview of all the papers and how they fit together.  Instead, Sullivan writes in his introduction a very philosophical piece on the meaning of music in general.  A number of other essays are highly philosophical and rather hard to approach.  Others are anthropological and highly descriptive, answering questions such as \\"What music is played during religious ceremonies of lesser known cultures and who plays the music? (Wakuenai-Hill; Choctaw-Levine; China-Pian)\\", or \\"Who was Major Jealous Divine, a reportedly musical pastor in early 20th century America?\\" (Harris), or \\"Where did the music of the Jewish people as an ethnic group originate?\\" (Shelemay).  However, I found the 2 articles on music in Islam extremely illuminating, especially the one by Nasr, in which he lays out a typology of musical sounds in Islam from the religious, through the halal (permitted), to the contentious, to the haram (forbidden).  Perhaps the questions I had in mind when I picked up this book are actually only interesting in an Islamic context.  The other papers in the book are well written and will no doubt be of interest to someone, but they weren't what I was looking for.	2001-09-14
1840354:US	51917998	R2143KJXAV0G4Q	0062765019	478336305	Collins Gem Atlas of the World	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Essential and so convenient	This book is a treasure.  I take it with me everywhere I go, packing it in my bags no matter how light I am traveling.  The book is the size of a very small pocket dictionary, yet it contains maps of every country in the world, as well as an index with thousands of entries to help locate even small unknown localities.  True, larger atlases show greater detail and may be more accurate, but this one you can actually carry in your pocket.  It's helped me out many a time on my travels in trying to communicate where I'm from and where I am going when I share no common language with the people around me.  Yeah, it's a little outdated now since it was printed before the demise of the Soviet Union, but I don't know what I would do if I ever lost it.	2001-09-14
1847246:US	51917998	R835OL85YQLJ	0130316482	792935965	Excursions in World Music (3rd Edition)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Aptly titled	This book presents a series of articles on music and the role of music in a variety of cultures around the globe.  The articles each begin with a description of a musical event or concert in a culture, then go on to give more details about characteristics of a wide range of musical styles in that culture.  The featured description in each chapter is usually some sort of traditional or classical style for that culture, and popular music in the culture is treated briefly.  I found a few of the musical terms hard to understand, never having studied musical theory myself.  Perhaps some of these terms would have become more clear through listening to the oft-mentioned accompanying CD, which I unfortunately don't have. There is a glossary in the back of the book, but its definitions are not sufficient to make meanings clear to someone without a thorough grounding in world music.  In a few places, the proofreader missed some details, as for example, p. 46 the map of the Middle East shows UAR where the UAE is supposed to be!  In addition to the use of technical terms without explanations, the lack of an overall big picture of world music makes this book more of a resource to dip into for background readings than a systematic introduction to the subject.  It would work well as readings for a course, but is not ideal for self-study.	2001-09-07
1861486:US	51917998	R18R2VV00VIOGA	1576751511	56891139	Affluenza: The All-Consuming Epidemic	Books	3	12	17	N	N	Lots of stats, but little direction	This book builds a case for identifying a new disease, \\"affluenza\\", that is apparently sickening American society. The authors cite symptom after symptom of the disease, supported by innumerable facts, which are well-footnoted and indexed. The book is divided into 3 sections: symptoms, causes, and treatment. However, most of the text is actually devoted to describing the problem, and even the treatment section is filled with more facts and very few concrete suggestions for solutions to the problem. As a springboard for discussions, this book with all its facts could be quite interesting. But the endless list of statistics can make the prose rather tiresome if read straight through.	2001-08-27
1861772:US	51917998	R2FS5LWYEBZFE7	9997558103	433684875	Vermont Tradition: The Biography of an Outlook on Life	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Interesting stories from old Vermont	This book presents a history of Vermont from pre-historic times until about 1930. Rather than focusing on names, dates, and chronologies, the author seeks to tell us the stories behind the major events in Vermont history. While some parts of the book are quite interesting, others drag on and the book could have used a heavier hand in editing. The strongest and most interesting feature today is that the author communicates to us the beliefs that Vermonters of her generation had about their state.	2001-08-26
1861909:US	51917998	R3LSSQMY56SXO3	0316773018	61953544	An American family in Moscow	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fascinating	This book, co-written by all 7 members of the Schecter family, describes the adventures that this family had while journalist Jerrold Schecter was stationed in Moscow in the early 1970s. It gives a particularly illuminating glimpse into living conditions for foreign families in the Soviet Union of those times. The children's descriptions of their school experiences are extremely interesting, since such information is not readily available elsewhere. Jerrold's contributions to the book tend to stick mostly to the political events behind the stories he was covering (ho hum), but Leona writes about life as an expat mother trying to deal with extraordinary circumstances. This book would be of interest to anyone contemplating ex-pat life with children or to students of Soviet social history.	2001-08-26
1862538:US	51917998	R3WVK8DT8JXVS	0964313707	942489982	Ten Fingers for God: The Life and Work of Dr. Paul Brand	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Brilliantly written	This book is a mid-career biography of Dr. Paul Brand, a leading researcher in rehabilitation for leprosy patients. The book is extremely thorough in its details, perhaps overly so in some places. It begins with the lives of Brand's grandparents, gives a full account of his father's earlier influences, and includes much information about Paul Brand's early childhood in India, as well as his later childhood in Britain. Despite the depth of details, the book is extremely readable, and I found it to be a real page-turner from cover to cover.	2001-08-26
1862684:US	51917998	R3L6XZ4B7NKEAZ	039512090X	746105907	At the Drop of a Veil	Books	5	49	56	N	N	Remarkable	This book tells the tale of Marianne Alireza, an American college student who married a Saudi citizen in 1943. In 1945, Alireza moved to Jeddah with her husband and infant daughter, and from there witnessed Arabian lifestyle firsthand for 12 years. She describes her experiences as part of the Alireza harem, composed of her mother-in-law, 2 sisters-in-law and their various children, of which Marianne herself eventually had 5. Alireza discusses how the family traveled to the mountains of Ethiopia to escape the summer heat in Jeddah, and how development changed all of their lives. She also details the events that led to the end of her marriage, and how she abducted her children from their school in Switzerland. The details of this book make it invaluable for anyone wanting to learn about living conditions for women in affluent Saudi Arabia in the 1940s and 50s. The story of Alireza's marriage and its demise should also serve as a warning to any Western woman considering marrying a Muslim. Under Islamic law, a Muslim man is usually granted sole custody of his (weaned) children following divorce and a Western woman who is divorced from a Middle Eastern Muslim man stands a very high chance of never being allowed to see her children again. From the man's point of view, his child custody rights are guaranteed by God, and he would be devastated to lose his children. It was exactly this sort of situation which put Marianne in the position where she felt she had no choice but to abduct her children and try to escape back to the States. All marriages these days face a relatively high risk of divorce, but cross-cultural marriages bring added stress and tend to have even higher divorce rates than marriages within a culture. Thus, a Western woman who decides to marry a foreign Muslim man is entering into a situation where there is a 1 in 2 chance of divorce, and if divorce does happen, she has an extremely high chance of losing her children forever. And this is true no matter how happily the marriage starts off, as it happened in Marianne's case. Interestingly, a quick 2001 Web search for Marianne's children turned up a traveler's note stating that all 5 of her children decided to return to Saudi Arabia upon reaching adulthood.happily the marriage starts off, as it happened in Marianne's case. Interestingly, a quick 2001 Web search for Marianne's children turned up a traveler's note stating that all 5 of her children decided to return to Saudi Arabia upon reaching adulthood.	2001-08-26
1862721:US	51917998	R12EBR5SB7TPMA	0374157065	503232720	Flu: The Story of the Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and the Search for the Virus That Caused It	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Well researched	This book presents several stories connected to the influenza epidemic of 1918. Kolata begins by listing the statistics of that terrible disease, how many dead, orphaned, etc. The statistics are quite impressive, but Kolata presents so many numbers that they actual get a little tedious after a while. Following the summary of the impact the disease had on society, Kolata goes on to describe in detail various research projects that sought to determine why this particular strain of flu was so deadly. She explains how the 1918 seems to have been passed on to pigs and goes on to write extensively about the swine flu non-epidemic of 1976 and its aftermath. In the last part of the book, she tells the stories behind several quests for tissue samples from people who died of the 1918 flu, drawing on interviews with the major researchers. Her description of the behind-the-scenes scramble necessary to get published in major scientific journals is quite illuminating. This book would be of interest to anyone attracted to science or medicine.	2001-08-26
1862751:US	51917998	RVHLCDDHDHEDV	1890132748	71485750	FAST LANE ON A DIRT ROAD:  A Contemporary History of Vermont	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Finely woven details	This book is a thoroughly enjoyable account of the last 60 years of Vermont's history. Sherman does a masterful job of weaving in details from all aspects of life. He even makes politics interesting- -something very few writers do well. His facts are supported and personalized by countless interviews with the people who made history.	2001-08-26
1965908:US	51917998	R35DWXCF0RENFM	1581127995	482811854	The Japanese Education System	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Full of statistics- -but no references	This book is a succinct overview of all aspects of Japanese education.  It covers everything from school fees and uniforms, to textbooks, independent after school activities, school violence, and university reforms.  The book is full of statistics; unfortunately, it contains no references or suggested sources for more information.  The information is quite frank, describing the negative aspects of Japanese education as well as the positive.  In several places, the Japanese educational system is compared to that of the US. In these places it becomes clear that the Nemoto has an extremely superficial understanding of the US system.  Readers would be advised to go elsewhere for information about the US.  On the other hand, for a concise description of Japanese education, this book would be hard to beat.	2001-06-09
1966184:US	51917998	R16WW02D99CGNI	026210069X	321779728	Information Design	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Heavy reading	This book consists of a series of cross-disciplinary articles on information design.  In the concluding chapter of the book, Jeff Raskin summarizes the volume by saying \\"I find that [the articles] accurately represent the diversity of the field - - from fuzzy New Age touchy-feely rantings to thoughtful studies.\\"  I'm inclined to agree, but fortunately, the thoughtful studies outnumber the rantings.  I was fascinated most by Whitehouse's article on architectural signposting for the blind.  However, many of the other articles were also exceptionally thought-provoking.  Before I read this book, I thought \\"information design\\" had something to do with drawing effective graphs.  But after reading these articles, I would say it is making meaning by revealing the relationships between data through planned presentation. Or something to that effect- -the field is much wider than I had ever thought before.	2001-06-09
1966711:US	51917998	R12N3Y7MVDHCSI	0684802759	965609365	The Africa Cookbook	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Continent in a book	This book contains a survey of food across Africa.  The author, a food historian, draws on her many experiences traveling through the continent in this collection of recipes.  The recipes are authentic and tasty, and many of them are quite easy to prepare.  However, I found a few of them a little unrealistic (such as frying slices of four small eggplants in a single tablespoon of olive oil without so much as soaking them in saltwater first), leaving me wondering to what extent Harris had actually tested the recipes.  Nonetheless, overall the book contains many exciting recipes and would make a welcome addition to the library of any adventurous cook.	2001-06-09
1973352:US	51917998	R34VGA0FRLDCDJ	019550609X	334703801	A Sociology of Food and Nutrition: The Social Appetite	Books	2	8	12	N	N	Highly political	This book contains a series of essays on the politics and sociology of food.  Although it's a collection of essays by different authors, it's presented as a textbook, complete with a list of vocabulary words and discussion questions for each essay. A few of the articles are comprehensive review articles covering aspects of food and nutrition, such as eating out in England (Alan Warde &amp; Lydia Martens), food and class (Pat Crotty), nutrition guidance for recent immigrants (Joanne Ikeda), and food and aging (Wm McIntosh &amp; Karen Kubena).  One article reports original research on women's impressions of their bodies during pregnancy (Lauren Williams &amp; Jane Potter).  Most of the remaining articles argue for a particular (politically correct) view of nutrition, food supplies, and obesity.  (For example, the article on world hunger, which starts the book off, argues for neo-Marxist solutions to world hunger, yet overlooks the major role that armed conflicts play in causing famines.)  The editors of the book are Australian, so it is not surprising that the majority of articles discuss questions that focus on Australian society, although some of the chapter discuss British society, and a few describe the US.  This book could be used as a text for upper-level undergraduate courses (if you are determined to teach left-wing politics together with nutrition), but it probably wouldn't be a great choice for US campuses because of the Australian focus.  On the other hand, the core review articles listed above would make great reading anywhere.	2001-06-04
1975692:US	51917998	R1LWHXHBF7OKUU	0312190883	633464476	Electric Language: Understanding the Message	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Essay . . .	Sorry, I just don't get it.  This book is a long poetic essay about writing styles in the electronic age (I think).  It's rather experimental in format and probably couldn't have been published by someone without a famous name.  Open it to the table of contents, and you find a page half in pale orange and half in neon green, with white double-grid lines across the page, sort of in a plaid pattern.  The table of contents itself is only in one typeface (2 sizes) a remarkable phenomenon in this book.  As for the content of the writing, it touches on topics such as virtual reality, teleconferencing, the split of Serbo-Croatian, writing systems of the world, new styles of writing, and synesthesia.  If you like reading long-winded philosophical essays written as graphic arts experiments, then this book is for you.	2001-06-02
1978685:US	51917998	R84ROPVGLNBI3	1878610635	453006850	Filipino Cuisine: Recipes from the Islands (Red Crane Cookbook Series)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Tasty	This book gives an excellent introduction to Filipino food and cooking.  The author has collected and tested hundreds of traditional recipes.  While I'm no expert on the authenticity of these recipes, I can say that they are tasty and not too difficult to try at home.  Some of the special features are adobo (vinegar and garlic sauce), coconut recipes, purple yam recipes, and pickles.  While pork is a central ingredient in many of these recipes, it is also easily possible to put together a completely vegetarian menu using this book.  Gelle includes a brief overview of Filipino food history and regional specialties at the beginning of the book, as well as a glossary of ingredients and index at the end.	2001-05-30
1978837:US	51917998	R1EZ96SZDNYM4R	0205288553	219691616	Teachers, Computers, and Curriculum: Microcomputers in the Classroom (3rd Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	All-encompassing	This book is all-encompassing guide for teachers and technology.  It is about both technology-what is in a computer, and teaching-what works and why.  Computer topics are covered separately in \\"primer\\" chapters (6) that are inserted at various points throughout the book.  The first few primer chapters are extremely basic, covering such things as how to use a mouse, progressing later to setting up a network and how ASCII codes work.  The teaching chapters focus on showing how teaching methods can be enhanced with technology.<br />One of the drawbacks of this book is that it tries to be something for everyone, and I was nearly turned off by the first few chapters, which were far too basic for my needs (eg. what can a word processor do?).  However, as I got deeper into the book, I found many useful ideas and concepts.  Application programs and computer-based instruction are examined in detail in separate chapters, as well as choosing software, classroom management, and administrative concerns.<br />As a textbook, the book is very well designed.  The language of the book, while academic, is readily accessible by undergraduate students.  Each of the regular chapters starts with a list of objectives and ends with a short summary and review.  Each chapter also includes a list of suggested activities of varying difficulty, as well as recommended software and Web links.  The book includes an index and list of references, but no glossary.	2001-05-30
1979461:US	51917998	R10VC4WGGZL02K	0882894110	36005402	Puerto Rican Cookery	Books	2	17	52	N	N	Deep-fried	This book is an interesting collection of Puerto Rican recipes.  Local traditions are present in the numerous recipes for plantains, coconuts, guava, and rum.  However, a health-food cookbook, this is not.  A great number of the recipes call for deep-frying.  Processed foods such as canned vegetables, instant potatoes, and Valveeta are also prominent.  One could enjoy a few dishes from this book every once in a while as a treat, but this is not a book to live out of.	2001-05-30
1979634:US	51917998	R1U7MYBLCJJ1YP	0816026289	676118392	Robotics: The Marriage of Computers and Machines (Facts on File Science Sourcebooks)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Simple but not engaging	This book is a (mostly) clear introduction to the field of robotics for young adult readers.  The language used is quite simple (perhaps overly so) and somewhat dry.  Occasionally, simplicity seems to outweigh substance, and it's hard to pick up on the main ideas.  On the other hand, the book does give an overview of many aspects of robotics, from history, to uses, to artificial intelligence programming.  It includes a glossary of technical terms and a short list of recommended readings.  Although it was originally published some time ago, it is still current today and probably will be for some time to come because the book  focuses on concepts rather than specific technologies.	2001-05-30
1979771:US	51917998	R1KWVB3MBZX8ON	025321310X	491043170	Hundred Thousand Fools of God, The: Musical Travels in Central Asia (and Queens, New York)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Fascinating	This book is a many faceted report on the state of music in the Central Asian Republics of the former Soviet Union, especially Uzbekistan.  The author did his Ph.D. research in ethnomusicology in Tashkent on traditional court music called Shash maqam in 1977-1978.  At the time, Levin was not as interested in this music as he had expected, which he later attributed to the Soviet cultural policies which extinguished the spark of vivacity from the Uzbek music.  This book details many of the author's subsequent travels to Central Asia in search of traditional musicians who managed somehow to develop their unique talents within the stifling socialist milieu.<br />Levin provides much information about the artists, their music, and their poetry, which can all be heard on the accompanying CD.  In the text itself, he rarely describes the instruments played by the musicians, referring to them merely with their local names.  However, descriptions of the instruments can be found in the glossary at the end of the book, which I unfortunately didn't notice until I had finished reading.  Occasionally, Levin's musicology terms get a little too thick for the general reader, but on the whole, the book is quite accessible.<br />The strongest aspect of the book is its description of the culture history of music in the Soviet Union.  In my own brief travels to the Soviet Union, I was struck by how many people there were acquainted with classical music--how an appreciation of classical music stretched across the entire society.  I never saw the dark side of this, however.  In this book, Levin describes how centralized state policies governed even the field of music, changing and obliterating centuries' old traditions.	2001-05-30
2015410:US	51917998	RU8J016J7X5JV	013270000X	913803004	Integrating Computer Technology into the Classroom	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sound model	This book presents the NteQ (iNtegrating Technology for inQuiry)  model for integrating computers into the K-12 classroom (although most examples seem to come from grades 5-6).  The model, which involves specifying objectives, specifying the problem, manipulating the data, presenting the results, and assessment, is very sound and effective.  The organization of the book is very clear, and it would make a great choice for a graduate or upper level undergraduate education text, or even a self-study text.  There are no study questions, but each chapter closes with a list of references and/or resources that will help readers find more information about the covered topics.  I found the first 6 chapters, about general topics concerning integrating computers into the classroom, most useful.  The remaining chapters each focus on how a particular type of application (such as word processing) can be integrated into classroom teaching.  These chapters may contain some ideas for beginners, but they seemed a little basic relative to the depth of information in the earlier chapters.	2001-04-30
2015461:US	51917998	R89Z770PSNHAN	1568304218	454318481	Dynamic Html Web Magic	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Repetitive	This book presents code for accomplishing 16 tasks using combinations of HTML, style sheets, and JavaScript.  All examples and graphics are included on the accompanying CD-ROM (which worked fine on my IBM ThinkPad in Win2000).  Yes, the tasks, like flashing text, circular animations, and pop-up menus, are rather cool. But are they really necessary?  Will they bring more users to your Webpage?  My biggest complaint with the book is that Rouyer repeats 4 out of his 10 or 11 steps for each task verbatim in every single chapter, giving full explanations each time.  An additional 3 or 4 steps for each task are basically identical, with only filenames or numbers of calls to files different.  This book would be a lot shorter and probably a lot cheaper to produce if these steps weren't repeated so many times.  If you like to learn from examples, then this book can give you a lot of ideas.  But if it's concepts that you're looking for, it will be up to you to find them on your own with this book.	2001-04-30
2016266:US	51917998	REPSLULFSZQ7U	188436201X	945998916	Deaf Communities: A Worldwide Perspective	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Interesting	This short book contains a collection of brief descriptions about deaf communities in various parts of the world (Scotland, Jamaica, Czech Republic, Germany, Philippines, Kenya, and Norway).  The author, Jack Olson, has traveled around the world with the Theater of Silence, and these are his travel notes about some of the communities that he visited.  Each chapter for the most part focuses on one school for the deaf, so the book is not strong on big-picture descriptions of conditions for deaf people in these countries.  In fact, some chapters are more travelogue than descriptions, and they can be rather hard to follow as a result.  Olson includes study questions at the end of each chapter, suggesting that he intends the book to be educational material.  However, there is no bibliography or index.  In general, the language is quite simple and should be easy to follow for young adults.  If you are looking for descriptions of international deaf communities, this book may answer some of your questions.	2001-04-30
2016300:US	51917998	R2TY09PCCULMXM	013270000X	913803004	Integrating Computer Technology into the Classroom	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Sound model	This book presents the NteQ (iNtegrating Technology for inQuiry)  model for integrating computers into the K-12 classroom (although most examples seem to come from grades 5-6).  The model, which involves specifying objectives, specifying the problem, manipulating the data, presenting the results, and assessment, is very sound and effective.  The organization of the book is very clear, and it would make a great choice for a graduate or upper level undergraduate education text, or even a self-study text.  There are no study questions, but each chapter closes with a list of references and/or resources that will help readers find more information about the covered topics.  I found the first 6 chapters, about general topics concerning integrating computers into the classroom, most useful.  The remaining chapters each focus on how a particular type of application (such as word processing) can be integrated into classroom teaching.  These chapters may contain some ideas for beginners, but they seemed a little basic relative to the depth of information in the earlier chapters.	2001-04-30
2025474:US	51917998	RP6EJ4R5DS71K	156205810X	663559807	Designing Web Usability	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Essential	This book provides essential information for anyone considering putting a page on the Web, from Web designers to business managers.  Nielsen argues that the primary concern for Web design must be usability.  He then explains how to make Websites more usable, and what to avoid when making a Website.  The core of the book is the first four chapters, on usability, page design, content design, and site design.  Following this core, Nielsen gives detailed analysis of the special requirements for intranet design, accessibility, international design, and the future.  The prose is extremely clear and readable, and numerous images are included as examples.  This book is a must for anyone interested in creating Webpages.	2001-04-21
2025631:US	51917998	R17L30PNKPCNWN	0201379619	304202203	Dynamic HTML: The HTML Developer's Guide	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Expert secrets	This book is a how-to-do-it manual of DHTML.  The preface and first 2 chapters give some very interesting background into what DHTML is, how it was developed, and why developers have to work so hard to make pages cross-browser compatible.  Subsequent chapters discuss mouseovers, transitions, resizing graphics, pull-down menus, drag-and-drop, animations, and sequencing.  The author assumes that the user has a basic knowledge of the components of DHTML: HTML, cascading style sheets, and JavaScript.  He gives the complete HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code for each example, together with a brief description of how each chunk of the code fits together.  Users who are not familiar with all the components of DHTML may find the descriptions too terse to follow.<br />Unlike many Web designers who assume they can dictate to their users what browser and platform they must use, Rule has had to go out of his way in his work for the Discovery Channel to make his designs work on all conceivable browsers.  For this reason, he devotes a great deal of energy to explaining differences between browsers and how to make each task work on different browsers.  The usual structure for each chapter is first a brief introduction to the task (such as animations), a description of what the task does, technical limits, underlying technology, and finally examples.  The examples section always includes separate sections for how to make the design work in Internet Explorer, in Netscape, and cross-platform.<br />The actual example scripts are not as clear as they could be.  They are all presented in courier-bold with line numbers and no indentation.  Although this certainly makes them easy to distinguish, they can be rather fatiguing to read.<br />One very useful feature of the book is its glossary, where technical terms such as \\"object detection\\" or \\"sprite control\\" are defined in clear language.  The book has also a companion Website where sample code can be downloaded.	2001-04-21
2026196:US	51917998	R15EKKYPHINQ8X	0201354934	245118064	HTML 4 for the World Wide Web, Fourth Edition	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Quick reference. . . but a little slop	This book provides a concise introduction and reference to HTML 4, including an extensive section on styles.  Nearly every tag description includes example HTML code along with a screen capture showing the browser results, all on the same page.  This makes the book quite clear and easy to use for reference.  Castro also gives thorough consideration to users of both Netscape and Internet Explorer as well as Macintosh and Windows. In addition to an index, the book includes useful appendices that cover special symbol codes and HTML tags with their attributes, and common colors are listed together with their hexadecimal codes on the back cover, all making the book a valuable reference. On the other hand, Castro is occasionally sloppy with her details, for instance suggesting that you can always examine source code by \\"downloading\\" it through View-Source.  (If you can see a page in your browser, there is nothing more to download- -the source code is already available on your machine.)  Her description of the differences between logical and physical tags is also not as clear as it should be.  Nevertheless, the book will prove a useful reference to both new users and Web professionals.	2001-04-21
2074911:US	51917998	R3G23SE0UF4M8R	0764534556	445300645	Web Design Studio Secrets	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Required reading for Web designers	This book presents analysis and how-did-they-do-that descriptions of numerous aspects of Web page design and production.  The first two chapters covering general design issues and navigation are exceptionally good and should be read by anyone who makes Web pages.  These chapters stress the overall need for usability and speed and discuss why sites that don't take their audience into consideration are unsuccessful.  The remaining chapters are each geared to specific aspects of Web design that may be of interest to graphic artists designing for the Web; they cover such topics as Web graphics, fonts, animation, multimedia, and 3D worlds.  In fact, some of the chapters are so specific that they may not be comprehensible to readers who don't work with Adobe Photoshop every day.  The book includes a CD that has interactive examples and demo software for some of the design products mentioned in the book.<br />While the overall quality of the book is quite good, the technical chapters on HTML and JavaScript are rather weak- -new users of either of these languages won't find these sections very illuminating, and experienced users won't find many new tips either (the example figures showing HTML code are barely legible).  The chapter on Web type starts off by considering usability issues, but soon turns to snazzy ways to make an artistic point, seemingly forgetting the needs of users (as well as search engines, which read only real text, not animated gifs or Shockwave).  The book is definitely geared towards graphic artists, almost assuming that the readers are working on high-end Macintosh computers.  Certainly, any graphic artist designing for the Web will find tremendous value in this book, as well as general readers interested in Web design.	2001-03-09
2086970:US	51917998	R2GP7NXLBWCM55	0262032554	624408287	A History of Modern Computing (History of Computing)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Technical details	This book is a history of computing technology since 1945.  Ceruzzi focuses mostly on hardware, giving very detailed descriptions of how the great mainframes were built and by whom.  He also discusses how transistors and microchips were developed and came into use in computers, although his descriptions of the development of computer languages, operating systems, or other software are much briefer than those he provides for hardware.  The book has a number of illustrations of people and the machines they made famous.  The author seems very careful to give an accurate account of events and the book is very well footnoted.  It also includes an excellent index and bibliography.  I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the technical aspects of the history of computers.	2001-02-27
2087479:US	51917998	R1TTQLTR2U9KMX	0124211607	554342538	E-Commerce Book, The: Building the E-Empire (Communications, Networking and Multimedia)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Heres how to do it	This book provides an introduction to the various technical and business aspects of e-commerce for the small to medium business owner or manager.  The authors begin by stressing the importance of e-commerce and tremendous growth potential for companies that do it right.  After a few brief case studies, they delve into some of the more technical aspects, such as how a company can connect its databases to off-the-shelf e-commerce software.  They describe what a server does and give an overview of the features of the top-selling server software.  They also summarize the possibilities for electronic payments and how they work, as well as the kinds of security that are needed in various parts of an e-commerce network and why.  The final chapters in the book provide an in-depth look at online auctions, project deployment, and their own e-commerce program of study.<br />All in all, the book sticks to the surface of many of the technical issues, so readers without a great deal of technical expertise should have no trouble understanding it.  On the other hand, if you are looking for technical details, you may want to go beyond the level of this book.	2001-02-27
2087970:US	51917998	R11Y1AC19DPHV	0306459728	265592588	Computing in the Web Age: A Web-Interactive Introduction (Plenum Series on Demographic Methods)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Some parts good, some parts not so good	This book is an interesting introduction to the technical aspects of computing.  The author goes out of his way to try to make it appealing to people in the humanities by including numerous references to poetry, literature, and the humanities.  Meanwhile, he gives an overview of computer science, focusing on the Turing machine.  At times, a great deal of the book seems to be written to showcase Dilligan's simulation programs that are available on the companion website, which include a scientific calculator and a Turing machine simulator.  The level of the book is quite mixed, since Dilligan goes into great detail about how to use a web browser to open a web page, yet he also includes quite a bit of binary and hexadecimal math.  Some of his explanations about graphics file types and their corresponding sizes, or about the influence of Unix on URL format are extremely illuminating, and are rarely made this clear elsewhere.  On the other hand, the book is in great need of some proof-reading.  The code examples that he includes are riddled with typos (particularly the SGML and HTML).  Some of the numbers mentioned in the text have typographical errors as well, which detracts from the clarity of the mathematical explanations.  Overall, this book may be worth reading for the gems of information it contains, but it could stand for quite a bit of improvement.	2001-02-27
2119034:US	51917998	RFBDA2F1SYDXQ	067102325X	741791611	Virus Ground Zero: Stalking the Killer Viruses with the Centers for Disease Control	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Riveting	This book traces the response of the CDC to an Ebola outbreak in Zaire in 1995.  Like its predecessor, The Hot Zone, many stories are interwoven throughout the book to give a complete background into what happened.  Despite this stylistic similarity, the message of this book is quite different from that of The Hot Zone, as becomes more and more clear by the end of the book.<br />One of the main story lines is a description of the development of the CDC, from its start as an anti-malaria organization to the multi-faceted behemoth that it is today.  After reading the descriptions of the Level 4 labs in The Hot Zone, I never would have guessed at the primitive lab conditions found at the CDC through the 1960s and later.<br />Regis' core message is that of victory- -victory over this particular outbreak, victory over small pox, and the tremendous success we have had combating infectious illnesses during the twentieth century.  He points out that so many infections can be prevented by simple hygiene, like washing one's hands, or by avoiding direct physical contact with infected people by using rubber gloves. Even the much feared Ebola virus doesn't spread easily when people follow standard hygiene protocols common in the developed world.  Regis doesn't dismiss the importance of paying attention to communicable diseases and preventing epidemics, but he argues that there is no need to live in fear about new rain forest microbes out to get us.	2001-02-01
2119210:US	51917998	R1G9E850SUGB9L	0471296465	176507030	Why We Age: What Science Is Discovering about the Body's Journey Through Life	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Interesting	This book presents a thoroughly readable introduction to the science of aging, not just human aging, but aging among all animals.  The author begins by pointing out that all claims for pockets of extraordinarily aged people in various corners of the world have always lacked documentation or other substantiation.  He states that there is a limit to human longevity that has remained constant even as life expectancies have risen with improved health care and living conditions.<br />Austad's somewhat simplistic writing style seems geared towards readers of self-help bestsellers at times, and occasionally his analogies lack clarity.  Early in the text he defines the beginning of aging as the time when the probability of death is at its minimum, which seems to be about age 11 in humans.  While this may be the standard measure for the science of aging (?), Austad never compares this to ordinary people's measures.  For instance, many lay people distinguish between aging and longevity.  They accept that there is a limit to life but within that limit, they want to have the highest quality of life possible right up until the end.  Such people might define aging as a decline in life quality due to pain or illness, and loss of balance, strength, or memory.  Certainly, quality of life does not start to decline at age 11.  Later in the book as Austad examines ways that people might lengthen their lives, he still never takes up the issue of quality of life.  Austad argues that some of the things that people do to try to make themselves healthier (exercise, vitamins) have not been shown to increase longevity but he seems to overlook the fact that they might increase the quality of life so they still might be worthwhile.<br />Despite these weaknesses, the book is still a very good introduction to the science of aging.  It summarizes much current research about aging in language that is accessible by anyone.	2001-02-01
2119244:US	51917998	R15GOOXIG3F583	0813327393	401444346	No Foreign Food: The American Diet In Time And Place (Geographies of the Imagination)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Intriguing	This book presents a concise and clear overview of food habits and customs in the United States.  Pillsbury examines regional food differences and traces them back to immigrant or even Native American customs.  One of the more interesting aspects of the book is the documentation of how our ideals of what food was like for past generations differ from what they really ate.  For instance, Pillsbury stresses the importance of corn meal-based baked goods in the traditional American diet instead of white yeast breads.  He also points out how much greater variety of food we have available today, how much safer the food is in terms of contamination, and even how much safer cooking conditions are.  The development of restaurants, supermarkets, and cookbooks are described in separate chapters.  Contributions of various groups of immigrants are also highlighted, although the author makes no mention of South Asian immigrants, who are certainly beginning to have a noticeable presence in the Northeast.  Overall, I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in food, food history, US history, or ethnic studies.	2001-02-01
2119501:US	51917998	R14R48DKPEXZTB	0292711336	734188637	Children in the Muslim Middle East	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Encyclopedic	This book consists of a very varied collection of essays about numerous aspects of children's lives in the Middle East, as well as some short fiction and poetry.  The book is organized into the following sections: growing up; children's health; children and work; children's education; children, politics, and war; and children and the arts.  At times, the book steps beyond its stated theme, describing in some cases situations that have more to do with poverty than Islam or the Middle East (particularly in the health section), or Christian women (at war in Lebanon).  But on the whole, every piece is well written and extremely informative.  This is an important contribution to Middle Eastern studies; it will also be of interest to those studying families or children across cultures.	2001-02-01
2140554:US	51917998	R83FE8HU0PIWD	1566394430	633029737	Family and Gender Among American Muslims: Issues Facing Middle Eastern Immigrants And Their Decendants	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very interesting	This book consists of a series of papers on various topics concerning Muslim families in the United States.  The book is divided into three main topic areas: values, structure, and variation in Muslim families; practical issues for families; and immigrants' life stories.  The practical issues mostly center on health care in the Arab immigrant community in Dearborn, Michigan. The papers present a very interesting overview of how Arab families maintain their community values within the melting pot of the United States.	2001-01-14
2141349:US	51917998	R9RCWG8I8TZE8	0761950117	884542604	The Sociology of Consumption: An Introduction	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Thought-provoking	This book provides an insightful introduction into the sociology of consumption.  The introduction and the first 2 chapters examine consumption from a historical and theoretical standpoint.  The remaining chapters could be stand-alone papers on the individual topics of department stores, advertising, women's magazines, the home, food and drink, tourism, the body, and clothing and fashion.  For me, the most interesting chapters were the theoretical chapters, departments stores, and tourism because they really got me thinking about why people make the purchasing decisions that they do.  The chapter on the body is rather philosophical and hard to relate to daily consumer decisions.<br />Corrigan's background is Australian and Irish.  For this reason, his descriptions often read as if the world centered on England, France, and Australia, with small out-posts in the US and Austria.  A more international perspective might have been more appropriate given our global economy.  For instance, in chapter one, he relies heavily on the work of Grant McCracken to place the start of consumerism at the court of Elizabeth I because she required nobles to reside in London.  I'm no expert on Japanese history, but didn't something similar happen in Japan?  If McCracken's theory is correct, it would have been good to at least address why such a requirement didn't result in consumerism in Japan.  Or did it?<br />The blurb on the back cover suggests that this might be used as a text for undergraduate sociology students.  There is a good list of sources and an index, however, as a textbook, it would also be useful to include some discussion questions at the end of each chapter, as well as a glossary.	2001-01-13
2142218:US	51917998	R3JZMOQ4L6KFDH	1860640273	757414097	Veiled Half-Truths: Western Travelers' Perception of Middle Eastern Women	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Interesting idea, but.	This book consists of many excerpts from Westerners' travelogues about Middle Eastern women, along with brief commentary by Judy Mabro.  Unfortunately, the commentary tends to be too brief, and there tend to be so many excerpts that it's hard to follow the points.  Also, although the excerpts are presented in a slightly smaller font than the commentary, it is occasionally difficult to distinguish commentary from excerpt, particularly when many excerpts are presented in a row.  It's not clear from the text whether Mabro actually has first-hand experience in the Middle East herself.  In quite a few places, her commentary implicitly or even explicitly suggests that the author of the excerpt misinterpreted the culture; however, the excerpt seems to be accurate (based on my limited 3 years experience in the Middle East).  For instance, she claims that a passage where an author comments that a husband avoids talking directly about his wife shows that the author is negating the existence of the woman.  Well, actually, this does happen; some Middle Eastern men really do avoid talking directly about their wives, especially in the presence of unrelated men.  But does my commenting about this phenomenon mean that I negate the existence of the women?<br />There really is a lot to be learned from reading travelogues, especially about the cultures that produced such writers with such prejudices.  However, in this book, Mabro doesn't go far enough in her commentary to really say much that is worthwhile.  Her list of references and sources on the other hand, may lead to some very interesting material.	2001-01-13
2151144:US	51917998	R26YOAVHBQYW7J	0292755295	362700632	Women and the Family in the Middle East: New Voices of Change	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Comprehensive	This book consists of a collection of essays, short fiction, and poetry on the theme of women and family in the Middle East.  The book is divided into 6 main sections: the family; health and education; war, politics, and revolution; religion and law; work; and identity.  Most regions of the Middle East are included, with the exception of the Gulf States.  By her choice of such a wide variety of texts, Fernea succeeds in conveying how varied women's issues and concerns are in the Middle East.  In some sections, such as the one on work, women's experiences come across as being similar to those found in other parts of the world: wives are reluctant to work for fear of emasculating their husbands, yet a second income has become necessary to allow for patterns of increasing consumption.  In other sections, we find information particular to the Middle East, especially in health and education, where Nawal Al-Sa'dawi describes the essence of gender development in Muslim families and Nahid Toubia presents facts about female circumcision.  Although some of the texts are now somewhat dated, the book could still be a valuable source for information on the wide range of topics that it contains.	2001-01-05
2151401:US	51917998	R22CTF4UO7V180	0813514258	777720545	My Life Story: The Autobiography of a Berber Woman	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Moving	This book presents the life history of an ordinary- -yet very unique Kabyle woman.  Fadhma Amrouche was born in 1882/1883 in an Algerian village.  Never legitimized by her father, she was subject to endless ridicule by the villagers, prompting her mother to send her away to convent school for her own protection.  It was at another convent where her future husband first noticed her, and where they were married, necessitating her conversion to Christianity.  In the pages of this book, Amrouche describes her schooling, her marriage, and her children.  Her personal and family struggles are the clear focus, while world wars, epidemics and the war of independence flicker through the background.  She never had it easy, and she never felt at home, not in France, Tunisia, her husband's house, or even her own village.  But when you consider the time period she lived through, how different was her experience, in the end, from those of her compatriots?  This book is well worth reading for the wealth of information it contains about conditions in late Nineteenth Century Kabylia as well as for its story of simple endurance.	2001-01-05
2151441:US	51917998	R17QP94KXDOOV	0295962313	111255088	Coffee and Coffeehouses: The Origins of a Social Beverage in the Medieval Near East (Publications on the Near East)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Scholarly discussion	This book presents a history of coffee and controversies related to it within the Arab world, especially the Arabian peninsula, Egypt, and Turkey.  It includes 16 historical illustrations, depicting various serving implements for coffee and coffee establishments covering approximately 300 years.  The scholarly style of the text may not be easy to follow for the general reader, especially readers who are not familiar with some basic Arabic naming conventions and structure.  However, the research seems to be exceedingly well done and documented.  The focus on coffee-related controversies can be somewhat disorienting, since the author assumes from the beginning that the reader will have some idea of the extent of the controversies and may even be able to speculate on their causes.  The description of the legal opinions concerning coffee is quite clear, and could even help readers develop an understanding of more general questions of Islamic law.  The author's comments on social change are also very lucid and worth reading for anyone interested in material culture.	2001-01-05
2151452:US	51917998	R1B0WYNT4WFXTH	1559635355	62113131	Consuming Desires: Consumption, Culture, and the Pursuit of Happiness	Books	2	11	12	N	N	Occasionally interesting	This book consists of a series 13 new essays by well-known writers on the topic of consumerism, together with an introduction by Roger Rosenblatt.  About half the essays are sermons on the demons of consumerism and consumption.  Mixed in with the diatribe are some interesting more informative pieces on such topics as competitive spending (Juliet Schor), youth consumerism (Alex Kotlowitz), ecology (Bill McKibben), publishing (Andre Schiffrin), and housework (Jane Smiley).  Bharati Mukherjee contributes an Indian immigrant's view on consumerism, which hints at the lack of concern or comprehension about hyper-consumerism held by the population of one of the world's largest developing countries.  If you are interested in consumerism (or preparing your own sermon on the topic), you may find some material of interest in this book.	2001-01-05
2151593:US	51917998	RWISVYGG2BSL8	0815601816	511673795	Khul-Khaal: Five Egyptian Women Tell Their Stories (Contemporary Issues in the Middle East (Paperback))	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fascinating	This book presents the life stories of five working class women from Egypt in the 1970s.  Atiya has masterfully written the tales in the voices of the women who told them to her.  The stories contain fascinating ethnographic information about living conditions and customs of the region and the time.  Together, they give a picture of women's issues in Egypt, especially regarding family bonds and power, women's work, establishment of gender roles, marriage, and female circumcision.	2001-01-05
2151652:US	51917998	R27UGZ57G1RUOV	0631204997	34312599	An Introduction to Sociolinguistics (Blackwell Textbooks in Linguistics)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Excellent text	This book is an excellent introduction to the field of sociolinguistics.  It encompasses the entire spectrum of sociolinguistics, including such topics as the Whorfian Hypothesis, politeness, and language planning, in addition to the usual standard topics of language variation and pidgins and creoles.  It also covers a wide range of languages and issues, going far beyond the usual North American and British topics.  Included are a 25 page bibliography as well as specific suggestions for further reading at the end of each chapter.  The writing is usual quite clear and certainly less wordy than Hudson's introductory sociolinguistics text.  Interspersed throughout the book, at the end of each minor chapter section, are \\"Discussion\\" questions.  These questions are intended to get the reader to give some more thought to the issues being discussed.  The questions vary greatly in difficulty, from those that any undergraduate linguistics student should be able to answer through a little introspection, to quite a few that could be dissertation topics in themselves.  Occasionally, Wardhaugh suggests where the reader could get further information necessary to answer these questions, but frequent lack of such clear advice may leave readers (and instructors) frustrated.  Nevertheless, this is a fine text.	2001-01-05
2151989:US	51917998	R2ZZ0Q4CYZ7IV3	1558760075	952836576	Memoirs of an Arabian Princess from Zanzibar (Topics in World History)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Fascinating	This book contains the memoirs of Emily (Sayyida) Ruete, a Nineteenth Century Arabian princess.  It is a fascinating tale of childhood and living conditions within the harem in Nineteenth Century Zanzibar.  The book is unique in that Sayyida was one of the very few princesses who learned to write, hence other princesses were not able to record their experiences.  It is refreshing to read an insider's report of harem life rather than the strange misinterpretations of short-term foreign visitors.  The book also contains firsthand accounts of political intrigue, which will be of interest to students of Zanzibari or Omani history.	2001-01-05
2152211:US	51917998	R25ETL2RP2CYWK	0805057404	242443224	Drinking the Sea at Gaza: Days and Nights in a Land Under Siege	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Politics, politics, and more politics	This book presents a look at the appalling conditions with the Gaza Strip, focusing on the mid-1990s, when the author was present as a journalist.  This is very much a journalist's report, with its detailed descriptions of the political movements and movers, interspersed with the occasional human interest story and lots of statistics. If politics isn't your thing, then the first few chapters may be a little difficult to slog through.  But the information on living conditions and legal policies is absolutely riveting.  Hass's descriptions of the political situation within Gaza in the late 1990s do not bode well for a democratic future within an independent state.  If you enjoy reading about politics, then you will certainly find much of interest in this book.	2001-01-05
2164490:US	51917998	RHYP6S13C3C2G	0312221754	289209833	In the Wake of the Balkan Myth: Questions of Identity and Modernity	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Lit crit about Serbia	This book is another one of those lit crit essays.  It's better than average, if you're into that sort of stuff.  But if you're looking for solid information (not based on interpretation from literature) about the Balkans, there's not very much in this book.  The author chooses mainly Serbian authors, or authors writing from Belgrade and he seems well aware that this is the politically un-correct side to be describing at this point in time.  Perhaps for this reason, he tries to stay clear of politics, aside from a few mentions of atrocities against the Serbs during World War II.  If you like reading other people's interpretations of novels you've never heard of, then you might enjoy this book.	2000-12-26
2165249:US	51917998	R3TJYZNJUVP2VB	0140154051	152296220	The Story of English: Revised Edition	Books	5	55	58	N	N	Great read - - nice pictures	This book is a very readable and well researched introduction to the history of the English language.  It contains a great deal of material about the many varieties of English, including separate chapters on Irish English, Scots English, American English, Caribbean English, and Australian and South African English.  The photographs and maps that are featured throughout the book are excellent.  The maps provide invaluable insights to the historical processes of change, and the pictures make the history come alive.  In some places, it is clear that the book was written as a companion to the TV series, when the narrative takes us to an interview with a dialect speaker and then falls flat.  If you have access to the video, the motivation for these interviews is much more clear when you can hear the person talk.  This book would be excellent for the general reader; it would also make a good textbook for an introductory course on the development of English.	2000-12-26
2189578:US	51917998	RQSMZT3F5AAGK	0415092892	683270763	Rethinking University Teaching: A Conversational Framework for the Effective Use of Learning Technologies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Thought-provoking	This book explores how technology can best be used to enhance university undergraduate education.  Instead of focusing on the technology, however, the author wisely considers first of all what good university teaching is.  With this idea constantly in mind, she then takes up the various technologies available when she wrote the book (1993), and explores how they might be used to help students learn.  As to be expected, some of the technologies she describes have since been abandoned (hypermedia as in hypercard stacks) and some of her criticisms are no longer valid because the media have advanced; indeed, no mention at all is made of the Internet or the World Wide Web.  But because Laurillard grounds this volume on the precept that it is the teaching that is important, and presents the specific media only as examples, the book will remain relevant for years to come.<br />Aside from the entire Part 1 \\"What students need from educational technology\\" (actually, an explication of her ideas about university teaching), the most useful comments in the book come in chapter 11, \\"Setting up the learning context,\\" where Laurillard describes how students must be prepared to learn from technology.  The technology, no matter how excellent, cannot simply be put in front of the students with the expectation that they will learn from it.  The only disappointment was the last chapter, \\"Effective teaching with multimedia methods,\\" which despite the promising title, is little more than an outline of recommendations for nation-wide (i.e. UK-wide) development of learning software.	2000-12-03
2189736:US	51917998	R38S7TZSVJFP4R	0385475187	101042160	In Search of Islamic Feminism: One Woman's Global Journey	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Long journey	This book describes Fernea's personal quest for Islamic feminism throughout the Middle East.  Each chapter describes her experiences in a different country. It is never made clear whether the ordering of the chapters corresponds to the chronology of her visits, although she mentions in the beginning that she began in 1994, and the most recent entries seem to be from about 1997.  Although some of the visits seem to be specifically for this project, others appear to have been incidental, where she did research for the project while on various lecture tours arranged for other purposes.<br />Fernea writes from a very personal point of view in this book.  Indeed, the book, with its details of such things as the food she ate and her misadventures with her hostesses' dog, comes across more as a travel journal than an academic survey.  Throughout, she seems to go out of her way make it clear that she does not consider herself an expert on the topic, but rather as a curious seeker.  She also laments frequently her limited ability in Standard Arabic.  Coming from an author of her stature, this is a bit surprising.  But then again, this is in line with her previous ethnographic studies on the Middle East, which described her and her family's personal dealings with the culture as much as they described the culture itself.  And perhaps given the topic and the ethnicity of the author, this was the only possible approach for a book exploring these questions.<br />Fernea presents few clear conclusions in her search for Islamic feminism.  Those generalities that are mentioned come mostly from the mouths of the women she interviews.  The clearest message is that women in the Middle East seem leery of the term \\"feminist\\".  To them, \\"feminism\\" seems to represent attitudes of Western women (of perhaps questionable morals) who want to subvert their culture.  On the other hand, virtually all the women interviewed in the book are concerned about women's issues and would like to improve the lives of women in their communities.  Several of the women stressed that there is no overall \\"Islamic\\" culture; each Islamic country has its own culture.  The issues that are important for women in any given country arise more from the culture than from the religion.  Nevertheless, the religion does provide certain rights and expectations for all Islamic women; whether the women can take advantage of these rights depends on the conditions prevailing where they live.<br />This book represents yet another chapter in the Fernea's growth in understanding about the women in this region.  As such, it will be a welcome addition in the library of anyone who has read her previous books, or for anyone else who is exploring women's issues and Islam.lives of women in their communities.  Several of the women stressed that there is no overall \\"Islamic\\" culture; each Islamic country has its own culture.  The issues that are important for women in any given country arise more from the culture than from the religion.  Nevertheless, the religion does provide certain rights and expectations for all Islamic women; whether the women can take advantage of these rights depends on the conditions prevailing where they live.<br />This book represents yet another chapter in the Fernea's growth in understanding about the women in this region.  As such, it will be a welcome addition in the library of anyone who has read her previous books, or for anyone else who is exploring women's issues and Islam.	2000-12-03
2207126:US	51917998	R2HUYEJQPQAACG	0195643038	57935048	House and Home in Maharashtra (Gender Studies Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Diverse and interesting	This book contains papers presented at a 1995 conference in Moscow called \\"Sixth International Conference on \\"Maharashtra: Culture and Society\\".  The 18 short papers contained within the volume cover a multitude of topics, from grammar in the Rgveda to conditions within the family homes for women to design and materials of family gods.  The papers are organized into the following subtopics: House and Home Reconstructed; Women in Their Parents' Homes and in Their In-Laws' Houses; Homes and Household; and Gods and Devotees at Home.  The quality of writing is quite good throughout.  Due to the varied topics, not all papers are likely to interest any given reader, but most scholars interested in Maharashtra will find at least one paper of great interest contained within the volume.  Women's issues are particularly well-covered in the book, where it emerges that lives of Hindu women left a lot to be desired when compared to those of Muslim women, who had rights of inheritance and property ownership reserved for them.  The book includes a joint index, but has separate bibliographies for each paper.	2000-11-17
2207461:US	51917998	R35AF3BOSI7J9O	0815605625	131074446	At Home: An Anthropology of Domestic Space (Space, Place and Society)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Well Done	This book consists of a series of papers investigating attitudes towards residential housing and customs of England, Holland, and France.  Most papers consider questions about modern housing, but some take a historical viewpoint, looking back to the 19 th century or even earlier.  A few have been published elsewhere in other languages or in a different form.  For the most part, the topics are highly specialized rather than general, considering, for instance, evidence on domestic conditions drawn from paintings by the Dutch masters, the history of Dutch window shapes, usage, and d&eacute;cor, use of hallways in France, external decorations of privatized council housing, and the history of laundering in Western Europe.  The editor, Cieraad, draws these disparate topics together in her masterful introduction.  The book includes a unified bibliography and index.	2000-11-17
2207487:US	51917998	R1O3S7KIAG8GN4	0415171229	723345019	Ideal Homes?: Social Change and the Experience of the Home	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Interesting and varied	This book consists of a collection of papers about people's images of home.  The volume is divided into 4 parts: Changing images of the ideal home; Betwixt and between: homes in transition; Anxieties and risks: homes in danger; and Changing perceptions of home.  The first part, changing images of the ideal home, focuses mainly on British homes and British attitudes towards home.  Much of the remaining material, however, could easily be generalized to cover Western attitudes towards housing and home.  Tony Chapman's paper \\"You've got him well trained': the negotiation of roles in the domestic sphere is a particularly well-done exploration into sources of social attitudes towards sharing housework.  Overall, this book provides some extremely interesting vantage points of many different aspects of domestic life, especially in 21st century England.  Anthropologists, sociologists, and feminists will all find something of interest in this book.	2000-11-17
2230799:US	51917998	R1FR1I91KEZ14F	0553067966	986018672	The Simple Living Guide: A Sourcebook for Less Stressful, More Joyful Living	Books	5	40	41	N	Y	Full of ideas	This book is full of great ideas for people following the simple living path.  The author's essential thesis, although never explicitly stated, is that to live simply, we must consciously consider every consequence of the every decision we make.  If we are unhappy with our current money/family/housing/health conditions, we need to realize that these conditions are the result of decisions we made in the past.  To live a better life, we need to make better decisions and often a simpler option is the better choice.<br />Along these lines, the author points out how going along with the average American middleclass lifestyle of large house, large debts, high fat diet, and too much TV is neither fun nor healthy.  She suggests countless alternatives, but more importantly, stresses that each person needs to make the choice himself or herself.  Even if a person chooses to go along with the usual average American habit, that's not necessarily bad, as long as he or she makes the choice consciously and is content with all of the consequences.<br />This book doesn't have a lot of specific money advice on how to live a simple life.  For this, a reader might look to a book like \\"Your Money or Your Life\\".  Instead, its strength lies in helping the reader to develop a personal philosophy towards living simply, as well as providing ideas.  To provide encouragement, each chapter ends with a short case history of a successful simplicity family story.	2000-10-27
2231095:US	51917998	RMMSUFWLKIMLU	0312173865	69970984	The Hazaras of Afghanistan: An Historical, Cultural, Economic and Political Study	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Historical documentation	This book seems to be a plea for readers in the West to notice the existence of the Hazara ethnic group of Afghanistan.  As an ethnographic study, it is not very satisfying, since it has very little description of contemporary Hazara society.  Its main value is in its extensive historical documentation of Hazara leadership and the social discrimination that the Hazaras have faced in Afghanistan.  The writing is not always clear; indeed, there are many times when the big picture remains entirely elusive.  Nevertheless, as a source book for historical facts, this volume might prove useful for area specialists.	2000-10-27
2245017:US	51917998	R3OB8ZN1TFW967	0582249945	385287136	A Short History of Linguistics (Longman Linguistics Library)	Books	3	21	26	N	N	Short indeed	A better title for this book might be \\"A Short History of EUROPEAN Linguistics.\\"  Although Indian and Chinese linguistics are mentioned, they are treated as sidetracks of chapters about Western thought.  This is rather strange, given the tremendous insights of Panini, which Robins seems to suggest led to new breakthroughs once these works were discovered by Western linguists.  Perhaps a more accurate approach would have been to start with the earliest Indian linguistic traditions, follow how these traditions led to Panini, and then spread to China.  The wrong turns taken by various European linguists from the Greeks until the discovery of Panini by Europeans could then be treated briefly as a sidetrack.<br />Aside from these quibbles over the subject matter and orientation, I found this book rather hard to follow.  On the back cover, a blurb by Language International states \\". . . a clearly written history of the study of linguistics from Classical Greece onwards.\\"  I didn't find the writing clear at all.  On numerous occasions, lack of proper connecting expressions makes the message hard to follow.  For instance, we find on p. 175 \\"Much of what has been briefly noticed in ancient Indian speculation on semantics and the theory of language strikes chords already familiar in the western tradition, though their approach is often rather different.  What is most remarkable about Indian phonetic work is its manifest superiority in conception and execution, especially in phonetics, as compared with anything produced in the west or elsewhere before the Indian contribution had become known there.\\"  Such a message could be expressed much more clearly by comparing directly the similarity of Western and Indian work on semantics with the dissimilarity of Western and Indian work on phonetics.  Alternatively, the author could compare the equality of Western and Indian work on semantics with the inferiority of Western work on phonetics in relation to Indian work.  But starting the second sentence, with \\"What is most remarkable about Indian phonetic work\\" leads the reader to assume that the previous sentence should have been extolling the more minor virtues of Indian phonetic work, and that what follows will be the greatest achievement of Indian phonetic work.  Such lack of care with linking expressions requires the reader to stop and re-read the passage several times in order understand what is being said.  Such potentially confusing passages permeate this book.<br />I found the final two chapters, devoted to the first and second half of the twentieth centuries exceedingly hard-to-follow.  The first of these chapters has an extremely weak story-line, consisting mostly of short summaries of the work of individual researchers, without satisfactory connections being made.  There is little sense of balance; the Prague School is barely mentioned while Firth gets six pages.  The latter chapter meanders through the development of Chomky's theory without providing many satisfactory explanations.  See, for instance, p. 261: \\"The emphasis on the explanatory goal of Chomskyan linguistics or of any linguistic theory inspired by him, is ever more strongly made.  As a result the term transformational, so frequent in former textbooks, has now almost disappeared and the Chomskyan theory is now designated simply as generative linguistics.\\"  It may be true that Chomskyan linguistics increasingly emphasizes the goal of explanation, but it's hard to see how this emphasis directly caused the demise of the term \\"transformational\\".  The material on Chomsky ends with Government and Binding theory; no mention is made of Minimalism or Optimality (in phonology or syntax), both of which were well established by 1997 when this edition was published.  Coverage of developments in phonology ends with The Sound Pattern of English (1968). Developments in sociolinguistics are briefly mentioned in the final chapter, although Labov's name does not appear.  The rise of new fieldssuch as computational linguistics is not mentioned at all, nor are non-Chomskyan theories of syntax.  The book concludes with \\"In striving towards the understanding and knowledge of language, man has throughout his intellectual history been seeking more fully to attain self-knowledge, and to obey the injunction that faced the visitor to Apollo's temple at Delphi, the centre of the ancient Greek world, where our civilization finds its source: (2 untranslated Greek words).\\"  If you haven't had the benefit of a classical education, you're out of luck with this one.<br />Despite these shortcomings, this book is highly informative and well referenced.  In addition to providing a brief background of the development of European linguistic science, it also gives an overview of general philosophical thought over the 2000 years covered by the book.  If you're looking for a brief overview of European linguistics and philosophy, and you're willing to spend some time fighting with the text to understand the meaning, then this book may serve your purposes.such as computational linguistics is not mentioned at all, nor are non-Chomskyan theories of syntax.  The book concludes with \\"In striving towards the understanding and knowledge of language, man has throughout his intellectual history been seeking more fully to attain self-knowledge, and to obey the injunction that faced the visitor to Apollo's temple at Delphi, the centre of the ancient Greek world, where our civilization finds its source: (2 untranslated Greek words).\\"  If you haven't had the benefit of a classical education, you're out of luck with this one.<br />Despite these shortcomings, this book is highly informative and well referenced.  In addition to providing a brief background of the development of European linguistic science, it also gives an overview of general philosophical thought over the 2000 years covered by the book.  If you're looking for a brief overview of European linguistics and philosophy, and you're willing to spend some time fighting with the text to understand the meaning, then this book may serve your purposes.	2000-10-16
2245185:US	51917998	R38MABM4FGFNI5	0704380234	248180619	Story of a City: A Childhood in Amman (Literature)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Mysterious and captivating	This book provides a captivating view into daily life in Amman for a child growing up in the 1940s.  Although the book consists of memoirs, Munif writes entirely in the third person, and the translator has used the \\"habitual would\\" instead of simple past tense, both of which serve to bring the reader into the immediacy of the context.  The book focuses on general description rather than on personal experience, giving a flavor more of the city than of the life of a particular child.  The historical information about general living conditions in 1940s Amman is quite fascinating, covering such topics as the various schools, medical clinics, markets, and children's past times, as well as the looming presence of war.  The author is the recipient of numerous literary awards; the excellence of his craft comes clearly through the translation.	2000-10-16
2256310:US	51917998	R23QVVDT8YXOIX	0823028356	810472738	Living House: An Anthropology of Architecture in South-East Asia	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Superlative	This book is an incredible work of ethnographic documentation as well as a tremendous analysis of traditional architecture.  Waterson demonstrates how elements of culture, including gender, kinship, and cosmology are reflected in house design and use.  The books is filled with photographs and illustrations, both by Waterson and from various collections.  This book is a must for anyone interested in South-East Asia, residential architecture, or material culture.	2000-10-06
2256975:US	51917998	R1AL8P3SUIXR79	0814250033	948275648	LANGUAGE FILES 7TH EDITION: MATERIALS FOR AN INTRODUCTION TO LANGUAG	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Excellent text	This new edition is a much improved version of an old standard.  When I first used Language Files, it consisted primarily of a workbook of exercises accompanied by tersely worded handouts.  The exercises are still here, and they've been added to and improved.  But the text has been greatly expanded and updated so that the book can now stand on its own as a course textbook rather than as simply a workbook supplement.  The glossary is excellent, and there is a separate language index in addition to the general index.  The book still retains it organization as separate short files, which makes it very easy to find readings on specific topics; the reader feels free to skip around within the text.  The brevity of the files adds to their readability.  I would recommend this book as a either a course text or supplement for any introductory linguistics course.	2000-10-06
2257560:US	51917998	RUG25YXBK46UV	0155078275	320919039	Language: Its Structure and Use	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Comprehensive and well-balanced	This book is an excellent text for introductory linguistics courses or courses about language and society.  It consists of two sections, both of which are well developed: Language Structure and Language Use.  The Language Structure section covers the standard linguistic divisions of phonetics, phonology, morphology, and syntax, but it also has good coverage of pragmatics, universals and typology, and historical linguistics.  The Language Use section contains chapters on speech acts, writing and graphology, sociolinguistics, the history of English, and language standards.  Language acquisition, included as part of the introductory chapter, is the only topic given short shrift, while languages and the brain are not covered at all. Examples are provided throughout the book, not just in English or European languages, but from a wide range of world languages.  A glossary is included and the index is quite useable.  The language of the text is relatively easy to understand (compared with Akmajian, et. al's introductory text, for instance).  Each chapter includes exercises (which seem to be rather difficult) as well as suggestions for further reading and references.  The syntactic analyses use the Transformational Grammar terminology from the 1970s, but this seems to be entirely adequate for beginning students.  Of the various introductory linguistic texts on the market, this is the most well-rounded and clearly written.  I would recommend it for any introductory course, although the exercises may need to be supplemented with an additional workbook.	2000-10-06
2264460:US	51917998	R2U7C1PVRP3VDE	0275956717	345974052	Bint Arab: Arab and Arab American Women in the United States	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Enthralling	This book is a personal yet highly informative ethnographic survey of three generations of Arab American women.  The author introduces her grandmothers, who came to the US in the nineteenth century.  She investigates their motivations for immigrating and how they and their cohorts adapted to the new country.  A central figure in the book is the author's mother, a and successful businesswoman, who is presented as an example of the first American generation.  Shakir describes how second generation Arab American women sought to find places for themselves between the Arab and American cultures, and how third generation women connected or reconnected with their heritage.  In the last part of the book, Shakir turns her attention to more recent arrivals since 1948, mostly Palestinians, and the reasons why they have assimilated less to American culture.<br />The author does an exceptional job throughout explaining the traditions of her culture to those who may not be aware of them.  Only at the beginning does she seem to idealize the homeland Lebanon somewhat, rather than consider it impartially; this was probably due to her elders' expressed attitudes as she was growing up.  This book will be of interest to anyone studying the process of immigration and acculturation, as well as those of Arab American ancestry.	2000-09-30
2274744:US	51917998	R1ZGRKT0J2AHVM	0231114494	884661223	After the Last Sky: Palestinian Lives	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Poetic essay	This book consists of a long personal essay about Palestinian identity which follows the author's thoughts as he reacts to a series of photographs (mostly from 1979) taken by Jean Mohr.  It is not a memoir, although the author relates a few early memories of his parents' lives in Palestine and of the arrival of Palestinian refugees in Cairo, where he was living with his family 1948.  Mostly, the book focuses on the injustice of a people whose homeland has been violently take away and what it means to be a nation in exile.  The photographs are very poignant; it would have been nice to see them in greater detail, but most of them are rather small to accommodate the long text.	2000-09-22
2274855:US	51917998	R1Z3HDU4XHRNQ5	0863722237	395012787	Muslim Communities in the New Europe (Ithaca Press paperbacks)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Comprehensive and engaging	This book presents a comprehensive survey of Muslim communities in Europe in the mid 1990s. The volume is organized into two parts, the first part covering Muslims in Eastern Europe and the second Muslims in Western Europe.  As to be expected, the first part focuses on the long-standing Muslims of Eastern Europe, how their communities were established, and how they relate to the non-Muslim communities in their countries today.  The second part of the book turns to Muslim immigrants in Western Europe, their recent arrival, and their continuing identity as Muslims within societies that had expected them to assimilate.  Although each chapter is written by a different author, the quality of the writing is exceptionally good and thoroughly readable throughout.<br />One of the strongest chapters is that by Jim House about Muslims in France, in which he analyzes the different identities that are manifest in French Muslims. It would have been very interesting if the writers on Muslims in Eastern Europe had also considered not just the political and ethnic meaning of \\"Muslim\\", but also how Eastern European Muslims demonstrate their religious beliefs.  Another particularly interesting analysis is Aake Sander's analysis of how Swedes expected immigrant Muslims to assimilate and why the Muslims did not fulfill the expectations.  Although well grounded in the specific instance of Sweden and Muslims, many of Sander's points could easily be extended to other countries and other minority groups as global contact increases in the future.	2000-09-22
2274951:US	51917998	R1M26IACWP0MOF	1856493652	678038239	Gender and Development in the Arab World: Women's Economic Participation	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Revealing	This book consists of a series of articles about the labor force participation of women in the Arab world.  An introductory chapter by Moghadam is surprisingly weak since it considers primarily economic and demographic influences on women and work without giving serious consideration to cultural and societal factors.  Many of the early chapters share this weakness, but the chapter on Yemen by Helen Lackner begins to take cultural factors into consideration and the chapter by Hussein Shakhatreh on Jordan is excellent.  The chapter by Samih Boustani and Nada Mufarrej on Lebanon reports some hard-to-find data, but misses a key potential influence, the involvement of men in the conflict and the consequent increased need for women in the paid labor market.  Informative charts summarizing data from the UNDP are also included.	2000-09-22
2281864:US	51917998	R2X28TYE8UQOBG	0520074319	634237815	Reading the Past: Ancient Writing from Cueniform to the Alphabet	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Encyclopedic	This book contains six booklets: Cuneiform by C. B. F. Walker, Egyptian  Hieroglyphs by W. V. Davies, Linear B by John Chadwick, The Early Alphabet  by John F. Healey, Greek Inscriptions by B. F. Cook, and Etruscan by  Larissa Bonfante.  The information on each topic is extremely detailed and  quite informative.  The text is remarkably readable, despite its scholarly  nature.  One weakness is that Indian scripts are almost entirely omitted.  Although mentioned briefly in the text, they are missing from the chart  entitled \\"Relationship between Main Scripts\\" on page 255.  However,  information on Semitic, Greek, and Lain scripts is quite extensive.  The  major weakness of the book, however, is the lack of an overall story, a big  picture view.  Without such a synopsis, each section stands by itself, and  it's difficult for the reader to put the pieces of the story together.  The  brief introduction by J. T. Hooker works toward this goal, but by bringing  in Chinese and Japanese, it's a little too general, yet the brevity of the  piece prevents the full story behind the scripts covered in the book from  being told.	2000-09-15
2282479:US	51917998	R35AC8LF21GCFI	0881334804	247588126	Nubian Ethnographies	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Interesting book (but all material is reprinted)	This book presents a wide-ranging description of Nubian culture by  juxtaposing reprints of 3 different works by the authors.  The first  section, representing a woman's observations of Nubian village life before  relocation, consists of excerpts from Elizabeth Warnock Fernea's \\"A View of  the Nile\\".  Following that are excerpts from Robert Fernea's work from the  same time period, \\"Nubians in Egypt: A Peaceful People.\\"  The book  concludes with an update on Nubian culture in the 1980s from a paper given  by Robert Fernea and Aleya Rouchdy and published in \\"Nubian Culture: Past  and Present\\".  If you have the original works, you naturally don't need  this book.  But for others, this book is a very convenient and succinct  summary of several viewpoints on Nubian culture.	2000-09-15
2308359:US	51917998	RSIIHAYY08AJG	0486411079	397972214	Bulfinch's Greek and Roman Mythology: The Age of Fable (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Still excellent	This book provides a succinct introduction to many of the stories that underlie Western culture.  The main part of the book presents a digest of Greek myths, arranged in a loosely along the &quot;genealogy&quot; of the  Greek Pantheon.  Included are brief synopses of the Odyssey, the Iliad, and  the Aneid.  These stories are no longer universally known as they were such  a short time ago, and this book provides an easy introduction to them.  At  the end of the volume are included some stories of the Hindu and Nordic  gods, but these, especially the Hindu stories, are not as satisfying as the  Greek stories.  [...] this book is a great buy!	2000-08-25
2308705:US	51917998	R1YZA5OKST635K	039474067X	254566048	Orientalism	Books	3	15	21	N	N	Heavy reading	This book is not for the faint of heart.  It is very well researched and  written, but it is not at all an easy read.  It assumes a thorough  familiarity with the literature of Orientalism.  If you don't already have  this familiarity, you may find many parts of this book difficult, at best,  to follow.  The author's main argument seems to be that the vast majority  of Western authors of the Orientalist tradition wrote about their  perceptions of the Orient rather than the reality.  Said analyses many of  these works and argues that their reporting was inaccurate, ethnocentric,  or racist.  His arguments would have more clear if he had provided more  specific evidence for the invalidity of prior claims; instead, he tends to  only question the findings of previous work, leaving it open for the reader  to fill in the rest.  A more interesting analysis might have been to look  at the Orientalists as products of their times, and search for the  motivation for their remarks rather than simply pointing out their  invalidity.  In any case, this book is extremely important in its field and  so must be read by anyone with a scholarly interest in the Middle East.	2000-08-25
2309073:US	51917998	R16DU80LD12NEG	002536250X	1313349	Virus That Ate Cannibals: Six Great Medical Detective Stories	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Entertaining and informative	This book consists of a series of 7 stories behind advances in virology, from yellow fever to the discovery and development of the virus-fighting  drug adenine arabinoside.  The title of the book refers to a chapter that  is quite interesting today in the age of Mad Cow Disease, where she  describes early research on kuru in Papua New Guinea.  The writing is  easily accessible and highly engaging.  Although the book was written in  1981, because its historical reporting will continue to be relevant for  years to come.	2000-08-25
2338558:US	51917998	R2YME5FYQ9R51Q	0446671177	262823272	Snapshots from Hell: The Making of an MBA	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Amusing	This book should be read by anyone contemplating business school.  For the  rest of us, it's an interesting snapshot of student life in California  during the 1980s.  The most amusing chapters were those describing the most  difficult parts of the year, such as Math Camp.	2000-08-04
2470230:US	51917998	R265HUBHROMPSE	0520063279	647969618	Veiled Sentiments: Honor and Poetry in a Bedouin Society	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very important book	This book presents a fascinating and moving description of Beduin life in Egypt.  The author presents an extremely thoughtful analysis of Beduin codes of honor, elements of which I suspect pervade much of more general  Arabic society.  This is one of the most insightful books on Arabic culture  that I have ever found.	2000-05-19
2470751:US	51917998	R6M9TMR5P43FC	0815624506	335873243	Arab Women in the Field: Studying Your Own Society (Contemporary Issues in the Middle East)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Fascinating	Very interesting analysis of the pros and cons of studying one's own culture.  This book consists of a number of reflections of Arab women who studied facets of culture in the Arab world.  They describe the full range  of possibilities of studying one's own culture, from Altorki, who  researched people in her own community to Lila Abu Lughod who studied a  culture that turned out to be a lot less familiar to her than she had  expected as an Arab (American). It was fascinating to read the  behind-the-scenes accounts of the fieldwork experience of these women,  particularly for research projects that have become famous in their own  right.  I was slightly disappointed, however, with Abu Lughod's chapter  because it presented very little new material since it was mainly excerpted  from her book &quot;Veiled Sentiments.&quot; This book is an important  contribution to the dialogue on the ethics and possibilities of fieldwork;  it would also naturally be of interest to readers of women's studies in the  Middle East.	2000-05-19
2470854:US	51917998	R71HWRZ0D7B0S	0710303378	388214993	Women At Work In The Gulf	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Dated but informative	This book, which &quot;grew out of&quot; the author's 1983-86 dissertation,  presents some hard-to-find demographic data about working women in Bahrain (although the data are a little dated at this point).  The  author begins by describing how Bahrain came to import foreign labor.  She  then suggests that one way to decrease the number of foreign workers in the  country would be to bring more Bahraini women into the workforce to replace  foreign workers.  The latter part of the book, chapters 4-7, present the  outline of a plan how this could be accomplished through developing day  care systems and improving education and vocational training for women.  Personally, I wasn't completely convinced that the system of day care  development that she advocates would be appropriate for the situation in  the Gulf.  The book was written before Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, so it is  mildly interesting in a historical aspect in that a reader can garner a  flavor of pre-invasion attitudes within Gulf society concerning gender and  the role of government.	2000-05-19
2471080:US	51917998	R2WGS90O1X5KYG	0131230190	371999941	Middle East and Central Asia, The: An Anthropological Approach	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Dense and complete	This book is quite dense.  It makes for slow and contemplative reading.  As a review of the anthropological literature of the Middle East, it should be a required text for any graduate or upper level undergraduate social  sciences course focussing on the Middle East or Central Asia.  Original  source material is summarized and analyzed in comparison to other  viewpoints, particularly across time.  Anyone with further interest in  particular areas of culture could skim the footnotes to find the complete  citations for the original material.  Each chapter also concludes with an  annotated list of further readings, which would also be quite useful for  the interested reader.  My favorite sections were the second chapter,  Intellectual Predecessors: East and West, and the last part of the last  chapter, Writing Middle Eastern Anthropology.	2000-05-19
2471305:US	51917998	R2I70EMYKPZ7CW	0292785186	721459262	Arabian Oasis City: The Transformation of 'Unayzah (Modern Middle East (Paperback))	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Very informative and well researched study	This book reports on a study the 2 authors did in Unayzah, a mid-size city in central Saudi Arabia.  The study was particularly well planned in that the authors, an American man and a Saudi woman, were able to combine the  views of both outsiders and insiders, men and women into a single seamless  whole.  Through interviews with local people, the authors present a history  of the development of Unayzah from an agricultural and market center before  oil wealth to the city it is today.  They describe the early transport  industry and the work women did in agriculture and the market as well as  the longstanding importance of education in this city.  They also describe  the tremendous changes that have taken place since oil wealth, particularly  with the importation of foreign labor and the construction of modern  housing in new areas.  Early in the book, the authors suggest that they  will make a distinction between &quot;transformation&quot; of  economy/society and &quot;development&quot;.  As the book unfolds, they do  not focus on arguing for this distinction explicitly, although many facts  gradually build to support their case.  Descriptions of changes in family  life in Unayzah present some interesting comparisons of the pros and cons  of abandoning or adapting tradition in favor of &quot;modern&quot; customs.  This book is a must for anyone who would like to learn more about modern  Saudi society.	2000-05-19
2471408:US	51917998	R3C7PRE8USVITY	0714642444	766420640	Population Dilemmas in the Middle East (Middle East Studies)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Informative	This book, which consists of 7 previously published essays, describes aspects of population policy, family planning, and economics in the Middle East, chiefly Jordan and Egypt.  Although the back cover claims it presents  an argument that rapid population growth in the West Bank and Gaza combined  with economic recession in the Gulf States (which reduced opportunities for  foreign employment) contributed to the Intifada, this is actually the topic  of only one essay.  Overall, the essays present some very interesting and  useful information, with numerous tables and charts, but there is no  attempt at synthesis of the widely varying topics.  I found the overview of  recent Egyptian history in the sixth chapter, &quot;Population Pressure and  Oil Revenue: Egypt and Saudi Arabia-1962-85&quot; particularly insightful.	2000-05-19
2471494:US	51917998	R2CWVD7Z8Z5HLQ	0791430189	686583795	Desert Songs: Western Images of Morocco and Moroccan Images of the West (S U N Y Series, Margins of Literature)	Books	1	4	4	N	N	Lit crit about Western literature concerning Morocco	This book is a literary analysis of some literature, both fiction and nonfiction, dealing with Morocco.  The author begins by stating that all Western literature stems from the Aeneid and then charges into a chapter  analyzing how the story line of the Aeneid in some way captures early  Western impressions of the Middle East.  Unfortunately, the one paragraph  or so summary he gives of the plot of the Aeneid in his introduction is not  enough for anyone without a background in classical literature to make any  sense of his lengthy chapter on the Aeneid.  The same goes for most of the  rest of the chapters- -if you are thoroughly familiar with the material he  is analyzing, then perhaps you might enjoy his comments.  Otherwise, his  descriptions are not very useful for anyone interested in culture.  The  book may be of more interest for students of lit crit theory than people  interested in learning about culture or travel literature.  One annoying  habit the author has is that of dropping names of well known writers such  as Deborah Tannen without giving the reader the impression that he  understood the author's point or really had a relevant reason for including  the name.  Contrary to the subtitle, there is extremely little, if any,  material in the book about Moroccan images of the West (with the possible  exception of some brief mention of the West in some folk tales told by  illiterate storytellers). The author gives the impression that he was  interested in women's voices because it's the in-thing rather than because  he is truly interested.	2000-05-19
2471518:US	51917998	RHJGSAFJ00TRA	1563247097	47562297	Women's Work in East and West: The Dual Burden of Employment and Family Life	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Predictable yet fascinating	This book presents a well balanced and well researched comparison of  gender roles and women's work both inside and outside the home in 4 countries: China, Japan, the US and England.  This book is well supported  with lots of data presented in the form of numerous tables throughout the  text.  I don't believe the authors carried out any new studies for the  work.  Instead, they pull together data from a number of published sources,  in particular, the Social Change and Economic Life Initiative (SCELI).  The  results of their study are predictable in that their findings seem to  confirm cultural stereotypes of (in)flexibility of gender roles in the  countries studied.  Nevertheless, the details of the data are quite  interesting.	2000-05-19
