14766:US	52012289	R1AOCLSMMHK1RY	1594200203	809431414	The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America	Books	5	13	24	N	N	Can we hope that liberalism is finished?	Republicans currently hold the White House, control the Senate, and run the House of Representatives. The Supreme Court, long a bastion of liberalism, is swinging over to the right. What the heck is going on with this picture? Isn't America a \\"progressive\\" country on par with statist Europe? Didn't FDR's New Deal fundamentally and permanently restructure America's political orientation? John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge, two English writers for The Economist magazine, answer those last two questions with a ringing and resounding \\"NO.\\" America, they discovered in the course of writing \\"The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America,\\" is not a nation of touchy-feely liberalism of the sort promoted in the mainstream media. These two modern day Tocquevilles traveled around our great nation, from the corridors of power in Washington, D.C. to ultraconservative Colorado Springs, to gather the voluminous evidence to bolster their thesis. And what a thesis! The authors argue that America has always possessed deeply conservative values, and will continue to remain deeply conservative far into the future. This thesis is definitely not good news for the hapless Democrats! That horrible noise you hear in the background is the sound of liberals' heads exploding at such a terrible revelation.<br /><br />The first part of \\"The Right Nation\\" provides a history of American conservatism. Back in the bad old days of the 1950s and 1960s, when FDR liberalism seemed to control every aspect of the nation's life, no one seemed to give conservatism much attention. Even a Republican president like Eisenhower wasn't a hardcore conservative. The only people really sitting down and articulating the political movement that would one day become modern conservatism was a handful of writers including Ayn Rand, William Buckley, Albert Jay Nock, Russell Kirk, and a few others. None of these individuals' ideas influenced national policy, however, until a man named Barry Goldwater arrived on the scene in the early 1960s. An in your face conservative with hopes of capturing the presidency, Goldwater lost to LBJ in a huge blowout. But his candidacy brought conservatism to national prominence and gained millions upon millions of adherents. Coupled with the rise of right-wing think tanks like the American Enterprise Institute, the Heritage Foundation, and other policy centers that articulated a wide range of conservative ideas about government, the modern right began to make inroads into Washington over the next thirty plus years. And here we are today with the Republican Party controlling all the levers of power.<br /><br />We'll remain a conservative nation, too, if the evidence collected in this book is any indication. The authors examine the American right wing and discover that conservatism is a huge umbrella that shelters many disparate elements. The social conservatives, including evangelicals and other religious elements, seek to realize their agenda through the Republican Party. The strident anti-tax advocates, homeschoolers, businessmen, and neoconservatives--all of them reside comfortably within the confines of the GOP. In an age when \\"diversity\\" assumes godlike importance, Micklethwait and Wooldridge discovered that modern conservatism is an archetype of ideological diversity. They also learned, as mentioned above, that the Republicans will likely hold power for decades to come. The book convincingly argues that many of the immigrants from Asia and Latin America tend towards conservatism, and will one day find a home in the GOP. Too, the authors point out that even when Democrats gain political office, the underlying conservatism of the country forces them to adopt right-wing ideas. Citing Clinton's endorsement of welfare reform as proof of this assertion, \\"The Right Nation\\" claims that future Democratic presidents will make similar concessions to the right if they wish to reacquire power.<br /><br />I'm leaving a ton of stuff out. For example, President George W. Bush receives a lot of attention in the book, which covers everything from his rise in the Texas political arena to his management style in the White House. I've read a few things about W., both pro and con, but I think this book does the best job. The authors are unbiased when presenting the positives and negatives about President Bush's administration, and they don't refrain from criticizing the broader movement when necessary. For example, they point out President Bush's big spending ways hobbled Texas when he was governor, and threatens to do the same thing for the country long after he leaves office. Too, they point out that conservatism is now, and has been for some time, an entrenched establishment in Washington vulnerable to the same problems--arrogance, corruption, losing touch with voters-- that derailed the liberals. \\"The Right Nation\\" covers a lot of ground in four hundred plus pages, often with humor but always with a real respect for America. Both authors write at the back of the book that they are big fans of our country and that they hope their love for this great country comes through in the writing. It does.<br /><br />The book has a few minor drawbacks, such as an inability to recognize the strident liberalism entrenched in the bureaucracy and judiciary that conservative policymakers have yet to dislodge. Moreover, while \\"The Right Nation\\" does cover an immense amount of conservative history and issues, no one book can truly do the movement justice. Those readers interested in learning more about the American right will need to consult a number of different books and articles written by both liberals and conservatives if they wish to come to a great understanding of where we are today. Nonetheless, this book is a real page-turner (I read it in a couple of days because I simply couldn't put the darn thing down) that everyone with an interest in politics should read. I give it a solid five stars.le, President George W. Bush receives a lot of attention in the book, which covers everything from his rise in the Texas political arena to his management style in the White House. I've read a few things about W., both pro and con, but I think this book does the best job. The authors are unbiased when presenting the positives and negatives about President Bush's administration, and they don't refrain from criticizing the broader movement when necessary. For example, they point out President Bush's big spending ways hobbled Texas when he was governor, and threatens to do the same thing for the country long after he leaves office. Too, they point out that conservatism is now, and has been for some time, an entrenched establishment in Washington vulnerable to the same problems--arrogance, corruption, losing touch with voters-- that derailed the liberals. \\"The Right Nation\\" covers a lot of ground in four hundred plus pages, often with humor but always with a real respect for America. Both authors write at the back of the book that they are big fans of our country and that they hope their love for this great country comes through in the writing. It does.   <br />  <br />The book has a few minor drawbacks, such as an inability to recognize the strident liberalism entrenched in the bureaucracy and judiciary that conservative policymakers have yet to dislodge. Moreover, while \\"The Right Nation\\" does cover an immense amount of conservative history and issues, no one book can truly do the movement justice. Those readers interested in learning more about the American right will need to consult a number of different books and articles written by both liberals and conservatives if they wish to come to a great understanding of where we are today. Nonetheless, this book is a real page-turner (I read it in a couple of days because I simply couldn't put the darn thing down) that everyone with an interest in politics should read. I give it a solid five stars.    <br />	2005-10-05
17040:US	52012289	R30FPMM4G7GO1S	0767900391	565047830	What It Means to Be a Libertarian: A Personal Interpretation	Books	5	156	166	N	N	An enchanting song I can't sing	What is this strange thing called Libertarianism? I thought I had a pretty good idea, but I decided to investigate further after reading Candace Jackson's \\"Their Lives: The Women Targeted by the Clinton Machine,\\" a book in which the author defined our former president's predilection for women against the larger themes of liberalism, conservatism, and libertarianism. I dithered about for a few months deciding which course I wanted to take before settling on Charles Murray's \\"What It Means to Be a Libertarian.\\" I was familiar with the author from the brouhaha his book \\"The Bell Curve\\" kicked off roughly a decade ago, but knew little else about him. The name recognition, however, coupled with the knowledge that \\"What It Takes to Be a Libertarian\\" runs a scant 178 pages (at least in my hardback copy) convinced me that this was the place to start. The author will have to make his points quickly if he can fit everything into a book less than 200 pages in length, I thought to myself, and I was right. Murray's book is a model of to the point writing. What is this strange thing called Libertarianism? It's what I thought it was all along.<br /><br />Libertarians, as Murray points out very quickly, differ in their opinions on specific issues as much as members of other political persuasions. But it's possible to distill one core belief that all libertarians share: the individual's freedom is central to human existence. Society works best when the individual retains the right to make as many choices in their life as possible. The archenemy of individual freedom is local, state, and national governments and their handmaidens bureaucracy, regulation, and spurious laws. Government, according to Murray, does have some important functions. For example, ensuring basic liability protections for consumers and protecting the markets from natural monopolies are important government functions. Murray changes his tune when it comes to things like social welfare programs, anti-drug laws, housing programs, agricultural and energy regulations, education, and anti-discrimination laws. He wants all of these governmental functions, and quite a few others to boot, eliminated. The reader can practically hear the heads of liberals and conservatives exploding while reading the list of policies, laws, and regulations the author thinks should go the way of the dinosaur.<br /><br />Interestingly enough, Murray makes it all sound like common sense. He introduces a concept called the Trendline Test to prove how, time and time again, the government mucks up anything it tries to do beyond its basic functions. Remember the introduction of seatbelt laws? Remember how many lives they saved with the help of millions upon millions of tax dollars? According to Murray, a trend line shows that deaths due to car accidents began a serious decline thanks to safer cars and better technologies long before government decided to play superhero. Once the bureaucracy came into the picture, they made little difference. The same pattern repeats for other scenarios. Government often works best when it stands aside and lets private concerns deal with complex problems. Any issues that do need an organized response in the form of government, argues Murray, should embrace the concept of subsidiarity, or the idea that the best response comes at a local level closest to the individual. Education is a place subsidiarity should dominate, but it's also one of the few areas in which Murray claims that the national government ought to play a role. Give every kid in America a three thousand dollar voucher, return control of the schools to the local level, and thus watch the educational system soar as it becomes part of the market system.<br /><br />\\"What It Means to Be a Libertarian\\" contains a lot of meat, far too much to chew on in a short review. It's an excellent and easy read, however, and makes a lot of sense. The book reinforced the fact that I'm a conservative and not a libertarian, though.How so? Well, I definitely support a smaller government that translates into a lighter tax burden, but I can't go this far. Libertarianism seems to share much with secular humanism in that this belief system places man firmly at the center of the universe. It's obviously an outgrowth of Enlightenment ideas about rationality, and the fact that Murray continually cites the Founding Fathers convinces me of this fact. They were big believers in the Enlightenment too, at least on paper. Can you see the problems here? One, mankind is not rational. We're not, we never have been, and you need to look around if you can't see that. Libertarianism needs rational beings to function effectively. Two, the lack of laws restricting drug use, prostitution, and other morally objectionable behaviors will never fly. Any society that has ever normalized these sorts of behaviors has collapsed utterly and absolutely. Humans need some sort of moral compass around which they can organize a functioning society and civilization.<br /><br />Despite the problems I had with the theory that drives the book, I'm giving it five stars because of its succinct treatment of a complex political ideology. Charles Murray provides plenty of illuminating information to make his points, cuts through complex arguments with ease, and will have you supporting the abolition of at least SOME of the federal bureaucracy by the time you set the book down. Moreover, I found the annotated bibliography extremely worthwhile if the reader plans on following up this book with further reading. I think I will delve deeper since I'm interested in finding a book that examines the historical underpinnings of libertarianism more than this treatment did. Ultimately, you will come away from Murray's treatise fully understanding what it means to be a libertarian, even if you decide not to join in the fun.though. How so? Well, I definitely support a smaller government that translates into a lighter tax burden, but I can't go this far. Libertarianism seems to share much with secular humanism in that this belief system places man firmly at the center of the universe. It's obviously an outgrowth of Enlightenment ideas about rationality, and the fact that Murray continually cites the Founding Fathers convinces me of this fact. They were big believers in the Enlightenment too, at least on paper. Can you see the problems here? One, mankind is not rational. We're not, we never have been, and you need to look around if you can't see that. Libertarianism needs rational beings to function effectively. Two, the lack of laws restricting drug use, prostitution, and other morally objectionable behaviors will never fly. Any society that has ever normalized these sorts of behaviors has collapsed utterly and absolutely. Humans need some sort of moral compass around which they can organize a functioning society and civilization. <br /> <br />Despite the problems I had with the theory that drives the book, I'm giving it five stars because of its succinct treatment of a complex political ideology. Charles Murray provides plenty of illuminating information to make his points, cuts through complex arguments with ease, and will have you supporting the abolition of at least SOME of the federal bureaucracy by the time you set the book down. Moreover, I found the annotated bibliography extremely worthwhile if the reader plans on following up this book with further reading. I think I will delve deeper since I'm interested in finding a book that examines the historical underpinnings of libertarianism more than this treatment did. Ultimately, you will come away from Murray's treatise fully understanding what it means to be a libertarian, even if you decide not to join in the fun.  <br />	2005-10-04
18839:US	52012289	R34DI3V6EFZT31	0974575046	34177472	Christ: The Gospel of Matthew Beautifully Designed for the Internet Age	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Gorgeous rendering of Matthew and Ruth	I'm not a particularly religious individual in my personal life, but I do have an undergraduate degree in Religion and occasionally read assorted books on the topic. I came to study religion through history, primarily European history, because Christianity played such an enormous role in the development of what we call Western Civilization. By the time I went for my master's degree in history, I largely dropped the European focus and concentrated on America's past. But it was still handy to know a few things about Christianity since, as we all know, Protestantism influenced the development of the United States in inestimable ways. One paper I wrote, a history of a Catholic parish near Omaha, won an award at my university. Another paper I wrote, this one on the Old Testament patriarchs, was one of only two in my class to receive an 'A' from a particularly tough religion professor. I'm not throwing out all this stuff to brag about grades or academic awards (the latter of which matters not a whit in the real world), but to show that I've studied religion and spent time going through several different versions of the Bible. Not one of these Bibles looked like \\".Christ,\\" and that's a darn shame.<br /><br />\\".Christ\\" first and foremost is NOT the entire collection of Holy Scriptures. It contains only the Gospel of Matthew and the Book of Ruth. Why would someone release a book containing only one of the synoptic gospels and Ruth? What madness could possibly inspire such an act? The individual behind \\".Christ,\\" a convert to Christianity by the name of Ruth Rimm, gladly steps up to the plate and takes credit. In a lengthy essay at the end of the book, she argues convincingly that, for far too long, printed Bibles have been boring and uninspiring. Pick up any collection of Scriptures at the local bookstore or library and open it up. You'll see page after page of black lettering on white pages. Often tons of footnotes and annotations clog the pages, directing the reader to check other sources for each verse. Further weighing down these Bibles are lengthy commentaries on the Old and New Testaments, source information, and essays on historical context. All of this is perfectly acceptable, and often very necessary for those readers approaching the Bible for the first time. It helps to know information about the Middle East during the time of the Abraham, or the turmoil of Palestine in the time of Jesus.<br /><br />Rimm never argues that we should throw out these traditional Bibles. What she does want to see is a serious return to the sorts of texts produced during the Middle Ages, when scribes scattered throughout European monasteries turned the gospels and other writings into intricate works of art full of pictures and elaborate lettering. Moreover, she would like to see a return to another popular technique of reproducing the Bible during that period, namely releasing God's word piecemeal. In other words, everyone today should be able to walk into a bookstore or library and pick up a copy of Genesis, Revelation, Job, and Paul's letters--to name just a few--as stand alone works. Colorful, vibrant Bible books broken down into twenty or thirty volumes, argues Rimm, would be far more likely to reel in modern readers accustomed to computer graphics and media images than the old Gutenberg method of black on white mass printing. Too, artwork helps reinforce the messages of God's word. After reading the Gospel of Matthew and the Book of Ruth that apply these techniques, I'm inclined to believe her arguments. At the very least, it's certainly easier to hold this book than the entire Bible!<br /><br />\\".Christ\\" is a beautiful book. As other reviewers have already noted, this tome is solidly bound. It feels weighty without being ponderous. Then there's the format of the book, an Internet and modern media motif that liberally uses browsers, urls, cell phones, pictures, and other modern devices to frame the text. Rimm even throws in \\"hyperlinks\\" highlighting certain words and phrases that helped her on the path to conversion. The best part of the book is the illustrations crafted by artist Alejandra Vernon (who is, as others have noted, also quite talented when it comes to writing reviews for this very website). I've seen a few of her pictures on the Internet, but \\".Christ\\" is the first chance I've had to see a sustained series of her artwork. She's great. My favorite image has to be the drawing of Ruth, which takes up a full page and part of a second. Not only does Vernon give us an image of a very beautiful woman, she also imbues Ruth with emotional depth. There seems to be measures of yearning, piety, and humility in Ruth's gaze and in the way she tilts her head. I don't know for sure which one dominates; I see something different every time I look at the picture, which is always a sign of good artwork. All of the drawings are great, though, which means the book gives the reader something new with repeated readings and viewings.<br /><br />The only problem I had with \\".Christ\\" involves the creator's decision to use the King James text. I've never been a fan of this version of the Bible, but that's simply an issue of my personal preference and should not be taken as a condemnation of this book. Rimm is quick to note that that is the beauty of resuscitating illustrated Bibles and books of the Bible: any version of the Good Book is fair game when crafting a new version. One may use modern English, Spanish, Esperanto, Latin, or even Klingon for the text if one so desires--the sky is the limit. I think Ruth Rimm and Alejandra Vernon are on to something wonderful here. Hopefully, others will pick up on their idea and run with it.highlighting certain words and phrases that helped her on the path to conversion. The best part of the book is the illustrations crafted by artist Alejandra Vernon (who is, as others have noted, also quite talented when it comes to writing reviews for this very website). I've seen a few of her pictures on the Internet, but \\".Christ\\" is the first chance I've had to see a sustained series of her artwork. She's great. My favorite image has to be the drawing of Ruth, which takes up a full page and part of a second. Not only does Vernon give us an image of a very beautiful woman, she also imbues Ruth with emotional depth. There seems to be measures of yearning, piety, and humility in Ruth's gaze and in the way she tilts her head. I don't know for sure which one dominates; I see something different every time I look at the picture, which is always a sign of good artwork. All of the drawings are great, though, which means the book gives the reader something new with repeated readings and viewings. <br /> <br />The only problem I had with \\".Christ\\" involves the creator's decision to use the King James text. I've never been a fan of this version of the Bible, but that's simply an issue of my personal preference and should not be taken as a condemnation of this book. Rimm is quick to note that that is the beauty of resuscitating illustrated Bibles and books of the Bible: any version of the Good Book is fair game when crafting a new version. One may use modern English, Spanish, Esperanto, Latin, or even Klingon for the text if one so desires--the sky is the limit. I think Ruth Rimm and Alejandra Vernon are on to something wonderful here. Hopefully, others will pick up on their idea and run with it.   <br />	2005-10-03
26194:US	52012289	R20IU6587T1MU7	1400081920	516404129	Hollywood Nation: Left Coast Lies, Old Media Spin, and the New Media Revolution	Books	4	15	19	N	N	More on the New Media	No sooner do I finish James Hirsen's \\"Tales From the Left Coast\\" than I discover he's just released another tome dealing with the machinations of Hollywood and the Old Media systems. Obviously, when the term \\"Old Media\\" rears its ugly head, the reader automatically knows he or she is in for yet another treatment of the rise of Internet blogging and the FOX News Channel. It seems like dozens of books concerning this topic come out every month. So many books have examined this phenomenon--the slow slide into irrelevancy of the traditional media outlets like The New York Times and the Big Three television networks--that one wonders what is left to say about it. The problem with the emergence of the New Media, as it is so imaginatively called, is that it's...well...new. We're not exactly sure what's going to happen ten years down the road. Personally, although I find myself getting more and more of my news from Internet sources, I don't really want the print media to disappear. What I and many others do want, which Hirsen seems to embrace as well if \\"Hollywood Nation\\" is any indication, is as many points of view as possible regarding events around the world.<br /><br />At the same time I want to see infotainment--that obnoxious fusion of mindless entertainment recounted with a \\"hard\\" news edge--kicked to the gutter. This brand of media benefits no one except those personalities who make millions of dollars a year spewing this junk. We're all dumber and less effective citizens because of people like Katie Couric, Barbara Walters, Diane Sawyer, and those news shows that cover Hollywood celebrities. Far too many of our fellow featherless bipeds are relying exclusively on these people and programs to learn about what goes on in the world. And that's the main focus of \\"Hollywood Nation.\\" Hirsen examines how Hollywood, and by extension those who run Tinseltown, has been blurring the lines between news and entertainment for years. Needless to say, such a process causes more harm than good. For one thing the Hollywood viewpoint is hopelessly left-wing. The media masters embrace and propagate ideologies that are totally incompatible with reality. We can no longer afford to subscribe to them in an age when our very survival is at stake in the war against Islamic terrorism. Nonetheless, the message continues to wash over the country every day through the plague of infotainment.<br /><br />Hirsen's book seeks to understand the underpinnings of infotainment and the fight against it through interviews with various media personalities. Interviews with Laurie Dhue and Bill O'Reilly of FOX News, comedian Dennis Miller, Catherine Crier of Court TV fame, former Reagan speechwriter and editorialist for the Wall Street Journal Peggy Noonan, and others seek to clarify the difference between the Old and New Media as well as discover the challenges faced by those on the front lines of the infotainment battlefield. Missing, perhaps not surprisingly, from the book are Katie Couric, Oprah Winfrey, Dr. Phil, Jon Stewart, and the other ijits who bear far more responsibility for perpetuating the infotainment universe than Laurie Dhue and Peggy Noonan. The abovementioned individuals, while not impervious to the celebrity that comes with being a famous journalist, do attempt to maintain some sense of perspective. Most don't. They have entourages, multi-million dollar homes in the Hamptons, and hobnob with Tinseltown stars. In other words, they're so comfy in the confines of the system that they've no inclination to rock the boat. Just go along with what your left-wing friends say and cash your paycheck. That this in no way resembles real journalism hardly needs elaboration.<br /><br />I enjoyed the book. But if you're like me, you've probably stumbled over most of this stuff somewhere else. As I said above, so many books about the New Media's ascendance sit on bookshelves that Hirsen's examination seems superfluous. I did appreciate the chapter describing Mel Gibson's dilemma in making \\"The Passion of the Christ,\\" and it's informative to once again read the ridiculous, over the top vitriol heaped upon the film by secular, left-wing media personalities. Again, however, readers won't learn anything about Gibson's film here that they haven't stumbled over in other treatments of the New Media. We even get more than a few words about Michael Moore and his propagandistic documentaries, a theme beyond tired by now--at least, until he releases another piece of trash in the near future. Overall, I would say that Hirsen's book would be most relevant to a reader just starting out on an examination of the changing face of the American media. It's general enough in scope to serve as a sort of survey of the landscape. Then move on to \\"South Park Conservatives\\" and Bernard Goldberg's books. If you've already read everything on the topic, then just look at Hirsen's book as a refresher.<br /><br />A couple of quick points in conclusion. One, the interview Hirsen conducted with Dennis Miller astonished me. The comedian made only ONE pop culture reference (to the children's game Chutes and Ladders)! That has to be a record for Miller. Maybe he was having an off day. Two, I appreciated how Hirsen underscored the emergence of conservative filmmakers. This often falls by the wayside during discussions of Hollywood's hegemony. Several festivals have popped up over the last couple of years that only showcase documentaries and films with a conservative bent. Don't expect them to take over Los Angeles in the next couple of years, but it's a start. I've often said what Hollywood needs is some real competition, and maybe the folks at the Liberty Film Festival and the American Film Renaissance can offer this competition. Or maybe not. It will be fun to reread these books in ten or twenty years and see how prescient they were, won't it?Mel Gibson's dilemma in making \\"The Passion of the Christ,\\" and it's informative to once again read the ridiculous, over the top vitriol heaped upon the film by secular, left-wing media personalities. Again, however, readers won't learn anything about Gibson's film here that they haven't stumbled over in other treatments of the New Media. We even get more than a few words about Michael Moore and his propagandistic documentaries, a theme beyond tired by now--at least, until he releases another piece of trash in the near future. Overall, I would say that Hirsen's book would be most relevant to a reader just starting out on an examination of the changing face of the American media. It's general enough in scope to serve as a sort of survey of the landscape. Then move on to \\"South Park Conservatives\\" and Bernard Goldberg's books. If you've already read everything on the topic, then just look at Hirsen's book as a refresher.  <br /> <br />A couple of quick points in conclusion. One, the interview Hirsen conducted with Dennis Miller astonished me. The comedian made only ONE pop culture reference (to the children's game Chutes and Ladders)! That has to be a record for Miller. Maybe he was having an off day. Two, I appreciated how Hirsen underscored the emergence of conservative filmmakers. This often falls by the wayside during discussions of Hollywood's hegemony. Several festivals have popped up over the last couple of years that only showcase documentaries and films with a conservative bent. Don't expect them to take over Los Angeles in the next couple of years, but it's a start. I've often said what Hollywood needs is some real competition, and maybe the folks at the Liberty Film Festival and the American Film Renaissance can offer this competition. Or maybe not. It will be fun to reread these books in ten or twenty years and see how prescient they were, won't it?     <br />	2005-09-29
37944:US	52012289	RWO8WP9UBUZG6	1893554961	196878441	Red Star Over Hollywood: The Film Colonys Long Romance with the Left	Books	5	72	80	N	N	Exploding myths about Red Hollywood	Remember the Hollywood blacklist? The Hollywood Ten? I'll bet you know a lot about these events even if you weren't alive in the 1950s. That's because Tinseltown has a vested interest in keeping the memory of this era alive. It was the era of the Red Scare, of Senator Joseph McCarthy waving his infamous list of communist subversives during a speech in West Virginia. It was the time of congressional investigations, a time when invoking the Fifth Amendment might keep you safe from a contempt charge but would make you look guilty as sin in the public eye. For a select few the McCarthy era was a time of great fear, and no one feared this witch-hunt against communism more than Hollywood. Why? Because, despite the mountains of claims to the contrary that have emerged over the years, the movie industry oozed communists. There were so many Reds in Hollywood that they should have renamed the town Little Moscow. Yet even today, you won't hear about this truth in the media. You will, however, get the skinny on what really went on if you pick up a copy of Ronald Radosh's \\"Red Star Over Hollywood: The Film Colony's Long Romance with the Left.\\"<br /><br />Talk about exploding myths! Radosh's book, which he co-wrote with his wife Allis, cuts through the layers of denial and presents us with an ugly picture of the real Hollywood of the 1930s, 1940s, and 1950s. Vladimir Lenin, the little pipsqueak who brought the nightmare of Marxism to the Soviet Union back in the early part of the twentieth century, had a soft spot for film and theater. He believed that the best way to spread communism around the globe was through movies and plays. This is exactly what the Kremlin crowd set out to accomplish in the following decades. They managed to gain converts to their cause--men who later became movers and shakers like Budd Schulberg, Joseph Losey, and Maurice Rapf--by allowing them to work closely with the Soviet film industry. Once these people came back to the United States, they spread their plague to others with the help of party apparatchiks Willi Munzenberg, V.J. Jerome, and John Howard Lawson. In no time at all, writes Radosh, a branch of the communist party flourished in Hollywood. So many big names signed on that newcomers to the industry, in an attempt to make contacts and find work, had to become communists or fellow travelers themselves.<br /><br />The Hollywood branch of the communist party worked to increase their membership and influence in several ways. One of the most successful methods involved the tried and true \\"United Frontism\\" and \\"Popular Front\\" techniques, or the forming of organizations that on the surface embraced popular progressive causes to lure in unsuspecting liberals while maintaining strong communist control behind the scenes. Radosh reveals that the concerns many people had about the rise of National Socialist Germany in the 1930s helped increase membership, although the party's propensity to change direction, oftentimes overnight according to directives issued from the Kremlin, tended to alienate many members. Also off putting was the heavy-handed discipline that could fall on an unsuspecting member at any time. Albert Maltz, for example, discovered the inflexibility of the party when he wrote an article deemed \\"revisionist\\" by the upper hierarchy. His very public refutation of his article left little doubt about the strong-arm tactics used behind the scenes. Despite the ugliness the Hollywood Reds occasionally displayed, they were somewhat successful in spreading their propaganda through films like \\"Mission to Moscow,\\" \\"The Spanish Earth,\\" and \\"The North Star.\\" Congressional investigations threw some of these dupes in the slammer, and silenced a few more, but many never repudiated their warped views.<br /><br />I enjoyed Radosh's book, the first one of his I've had the chance to read. The author and his spouse obviously know what they're talking about and, since Ronald Radosh himself was a communist for many years, heunderstands how these groups think and act. \\"Red Star Over Hollywood\\" occasionally suffers from dry prose and a bewildering number of groups and individuals, but the authors always manage to bring the book back up to speed by throwing in some great anecdotes. For instance, the part where we learn about Ronald Reagan (at the time a liberal) and his buddy William Holden crashing a communist get together in an attempt to inject some common sense into the proceedings is great fun to read about. Reagan got up and started talking only to find himself under verbal attack for some forty minutes. God bless him! The account of Albert Maltz's forced rehabilitation is absolutely chilling, a sobering tale that hints at the violent tendencies inherent in communism. Arguably the best part of the book, however, involves the long, strange trip writer Dalton Trumbo took from the time of his blacklisting to his repudiation of the communist party later in life.  So many intriguing stories pop up in the book that the actual creation of the blacklist takes a backseat.<br /><br />I have one recommendation and one warning to those readers about to attempt the book. In the case of the former, if you're not very familiar with this time period, read a background history of the Red Scare first. Doing so will assist you in learning the context for what happens here and help you learn the basics about a few of the groups and personalities associated with the blacklist. In the case of the latter, the topic is so huge that Radosh doesn't have the space to cover many of the important Reds. There is almost nothing here about Lillian Hellman or Dashiell Hammett, for example, and both of those individuals had a lot to do with the influence of communism in film and books. Nevertheless, this book is well worth your time. Read it and remember it the next time Hollywood releases yet another \\"we were innocent\\" propaganda piece.ars, he understands how these groups think and act. \\"Red Star Over Hollywood\\" occasionally suffers from dry prose and a bewildering number of groups and individuals, but the authors always manage to bring the book back up to speed by throwing in some great anecdotes. For instance, the part where we learn about Ronald Reagan (at the time a liberal) and his buddy William Holden crashing a communist get together in an attempt to inject some common sense into the proceedings is great fun to read about. Reagan got up and started talking only to find himself under verbal attack for some forty minutes. God bless him! The account of Albert Maltz's forced rehabilitation is absolutely chilling, a sobering tale that hints at the violent tendencies inherent in communism. Arguably the best part of the book, however, involves the long, strange trip writer Dalton Trumbo took from the time of his blacklisting to his repudiation of the communist party later in life.  So many intriguing stories pop up in the book that the actual creation of the blacklist takes a backseat. <br /> <br />I have one recommendation and one warning to those readers about to attempt the book. In the case of the former, if you're not very familiar with this time period, read a background history of the Red Scare first. Doing so will assist you in learning the context for what happens here and help you learn the basics about a few of the groups and personalities associated with the blacklist. In the case of the latter, the topic is so huge that Radosh doesn't have the space to cover many of the important Reds. There is almost nothing here about Lillian Hellman or Dashiell Hammett, for example, and both of those individuals had a lot to do with the influence of communism in film and books. Nevertheless, this book is well worth your time. Read it and remember it the next time Hollywood releases yet another \\"we were innocent\\" propaganda piece.      <br />	2005-09-23
41033:US	52012289	R24O5QCSVULX9G	0060779608	967480762	Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man	Books	5	20	32	N	N	Debunking the King of the Moonbats	Oh, to find myself revisiting the anathema that is Michael Moore! I made a personal vow some time ago to never again read or watch anything having to do with this anti-American oaf. But since I'm planning on giving \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\" a watch--just so I can pan it here, mind you--sometime soon in the future, I decided to inoculate myself first by taking a jaunt through \\"Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man.\\" Written by David T. Hardy and Jason Clarke, two citizens so concerned with the lies spread by Moore's propaganda that they established websites devoted to debunking his myriad untruths, the book hits this pudgy, baseball cap wearin' barking moonbat right where it hurts. If you thought Michael Moore an inveterate prevaricator after watching \\"Roger & Me,\\" \\"Bowling for Columbine,\\" or \\"Fahrenheit 9/11,\\" you don't now even half of the story. It turns out that Mr. Sunshine has been spewing garbage for years before he hit the big time. After reading \\"Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man,\\" one wonders if his birth certificate is accurate. He was born in Flint, Michigan? I wouldn't be surprised if his real birthplace was somewhere near Moscow.<br /><br />According to the book, Moore didn't come of age in good old Flint. In fact, he grew up in Davison, Michigan. What does that mean? Well, Flint is an old fashioned industrial town filled with blue-collar workers. Davison, on the other hand, is a community filled with well to do white collar management types. So much for coming of age in the midst of the industrial proletariat! Nonetheless, the guilt of living in such a posh town must have fueled Moore's subsequent attacks on corporate interests, whites, and the GOP. It certainly couldn't have anything to do with a job on the assembly line since Moore worked a total of ONE day in a GM factory before moving on to a \\"career\\" in journalism. His first real effort to overthrow the capitalist system emerged in the pages of his alternative newspaper, the \\"Flint Voice\\" (later the \\"Michigan Voice\\"). Moore and his cronies like to present his journalistic endeavors during this period as an important event. Not so, write the authors of this book, who found that these biweekly publications contained little of substance. In fact, the same articles often ran more than once, apparently in an effort to fill space. Nonetheless, Moore turned his meager skills as an alternative journalist into a stint as editor of Mother Jones. He was fired after a few months.<br /><br />The bulk of \\"Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man\\" deals with his more successful enterprises, namely his books and his documentary films. Every single one of them contains fabrications heaped upon fabrications. In \\"Roger & Me,\\" for instance, Moore played fast and loose with the timeline of events surrounding the GM plant closings that decimated Flint, Michigan. For example, Ronald Reagan visited the city in 1980 as part of his presidential campaign, but Moore places the visit some years later--after GM pulled out--in order to make Reagan look like a heartless jerk. The various irregularities cited in \\"Roger & Me,\\" however, pale in comparison to the shenanigans he pulled in \\"Bowling\\" and \\"Fahrenheit.\\" Hardy and Clarke thoroughly document lie after lie in both of these films, tracing in minute detail how Moore fraudulently concocted speeches he attributes to NRA president Charlton Heston, how he tried to reshape American history to suit his left-wing beliefs, and how he tried to claim that a defense contractor located in Littleton, Colorado built weapons of mass destruction when in reality the factory actually converted missiles into rockets for space launches. This is ugly, ugly stuff trumped only by the blatant lies contained in his books.<br /><br />It's obvious that Michael Moore is nothing more than a demagogue. Like Father Charles Coughlin in the 1930s and Gerald L.K. Smith in the 1950s, Moore tries to advance a radical agenda through media manipulation. And likethose two men, he has enjoyed great initial success. But his days as a mover and shaker of the far left are numbered. Even as I write this, I guarantee that there are members of the Democratic party--the sane, mainstream Democratic party we've heard so little of over the last few years--sitting behind closed doors trying to figure out a way to jettison the far left fringe. They have to because they understand that the party won't win elections if the Michael Moores of the world continue to hog the spotlight. In fact, it's no mistake that this book contains an essay blasting Moore written by none other than Peter Ross Range, a member of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council. The GOP underwent a similar process in the 1960s when it distanced itself from the conspiratorial wackiness of the John Birch Society as well as racist and anti-Semitic groups that found refuge under the Republican banner. It remains to be seen if the Democrats can accomplish a similar feat. This book should provide more than enough evidence that a purge is necessary.<br /><br />The only problem I had with \\"Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man\\" concerns the chapter on a mental affliction known as Narcissistic Personality Disorder. First developed by Freud and later elaborated upon by Dr. Sam Vaknin, this problem seems to describe Michael Moore to a T. The authors run through the various symptoms--grandiose sense of self-importance, a sense of entitlement, and many others--and match each of them to a trait exhibited by Moore in his books, movies, and public appearances. It's convincing stuff, and quite amusing as well, but the authors aren't really qualified to make an ironclad diagnosis. Aside from this small point, the book is a must read for those concerned about the decline of public debate brought about in no small way by the likes of Michael Moore.like those two men, he has enjoyed great initial success. But his days as a mover and shaker of the far left are numbered. Even as I write this, I guarantee that there are members of the Democratic party--the sane, mainstream Democratic party we've heard so little of over the last few years--sitting behind closed doors trying to figure out a way to jettison the far left fringe. They have to because they understand that the party won't win elections if the Michael Moores of the world continue to hog the spotlight. In fact, it's no mistake that this book contains an essay blasting Moore written by none other than Peter Ross Range, a member of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council. The GOP underwent a similar process in the 1960s when it distanced itself from the conspiratorial wackiness of the John Birch Society as well as racist and anti-Semitic groups that found refuge under the Republican banner. It remains to be seen if the Democrats can accomplish a similar feat. This book should provide more than enough evidence that a purge is necessary. <br /> <br />The only problem I had with \\"Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man\\" concerns the chapter on a mental affliction known as Narcissistic Personality Disorder. First developed by Freud and later elaborated upon by Dr. Sam Vaknin, this problem seems to describe Michael Moore to a T. The authors run through the various symptoms--grandiose sense of self-importance, a sense of entitlement, and many others--and match each of them to a trait exhibited by Moore in his books, movies, and public appearances. It's convincing stuff, and quite amusing as well, but the authors aren't really qualified to make an ironclad diagnosis. Aside from this small point, the book is a must read for those concerned about the decline of public debate brought about in no small way by the likes of Michael Moore.      <br />	2005-09-21
66619:US	52012289	R3H5KWTMFEO35P	1594030863	217993563	Black Rednecks and White Liberals	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Western civilization offers the best hope for the future	I miss the days when I could open my local paper to the editorial page and read the latest bit of common sense from Thomas Sowell. Those were also the days when Mona Charen and Michelle Malkin also graced the same section of the newspaper. Nowadays I have to wade through clowns like Paul Krugman and Nicholas Kristof just to spend a few precious minutes with Cal Thomas and George Will. Frankly, I prefer Sowell. Nothing against Thomas and Will, or any of the other conservatives in the paper, but no one matches Sowell when it comes to cutting through the latest liberal skullduggery. He's not shrill, sanctimonious, or arrogant--far from it. His columns, essays, and books are archetypes of scholarly calm and seriousness. I've read several of his eye-opening books over the last four or five years, all of them five star efforts, so I headed straight for the library when I heard he had another tome coming out. And here it is, \\"Black Rednecks and White Liberals,\\" a book that lays waste to yet more liberal inanities. The title of the book, however, is a bit misleading as the essays contained within go far beyond an examination of race in America.<br /><br />Two of the six essays in \\"Black Rednecks and White Liberals\\" do directly discuss the seemingly endless chasm that exists between blacks and whites in the United States. The first chapter in the book, entitled appropriately enough \\"Black Rednecks and White Liberals,\\" sees Sowell putting forward a convincing thesis, namely that the social pathologies currently plaguing many inner city African-Americans--a propensity to solve problems with violence, anti-intellectualism, promiscuity, and flamboyant rhetoric among them--are not traits unique to the black experience in America. These exact same traits appeared somewhere else first, namely among whites in certain locales in England who then carried these behaviors into the antebellum American South. Blacks then adopted these traits during the slave era and carried them across the country during their migrations north in the early twentieth century. As the second essay, \\"Black Education: Achievements, Myths, and Tragedies\\" makes abundantly clear, these traits began to decrease rapidly thanks to certain black schools and colleges before the introduction of LBJ's Great Society programs fused with liberal \\"caring\\" defined these pathologies as a black culture to be protected at all costs. Enter the race hustlers, who saw the benefit of keeping a majority of black Americans in poverty so as to justify their own positions as leaders.<br /><br />The other essays turn away from the black/white dichotomy to examine Jews, Germans, and global slavery. In \\"Are the Jews Generic?\\" Sowell explains that the holocaust and anti-Semitic pogroms throughout the history of the West are part of a larger global phenomenon that has also happened to certain Chinese, Armenian, Indian, and Lebanese populations. He calls them middleman minorities, or groups of people who move into a region or country in order to act as go betweens connecting the means of production to consumers. Their emphasis on education, hard work, and clannishness has always provoked irrational hatred and jealousy from a less educated, less hard working, and less clannish society. In \\"Germans and History,\\" the author contends that the effort to tar all Germans with the brush of National Socialism is a historical fallacy easily disproved in part by looking at German diasporas. \\"The Real History of Slavery\\" makes the claim that none other than western civilization, often labeled the great enabler of slavery by liberal and left-wing academics, not only eradicated bondage in the United States but across the globe as well. The book concludes with Sowell taking multiculturalism to task by condemning their tendency to examine the past through the lens of modern morality in \\"History versus Visions.\\"<br /><br />If I had to isolate one common theme present in all of the essays of this book, it's undoubtedlythe idea that culture matters. Sowell is not a moral relativist, not someone who believes that all cultures are egalitarian merely because they exist in nature. As the essays in this book show, it's western civilization in all of its baroque beauty that affords the human race its best hope for the future. Western civilization's emphasis on hard work, civil rights and liberties, and education for those who want it will ultimately level many, but not all, differences between cultures. That's not to say that the West has not suffered its share of grievous problems. Sowell acknowledges the horrors of the past numerous times. What he does argue, if somewhat indirectly, is that part of what has made this philosophy work so well is its ability to recognize and repudiate great evils, even evils inherent inside itself. The essay on slavery is a case in point--no other culture ever attempted to rid itself, let alone the rest of the world, from the scurrilous curse of human bondage. Western culture also freed the world of National Socialism and (less effectively as of this date) the scourge of communism.<br /><br />Like any other scholarly work, \\"Black Rednecks and White Liberals\\" contains areas that are problematic. For instance, Sowell's use of dueling as evidence of the irrational propensity to violence in poor white southern culture fails to convince when one considers that all levels of society in Europe and America practiced this form of violence and, in the case of the former, did so for centuries. Moreover, I could easily see a leftist pulling out the \\"aha!\\" card after reading the chapter on middleman minorities. If violence directed against these groups arises from their position as connecting links between production and consumers in a capitalist society, a leftist could argue that that provides even more proof of the evils of capitalism. Obviously, this isn't the case since all forms of government have used middleman minorities, but I wish Sowell had underscored this point better. Nonetheless, the author receives another five star rating from this reader. I eagerly await his next collection of essays.doubtedly the idea that culture matters. Sowell is not a moral relativist, not someone who believes that all cultures are egalitarian merely because they exist in nature. As the essays in this book show, it's western civilization in all of its baroque beauty that affords the human race its best hope for the future. Western civilization's emphasis on hard work, civil rights and liberties, and education for those who want it will ultimately level many, but not all, differences between cultures. That's not to say that the West has not suffered its share of grievous problems. Sowell acknowledges the horrors of the past numerous times. What he does argue, if somewhat indirectly, is that part of what has made this philosophy work so well is its ability to recognize and repudiate great evils, even evils inherent inside itself. The essay on slavery is a case in point--no other culture ever attempted to rid itself, let alone the rest of the world, from the scurrilous curse of human bondage. Western culture also freed the world of National Socialism and (less effectively as of this date) the scourge of communism. <br /> <br />Like any other scholarly work, \\"Black Rednecks and White Liberals\\" contains areas that are problematic. For instance, Sowell's use of dueling as evidence of the irrational propensity to violence in poor white southern culture fails to convince when one considers that all levels of society in Europe and America practiced this form of violence and, in the case of the former, did so for centuries. Moreover, I could easily see a leftist pulling out the \\"aha!\\" card after reading the chapter on middleman minorities. If violence directed against these groups arises from their position as connecting links between production and consumers in a capitalist society, a leftist could argue that that provides even more proof of the evils of capitalism. Obviously, this isn't the case since all forms of government have used middleman minorities, but I wish Sowell had underscored this point better. Nonetheless, the author receives another five star rating from this reader. I eagerly await his next collection of essays.  <br /> <br />  <br />	2005-09-08
80606:US	52012289	R13FNTGXH6ZYOJ	0375400168	742731124	The Whole Equation: A History of Hollywood	Books	4	10	18	N	N	Challenging and rewarding	I hate Hollywood with the heat of a billion suns. Let me elaborate on that statement: I hate the Hollywood CULTURE with the heat of a billion suns. I despise celebrities who attempt to push their extreme left-wing pabulum off on the rest of the country, and I despise television programs and tabloid publications that spring up to cover the private lives of these same celebrities. Why should I care about what Brad Pitt does in his free time? Does he care about my life? Not likely. Far too many people hang on every word these people utter and follow every activity of their lives. Why? I suspect people unhappy with their own existence take comfort in following the trials and travails of those with money. Since I'm secure with the path of my own life, more or less, I feel no need to worship a bunch of airheads out in Tinseltown. I do, however, love my horror, science fiction, and action movies. That's why I decided recently to read David Thomson's \\"The Whole Equation: A History of Hollywood.\\" Also, the fact that I saw the book referenced in articles on two separate blogs inspired me to give this one a shot. I'm glad I did. For the most part, the book eschews tabloid antics in favor of a serious investigation of the inner workings of the movie business.<br /><br />Thomson, who has spent his whole life writing about cinema, sets out to describe the byzantine workings of Hollywood. It's not easy uncovering the \\"whole equation\\" of the moviemaking business, an equation Thomson claims only a handful of people have ever understood in its entirety, but the author gamely attempts to describe it. Using F. Scott Fitzgerald's unfinished novel \\"The Last Tycoon\\" as well as the film \\"Chinatown\\" as reference points throughout the book, Thomson claims that Hollywood has always attempted to balance the art of making money with the making of movies that classify as art. I soon discovered that his efforts to prove this thesis paled in comparison with the information contained in each chapter of the book. We've got in-depth examinations of such studio moguls as Louis B. Mayer, David O. Selznick, and Lew Wasserman. Early Hollywood whiz kid Irving Thalberg receives great attention here, as do some of the great directors and actors of the silent era such as Erich Von Stroheim, Charlie Chaplin, and D.W. Griffith. Thomson's insights include crediting Chaplin with making the new business of movies attractive to the middle class. You can read about the behind the scenes machinations of \\"Gone With the Wind\\" and the trials and travails of writers in Hollywood.<br /><br />One chapter covers the introduction of sound into the picture business by claiming that the ability of actors to make use of silence increased by orders of magnitude the dramatic potential of films. Intriguing. Another chapter tries to show how the movie studios somehow captured the sunny climes of Southern California on celluloid and then transmitted that light to audiences (which makes one wonder about the recent trend to lens movies in Canada and Romania, among other places). Fans of noir will love Thomson's examination of the genre. Not only does he discuss such classics as Edgar Ulmer's \\"Detour,\\" Michael Curtiz's \\"Mildred Pierce,\\" and Carol Reed's \\"The Third Man,\\" but he also has a few interesting things to say about the darkness lying at the heart of Frank Capra's \\"It's a Wonderful Life.\\" Thomson concludes that noir arose as a result of the austerity of the studio bosses--which accounts for the sparse, cheap look of the films--as well as a bleak attitude in the country brought about by the horrors of the Great Depression and the Second World War. The author's treatment of modern filmmaking revolves around the wonders of Spielberg, Altman, and Coppola and the emergence of the summer blockbuster phenomenon.<br /><br />I liked this book, but those looking for a treatment of filmmaking from the 1960s on will not find much for their perusal. The vast majority of the book covers the earliest days of filmmaking, probably because such a time more resembled the art and magic that Thomson so desperately wishes to see in cinema. Another potential problem with \\"The Whole Equation\\" is that we frequently lose sight of the parts of the equation. That's acceptable, I guess, since Thomson makes clear from the start that few comprehend it--including, one concludes, the author. A more coherent narrative might have helped elucidate the parts of the equation--the author flits from one topic to another and back again with frightful regularity--but there's so much of interest here to both casual viewers and serious cinema aficionados that one can overlook his faults. My favorite theme in the book, more than the discussions on various aspects of moviemaking or specific films, is the absolute idiocy of Hollywood when it comes to making money. If you think these guys are savvy financial gurus, think again. They hemorrhage the green stuff in shocking ways. Studios sold the rights to classic films to television for nothing back in the 1950s. They also failed to understand the importance of television and videotape, and we're seeing this ignorance again with the new medium of DVD.<br /><br />\\"The Whole Equation\\" is a worthwhile read for anyone interested in the nuts and bolts of the movie business. It's not an easy book to get through, not by a long shot, but the persistent reader will learn a lot about how this crazy business dominates so much of our national and personal life. Can we ever understand the intricacies of Tinseltown in a moral or economic sense? It's doubtful, although Thomson takes us incredibly close to finding an answer.est days of filmmaking, probably because such a time more resembled the art and magic that Thomson so desperately wishes to see in cinema. Another potential problem with \\"The Whole Equation\\" is that we frequently lose sight of the parts of the equation. That's acceptable, I guess, since Thomson makes clear from the start that few comprehend it--including, one concludes, the author. A more coherent narrative might have helped elucidate the parts of the equation--the author flits from one topic to another and back again with frightful regularity--but there's so much of interest here to both casual viewers and serious cinema aficionados that one can overlook his faults. My favorite theme in the book, more than the discussions on various aspects of moviemaking or specific films, is the absolute idiocy of Hollywood when it comes to making money. If you think these guys are savvy financial gurus, think again. They hemorrhage the green stuff in shocking ways. Studios sold the rights to classic films to television for nothing back in the 1950s. They also failed to understand the importance of television and videotape, and we're seeing this ignorance again with the new medium of DVD. <br /> <br />\\"The Whole Equation\\" is a worthwhile read for anyone interested in the nuts and bolts of the movie business. It's not an easy book to get through, not by a long shot, but the persistent reader will learn a lot about how this crazy business dominates so much of our national and personal life. Can we ever understand the intricacies of Tinseltown in a moral or economic sense? It's doubtful, although Thomson takes us incredibly close to finding an answer.      <br />	2005-09-01
82283:US	52012289	R2FXO0ZGIW6J71	0385509650	128714281	Radical Evolution: The Promise and Peril of Enhancing Our Minds, Our Bodies -- and What It Means to Be Human	Books	4	88	96	N	N	I'm not looking forward to having wings!	Imagine a world in which human beings no longer worry about procuring food. Imagine a world in which disease becomes a thing of the past. Imagine a world in which mortality gives way to human/machine hybrids that can live for hundreds, if not thousands, of years. Sounds good, doesn't it? If so, imagine a different sort of world, a world in which a small class of people in possession of this sort of technology genetically engineers babies. Imagine a world in which these same people turn traditional humans into slaves. Imagine, even, the technology in this possible future spiraling out of control and turning the planet into gray sludge. Sounds scary, doesn't it? These two scenarios play a central role in Joel Garreau's \\"Radical Evolution: The Promise and Peril of Enhancing Our Minds, Our Bodies--And What It Means to Be Human.\\" Another scenario plays out in the book, one in which human beings prevail over sudden technological changes and, by doing so, accept or reject which forms of \\"radical evolution\\" to adopt. The subsequent conversation on these three themes fills pages with marvels that boggle the imagination. Could even a fraction of these events really occur in the next twenty to thirty years?<br /><br />Garreau thinks so, and he begins his examination of GRIN (Genetic, robotic, information, and nanotechnological) advancements by seeking out the wunderkinds working at DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency). These are the folks brainstorming such projects as vaccines to prevent pain, suits that can allow soldiers to carry hundreds of pounds of weight with ease, and dozens of other incredible inventions. It was their predecessor, ARPA, which created what we now know as the Internet. As amazing as the ideas flowing out of DARPA sound, it's nothing compared to what inventors such as Ray Kurzweil see in our immediate future. Garreau's conversation with this scientist ushers in the first of our three possible destinies, something the author labels the \\"Heaven\\" scenario. In this situation, human beings essentially become deities. Immortality thanks to nanotechnology and genetics research becomes the norm. Computers emerge with the power of hundreds of human brains. Heady stuff, indeed. Unfortunately heaven must have a hell, and that's where people like Bill Joy and Francis Fukuyama enter the picture. They see our future as a bleak existence in which out of control nanotechnology devours every resource on the planet, or one in which humans use this fabulous technology against one another.<br /><br />Both the heaven and hell scenarios paint human beings as a passive force in the face of increasing technology. The \\"Prevail\\" scenario takes the human factor and places it center stage. A position advocated by a guy named Jaron Lanier and others, prevailing over the rise of GRIN essentially means people take a hands on role in new technologies. Rather than losing control of robots and genetic engineering, argues Lanier, humans will use them to strengthen the connections between individuals. The example of cell phones, where people use them to stay in constant touch with others in ways unanticipated by their creators, serves as a prime example of how we bend technology to our will instead of the other way around. No new social classes will arise in the prevail scenario based on technology, nor will the world give up the ghost because of nanotechnology run amok. One assumes that genetic engineering will not sink to the sort of eugenics programs National Socialist Germany dabbled in during the 1940s. Prevail means humanity will change, since change is essential to the human experience regardless of culture or time, but we all will still keep that nebulous essence that makes each of us human.<br /><br />Intriguing ideas and predictions abound in Garreau's study, far too many to document in a short review. It is possible, however, to point out the flaws in the book. There are several. Perhaps the most annoying aspect of \\"Radical Evolution\\" is the author's penchant for a \\"gee whiz\\" writing style. It's like reading a book written about Superman by cub reporter Jimmy Olsen. Then there is Garreau's almost unquestioning assumption that the marvels documented in the book constitute an absolute future reality. Sorry to burst your bubble, Joel, but a list of futurists proved incorrect over the ages would run the length of a New York City phone book. The truth is that none of us can adequately predict what will happen two weeks from now, let alone what sort of things could occur in twenty, thirty, or one hundred years. Then there's a troubling emphasis in the book on simply documenting the things science could do for us instead of on the possible problems that could sidetrack any one of these advancements. Garreau does examine a few potential roadblocks to the march of GRIN, but the focus definitely falls on the wonderful and awesome.<br /><br />I'm happy to see another reviewer identify what is surely the most egregious problem with the book, namely a lack of discussion on transportation in general and fuels in particular. How will any of this stuff come to pass if a substitute for oil does not emerge? Petroleum products aren't just important in transportation; they also provide a number of synthetics and lubricants that technology cannot function without. How can we solve the food problem if we cannot invent a means of transportation that runs on something other than gasoline? Anyway, I'm being a bit harsh on Joel Garreau. \\"Radical Evolution\\" is an entertaining and informative read that also poses fundamental questions about our relationship to technology. If the section at the back of the book is any indication, Garreau isn't the only guy writing about what GRIN might mean to the future of the human race. I imagine this book would serve as a good introduction for those seeking to learn more about our possible technological future. I give this one four stars for sheer interest.cal Evolution\\" is the author's penchant for a \\"gee whiz\\" writing style. It's like reading a book written about Superman by cub reporter Jimmy Olsen. Then there is Garreau's almost unquestioning assumption that the marvels documented in the book constitute an absolute future reality. Sorry to burst your bubble, Joel, but a list of futurists proved incorrect over the ages would run the length of a New York City phone book. The truth is that none of us can adequately predict what will happen two weeks from now, let alone what sort of things could occur in twenty, thirty, or one hundred years. Then there's a troubling emphasis in the book on simply documenting the things science could do for us instead of on the possible problems that could sidetrack any one of these advancements. Garreau does examine a few potential roadblocks to the march of GRIN, but the focus definitely falls on the wonderful and awesome.  <br /> <br />I'm happy to see another reviewer identify what is surely the most egregious problem with the book, namely a lack of discussion on transportation in general and fuels in particular. How will any of this stuff come to pass if a substitute for oil does not emerge? Petroleum products aren't just important in transportation; they also provide a number of synthetics and lubricants that technology cannot function without. How can we solve the food problem if we cannot invent a means of transportation that runs on something other than gasoline? Anyway, I'm being a bit harsh on Joel Garreau. \\"Radical Evolution\\" is an entertaining and informative read that also poses fundamental questions about our relationship to technology. If the section at the back of the book is any indication, Garreau isn't the only guy writing about what GRIN might mean to the future of the human race. I imagine this book would serve as a good introduction for those seeking to learn more about our possible technological future. I give this one four stars for sheer interest. <br />	2005-08-31
105068:US	52012289	R3H6ZL9D02E113	1595550119	887393285	Hoodwinked: How Intellectual Hucksters Have Hijacked American Culture	Books	4	17	20	N	N	More kooks than you can shake a stick at!	I chuckled when I first started reading Jack Cashill's \\"Hoodwinked: How Intellectual Hucksters Have Hijacked American Culture.\\" How could I have not? He started out discussing the same old cast of tinfoil helmet wearin' loonies we've seen in countless other books. Cop killer and left wing poster boy Mumia Abu-Jamal? Academic charlatan and tenured basket case Ward Churchill? Chubby propagandist Michael Moore? Who HASN'T heard of these guys? Moreover, who hasn't read chapter and verse about their outrageous shenanigans? Heck, I can turn on the television on any given day and hear something about Churchill and Moore. What made me laugh was, after providing us with a short sketch of each of these kooks, Cashill promised to deliver a book like none other, a book that will expose the fraudulent basis of the progressive agenda. But surprisingly, he comes through! I figured \\"Hoodwinked\\" would turn into a simple rehash of previously covered individuals and movements, and to some extent that's true. There are people in here we've seen in other books. There are wacky ideas here we've seen other places. But there's also obscure people and ideas that have rarely received coverage in other conservative texts. Of course, Cashill discovers it's all anti-Americanism at the core.<br /><br />Since most readers of this book know the ins and outs of Mumia, Churchill, and Moore, there is no need to discuss these losers. Let's start with where Cashill begins, all the way back in the 1920s when Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti ran afoul of the cops and ended up on death row for murder. As atrocious as their crime was, it paled in comparison to what happened after their conviction. In short, anti-American groups supported by the communists used the case to slander the justice system. It didn't matter to these elements, Felix Frankfurter among them, that the two were guilty as sin. The important thing was to introduce an element of doubt about the efficacy of our legal system. Cashill notes the tactics used in the Sacco and Vanzetti imbroglio would reemerge time and time again in future radical activities. Outright lies played a big part, and lies would continue to fuel the \\"progressive\\" agenda. For example, Walter Duranty and Herbert Matthews, two reporters working for the esteemed New York Times, turned prevarication into an art form. Duranty knowingly hid information about the Soviet famine from his readers, and Matthews worked hard at covering up the truth about what the communists were doing during the Spanish Civil War and in the takeover of Cuba.<br /><br />So a couple of red hacks spewed garbage in the newspaper. Who cares, right? Unfortunately, duplicitous behavior spread far beyond journalism. Cashill introduces case after case of the most egregious falsehoods, mind-blowing instances of lying on an epic scale. And wouldn't you know it? Most of it occurred in the hallowed halls of academia. Margaret Mead, the famous anthropologist and a proven fraud, receives her just desserts here. So does a chap named Michael Bellesiles, a historian who wrote a book about gun ownership by purposely doctoring the evidence to support his anti-gun conclusions. Emory University insisted he resign when another historian uncovered his fraud. Cashill includes an entire chapter centered on Darwinism, not to discount the theory but to expose how many incidents of phony evidence scientists have used to bolster evolution. My favorite section of the book deals with Rigoberta Menchu, a Guatemalan \\"peasant\\" who won the 1992 Nobel Peace Prize for her book \\"I, Rigoberta Menchu.\\" In her autobiography (more like fiction), she claimed right wing elements in her country murdered family members and stole their land. Investigation of her claims turned up a plethora of half-truths and outright malarkey.<br /><br />I could go on and on. Cashill discusses the horrific ideas of Margaret Sanger, the diseased mind of Alfred Kinsey, and the lifetime of lies spewed by Lillian Hellman. \\"Hoodwinked\\" is most shocking not in its discussion of oftentimes objectionable material (see Kinsey), but that fact that a lot of this stuff became widely accepted dogma. Public policies based on this junk have influenced millions of people. As Cashill explains, that's exactly the effect progressives sought. They wanted to change American society to mirror their own warped views of humanity, a view that placed man at the center of their moral and intellectual universe. God, religion, moral codes--all of these antiquated concepts had to go straight into the dumpster if the left-wing wished to achieve positions in government and academia and thus exert powerful influence over the rest of mankind. Those people responsible for uncovering the blatant fraud committed by the various personalities in the book usually suffered for their devotion to the truth. One thing you can say about academics: they don't take kindly to having their mentors yanked out from under their feet. When someone comes along and upsets the apple cart, you can bet your bottom dollar that that person will pay a price for their heresy.<br /><br />The only problem I had with \\"Hoodwinked\\" is one another reviewer mentions, namely that some of the cases Cashill produces for our reading pleasure are problematic. There's no doubt that Kinsey's research involved serious ethical lapses, but relying on information from anti-Kinseyite Judith Reisman might raise a few eyebrows. She's the lady who developed a theory that says watching adult films causes the brain to suffer from the scurrilous effects of \\"erototoxins,\\" or a combination of chemicals that can physically alter the mind. Obviously, it's not a proven theory. Aside from this instance, the rest of the evidence Cashill produces here is solid stuff that has stood the test of time. I highly recommend this book; it's informative and a lot of fun to read. Buy a copy and give it to a liberal!Hellman. \\"Hoodwinked\\" is most shocking not in its discussion of oftentimes objectionable material (see Kinsey), but that fact that a lot of this stuff became widely accepted dogma. Public policies based on this junk have influenced millions of people. As Cashill explains, that's exactly the effect progressives sought. They wanted to change American society to mirror their own warped views of humanity, a view that placed man at the center of their moral and intellectual universe. God, religion, moral codes--all of these antiquated concepts had to go straight into the dumpster if the left-wing wished to achieve positions in government and academia and thus exert powerful influence over the rest of mankind. Those people responsible for uncovering the blatant fraud committed by the various personalities in the book usually suffered for their devotion to the truth. One thing you can say about academics: they don't take kindly to having their mentors yanked out from under their feet. When someone comes along and upsets the apple cart, you can bet your bottom dollar that that person will pay a price for their heresy. <br /> <br />The only problem I had with \\"Hoodwinked\\" is one another reviewer mentions, namely that some of the cases Cashill produces for our reading pleasure are problematic. There's no doubt that Kinsey's research involved serious ethical lapses, but relying on information from anti-Kinseyite Judith Reisman might raise a few eyebrows. She's the lady who developed a theory that says watching adult films causes the brain to suffer from the scurrilous effects of \\"erototoxins,\\" or a combination of chemicals that can physically alter the mind. Obviously, it's not a proven theory. Aside from this instance, the rest of the evidence Cashill produces here is solid stuff that has stood the test of time. I highly recommend this book; it's informative and a lot of fun to read. Buy a copy and give it to a liberal! <br />	2005-08-18
107865:US	52012289	R1ZZ3FZGY971O8	0140436111	596871917	The Pickwick Papers (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	86	89	N	N	Pure and shining brilliance	I have absolutely no doubts whatsoever that Charles Dickens, if he lived today, would still classify as an author's author. He's a master of all the things that make for great writing and storytelling. Dickens has an ear for dialogue most authors would kill their own mothers to possess. He also is a master of creating vivid scenery, another sign of excellence essential to great writing and one which many authors lack. Finally, but not least in importance, Dickens knows character development. He REALLY knows how to develop intriguing characters, to the point where many of his books spawned figures that have become literary archetypes. Not bad for a guy who grew up in extremely adverse circumstances. He even spent some time in a factory sticking labels on bottles after his father's imprisonment for debt. Most people wouldn't recover from such poverty, but Dickens did. He went on to a successful career in journalism before settling down as an author of serial novels. This format, which allowed Dickens to write and release his stories piecemeal, made him a great success with the public. The anticipation for the latest chapter or two of his stories often led to near riots. Not many writers can duplicate this feat today.<br /><br />\\"The Pickwick Papers\\" is one of Dickens's earliest works, written when the author was a mere twenty-four years old. You wouldn't know his age by reading the story, though. \\"Pickwick\\" is a work that delivers healthy doses of sophisticated humor, keen observations on pressing social issues, romance, and a mature knowledge of human behavior. It's of course fiction, although Dickens presents the story as a true series of events documented by the \\"Pickwick Club,\\" a social organization founded by retired businessman and all around merry fellow Samuel Pickwick. In the 1820s, Pickwick and several friends embark on a series of journeys through Southern England, a journey that lasts for roughly two years. Ostensibly, the businessman and his fellows take the trips to learn more about their country. Instead, their travels turn into a series of often hilarious events mixed with a few serious scrapes. Pickwick must constantly save individuals from the machinations of one Alfred Jingle, an itinerant scalawag with a penchant for wooing women for their money. In between these adventures, our hero must contend with a lawsuit filed by a former female employee who thought he wanted to marry her, save his friends from numerous imbroglios involving members of the opposite sex, survive a stay in a debtor's prison, and live through a couple hundred other adventures both major and minor.<br /><br />If I had to list one overarching theme I enjoyed most about \\"The Pickwick Papers,\\" it's got to be the humor. This book is one of the funniest things I've read in ages. We're talking laugh out loud and laughing later when remembering scenes from the book funny. Much of the humor centers on Pickwick's manservant Sam Weller, a guy prone to uttering some of the most hilarious sayings you'll likely see in any book. Weller's father is even more amusing, and when father and son sit down to write a letter to a lovely young woman who's caught Sam's eye, well, prepare to hold your sides. Also worth a belly laugh or two is the chapter where Pickwick and his friends visit the town of Eatanswill in time to witness the results of a contentious local election. Dickens's observations about party politics and media manipulation are not only highly amusing, but also relevant to our own age. And who can forget the courtroom scenes where the lawyer makes Pickwick, this kindly old gentleman who wouldn't hurt a fly, look like an absolute monster? I could go on and on. If you read this book without cracking up, check your pulse because you're probably dead.<br /><br />Another element of the book I enjoyed concerns Dickens's ability to write scenes that simply overflow with the joy of living. A lengthy chapter describing Pickwick's stay with some country friends over Christmas serves as an excellent example. The sheer bliss of this part of the book is infectious, as Dickens makes us marvel at the simple delight of spending a few days in the company of good friends, good food, and good entertainment. On the other hand, the author isn't above indulging in an activity he's become famous for, namely showing the reader the depths of human suffering. There is far less misery in \\"The Pickwick Papers\\" than there is in \\"Oliver Twist,\\" to cite one example, but it's still here. The debtor's prison in which Pickwick stays for a time provides the author with a perfect forum for attacking England's tradition of imprisoning those unfortunate souls who cannot pay their creditors. I marvel at how Dickens can balance these two extremes in the space of a single novel. In this way, \\"The Pickwick Papers\\" manages to encompass life in both its good and bad aspects.<br /><br />I read the Penguin Classics edition of \\"The Pickwick Papers,\\" and I'm glad I did. The supplementary material is copious and helpful more often than not. I didn't care much for the introduction from Robert L. Patten, however, which I thought tried to read too much into the story. I did appreciate the footnotes that help explain the English geography, slang, and popular culture references found throughout the story. Further material provides information on the three illustrators who worked on the story, biographical details of Dickens's life, and even maps tracing Pickwick's myriad travels through the English countryside. Reading \\"The Pickwick Papers\\" makes me realize that I've neglected this author's works for far too long. I can't praise this book enough; it's that entertaining and that good. Give it a go as soon as possible!y friends over Christmas serves as an excellent example. The sheer bliss of this part of the book is infectious, as Dickens makes us marvel at the simple delight of spending a few days in the company of good friends, good food, and good entertainment. On the other hand, the author isn't above indulging in an activity he's become famous for, namely showing the reader the depths of human suffering. There is far less misery in \\"The Pickwick Papers\\" than there is in \\"Oliver Twist,\\" to cite one example, but it's still here. The debtor's prison in which Pickwick stays for a time provides the author with a perfect forum for attacking England's tradition of imprisoning those unfortunate souls who cannot pay their creditors. I marvel at how Dickens can balance these two extremes in the space of a single novel. In this way, \\"The Pickwick Papers\\" manages to encompass life in both its good and bad aspects. <br /> <br />I read the Penguin Classics edition of \\"The Pickwick Papers,\\" and I'm glad I did. The supplementary material is copious and helpful more often than not. I didn't care much for the introduction from Robert L. Patten, however, which I thought tried to read too much into the story. I did appreciate the footnotes that help explain the English geography, slang, and popular culture references found throughout the story. Further material provides information on the three illustrators who worked on the story, biographical details of Dickens's life, and even maps tracing Pickwick's myriad travels through the English countryside. Reading \\"The Pickwick Papers\\" makes me realize that I've neglected this author's works for far too long. I can't praise this book enough; it's that entertaining and that good. Give it a go as soon as possible! <br />	2005-08-17
108635:US	52012289	R1OZFGGSPOFA94	0684870533	425722098	Who Are We: The Challenges to America's National Identity	Books	4	18	22	N	N	Bleak	The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on New York City and Washington, D.C. thrust America into a new era. In the days and weeks that followed the despicable murder of over 3,000 people by Islamic terrorists, American flags and pro-American sentiment blossomed in cities across the nation. All, or at least the vast majority of citizens, unequivocally reaffirmed their identity as proud citizens of the United States of America. Unfortunately, it's been a long time since Americans have expressed love for their country in such numbers. Not since World War II, and to a lesser extent during the Cold War, has such a sense of unity prevailed. The 1990s, a decade I'd rather forget about, consisted of ten years of identity politics that seriously fragmented our sense of nationhood. This phenomenon, why Americans feel the pull of a national identity when threatened but turn against one another during peacetime, intrigued Harvard professor Samuel Huntington so much that he decided to write a book about it. The result, an eminently readable tome entitled \\"Who Are We?: The Challenges to America's National Identity,\\" is a mighty uncomfortable read for old-fashioned American nationalists. Think doom and gloom.<br /><br />If the title of the book doesn't clue you in, let me say flat out that Huntington thinks identity matters. It matters a lot, to both individuals and to nations. In fact, it's safe to say that a nation that cannot maintain a consistent character risks collapse. Problem is, as the author explains in the first part of the book, identity changes. Individuals and groups hold many identities simultaneously, whether they are religious, ethnic, racial, or occupational. Moreover, people can express different identities when confronted with different external situations. Constantly shifting identities among citizens is problematic to a state structure, unless that state is under external pressure. Then, according to Huntington, a national identity that trumps all others kicks in. We saw this during and immediately after September 11th, but it's possible that subnational identities will once again appear if further attacks by Al-Qaeda or other Islamic terrorist organizations fail to materialize. We're largely familiar with identities based on racial and ethnic groupings, but what IS the American national identity that arises in times of crisis? The author argues convincingly that it is one based on the Protestant ethic brought over by the original settlers, one that values individualism, hard work, Christianity, and the English language.<br /><br />The second section of \\"Who Are We?\\" focuses largely on the formation of this American identity and how waves of immigrants throughout our history accepted it as a prerequisite to becoming citizens. Institutions arose in government, business, and the private charity sector that encouraged newcomers to assimilate into the American nation. From roughly the Civil War to the Immigration Act of 1965, the idea of assimilation dominated. Then disaster struck. The movement for Civil Rights, a noble idea that inspired much legislation, removed discriminatory barriers for millions of African-Americans. This was all good, but something else happened that laid the groundwork for where we find ourselves today. That something was the imposition of affirmative action programs, the emergence of dual citizenship, and the rise of multiculturalism. Suddenly, programs and legislation designed to protect citizens from discrimination led to reverse discrimination. Coupled with the philosophy that all cultures were absolutely equal and that requiring assimilation was somehow passing judgment on a particular race of people, America faced a serious problem when millions of Latin American immigrants arrived on the scene.<br /><br />The result? Ethnic enclaves in most southwestern states wherein residents can live their entire lives without exposure to the traditional culture of America. No effort is made to assimilate these immigrants, as doing so raises the hackles of the multicultural crowd. What's worse in Huntington's eyes, the new immigrants to America lack many of the defining characteristics exhibited by earlier waves of newcomers. They speak a single language and come in huge numbers from countries in close proximity to America, which allows them to maintain a distinct culture without severing ties to their homeland. The ability of these immigrants to hold dual citizenship further strains any ties they may form to their new homeland. Worse, foreign governments are using their people in the United States as leverage to affect change in our government's policies. Huntington sees these realities as genuine threats to America's traditional identity, and argues that we face the very real possibility of a bifurcated, bilingual country that might not work well as a nation if something isn't done to reassert pro-assimilation policies.<br /><br />Whew! That's a big summary, but then again there's a lot of stuff in this book. I agree with a lot of what Huntington has to say, and so do most other Americans. Even Latin American citizens agree something has to be done about unrestricted immigration. It's obvious both political parties allow the nonsense on the border to continue because both sides exploit these poor people to no end. Big business gets cheap labor, and lefties get a bunch of people to coddle with multicultural programs. We get to pay for it. Two quick things and I'll bow out. One, I'm surprised more left-wingers express such hatred of Huntington's thesis. Think about it: if one way to assert a national identity is through the presence of an external threat, then it's obvious Bush and company orchestrated the Iraq War in order to destroy multiculturalism while reasserting a strident American nationalism. Two, Huntington never seems to realize the problems he describes in the book arose because America abandoned the idea of a Republic in favor of democracy. I'm not advocating a return to the old days of poll taxes and other tricks to keep certain people out of the voting booth, but restricting the right to vote to citizen property owners would have nipped most of these problems in the bud. Anyway, there you go. Give Huntington's book a read; it's quite an experience.similate these immigrants, as doing so raises the hackles of the multicultural crowd. What's worse in Huntington's eyes, the new immigrants to America lack many of the defining characteristics exhibited by earlier waves of newcomers. They speak a single language and come in huge numbers from countries in close proximity to America, which allows them to maintain a distinct culture without severing ties to their homeland. The ability of these immigrants to hold dual citizenship further strains any ties they may form to their new homeland. Worse, foreign governments are using their people in the United States as leverage to affect change in our government's policies. Huntington sees these realities as genuine threats to America's traditional identity, and argues that we face the very real possibility of a bifurcated, bilingual country that might not work well as a nation if something isn't done to reassert pro-assimilation policies. <br /> <br />Whew! That's a big summary, but then again there's a lot of stuff in this book. I agree with a lot of what Huntington has to say, and so do most other Americans. Even Latin American citizens agree something has to be done about unrestricted immigration. It's obvious both political parties allow the nonsense on the border to continue because both sides exploit these poor people to no end. Big business gets cheap labor, and lefties get a bunch of people to coddle with multicultural programs. We get to pay for it. Two quick things and I'll bow out. One, I'm surprised more left-wingers express such hatred of Huntington's thesis. Think about it: if one way to assert a national identity is through the presence of an external threat, then it's obvious Bush and company orchestrated the Iraq War in order to destroy multiculturalism while reasserting a strident American nationalism. Two, Huntington never seems to realize the problems he describes in the book arose because America abandoned the idea of a Republic in favor of democracy. I'm not advocating a return to the old days of poll taxes and other tricks to keep certain people out of the voting booth, but restricting the right to vote to citizen property owners would have nipped most of these problems in the bud. Anyway, there you go. Give Huntington's book a read; it's quite an experience.   <br />	2005-08-16
111269:US	52012289	RM99ZGRJMLQIP	0060761288	877820062	100 People Who Are Screwing Up America (And Al Franken Is #37)	Books	4	38	54	N	N	Crackpots of the world, unite!	Like most people, I first encountered Bernard Goldberg back in the days when he worked as a journalist for CBS News. Then he disappeared for a time before reemerging as a pundit on cable television news channels. His area of expertise is, of course, the media. Goldberg always has a lot to say since the press, like most institutions in America, is undergoing fundamental changes thanks to technology. The rise of the Internet and the proliferation of numerous cable channels devoted to news means Americans can now find far more sources of information than the old \\"Big Three\\" networks and the handful of important daily newspapers once provided. It also means Americans now more easily recognize the liberal bias pumped out by the old media. Goldberg knew all about it for years, and he took advantage of the growing public awareness to toss out a couple of books discussing this unsettling phenomenon. I never read \\"Bias,\\" but I did enjoy \\"Arrogance\\" enough to make sure I signed up early on the library waiting list to secure a copy of \\"100 People Who Are Screwing Up America.\\" Goldberg's latest contribution to the bestseller list has little to do with media bias and a lot to do with exposing another danger facing American society: crackpots.<br /><br />Crackpots have always plagued society, but it seems like the 1960s not only provided reinforcements but also somehow elevated them to exalted positions in American society. Turn on the television right now, and you're likely to see one of these crackpots spewing their nonsense across the nation. Crackpots (I could also refer to them as moonbats, kooks, weirdos, and other assorted titles that fit their particular brand of insanity) find homes in politics, academia, the media, sports, religion, and just about any other facet of life you'd care to examine. They reside within no one political affiliation, although Goldberg notes with some consternation that the majority of them seem to fall left of center. This may be a fallacious claim; we think more of them are left oriented politically because the means through which they spread their poison--television, movies, and other forms of mass communication--have largely been controlled by left-wingers up until a few years ago. It's quite difficult to differentiate between solid liberals and their crackpot brethren. Even the most even keeled liberal has a difficult time repudiating a hard left crackpot. It's one of their weaknesses. Anyway, it's important to note that crackpots of all stripes receive representation in Goldberg's tome.<br /><br />So who are the lucky 100 individuals in the book? Before he dishes the dirt, Goldberg lists several broad categories in which these people fall. You've got America bashers, Hollywood blowhards, gangsta rappers, class action lawyers, identity politics pushers, corrupt business executives, race hustlers, militant feminists, and radical professors. That's a lot of categories for a mere 100 hardworking souls. I can think of at least 100 Hollywood blowhards alone. But Goldberg wants a nice distribution of crackpots to fill out his book. Speaking of the Hollywood blowhards, let's start with a few of them. The author places Rick and Kathy Hilton, the parents of potato chip Paris Hilton, at number 100. Wouldn't it be easier to put Paris in that slot? Probably, but Goldberg rightly deduces that a lack of parenting skills likely resulted in that blonde headed cornflake. Courtney Love makes the list at ninety-five with a single word description best left unmentioned here. Michael Jackson comes in at ninety, and a slew of Tinseltown crackpots appear under the titles \\"The Dumb Celebrity,\\" \\"The Vicious Celebrity,\\" and \\"The Dumb and Vicious Celebrity.\\" Tim Robbins follows, as do Harry Belafonte, Phil Donohue, Oliver Stone, and Michael Moore. Why? If you need elaboration, you really ought to pick up this book right away.<br /><br />I can hear the liberals shrieking, \\"What about the conservatives?\\" Well, Guy Velella ought tofit the bill quite nicely. Goldberg places him at ninety-four. He is, or rather was, the chairman of the Republican Party in the Bronx who called for a crackdown on crime BEFORE he went to jail on bribery charges. Once he received his all expenses paid room at Riker's Island, he decided a softening of his position was in order. Velella called in favors from his political cronies in an effort to pick up a \\"Get Out of Jail Free\\" card. Sadly, the judicial system decided to revoke his release and made him serve out the rest of his sentence. Happy now? No? How about Ken Lay and Dennis Kozlowski at forty-five and forty-four respectively? We all know these dolts weren't exactly major supporters of the Democrats, yet they made the list for their imaginative interpretation of accounting procedures that cost a lot of hardworking people their jobs and their life savings. Hey Kenny and Denny! Say hello to soap on a rope! I could go on and on. Many names you won't recognize, as a lot of these folks tend to flee for the nearest rock when exposed to light.<br /><br />No matter the person he's talking about, Goldberg always handles them with his usual acerbic wit and keen insight. He's tired of seeing these people espouse their crackpot views, or engage in crass behavior, without anyone calling them on it. And let's face it: when someone like Ted Kennedy tries to paint himself as the \\"conscience\\" of Democratic party politics, someone desperately needs to stand up, scream \\"Chappaquiddick,\\" and sit back down. When Diane Sawyer interviews Britney Spears as though she's on par with a world leader, someone needs to say SOMETHING. Bernard Goldberg will, and does, in this book. Now if we can only get a few million other people to distribute their own lists through a big publishing house, we might finally be able to clean house...ght to fit the bill quite nicely. Goldberg places him at ninety-four. He is, or rather was, the chairman of the Republican Party in the Bronx who called for a crackdown on crime BEFORE he went to jail on bribery charges. Once he received his all expenses paid room at Riker's Island, he decided a softening of his position was in order. Velella called in favors from his political cronies in an effort to pick up a \\"Get Out of Jail Free\\" card. Sadly, the judicial system decided to revoke his release and made him serve out the rest of his sentence. Happy now? No? How about Ken Lay and Dennis Kozlowski at forty-five and forty-four respectively? We all know these dolts weren't exactly major supporters of the Democrats, yet they made the list for their imaginative interpretation of accounting procedures that cost a lot of hardworking people their jobs and their life savings. Hey Kenny and Denny! Say hello to soap on a rope! I could go on and on. Many names you won't recognize, as a lot of these folks tend to flee for the nearest rock when exposed to light. <br /> <br />No matter the person he's talking about, Goldberg always handles them with his usual acerbic wit and keen insight. He's tired of seeing these people espouse their crackpot views, or engage in crass behavior, without anyone calling them on it. And let's face it: when someone like Ted Kennedy tries to paint himself as the \\"conscience\\" of Democratic party politics, someone desperately needs to stand up, scream \\"Chappaquiddick,\\" and sit back down. When Diane Sawyer interviews Britney Spears as though she's on par with a world leader, someone needs to say SOMETHING. Bernard Goldberg will, and does, in this book. Now if we can only get a few million other people to distribute their own lists through a big publishing house, we might finally be able to clean house...        <br />	2005-08-15
112465:US	52012289	R1I80WIOHK604E	1595230076	73813210	Exodus: Why Americans Are Fleeing Liberal Churches for Conservative Christianity	Books	4	31	41	N	N	"They became creatures of the world"	There are certain immutable truths of life that all of us readily recognize. Death, for one. Another is taxes. A third occurs whenever a Republican enters the White House. As soon as this last point becomes a reality, we all know liberals will start shrieking about the \\"sinister\\" influence of fundamentalist Christianity. Back when Ronald Reagan won the presidency, the screams emanating from the media pulpits warned Americans about the evils of the Moral Majority. When George W. Bush took the oath of office, \\"evangelicals\\" suddenly wanted to turn the United States into a theocracy. CNN, I think it was, even ran a special program about President Bush's religious beliefs--replete with ominous narration and a musical score that sounded like they lifted it right out of a horror movie. Ridiculous, isn't it? I'm an agnostic and even I sit in open-mouthed awe at the hysterical propaganda that the mainstream media try to pass off as the truth about our religiously inclined fellow citizens. In fact, I'm downright tired of it. If this nonsense keeps up, I'm going to start sending money to organizations seeking to reverse the rulings limiting the display of the Ten Commandments and prayer in schools.<br /><br />I firmly believe that a more religious America--not a theocracy, but a more religious America--equals a healthier America. I want people who believe in something beyond themselves and their selfish desires running the country, and I want those people to hold beliefs that don't drift in the breeze. Dave Shiflett, the author of \\"Exodus: Why Americans Are Fleeing Liberal Churches for Conservative Christianity,\\" believes the same thing. And if this book is any indication, so do millions of other Americans. Liberals recognized early on that if they wanted to fundamentally change America, they would need a cadre of troops to infiltrate the Catholic and Protestant seminaries across the country. This occurred in the 1960s and 1970s (what a surprise there). Shiflett weighs in with this slender tome to measure the results of this infusion of liberalism in several religious dominations, among them the Episcopalians and the Unitarians. The author discovers that Americans are abandoning the liberal branches of these bodies in droves in favor of either more conservative strand of their respective faiths or for other denominations--the Catholic Church, the Orthodox Church, and the Southern Baptists among them--that better reflect their beliefs. \\"Exodus\\" examines the liberal and conservative sides in order to understand why.<br /><br />Through numerous interviews with a variety of people, Shiflett finds that liberal Christianity lacks drawing power because the messages such denominations promote mirrors exactly the liberalism found in many other facets of American life. In other words, you can find the exact same messages on television as you can in a liberal religious organization. Many Americans don't like this; they want to attend and take part in a church that offers something that transcends daily life, something that makes demands on how they live their lives. Liberalism, not surprisingly, doesn't quite cut it. Mainstream Christian churches have just about given up on such critical Christian tenets like biblical inerrancy in favor of touchy-feely inclusionism that often goes directly against fundamental doctrine. The author discovers that many (not all) liberal pastors, reverends, and ministers reject the divinity of Jesus, the resurrection, and even a belief in God. Wow! How can such people call themselves Christians? The answer is that they can call themselves whatever they want; the problem is that members know they aren't. That sound the liberals hear is the sound of cars driving out of the parking lot, never to return.<br /><br />More interesting are the interviews Shiflett conducts with conservative Christians. He doesn't pull any punches with these folks, either. A section on the demise of the mainstream Episcopalian church provides agood example. The break revolved around a specific and very sensitive issue, but the growth of liberalism within the church had gone on for decades before. Why didn't the Episcopalians split when the first signs of trouble emerged? It's a tough question that isn't easy to answer. So where should people who disagree with liberal Episcopalians go? Why, off to the Catholic Church, the Orthodox Church, or the Southern Baptists. Interviews with members of these organizations reveal a lot about how a growing number of Americans view God and his representative institutions on earth. They believe that God is all-powerful, omnipresent, and demands that his followers tow a tough line. Their God does not change the words laid down in the Bible to accommodate temporal fads. The message is the same message it was two thousand years ago. One Episcopalian refugee, the journalist Andrew Ferguson, sums up his impressions concerning the breakup of the liberal mainstream: \\"It's good to see these puffed-up Episcopalians humbled. They became creatures of the world. This is what they deserve.\\" There it is in a nutshell. Those of a conservative faith believe drifting away from scripture brings fragmentation and destruction.<br /><br />I had a few problems with Shiflett's study. Where, for example, is an examination of the Mormons? Mormonism is one of the fastest growing faiths on the planet, and has been for a number of years if I'm not mistaken. Perhaps refugees from the Episcopalian imbroglio aren't signing up with the Mormons, or maybe none of the people Shiflett knows thought about joining the Mormon faith. Whatever the case, I'd like to know if this particular church is reaching out to those leaving other denominations and, if so, how they are doing it. Anyway, \\"Exodus\\" is a nifty little read, a book you can read through quickly but one that makes you think. In some spots, it is even downright inspiring. Give it a shot.revolved around a specific and very sensitive issue, but the growth of liberalism within the church had gone on for decades before. Why didn't the Episcopalians split when the first signs of trouble emerged? It's a tough question that isn't easy to answer. So where should people who disagree with liberal Episcopalians go? Why, off to the Catholic Church, the Orthodox Church, or the Southern Baptists. Interviews with members of these organizations reveal a lot about how a growing number of Americans view God and his representative institutions on earth. They believe that God is all-powerful, omnipresent, and demands that his followers tow a tough line. Their God does not change the words laid down in the Bible to accommodate temporal fads. The message is the same message it was two thousand years ago. One Episcopalian refugee, the journalist Andrew Ferguson, sums up his impressions concerning the breakup of the liberal mainstream: \\"It's good to see these puffed-up Episcopalians humbled. They became creatures of the world. This is what they deserve.\\" There it is in a nutshell. Those of a conservative faith believe drifting away from scripture brings fragmentation and destruction.    I had a few problems with Shiflett's study. Where, for example, is an examination of the Mormons? Mormonism is one of the fastest growing faiths on the planet, and has been for a number of years if I'm not mistaken. Perhaps refugees from the Episcopalian imbroglio aren't signing up with the Mormons, or maybe none of the people Shiflett knows thought about joining the Mormon faith. Whatever the case, I'd like to know if this particular church is reaching out to those leaving other denominations and, if so, how they are doing it. Anyway, \\"Exodus\\" is a nifty little read, a book you can read through quickly but one that makes you think. In some spots, it is even downright inspiring. Give it a shot.	2005-08-14
113547:US	52012289	R3E5H5YW8PL879	0761517855	19341665	Tales from the Left Coast: True Stories of Hollywood Stars and Their Outrageous Politics	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Welcome to Tinseltown!	Hollywood. The home of swimming pools and movie stars, of silicone and botox, of power lunches and big money deals. It's a warm, sunny place inhabited by the nicest people you would ever want to meet. Everybody is a friend in Tinseltown, always willing to lend a helping hand to his or her fellow man (or woman) with no expectation of a favor in return. I get the warm and fuzzies just thinking about how wonderful life must be in Southern California, how much better a place like Los Angeles is than boring old Nebraska, Wyoming, Minnesota, or virtually any other lame place in the country. Heck, the people who live in Hollywood, the people we see on television every day in movies and television shows, are obviously a cut above the rest of us. How can this not be so? All you need to do is spend a few hours a day with the television set and you rapidly learn these glamorous creatures are more beautiful, smarter, savvier, and more fashionable than the yucks who live in fly over country. Moreover, celebrities possess a greater capacity for truly caring about humanity than the rest of us do. Media stars care so much about the travails of life that they don't hesitate to use their money and influence to instruct us in the finer arts of raising children, waging war, and a host of other bread and butter issues the general populace knows nothing about. Every day when I wake up the first thing I do is thank my lucky stars I have such dedicated souls looking after my life.<br /><br />Yeah right.<br /><br />I wrote the above introduction when I reviewed \\"Hollywood, Interrupted,\\" a scathing indictment of all that is wrong about the alien life forms living in Tinseltown. I feel confident using this same introduction for James Hirsen's \\"Tales From the Left Coast\\" since the book is similar in content and tone. In these pages you will read about celebrity nonsense concerning the environment, war, tobacco, political correctness, and their unabashed support for communist governments. In short, \\"Tales From the Left Coast\\" basically covers ground we're all far too familiar with at this point. Still, it's worth reading for reinforcement value and the author's sarcastic humor. In fact, let's call Hirsen's book \\"Celebrity Crackpots 101\\" because this read would serve as an excellent primer for those as yet unaccustomed to the sheer insanity (and inanity) of the Hollywood \\"elites.\\" These people are nuts.<br /><br />I appreciate how Hirsen begins his book. He casts his eye all the way back to the bad old days of Senator Joseph McCarthy's anti-communist purges. The Red Scare of the 1950s wasn't just about good old Joe and his dogged pursuit of Lenin lovers in the government; the feds also investigated communist influence in Hollywood. And guess what? They discovered that La La Land harbored more than a few card-carrying members of the Red Menace. When these stooges refused to testify in front of Congress, off to jail they went. The studios, afraid of government interference, placed these people on a blacklist that prevented many of them from working for years afterwards. Most of us know all about the blacklist because Hollywood releases a tear soaked movie about this \\"persecution\\" every few years in case we forget. While I think McCarthy and a few of his minions--especially Roy Cohn--went too far in their investigations, Hirsen appropriately points out that not only were there communists operating in Hollywood, they routinely greenlighted scripts that promoted an anti-American viewpoint. And they did it behind the scenes in particularly disingenuous ways.<br /><br />Flash forward fifty or so years to the present day. Now we've got celebrities taking trips to Cuba for one-on-one raps with their man Castro, pushing questionable eco-scientific pap on the public (Meryl Streep and alar, anyone?), and creating their own blacklist to keep conservatives out of the movie making business. This last point receives a lot of attention from Hirsen. He reveals how conservative celebrities, production personnel, and even studio executives must maintain a low profile if they wish to work in show business. The few who openly profess their views, like Tom Selleck or Patricia Heaton, can expect to take abuse from their co-workers. It's far easier for right-leaning individuals who happen to work in the industry to just go with the flow and keep their mouths shut. If you think there is something sinister about that, something downright anti-American about this need for self-censorship, \\"Tales From the Left Coast\\" is the book for you.<br /><br />I'll wrap up with a few comments about the humor in the book. Hirsen never passes on an opportunity to take shots at idiots like Michael Moore, Robert Redford, Martin Sheen, Mike Farrell, Madonna, and the other blithering idiots who couldn't articulate an informed opinion if their lives depended on it. He starts the book with a list of seventeen reasons why Hollywood leans left (funny), and ends with an \\"awards show\\" for the biggest kooks in the biz (also funny). In the main body of the book, the author will write out a statement made by or about a celebrity then follow up with a pithy comment. More than a few of these are laugh out loud funny, but some of Hirsen's quips fall flat or left me mystified. What's the connection between Sheryl Crow and Xena the Warrior Princess? I missed that reference. Anyway, kick back, pile up a few Scientology pamphlets, and prepare to laugh and shake your head at the weird antics of the Hollywood in-crowd. I wonder if Versace makes tin foil hats?conservative celebrities, production personnel, and even studio executives must maintain a low profile if they wish to work in show business. The few who openly profess their views, like Tom Selleck or Patricia Heaton, can expect to take abuse from their co-workers. It's far easier for right-leaning individuals who happen to work in the industry to just go with the flow and keep their mouths shut. If you think there is something sinister about that, something downright anti-American about this need for self-censorship, \\"Tales From the Left Coast\\" is the book for you. <br /> <br />I'll wrap up with a few comments about the humor in the book. Hirsen never passes on an opportunity to take shots at idiots like Michael Moore, Robert Redford, Martin Sheen, Mike Farrell, Madonna, and the other blithering idiots who couldn't articulate an informed opinion if their lives depended on it. He starts the book with a list of seventeen reasons why Hollywood leans left (funny), and ends with an \\"awards show\\" for the biggest kooks in the biz (also funny). In the main body of the book, the author will write out a statement made by or about a celebrity then follow up with a pithy comment. More than a few of these are laugh out loud funny, but some of Hirsen's quips fall flat or left me mystified. What's the connection between Sheryl Crow and Xena the Warrior Princess? I missed that reference. Anyway, kick back, pile up a few Scientology pamphlets, and prepare to laugh and shake your head at the weird antics of the Hollywood in-crowd. I wonder if Versace makes tin foil hats?     <br />	2005-08-13
115941:US	52012289	R2UZDFZXCKTL3S	1589395115	273142803	Quest of the Seal Bearers Book 1: The Warriors Return	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Promising fantasy story	Dark clouds of doom threaten to engulf Mendala. Some 10,000 years ago, a wicked guardian named Multus opened the Book of War and threatened to plunge that planet into an age of evil. After a cataclysmic battle that narrowly averted disaster, the Book of War was thought lost forever. Now, a new threat rises in the land when a man called Davron recovers the Book of War and once again threatens to overwhelm the world of Mendala and, if all goes well, eventually launch a campaign of conquest that will stretch across all known dimensions. The Fantasma, the highest ranking ruler of Mendala, must flee from his mountain headquarters located at the geographical center of the planet if he is to carry on resistance to Davron's hegemony. Thanks to a message he receives from a servant of Elohim, Mendala's deity, Fantasma learns he must pass through a dimensional rift and locate his planet's saviors on an out of the way place called Earth. He'll need all the help he can muster since Davron knows how to use the Book of War to summon up the nastiest looking beasties imaginable, creatures that are invulnerable to all forms of attack except those from animals.<br /><br />As Davron plots his schemes on Mendala and Fantasma prepares to head to Earth, the Action and Adventure Club is meeting in the town of Greengale in order to plan their next excursion. Consisting of some twenty-one members (!) ranging in age from 15 to 18, the kids in this group are thrill seekers without equal. The leader of the gang is one Jandor Mason, a no nonsense adrenaline hound who founded the group to escape the boredom of his small town. Members of the group consist of males and females from all racial backgrounds, and all of them have different talents and attributes that will help them later once they reach Mendala. We've got a musician, an electronics whiz kid, the shy chick, a bossy gal, and so on and so on. We've also got Veda Guardman, the mother of one member and the authority figure of the group who acts as chaperone on their various adventures around the globe. The Action and Adventure Club's latest trip will take them to the Island of Adventure for some unspecified fun. When their plane goes down on an uncharted island, however, they discover their plans have suddenly changed. Instead of rock climbing, they'll be fighting Davron's minions on Mendala. They'll move through a land full of enchanted creatures, strange peoples, and possess mental and physical powers undreamt of on Earth.<br /><br />\\"Quest of the Seal Bearers\\" is a noble effort in the fantasy genre. I'm not too familiar with these types of books anymore; I've read a few Robert E. Howard books and some things by Terry Brooks years ago, but nothing much lately. I remember the formula pretty well, though: a band of heroic adventurers comes together to battle an evil of unimaginable power. That's essentially what we get here. The trick to these sorts of stories is to use imagination to build upon the stock formula, something author A.W.G. Coleman does well in places. I liked the concept of mental powers (called \\"mentus\\" here) mixed with spoken spells called mandamus. Those utilizing mentus abilities can track people from far away with their minds, while practitioners of mandamus can call up fire, wind, ice, and a host of other physical forms to attack their enemies. A few of the adventures faced by several of the Action and Adventure Club members work well too. A town in Mendala called Acme consists of nothing but cartoon characters and structures. Visitors turn into cartoons as soon as they cross the border, and are told upon entry to avoid \\"looking down\\" at all costs lest they suddenly take a nasty fall off a cliff or similar tall structure just as poor old Wily E. Coyote did in the old Road Runner shows. Funny!<br /><br />The drawbacks to \\"Quest of the Seal Bearers\\" are three in number as far as I can see, although other readers might find a few more. One, the number of characters active in the scope of the narrative boggles the mind. There are simply far too many people to keep track of, especially when they scatter upon their arrival in Mendala. I could follow the important ones--namely Jandor, Ashley, Henry, Tabatha, and the native Mendalians like Davron and Fantasma. These characters are easy because they constitute the most powerful and important players in the saga. Once the book delved into the obstacles faced by the other kids, I started having to flip back to see who was who. A list of characters at the back of the book would easily remedy this difficulty. Two, the pacing of the book dragged in spots. The author would start describing a minor adventure that zipped along quite well, and then fail to maintain the momentum when things calmed down a few pages later. Pacing in \\"Quest of the Seal Bearers\\" started to resemble a gigantic rollercoaster--the reader rides high one minute only to descend rapidly the next. It's a frustrating problem but not an unsolvable one.<br /><br />Three, and finally, the story has no real sense of danger in it. Once these kids arrive in Mendala and receive their powers, every one of them is practically indestructible. Even the weakest member of the group can quickly dispatch Davron's foot soldiers, or if they can't do that someone shows up to rescue them in the nick of time. I think giving the reader a sense that any of these characters, even the most powerful ones, could die at any minute would greatly enhance the effectiveness of the story. People fighting an evil this destructive SHOULD suffer casualties along the way. Perhaps that will happen in future installments. I'll give \\"Quest\\" three stars since I believe the author has the ability to fix these problems.e scope of the narrative boggles the mind. There are simply far too many people to keep track of, especially when they scatter upon their arrival in Mendala. I could follow the important ones--namely Jandor, Ashley, Henry, Tabatha, and the native Mendalians like Davron and Fantasma. These characters are easy because they constitute the most powerful and important players in the saga. Once the book delved into the obstacles faced by the other kids, I started having to flip back to see who was who. A list of characters at the back of the book would easily remedy this difficulty. Two, the pacing of the book dragged in spots. The author would start describing a minor adventure that zipped along quite well, and then fail to maintain the momentum when things calmed down a few pages later. Pacing in \\"Quest of the Seal Bearers\\" started to resemble a gigantic rollercoaster--the reader rides high one minute only to descend rapidly the next. It's a frustrating problem but not an unsolvable one. <br /> <br />Three, and finally, the story has no real sense of danger in it. Once these kids arrive in Mendala and receive their powers, every one of them is practically indestructible. Even the weakest member of the group can quickly dispatch Davron's foot soldiers, or if they can't do that someone shows up to rescue them in the nick of time. I think giving the reader a sense that any of these characters, even the most powerful ones, could die at any minute would greatly enhance the effectiveness of the story. People fighting an evil this destructive SHOULD suffer casualties along the way. Perhaps that will happen in future installments. I'll give \\"Quest\\" three stars since I believe the author has the ability to fix these problems.  <br />	2005-08-12
124691:US	52012289	R1YU3QOUSU336A	0595339565	277765195	Jannaway's Mutiny	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful!	There was a time, a lengthy period of time stretching over the course of several centuries, when the British Navy ruled the world's oceans. The defeat of the Spanish Armada in 1588, Trafalgar--these events and others resulted in the supremacy of Britain on the high seas. Any nation that dared challenge the British Empire knew full well that they would need a plan to counter their formidable naval forces. Surprisingly, the blow that hampered Britain's oceanic supremacy the most did not occur at the hands of foreign belligerents during wartime. It was the worldwide depression of the 1930s coupled with a small mutiny of sailors at a place called Invergordon that did the trick. Only roughly a thousand sailors mutinied, and even then the process was exceedingly peaceful. The point of contention involved wages, i.e. the reduction of pay for sailors due to tough economic times at home. This incident deeply frightened English politicians, forced the country to abandon the gold standard shortly thereafter, and demoralized a nation that had always held great pride in its control of the world's waterways. Changing the name of the fleet from \\"Atlantic\\" to \\"Home\\" also signaled an ominous change in the country's naval supremacy.<br /><br />\\"Jannaway's Mutiny,\\" an exciting piece of historical fiction from Charles Gidley Wheeler, uses the Invergordon incident as a plot point. It is not, however, the most significant feature of the book. In fact, the mutiny plays only a small part near the conclusion, after we've spent an enormous amount of time learning about the three central characters, of whom two play a small part in the mutiny. These three characters are Frank Jannaway, Anita Yarrow, and her brother Roddy. Frank, when we first meet him, is a decent young chap. He's smart and loyal to his mother, but doesn't have the opportunities afforded members of the British middle and upper classes. That all changes when Frank's mother takes a job with Jervis Yarrow, a crusty old naval officer of some repute who recognizes the young man's abilities and offers to underwrite his education. Roddy Yarrow presents a significant counterpoint to Frank Jannaway. Jervis's son is a scoundrel who coasts through life by lying, cheating, and stealing. Later on he'll do a few things that are much, much worse. His half-sister Anita falls in between these two figures. She develops a crush on young Frank when she's only a child, a crush that has disastrous consequences for all involved.<br /><br />We watch as Rodney, in an attempt to live up to his father's extremely high expectations, joins the Navy and fails miserably at nearly everything he attempts. Nonetheless, his connections eventually allow him to take charge of his own vessel. We watch as a scandal in the Yarrow household forces Frank to abandon his education and enlist in the Navy as a lowly sailor. Anita Yarrow, who obviously doesn't join the Navy, remains at home to become entangled in post-World War I society. As a \\"Bright Young Thing,\\" she marries a complete jerk only to leave him shortly thereafter, head to Malta in a family imposed exile, and reconnect with the now dashing and newly minted officer Frank Jannaway. Their romance is exhilarating and headed towards marriage, but a vile secret about Frank's origins emerges that permanently puts the kibosh on this proposed union. Further bad news arises when the Navy assigns Frank to Roddy Yarrow's vessel. Roddy uses a horrific incident aboard the vessel to launch a vendetta against his life long enemy, but Frank redeems himself when the fleet docks at Invergordon. The fact that the sailors like and respect Jannaway helps make the mutiny a success without resorting to violence so common to most strikes of the time.<br /><br />\\"Jannaway's Mutiny\\" works for a number of reasons, not the least of which is the intricate detail Wheeler gives to each of these three characters. The story spans some 100 years, from 1895 to an interview conducted with an extremely elderly Anita Yarrow in 1995. That's an enormous amount of time to cover, an enormous amount of time in which to show convincing character development, but the book accomplishes this feat quite well. Romance, the clash of social classes, warfare, and death--the characters have a lot to deal with in the course of the narrative, and they deal with the trials and tribulations in convincing ways. Just as convincing is the minutiae concerning life in the Navy. I'm a first class landlubber who can barely differentiate between fore and aft, but the amount of details included in this book about the ins and outs of life on a ship sure seem authentic. The back cover of the book tells us that the author served in the British Royal Navy as a pilot and a minesweeper, and I believe it. The wealth of detail gives the book a genuine realism missing in other books I've read about life on the high seas.<br /><br />I have only one minor quibble with the book. The wealth of detail I praised above, while giving the reader a real sense of \\"being there,\\" does occasionally present a problem. I know next to nothing about ships, so I couldn't always follow along with total ease when the author launched into extended passages loaded with naval jargon. I never felt lost anywhere in the story, but I think an appendix listing terms and definitions might have helped me get through these passages with a bit more ease. This problem aside, I think \\"Jannaway's Mutiny\\" is a fabulous book that should probably find wider distribution through a big publishing house. Fans of historical fiction in general and military fiction in particular should definitely give this one a once through.remely elderly Anita Yarrow in 1995. That's an enormous amount of time to cover, an enormous amount of time in which to show convincing character development, but the book accomplishes this feat quite well. Romance, the clash of social classes, warfare, and death--the characters have a lot to deal with in the course of the narrative, and they deal with the trials and tribulations in convincing ways. Just as convincing is the minutiae concerning life in the Navy. I'm a first class landlubber who can barely differentiate between fore and aft, but the amount of details included in this book about the ins and outs of life on a ship sure seem authentic. The back cover of the book tells us that the author served in the British Royal Navy as a pilot and a minesweeper, and I believe it. The wealth of detail gives the book a genuine realism missing in other books I've read about life on the high seas. <br /> <br />I have only one minor quibble with the book. The wealth of detail I praised above, while giving the reader a real sense of \\"being there,\\" does occasionally present a problem. I know next to nothing about ships, so I couldn't always follow along with total ease when the author launched into extended passages loaded with naval jargon. I never felt lost anywhere in the story, but I think an appendix listing terms and definitions might have helped me get through these passages with a bit more ease. This problem aside, I think \\"Jannaway's Mutiny\\" is a fabulous book that should probably find wider distribution through a big publishing house. Fans of historical fiction in general and military fiction in particular should definitely give this one a once through.    <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-08
134722:US	52012289	R2WDUKO3QZPFN9	1412047005	812937424	Seeds of Heaven	Books	3	4	4	N	N	These seeds need some water	When I first laid my eyes upon the cover of this book, I groaned aloud. The cover art, an extremely amateurish rendering of two people bowing down in front of the hazy apparition of a female head, practically begs for a joke or two. If I spotted a book like this in the store I would likely keep on walking, figuring that the tome must have something to do with the Dungeons and Dragons crowd. While I'm the first to admit I played D&D when I was in my early teens, I gave up role-playing games very soon after--probably when I discovered the exciting world of girls. Anyway, I'm getting off track. The artwork on the cover of Tito Abao's \\"Seeds of Heaven\\" is hardly what an adult would consider inspiring or particularly thought provoking. That's unfortunate in the extreme because Abao's book is an intriguing read. A word of warning to the reader at this point: \\"Seeds of Heaven\\" most definitely falls under the rubric of \\"New Age\\" reading. That might present significant difficulties for many readers, who likely equate authors in this genre with people who believe in the power of meditation, crystals, and firmly think they've had past lives.<br /><br />Abao doubtless believes in such hokum (I do not), but at least he turns his unusual beliefs into an oftentimes entertaining experience. \\"Seeds of Heaven\\" starts by introducing us to the narrator, a young man named Seraphis, who lives in the ancient world of Atlantis. Some background information is necessary at this point in order to understand the storyline. Atlantis, that fabled island of yesteryear full of vast technological wonders such as floating discs and laser weapons, arose thanks to the arrival of an alien race from Arcturus. Presided over by a being known as the Progenitor, Atlantis exists to help the human race achieve spiritual harmony, understanding, and lower prices. Unfortunately, the Arcturians who live on earth broke several rules in their dealings with the natives, the most important of which involves reproduction. Mixed race creatures, known as \\"The Children of Light,\\" possess and can develop with training their spiritual powers. The Arcturians have been on earth for millennia by the time the story starts, and now their rule here is about to end thanks to the rise of an evil Atlantean dictator named Hister. This ruler uses a powerful device called the Crystal Tower to seek revenge on his enemies in the land of Thule. In the process, he destroys Atlantis and the world.<br /><br />The book alternates between events leading up to the destruction of the world and the horrific aftermath of said destruction. Hister went nuts when his army perished in a battle against Thule's warriors, a battle Seraphis was supposed to assist in by leading an army from New Atlantis. But there were plans and schemes in the works our narrator knew nothing about, and which only become clear to him after his physical body perishes. You see, the astral form of Seraphis can move through space and time easily, a process that allows him to revisit his former life and see the other side of the story. The other part of the book, the parts dealing with the widespread destruction of the world, is more interesting. Here we see a man named No'e, who receives a special message from the Arcturians, build an ark with the help of his sons to survive the coming disaster. We also see a Chinese emperor stand by as numbers of his people climb a golden staircase into the sky at Angkor Wat; he stays behind to save the ones not chosen to leave the shattered planet. A priest in Macchu Picchu laments the passing of the Arcturians even as he witnesses a man named Hammurabi vowing to build ships in order to discover what happened to Atlantis. The theme here, if you don't recognize the above names and places, is that every ancient society arose as a result of the destruction of Atlantis.<br /><br />I don't know, folks. \\"Seeds of Heaven\\" can be a bear to follow in places because Abao holds background information close to hisvest. I wasn't exactly sure where he was going until about midway through, and even then I'm not positive I caught onto everything he tried to get across. At least the author keeps the New Age jargon to a minimum. I had to do an Internet search to discover the meaning of the terms \\"chakra\\" and \\"nadis,\\" for example, as Seraphis is always trying to bring his chakra and nadis under control. I know how hard this is to accomplish; I'll never forget the day Mindy Sue Jenkins drove her knee into my nadis back in the first grade. Seriously though, the book is better for keeping arcane lingo to a minimum. Also helping the story move along is Abao's ability to write riveting scenes. The author manages to infuse the parts involving Noah's Ark and the stairway to heaven at Angkor Wat with palpable tension. On the downside, most of the characters receive little development beyond mere superficialities, we never meet the evil Hister, and we don't realize New Atlantis is Egypt until well into the story.<br /><br />Abao promises more books will follow \\"Seeds of Heaven\\" that no doubt will explicate the foggy narrative contained in this tome. The next installment apparently outlines the influence of Martians on the development of our ancient societies (!). I would suggest several things to the author of this book. One, try to give the characters greater dimension. Two, provide an appendix that explains New Age terms and theories so the reader doesn't feel so adrift as he or she moves through the narrative. Three, and finally, find better artwork for the cover. If you want people to pick up your book, a snazzy cover can work wonders.to his vest. I wasn't exactly sure where he was going until about midway through, and even then I'm not positive I caught onto everything he tried to get across. At least the author keeps the New Age jargon to a minimum. I had to do an Internet search to discover the meaning of the terms \\"chakra\\" and \\"nadis,\\" for example, as Seraphis is always trying to bring his chakra and nadis under control. I know how hard this is to accomplish; I'll never forget the day Mindy Sue Jenkins drove her knee into my nadis back in the first grade. Seriously though, the book is better for keeping arcane lingo to a minimum. Also helping the story move along is Abao's ability to write riveting scenes. The author manages to infuse the parts involving Noah's Ark and the stairway to heaven at Angkor Wat with palpable tension. On the downside, most of the characters receive little development beyond mere superficialities, we never meet the evil Hister, and we don't realize New Atlantis is Egypt until well into the story.  <br /> <br />Abao promises more books will follow \\"Seeds of Heaven\\" that no doubt will explicate the foggy narrative contained in this tome. The next installment apparently outlines the influence of Martians on the development of our ancient societies (!). I would suggest several things to the author of this book. One, try to give the characters greater dimension. Two, provide an appendix that explains New Age terms and theories so the reader doesn't feel so adrift as he or she moves through the narrative. Three, and finally, find better artwork for the cover. If you want people to pick up your book, a snazzy cover can work wonders.    <br />	2005-08-02
139167:US	52012289	R1UOSGG1E8MKBA	0595341632	194154484	Love in the Time of the Apocalypse	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Yes, an Amish casino	A casino owned and operated by the Amish? The Mormons operating a sort of underground railroad for couples wanting to have children? Religious organizations joining forces with far right wing paramilitary units? What's going on here? Why, nothing more than an America caught up in the throes of the apocalypse (four horsemen optional), that's what! I went into Gregory Blecha's \\"Love in the Time of the Apocalypse\\" expecting a love story set amidst the incandescent blooms of mushroom clouds. At the very least, I thought I'd see a couple snuggling as a killer virus wiped out most of the human race. Perhaps a bout of footsie as an asteroid races toward a rendezvous with our planet? How about a young girl staring at her beau with doe eyes as a horde of flesh eating zombies tear them and the rest of the human race to pieces? Nope, Blecha's book is none of these things. The apocalypse we see here is more down to earth and less chaotic than what we would think, yet still full of the sort of surrealism one would expect to see at the end of the world. It's an apocalypse as Luis Bunuel might imagine it.<br /><br />We come into the novel with an introduction to Bryan, the protagonist of the story, as he and his girlfriend Char revel in the tawdry accommodations that only Las Vegas can provide. Then again, this isn't Sin City as your parents experienced it. The Amish do indeed run a casino, loaded with gambling devices that run without the aid of electricity, as well as a hotel with the best amenities the nineteenth century has to offer. Problem is, it's the twenty-first century. Oh well. The food is good, the beds are comfortable, and Bryan and his gal (along with a few friends) can always motorbike up the road to see the Hoover Dam in operation. Of course, tooling around the countryside is a dangerous proposition in this day and age. Members of the wealthy and spoiled bourgeoisie, such as Bryan and his companions, could easily fall into the clutches of bandits, ecoterrorists, religious fanatics, or the totalitarian grasp of the federal bureaucracy. Our hero knows for certain that criminal elements in society often kidnap members of his social class in order to collect hefty ransoms from rich families. It sort of goes with the territory. Nonetheless, off they go to see the wonders of the Hoover Dam only to discover that the structure has already been defaced by the ecoterrorists. Darn.<br /><br />Shortly after returning from their trip, Bryan and Char argue and separate. The consequence of this action is the abduction of Bryan by a religious organization that joined up with the Aryan Nations. They've kidnapped Bryan because he possesses something they wish to acquire, but the leader of the church, a Colonel Bouchet, won't tell him what it is. No one will tell Bryan anything, actually, but it soon becomes clear that every fringe group in the decaying country wants this guy to themselves. After the federal government launches an assault on the Aryan Nations headquarters, our hero finds himself set free in San Francisco. It's here that he runs into an ecoterrorist group that, predictably, kidnaps him for their own purposes. Again, they won't tell him why. And so it goes as Bryan falls into the clutches of corporate executives, a group of kids taken straight out of a horror movie, and the federal government. His travels take him from one corner of the country to another, from coast to coast, as he tries to stay alive long enough to figure out why he's such a valuable commodity. The truth outs in the end, of course, but I won't spoil the wacky conclusion for you. It's certainly one long, strange trip from cover to cover.<br /><br />The most intriguing aspect of this story is the picture Blecha paints of a fragmented America. He seems to think our country will break down into semi-autonomous sections comprised of religious groups and class elements. How else to account for the prominence of the Mormons, the Amish, the evangelical groups, and thevarious social classes seen in the book? Presiding over these fractured mini-nations is a federal government totally given over to bureaucracy. There are bureaucracies in charge of killing off entire towns to stop the spread of plagues, police forces that carry out very public assassinations and abductions, and agencies that monitor traffic on the Internet. Conspiracy theories to explain all this nonsense run rampant among the population. Ecoterrorists play a role too as they blow up monuments and other structures associated with American strength and identity.  Hmmm, perhaps some of these things aren't too different from stuff going on today. In that respect, Blecha's book falls under the rubric of satire. The book owes a debt to Jonathan Swift's \\"Gulliver's Travels\\" in that Bryan takes a similar journey across a weird yet at times wonderful land that mirrors in no small way the problems most readers will recognize as relevant to their own time and place.<br /><br />At first reading there seemed to be little love anywhere in the book, at least beyond the first chapter or so. But love does exist in Bryan's mind. It's his love for Char that gives him the strength to plod on through weirder and weirder lands and experiences. It's love that gives him the strength to resist myriad temptations in the form of numerous females encountered all across the country. Whether that love will be enough to cure a dying nation of its ills seems unlikely, if the conclusion is any indication, but it might on an individual level. And isn't that all any of us really have, apocalypse or not?nd the various social classes seen in the book? Presiding over these fractured mini-nations is a federal government totally given over to bureaucracy. There are bureaucracies in charge of killing off entire towns to stop the spread of plagues, police forces that carry out very public assassinations and abductions, and agencies that monitor traffic on the Internet. Conspiracy theories to explain all this nonsense run rampant among the population. Ecoterrorists play a role too as they blow up monuments and other structures associated with American strength and identity.  Hmmm, perhaps some of these things aren't too different from stuff going on today. In that respect, Blecha's book falls under the rubric of satire. The book owes a debt to Jonathan Swift's \\"Gulliver's Travels\\" in that Bryan takes a similar journey across a weird yet at times wonderful land that mirrors in no small way the problems most readers will recognize as relevant to their own time and place. <br /> <br />At first reading there seemed to be little love anywhere in the book, at least beyond the first chapter or so. But love does exist in Bryan's mind. It's his love for Char that gives him the strength to plod on through weirder and weirder lands and experiences. It's love that gives him the strength to resist myriad temptations in the form of numerous females encountered all across the country. Whether that love will be enough to cure a dying nation of its ills seems unlikely, if the conclusion is any indication, but it might on an individual level. And isn't that all any of us really have, apocalypse or not?     <br />	2005-08-01
149208:US	52012289	R23QBPUULZX417	1566635055	148129111	Life at the Bottom: The Worldview That Makes the Underclass	Books	5	41	45	N	N	Horrifying	The author of the collection of essays that make up \\"Life at the Bottom: The Worldview That Makes the Underclass,\\" Theodore Dalrymple, is a British physician who has spent the last decade of his life providing health care services in an English slum and prison. His patients live in abject poverty, a poverty of narcotics addiction, suicide attempts, spousal and child abuse, and street violence. His career has offered him more than enough opportunities to observe what makes these unfortunate wretches tick, and it's not a pretty picture. It's also not the picture presented to the general public by the liberal media, bureaucrats, and special interest groups that work with the poor. We've all heard the stories of people who, through no fault of their own, end up in desperate circumstances. Theodore Dalrymple is here to say that this story does not apply to the vast majority of the poor. Criminals, single mothers, drug abusers, and chronic alcoholics did not magically awaken one day and find themselves in a government financed housing unit. According to this author, it is the choices they make that define them.<br /><br />The essays in this book will break your heart, filled as they are with page after page of human misery and suffering on a scale many of us rarely witness first hand. Dalrymple introduces us to suicidal pre-teens, adolescents addicted to hard drugs, men who've spent most of their lives in prison, single mothers who can't understand why they have three children with three different fathers, and elderly individuals who can't step outside their homes without falling prey to vicious street thugs. Even sadder is the realization that the vast majority of these people cannot read beyond the most rudimentary level, don't know how to add or subtract, and have no idea when World War II took place. They do know how to score drugs, however, and are completely familiar with the various forms of legalized gambling located around the city. Too, most of them can easily point out the location of the nearest pub or dance club, not surprising considering most of them spend their days and nights drinking and carousing. The rest of their time is spent fighting, watching television in the confines of their government financed home, or going in and out of jail. It's indeed heartbreaking to read about these people--until you understand why they do what they do. It's called liberalism.<br /><br />Dalrymple explains, in essay after essay, the scurrilous effects of liberal dogma on the underclass. Most of these people are too ignorant to learn how to make bad choices by reading academic articles or books, but they do pick up the message from television and from \\"well meaning\\" bureaucrats and special interest groups. And that message is one of the most harmful in human history. It's a message that says it's acceptable to take property from others because capitalism is by nature a system of gross inequality. It's a message that says doing whatever you want is not only acceptable, but a right that no one should question. Liberalism, according to Dalrymple, is never having to say you're sorry for bashing another person over the head with a baseball bat. What's even more frightening is how the anything goes mentality of the underclass is spreading up the social ladder. The author cites the behavior of British soccer fans as only one of many examples (the spread of tattooing is another) of this assertion. A crowd that contains solidly middle and upper middle class Brits thinks nothing of going to a game and engaging in the most violent, most tasteless forms of expression imaginable. The behaviors that once marked the lowest classes are now threatening to subsume the whole of society.<br /><br />The central message of these essays is the idea of personal responsibility, i.e. choices. Dalrymple realizes in a way that most of us don't that choices in life matter. Choosing to not take advantage of educational opportunities often relegates the individual to a life of poverty, and it also leads to future generations of ignorance as those who spurned the chance to learn pass this attitude on to their offspring. Choosing to embark on endless relationships with violent individuals results in, not surprisingly, violence in the form of domestic conflict. Choosing to steal or murder leads to a life spent in jails and prisons. It's a simple argument, really, but one that liberals just can't get their minds around. It's also an argument that could be taken much farther than Dalrymple carries it. For example, choosing to spend all of your money on material goods results in serious financial difficulties when a job layoff or an illness occurs. Yet thousands of middle and upper middle class people find themselves in trouble everyday because they spent instead of saved. If we are the sum total of our choices, which I think most of us realize is true, this book illustrates that more and more people are choosing the wrong things in life.<br /><br />It would be easy to write Dalrymple off as some British grump obsessed with bringing back the \\"good old days.\\" This would be incorrect. He's got quite a sense of humor, for one thing. In a chapter about the explosion of tattoos, he claims that tattooing must introduce a \\"slow moving virus\\" into the bloodstream that causes its victims to resort to crime within a few years because he noticed that nine out of ten prisoners he deals with have tattoos. Moreover, a true grump would simply write off the whole human race after seeing the nightmares Dalrymple deals with on a daily basis. He realizes there are people who truly need help and has also personally offered assistance above and beyond the call of duty to individuals of intelligence caught up in the slums. But the laughs and salvation are few in this book. As painful as it is, \\"Life at the Bottom\\" is a must read.ividual to a life of poverty, and it also leads to future generations of ignorance as those who spurned the chance to learn pass this attitude on to their offspring. Choosing to embark on endless relationships with violent individuals results in, not surprisingly, violence in the form of domestic conflict. Choosing to steal or murder leads to a life spent in jails and prisons. It's a simple argument, really, but one that liberals just can't get their minds around. It's also an argument that could be taken much farther than Dalrymple carries it. For example, choosing to spend all of your money on material goods results in serious financial difficulties when a job layoff or an illness occurs. Yet thousands of middle and upper middle class people find themselves in trouble everyday because they spent instead of saved. If we are the sum total of our choices, which I think most of us realize is true, this book illustrates that more and more people are choosing the wrong things in life. <br /> <br />It would be easy to write Dalrymple off as some British grump obsessed with bringing back the \\"good old days.\\" This would be incorrect. He's got quite a sense of humor, for one thing. In a chapter about the explosion of tattoos, he claims that tattooing must introduce a \\"slow moving virus\\" into the bloodstream that causes its victims to resort to crime within a few years because he noticed that nine out of ten prisoners he deals with have tattoos. Moreover, a true grump would simply write off the whole human race after seeing the nightmares Dalrymple deals with on a daily basis. He realizes there are people who truly need help and has also personally offered assistance above and beyond the call of duty to individuals of intelligence caught up in the slums. But the laughs and salvation are few in this book. As painful as it is, \\"Life at the Bottom\\" is a must read. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />    <br />  <br /> <br />	2005-07-25
151180:US	52012289	R34DJ3E87DN8LJ	0385512198	705828633	Our Oldest Enemy: A History of America's Disastrous Relationship with France	Books	3	12	17	N	N	Better examples would help prove the thesis	When I think of France, many things come to mind. The Marquis de Lafayette, wine, the Normandy invasion, the French revolution, and the language--I could go on and on. France is synonymous with great literature--Charles Baudelaire, Guy De Maupassant, Emile Zola, Albert Camus, Marcel Proust--and this list too could go on and on. It's a country with an enormously rich history stretching from the era of Rome to the rise of Charlemagne to the Bourbon monarchy. It's a land that saw the emergence of Napoleon Bonaparte, a general who conquered most of Europe in the early nineteenth century. Authors John L. Miller and historian Mark Molesky, however, see much to dislike with France, and they pull few punches in their examination of this country in their book \\"Our Oldest Enemy: A History of America's Disastrous Relationship with France.\\" As the title makes clear, this study focuses on the often contentious interaction between the United States and France. The impetus for this book, obviously, is France's latest affront to American sensibilities, namely their refusal to provide support for our excursion into Iraq in 2003. Miller and Molesky point out that this incident is only the latest in a string of hostilities stretching back to before the founding of the American nation.<br /><br />It is helpful to divide \\"Our Oldest Enemy\\" into two sections. The first, and by the far the most extensive part of the book, looks at the many historical encounters between these two nations. All of these events, according to the authors, carry a decidedly negative tone. The first instance of French hostility cited in the book occurred in 1704, when a mixed force of French soldiers and their Indian allies launched a surprise attack on the English settlement at Deerfield, Massachusetts. This invasion, a small part of a series of global conflicts between England and France, resulted in the senseless slaughter of men, women, and defenseless children. Hostages taken by the French and spirited away to New France remained in bondage for years afterwards. From this point forward, it's nothing but one French indignity after another. Murderous attacks on frontier settlements culminated in the French and Indian Wars. The assistance offered to the colonies in our war against England was rarely helpful and more the result of French attempts to undermine England than an altruistic effort to befriend the new American nation. France, so says the book, spent the next two hundred years constantly placing roadblocks in America's path. They stymied Wilson's dignified attempts to end World War I, hindered our actions in World War II, and helped embroil us in Vietnam.<br /><br />The second section of the book, less visible under the mass of historical detail but no less important, discusses French intellectual and artistic movements. Miller and Molesky take an extremely negative view of the rise of avant-garde, which they claim resulted in the degradation and debasement of all subsequent forms of artistic expression. As for French intellectual thought, the authors revile Jean-Paul Sartre, Jacques Derrida, and Claude Levi-Strauss as dupes of worldwide communism whose various theories--deconstructionism being the most important--greatly accelerated the influence of anti-Americanism and moral relativism in both the European and American universities. \\"Our Oldest Enemy\\" argues that these currents arose in France because that country's diminishing importance on the world stage, an importance in serious decline since the fall of Napoleon, led to a national sense of negativity and rage that sought to undermine the success of other nation's aesthetic achievements. This book even manages to indict the land of wine and cheese on charges of extreme anti-Semitism, arguing that the Dreyfus affair and the Vichy support for National Socialist Germany expose in great detail the hatred France has always had for the Jews.<br /><br />I found that I had a lot of problems with this book. While Isupport the central thesis of \\"Our Oldest Enemy,\\" that France does have a big problem with America and has had one for many years, I found the research and its presentation problematic. Let's start with the earliest charge made by the authors: the Deerfield Massacre. How was that an attack on American interests? The United States didn't even exist in 1704, and the settlers in the colonies certainly didn't think of themselves as Americans at that point in time. That was a conflict between the French and the ENGLISH, not France and America. \\"Our Oldest Enemy\\" makes a good case that the French military officers assisting our revolutionary war effort were inept, but how is that necessarily representative of the French government's goals at the time? And Woodrow Wilson's problems with Clemenceau at Versailles? True, France's intransigence towards Germany laid the groundwork for World War II, but Wilson's Fourteen Points were hardly what I would call a foreign policy success. Just ask people living in the Balkans what they think about Wilson's Fourteen Points, or more precisely the point that called for boundaries insuring national sovereignty.<br /><br />While I agree with what the authors say about De Gaulle, I take exception with their view about Vietnam and the Cold War. Exactly how is it France's fault that we blundered into Vietnam? Sure, they treated the Vietnamese like slaves and engaged in a disastrous campaign at Dien Bien Phu, but why should we blame them for our own miserable failures in that country a few years later? We could have refused to send in troops after the French pulled out, or at least recognized that the Vietnamese wanted a unified country after centuries of foreign occupation. Instead, we followed our own policy (not a French policy) of containment--a noble strategy that did save other countries from the scourge of communism--with disastrous results in this instance. I'm a conservative and I can't go along with much of what this book says. The central thesis has merit, but the execution of much of the \\"proof\\" leaves the thinking reader out in the cold. Proceed with caution.While I support the central thesis of \\"Our Oldest Enemy,\\" that France does have a big problem with America and has had one for many years, I found the research and its presentation problematic. Let's start with the earliest charge made by the authors: the Deerfield Massacre. How was that an attack on American interests? The United States didn't even exist in 1704, and the settlers in the colonies certainly didn't think of themselves as Americans at that point in time. That was a conflict between the French and the ENGLISH, not France and America. \\"Our Oldest Enemy\\" makes a good case that the French military officers assisting our revolutionary war effort were inept, but how is that necessarily representative of the French government's goals at the time? And Woodrow Wilson's problems with Clemenceau at Versailles? True, France's intransigence towards Germany laid the groundwork for World War II, but Wilson's Fourteen Points were hardly what I would call a foreign policy success. Just ask people living in the Balkans what they think about Wilson's Fourteen Points, or more precisely the point that called for boundaries insuring national sovereignty.  <br /> <br />While I agree with what the authors say about De Gaulle, I take exception with their view about Vietnam and the Cold War. Exactly how is it France's fault that we blundered into Vietnam? Sure, they treated the Vietnamese like slaves and engaged in a disastrous campaign at Dien Bien Phu, but why should we blame them for our own miserable failures in that country a few years later? We could have refused to send in troops after the French pulled out, or at least recognized that the Vietnamese wanted a unified country after centuries of foreign occupation. Instead, we followed our own policy (not a French policy) of containment--a noble strategy that did save other countries from the scourge of communism--with disastrous results in this instance. I'm a conservative and I can't go along with much of what this booksays. The central thesis has merit, but the execution of much of the \\"proof\\" leaves the thinking reader out in the cold. Proceed with caution.                 <br />	2005-07-24
158932:US	52012289	R2A53MURUW0A4R	1400032202	964050438	Koba the Dread: Laughter and the Twenty Million	Books	4	11	13	N	N	I'm not laughing	Why is communism funny? Personally, I find Marxism and its blood soaked application in countries around the world about as amusing as a sledgehammer to the crotch, but novelist Martin Amis makes a good argument in \\"Koba the Dread: Laughter and the Twenty Million\\" that we're far more likely to giggle over a jape about the red menace than we would if someone cracked a funny about National Socialism. Why is that? Why is the gulag archipelago less tragic than a National Socialist death camp? When comparing the records left behind by Uncle Joe Stalin and his counterpart in Germany, there is little to laugh about. Both men killed millions of people in their quest for the perfect ideology. Stalin, however, killed far more people and operated for a far longer period of time. We never launched a full-scale war to bring down the Soviet Union, and we haven't insisted that museums honoring the gulag dead pop up across the landscape to teach future generations about the evils of communism. \\"Never again!\\" has never been a rallying cry applied to what went on in the Soviet Union from roughly 1917 to 1954. Instead, we laugh when we ought to weep. What went wrong?<br /><br />In the course of finding an answer to these questions, as well as trying to reconcile his father's once staunch support of Stalin, Amis digs deep into the worst stages of Soviet communism. Thanks to the inestimable research of Robert Conquest, Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Richard Pipes, Dmitri Volkogonov, and other historians of the Soviet era, Amis weaves a horrific indictment of the Russian regime under its most egregious captain, Joseph Stalin. Ahhh, the Man of Steel, the wise leader of the Supreme Soviet State who industrialized a largely agrarian nation in record time, helped guide his people through the worst war in human history, and served as a sterling statesman of the communist cause to the rest of the world. Yep, good old Koba was certainly a memorable figure. He's also the worst criminal in human history. Well read anti-communists will quickly recognize many of the facts and anecdotes Amis brings to the fore in the course of his book--the mass murders, the reigns of terror, the torture, the crushing of the human spirit in the name of utopianism, the cosmic hypocrisy of the communist state, the unquestioning acceptance by western intellectuals of communism's frauds--and will appreciate how Amis adeptly presents the material.<br /><br />His take on Stalin's personality and its relation to the communist ideology is incredibly well done. The dictator, contrary to some claims written by idiotic apologists, was not an aberration in the communist system. Amis believes, as do several of the scholars he quotes, that Stalin was in fact the logical extension of an ideology that thrived on terror, murder, and sheer hatred of humanity. Communism IS terror, murder, and sheer hatred of humanity. It was Lenin and Trotsky, not Stalin, who first implemented the use of these nightmarish methods as state policy. This Koba, this man of steel, merely picked up these techniques from a decade earlier and used them to wider effect. Stalin did differ substantially from his fellow comrades, however, when it came to personality. Lenin was a monster and liar, as was Trotsky, but at least these two men occasionally had to give way to reality, had to compromise to keep their beliefs alive. Amis contends that reality to Stalin was something far different. Reality possessed a fluidity that one could manipulate into whatever shape the situation required. Thus Stalin soon crafted an alternate reality in which he controlled all the levers of life, a reality in which science, language, and economics were malleable concepts accompanied by the applause of frightened followers.<br /><br />The book is less successful, in my opinion, in the sections where Amis banters with his fellow writers (Christopher Hitchens is one of them) and tries to come to terms with his father's one time embrace of Soviet communism. It's nice to know Kingsley Amis eventually came to his senses, but it's not necessary to know this information to appreciate the book. In fact, I found the parts where Amis discusses his childhood and the interactions between himself and his red friends rather pretentious. Amis is definitely a patrician intellectual type, with all of the vanity attendant to such an identification, and this makes for unpleasant reading in spots. After documenting a hundred plus pages of atrocities committed by dedicated communists, one wonders how Amis could even speak to his red pals with anything approaching civility. Your \\"friends\\" helped these atrocities go unchecked for so long because their ardent admiration of communism kept that regime in power, at least in an indirect sense, by forcing the West to debate the merits of this flawed ideology. There should have been no debate. We should have wiped communism from the face of the earth back in 1917, and definitely should have done so at the end of World War II.<br /><br />A final note on the structure of \\"Koba the Dread.\\" Amis writes in a sort of roundabout way about his topic--I'm almost tempted to say he uses stream of consciousness--moving from one point to another almost by whim. In any other author's hands this would make a book like this one unreadable, but here it works. Perhaps it's the author's way of trying to create an alternate reality in tribute to his subject? Whatever the case, the very pretentiousness I took issue with in the personal sections of the book works wonders when dealing with the hypocrites of communist Russia circa 1917-1954. The wit on display here is scathing, eminently quotable, and appropriate for a topic in which language often fails to convey the full depths of terror experienced by the actors involved. I recommend \\"Koba the Dread,\\" and I also recommend moving on to Conquest, Solzhenitsyn, and other scholars of Soviet atrocities immediately after finishing this book.ommunism. It's nice to know Kingsley Amis eventually came to his senses, but it's not necessary to know this information to appreciate the book. In fact, I found the parts where Amis discusses his childhood and the interactions between himself and his red friends rather pretentious. Amis is definitely a patrician intellectual type, with all of the vanity attendant to such an identification, and this makes for unpleasant reading in spots. After documenting a hundred plus pages of atrocities committed by dedicated communists, one wonders how Amis could even speak to his red pals with anything approaching civility. Your \\"friends\\" helped these atrocities go unchecked for so long because their ardent admiration of communism kept that regime in power, at least in an indirect sense, by forcing the West to debate the merits of this flawed ideology. There should have been no debate. We should have wiped communism from the face of the earth back in 1917, and definitely should have done so at the end of World War II.  <br /> <br />A final note on the structure of \\"Koba the Dread.\\" Amis writes in a sort of roundabout way about his topic--I'm almost tempted to say he uses stream of consciousness--moving from one point to another almost by whim. In any other author's hands this would make a book like this one unreadable, but here it works. Perhaps it's the author's way of trying to create an alternate reality in tribute to his subject? Whatever the case, the very pretentiousness I took issue with in the personal sections of the book works wonders when dealing with the hypocrites of communist Russia circa 1917-1954. The wit on display here is scathing, eminently quotable, and appropriate for a topic in which language often fails to convey the full depths of terror experienced by the actors involved. I recommend \\"Koba the Dread,\\" and I also recommend moving on to Conquest, Solzhenitsyn, and other scholars of Soviet atrocities immediately after finishing this book.      <br />	2005-07-19
162593:US	52012289	RA695BAVPC1N4	1413764908	696675152	A Broken Charity: The Rise and Fall of the Jewish Educational Center	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Look before you donate	In recent years we've started to see the revival of a debate concerning charitable giving. One side advocates staying the present course in which government uses tax dollars to fund a plethora of welfare services for the needy. The other side wants to return to the old days--meaning pre-New Deal days--in which religious organizations solicited monies from wealthy patrons in order to provide a wide range of services aimed at lifting people out of poverty. Government gives so much away in so-called entitlements that we often forget that religious charities still exist today, albeit in a much smaller capacity than the ones operating back in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. I personally would rather see private organizations taking over the poverty racket because government has a vested interest in keeping poor people poor. That's a controversial statement, no doubt, but one whose veracity finds endless confirmation in the statistics kept by bean counters in both the private and public sector. Once you've dipped into the federal feed trough, it's quite difficult to extract yourself. There's simply no motivation to improve your condition once the government checks start showing up in the mail. That's not to say that private charities are perfect, however.<br /><br />Jack E. George's \\"A Broken Charity: The Rise and Fall of the Jewish Educational Center\\" provides an insider's account of how a private charity can fall prey to the very factors that mark big government poverty programs. Arrogance, corruption, no oversight, and obfuscation--the same problems that plague federal services can torpedo a private charity. George was an administrator of several of the Jewish Educational Center's (JEC) programs in California back in the 1990s when trouble struck in the form of an IRS inquiry. The book begins with this troubling investigation, and for the next hundred or so pages George presents background on the organization and the problems that arose after the IRS started their query. Started by Rabbi Bentzion Pil and his wife Mattie, the JEC sought to help recently immigrated Russian Jews find a place in the hectic American society. They ran a school for children, a summer camp type program, a synagogue with regular services, and a host of other minor initiatives aimed at integrating the foreigners. The Rabbi funded these programs by running a profitable business in which donated cars were resold to needy families. This money ostensibly funded the various programs. Or so Rabbi Pil and his wife claimed.<br /><br />Everything fell to pieces after a warehouse fire destroyed one of the car lots associated with the charity. California authorities jumped into the fray, filing charges claiming the JEC misappropriated funds from the car sales. They charged that Rabbi Pil and his wife spent thousands of dollars earmarked for the charity on their own son's bar mitzvah. Moreover, the house owned by the Rabbi came into his possession in a most suspicious manner. These problems exacerbated the difficulties faced by George, the other employees of the JEC, and the various programs. Key personnel suddenly quit or resigned, replaced by colorful people with questionable backgrounds. An old civil rights warhorse by the name of Carol Ruth Silver was brought in to manage the JEC's public reputation. An accountant, Mamie Tang, arrived on the scene to handle the money, money that George discovered was increasingly scarce or would suddenly pop up out of nowhere. The author began to ask serious questions about the true motives of the people running the JEC. Oddly, he stayed with the organization long after Pil and his minions declared bankruptcy and founded a different charity that would soon engage in the same problematic behaviors that sank the original JEC. \\"A Broken Charity\\" is a disturbing account of financial skullduggery taken to the nth degree.<br /><br />What you see is what you get with \\"A Broken Charity.\\" George walks the reader through everyupsetting aspect of a charity run by criminals without ever coming out and labeling them as con artists, unfortunately. That's one of the problems I had with the book. On nearly every page of the narrative, Jack George expresses in no uncertain terms his concerns with the unfolding shenanigans committed by the Pils, Carol Ruth Silver, and Mamie Tang (who faced charges for an unrelated pyramid scheme involving millions of dollars). Yet the author stayed with the JEC long after most people of average intelligence would have ran for the door. Even his own bout with financial hardship, caused in no small part by the failure of the Pils to give this guy his paycheck, didn't send him into the streets looking for a job. Why? I started thinking of words like \\"dunderhead\\" and \\"dupe\\" to describe George before realizing something important. Most honest people, especially someone involved in a charity, would probably rationalize these sorts of problems instead of running out on the organization. He still should have left shortly after the IRS began investigating, in my opinion, but I think I understand why he stayed on. He just didn't want to believe anything was wrong.<br /><br />Another point I'd like to make about this book deals with the shady way the Pils tried to cover up their wrongdoing. Instead of closing the doors immediately and limiting the damage, these schmucks hired Carol Silver to employ the most scurrilous attempts at damage control I've seen outside of Washington, D.C. She routinely used the kids in the programs to try and shame the judicial system into dropping the charges, and claimed that \\"religious persecution\\" was behind the government's actions to close down the JEC. Neither of these assertions possessed any validity, but that didn't stop the Pils from shamelessly using them to escape prosecution. I've always been suspicious of anyone who tries to get what they want by wailing about \\"the children.\\" Now I know why. Highly instructive, this book called \\"A Broken Charity,\\" and highly upsetting. Donate at your own risk.h every upsetting aspect of a charity run by criminals without ever coming out and labeling them as con artists, unfortunately. That's one of the problems I had with the book. On nearly every page of the narrative, Jack George expresses in no uncertain terms his concerns with the unfolding shenanigans committed by the Pils, Carol Ruth Silver, and Mamie Tang (who faced charges for an unrelated pyramid scheme involving millions of dollars). Yet the author stayed with the JEC long after most people of average intelligence would have ran for the door. Even his own bout with financial hardship, caused in no small part by the failure of the Pils to give this guy his paycheck, didn't send him into the streets looking for a job. Why? I started thinking of words like \\"dunderhead\\" and \\"dupe\\" to describe George before realizing something important. Most honest people, especially someone involved in a charity, would probably rationalize these sorts of problems instead of running out on the organization. He still should have left shortly after the IRS began investigating, in my opinion, but I think I understand why he stayed on. He just didn't want to believe anything was wrong. <br /> <br />Another point I'd like to make about this book deals with the shady way the Pils tried to cover up their wrongdoing. Instead of closing the doors immediately and limiting the damage, these schmucks hired Carol Silver to employ the most scurrilous attempts at damage control I've seen outside of Washington, D.C. She routinely used the kids in the programs to try and shame the judicial system into dropping the charges, and claimed that \\"religious persecution\\" was behind the government's actions to close down the JEC. Neither of these assertions possessed any validity, but that didn't stop the Pils from shamelessly using them to escape prosecution. I've always been suspicious of anyone who tries to get what they want by wailing about \\"the children.\\" Now I know why. Highly instructive, this bookcalled \\"A Broken Charity,\\" and highly upsetting. Donate at your own risk.     <br />	2005-07-17
174671:US	52012289	RVEMVKLPGJPMW	1594030561	710015929	Mexifornia : A State of a Becoming	Books	5	194	213	N	N	Terrifying	I've never lived in California, let alone visited the state for any period of time, and after reading Victor Davis Hanson's \\"Mexifornia: A State of Becoming,\\" I wondered how anyone in their right mind would want to go anywhere near there. Sure, if you're a wealthy celebrity who earns millions making movies in Hollywood, California probably isn't that bad of a place. If you're a wealthy executive with one of the Silicon Valley firms, California is likely just dandy. In other words, if you've got enough money to live in a heavily fortified compound, only having to drive into the city in a motorcade with enough security to wage war against a small country, California is great. Regrettably, the other 99% of the population doesn't have it so good. They have to contend with a crime rate that staggers the imagination, sky-high property values, and millions of illegal aliens largely responsible for most of the state's financial woes. California taxpayers spend billions of dollars a year to warehouse millions of poor immigrants. Victor Hanson, a lifelong native, examines the illegal alien problem in a way few other authors can manage. He's spent his entire life seeing the problem up close and personal, and it's a problem of earth shattering dimensions.<br /><br />Hanson expresses little hostility for Mexicans or Mexican-Americans. He grew up in a small farming town where most of his friends and neighbors were--and still are--Mexican immigrants. The author understands that most Mexicans who went through the assimilation process in the 1950s and 1960s are industrious, proud citizens who went on to contribute much to American society. He also recognizes that many of the illegal aliens who arrive in California today are industrious individuals who likely would go on to become proud citizens with much to offer their adopted country. Understanding Hanson's background and views of Mexicans should immediately banish the label of \\"racist\\" to the garbage bin. He's definitely not a supremacist or a separatist. He is, however, gravely concerned with the present state of federal immigration policy and how both the political right and left view the millions of poor illegals flowing into the country. According to Hanson, the pro-business right sees opposition to undocumented immigrants as nativist and isolationist, and the left views critics of the immigration imbroglio in similar terms, labeling anyone who dares support a tighter border a racist and a hater. Hanson rejects both of these arguments as cynical emanations from a small cadre of special interests that have a lot to gain from exploiting the poor Mexicans entering this country.<br /><br />And exploitation it is, an ugly exploitation that should shame any decent American. Hanson shows us how ugly as he outlines the typical illegal immigrant's experiences in the United States. The average Mexican who enters this country can expect a bleak future. Paid under the counter by business owners to pick fruit, mow lawns, and do other jobs American citizens disdain, the immigrant works long hours for little money. Worse, he's tossed aside when age and years of rough work reduces his body to a knot of aches and pains. The closeness of his homeland inhibits assimilation here, as do the race hustlers in the universities and government. These fools, mostly Chicano studies professors but also bureaucrats and busybodies, work night and day trying to convince illegal aliens that America is an evil, racist country that wants to strip away every vestige of Mexican culture from those streaming over the border. The old assimilationist idea, that those coming to America recognize the greatness of this country and will work hard to learn its habits and customs, never takes root in the new immigrants. Instead, a sense of entitlement to government subsidies and special favors unavailable to citizens becomes the new reality.<br /><br />Special scholarships to the state universities, housing, welfare checks, free healthcare--these special favors and many more might help keep the immigrant relatively comfortable during their stay in the United States, but these benefits also serve to keep the immigrant insulated from currents that could bring them into citizenship. Why apply for that status in the United States when you get all this neat stuff for free? With all of this free money floating around, you would think Mexican immigrants are well off. You'd be wrong. Hanson rightfully points out that very few Hispanics, regardless of legal status, graduate from high school. Even fewer earn a degree in college. Why? Because there is no impetus to succeed, no external force that tells these people that they must conform to American expectations let alone try to earn citizenship. When Hanson attended grade school back in the 1950s and 1960s, he tells us, his teachers pushed an unabashedly pro-American agenda in nearly every class. And it wasn't just Mexicans under the gun, but Hanson himself when he touted his Swedish ancestry during a show and tell presentation. In the old days teachers, the media, and our institutions pushed newcomers to accept their new country and change their behavior accordingly. No more.<br /><br />We better go back to a pro-assimilationist culture, argues Hanson, or we're all in grave trouble. If we refuse to deal with this problem, the author claims, California will turn into \\"Mexifornia,\\" a country that is neither Mexico nor California but a nation that exhibits the worst of both cultures. Considering social movements in California often foreshadow trends in the rest of the country, the rest of our states will become Mexifornias if something isn't done to stymie the flow of illegals and prevent the continued exploitation of generation after generation of those immigrants. Hanson's book is must reading for anyone concerned about the reckless immigration policies foisted upon us by the government. We need to change our border policy for ourselves and for those people who come here seeking a better life.ee healthcare--these special favors and many more might help keep the immigrant relatively comfortable during their stay in the United States, but these benefits also serve to keep the immigrant insulated from currents that could bring them into citizenship. Why apply for that status in the United States when you get all this neat stuff for free? With all of this free money floating around, you would think Mexican immigrants are well off. You'd be wrong. Hanson rightfully points out that very few Hispanics, regardless of legal status, graduate from high school. Even fewer earn a degree in college. Why? Because there is no impetus to succeed, no external force that tells these people that they must conform to American expectations let alone try to earn citizenship. When Hanson attended grade school back in the 1950s and 1960s, he tells us, his teachers pushed an unabashedly pro-American agenda in nearly every class. And it wasn't just Mexicans under the gun, but Hanson himself when he touted his Swedish ancestry during a show and tell presentation. In the old days teachers, the media, and our institutions pushed newcomers to accept their new country and change their behavior accordingly. No more. <br /> <br />We better go back to a pro-assimilationist culture, argues Hanson, or we're all in grave trouble. If we refuse to deal with this problem, the author claims, California will turn into \\"Mexifornia,\\" a country that is neither Mexico nor California but a nation that exhibits the worst of both cultures. Considering social movements in California often foreshadow trends in the rest of the country, the rest of our states will become Mexifornias if something isn't done to stymie the flow of illegals and prevent the continued exploitation of generation after generation of those immigrants. Hanson's book is must reading for anyone concerned about the reckless immigration policies foisted upon us by the government. We need to change our border policy for ourselves and forthose people who come here seeking a better life.  <br />	2005-07-08
191145:US	52012289	R21R65KQTJSBMC	0895260190	388961491	South Park Conservatives: The Revolt Against Liberal Media Bias	Books	5	10	19	N	N	Stellar survey of conservative media	It's surprising that a book like \\"South Park Conservatives\\" hasn't come along sooner. Author Brian C. Anderson, a writer for the conservative New York City publication \\"City Journal,\\" decided to do something no one else has done. Write a book about liberal media bias? No. Pen an attack on the lunatic left's ridiculous anti-war posturing? No again. Rant and rave about illegal immigration? Nope, although we can never have enough books on that pressing topic. Maybe he finally got around to writing a book about the bankruptcy of liberal ideas? Again, he did not. What Brian Anderson has given us, bless his soul, is a sort of survey introduction to the conservative media. Conservative media? I can hear the Kerry/Clinton clowns exulting at that statement. Finally! Someone produced a book outlining the nefarious machinations of far right-wing ideologues in the mainstream press. Well, if you think conservatives control all forms of media in the United States, prepare for disappointment. Anderson readily accepts that the old media is hopelessly left-wing. This book is an introduction to the conservative media revolt that aims to upset the dogma foisted upon the public by the likes of the network news programs, Hollywood, and most big newspapers and magazines.<br /><br />What an exciting book! The author briefly summarizes the lefty media bias in his first chapter, citing poll after poll conducted in newsrooms around the country that prove most journalists lean far to the left. He mentions studies that revealed an enormous bias in the reporting of the 2004 presidential election, studies that prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that John Kerry received far more favorable attention from the network hacks than President Bush. Anderson refers to the infamous Mark Halperin memo in which this high up at ABC News ordered his troops to dance the soft shoe around Prince Kerry. Then there's Hollyweird and their vicious attacks on conservatives and conservative values. The hatred for businessmen and corporations expressed by Tinseltown is only one of a host of countercultural themes safely ensconced in television programs and movies. None of this information is shocking or, frankly, that original. It's easy to go out and find literally hundreds of informative tomes that cover the same ground in greater depth. In fact, Anderson seems to cite most of these works in this introductory chapter. His primary purpose in succinctly outlining these stories and numbers is to set up the rest of his book, namely the incredible rise of conservative media systems.<br /><br />Talk radio, comedians, the blogosphere, publishing houses, FOX News, and campus conservative groups--these are the forms through which the revolt against The Man is taking place. And when I refer to \\"The Man,\\" I'm not talking about some old fuddy-duddy in a severe suit talking down to 1950s school kids. I'm talking about folks like Rob Reiner, the Clintons, Dan Rather, and any number of other left-kooks whose touchy-feely dogmas are not only out of touch with present realities but also insufferable in their cloyingly righteous insistence. Anderson argues that the animated show \\"South Park,\\" which regularly skewers the political left, stands as an excellent example of how certain conservative ideas are now finding a wide audience. \\"South Park,\\" however, came along much later and isn't solely dedicated to attacking the left. According to the author, the rise of conservative media began with talk radio in the 1990s and picked up speed with the introduction of Internet blogging after September 11, 2001. Soon conservative voices seemed to fill the public sphere as more publishing houses released right-wing books, Dennis Miller and Colin Quinn began poking fun at liberals, and an explosion of campus organizations dedicated to challenging the left at the university arrived on the scene. \\"South Park Conservatives\\" offers copious evidence that we are indeed in the midst of a resurgent right.<br /><br />Ifind it difficult to criticize any aspect of the book. As a survey of conservative media, it does an excellent job of summarizing the various outlets through which citizens long without a voice can now disseminate their views. I also think Anderson does a tremendous job regarding September 11, 2001 in that he doesn't give that horrific day all of the credit for the conservative resurgence. It's easy to write off Bush and the rise of the right as a temporary phenomenon directly related to Al-Qaeda's cowardly assault, but to do so is to miss the point. Talk radio and Internet blogging existed before the attacks, and conservative publishing houses were on the rise as well. At most, 9/11 acted as a coagulant for these disparate voices seeking an audience. In other words, the left-wingers in this country better get used to the fact that the right isn't going to fade back into the woodwork in a few years. If recent trends are any indication, the vast majority of America's youth today is conservative and will become only more conservative in the following decades. How could this have happened? As the book argues, these kids saw up close and personal how counterculture ideas about divorce and general permissiveness caused great harm to them and their friends.<br /><br />To think we might one day look back on Brad Anderson's book and say it was the first to tie the threads together, to document how the American right started--it's not quite there yet as the book makes abundantly clear--its climb back to preeminence. It's a different right-wing than the ideology embraced by our ancestors, to be sure, but it's at heart a conservatism most of us will welcome with open arms. It's a conservatism that refuses to accept the victimization culture, a conservatism that refuses to appease terrorist organizations, a conservatism that is unafraid to call special handouts to particular groups out and out racism. Goodbye, liberal bias. We didn't care for you when you were here, and we won't lament your passing from the public sphere.br />I find it difficult to criticize any aspect of the book. As a survey of conservative media, it does an excellent job of summarizing the various outlets through which citizens long without a voice can now disseminate their views. I also think Anderson does a tremendous job regarding September 11, 2001 in that he doesn't give that horrific day all of the credit for the conservative resurgence. It's easy to write off Bush and the rise of the right as a temporary phenomenon directly related to Al-Qaeda's cowardly assault, but to do so is to miss the point. Talk radio and Internet blogging existed before the attacks, and conservative publishing houses were on the rise as well. At most, 9/11 acted as a coagulant for these disparate voices seeking an audience. In other words, the left-wingers in this country better get used to the fact that the right isn't going to fade back into the woodwork in a few years. If recent trends are any indication, the vast majority of America's youth today is conservative and will become only more conservative in the following decades. How could this have happened? As the book argues, these kids saw up close and personal how counterculture ideas about divorce and general permissiveness caused great harm to them and their friends. <br /> <br />To think we might one day look back on Brad Anderson's book and say it was the first to tie the threads together, to document how the American right started--it's not quite there yet as the book makes abundantly clear--its climb back to preeminence. It's a different right-wing than the ideology embraced by our ancestors, to be sure, but it's at heart a conservatism most of us will welcome with open arms. It's a conservatism that refuses to accept the victimization culture, a conservatism that refuses to appease terrorist organizations, a conservatism that is unafraid to call special handouts to particular groups out and out racism. Goodbye, liberal bias. We didn't care for you when you were here, and we won't lament your passing from the public sphere.    <br />	2005-06-26
193018:US	52012289	RMF88NENB7AMR	1593301596	816341345	The Empire Menaced: The Unauthorized Autobiography of Dearth Nadir	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Dearth Nadir tells us his story	I remember seeing a clever spoof of the original \\"Star Wars\\" years ago, a short film by the name of \\"Hardware Wars.\\" It was hilarious, especially the line where the Obi-Wan Kenobi character (called Augie Ben Doggie here) suddenly grabs his head and shrieks in pain. Fluke Starbucker (re: Luke Skywalker) asks him, \\"Jeepers! What is it, Augie Ben Doggie? Did you feel a great disturbance in the Force, as if millions of voices cried out in terror and were suddenly silenced?\\" Doggie answers rather blithely, \\"No, just a little headache.\\" Funny! Up until a few days ago, I thought this was the only product poking fun at Lucas's film franchise. After reading \\"The Empire Menaced,\\" I realize there are other wits out there taking well-deserved potshots at \\"Star Wars.\\" The difference between this book and \\"Hardware Wars\\" is one of scope--the film parody, made in 1977, had only Episode IV to pick apart--and sophistication. Whereas \\"Hardware Wars\\" aimed for broad comedy, \\"The Empire Menaced\\" uses OED inspired vocabulary to take us inside the head of the great Darth Vader. According to this \\"autobiography,\\" the man in black with the huge helmet isn't nearly as ominous as Lucas would have us believe.<br /><br />Vader is, in fact, quite the wiseacre with a boatload of all too human problems. The book opens with Dearth Nadir (Darth's real name is apparently Anykind Whystalker) waxing philosophic while riding about the galaxy on the Dearth Star. His life stinks thanks to his overbearing boss, the Emperor, and his memories of childhood aren't that great either. Nadir gives us an inside view of his tumultuous upbringing, including his first racy encounter with a young Padthai Mandala, the questionable relationship between his mother Shmear and the knight Chi-Gong, his years at the academy learning the ancient secrets of the Jeteye, and the embarrassing truth concerning the proclivities of his mentor Kobe-San. Nadir's--or Whystalker's if you prefer--early life seems marked by a general cluelessness that the adult Dearth wants to rectify. His audience is us, those of us on Earth, and is possible thanks to an action he took years before in his own galaxy. Threatened with extermination, Nadir used advanced technology to send his consciousness zooming across time and space. Guess where he ended up? Caught here in an early version of our Internet, where he has remained since. He lives as a series of cranky packets zipping about looking at pages on the World Wide Web.<br /><br />According to Dearth, we know all about him and his experiences because he projected images from his life to a young George Lucas. Unfortunately, the future director didn't receive the message clearly, didn't get the names of the characters right nor did he properly convey the reality of that galaxy \\"far, far, away.\\" Nadir's world is very much like our own, full of people burdened with insecurities and concerns simply trying to get through life. The characters in the book spend most of their time slogging through unpleasant circumstances--The Emperor, for example, conducts lengthy seminars on the nature of evil in order to run a more efficient operation, seminars mandatory for all underlings. And just like humans on our planet, the characters populating Dearth's universe must contend with the age-old allure of the flesh. Knowing this, it should come as little surprise to understand exactly how Anykind turned into the ominous Dearth Nadir. Let's just say the reasons were a little more pedestrian than a conversion to some horrific \\"Dark Side of the Force.\\" Nadir comes off looking not ominous but rather a bumbling fool with a wicked self-deprecating sense of humor.<br /><br />I liked Sean Miller's take on the \\"Stars Wars\\" mythos, and I would have liked it more if I had seen the last three films. I quit watching after \\"Return of the Jedi,\\" so the importance of many of the characters in the book escaped me. I know a bit about Episode I, enough to sort of follow along in the beginning ofthe book, but I quickly tried to move past incidents that obviously referred to specific movies in order to just enjoy the political barbs, wisecracking comments, and the ornate language. That latter point is an important one as \\"The Empire Menaced\\" reads more like a treatment of \\"Star Wars\\" written by David Foster Wallace than your typical movie geeks. Words like \\"alluvia,\\" \\"ossicles,\\" and \\"patois\\" pop up all over the place. Fairly obscure references abound, references to Telemachus, for example, or Cassandra and Electra. Miller even gives an Ebonics speaking gangsta in the form of Jug Jug. Many was the time I wondered if I should laugh or reach for a dictionary.ng of the book, but I quickly tried to move past incidents that obviously referred to specific movies in order to just enjoy the political barbs, wisecracking comments, and the ornate language. That latter point is an important one as \\"The Empire Menaced\\" reads more like a treatment of \\"Star Wars\\" written by David Foster Wallace than your typical movie geeks. Words like \\"alluvia,\\" \\"ossicles,\\" and \\"patois\\" pop up all over the place. Fairly obscure references abound, references to Telemachus, for example, or Cassandra and Electra. Miller even gives an Ebonics speaking gangsta in the form of Jug Jug. Many was the time I wondered if I should laugh or reach for a dictionary.    <br /> <br /> <br />  <br />	2005-06-24
193567:US	52012289	R3K1G476UETSA2	0393311147	583166974	Sacred Hunger	Books	5	115	117	N	N	Unforgettable	When I had the opportunity to read Barry Unsworth's \\"Sacred Hunger,\\" I jumped at the chance, and not because this author won the Booker Prize. I didn't know a thing about him, had never heard of him, and couldn't have cared if he had won any prize related to writing. All I knew was that I could receive credit for a directed readings class at my university for reading the novel. The topic I was working on at the time concerned Atlantic history, a hot area of research for historians, and most of the books I read up to this point were lengthy, scholarly works full of footnotes and massive bibliographies. So when my professor suggested the idea of a novel covering many of the same themes, I readily accepted. Who wouldn't take a break from the tedium of academia? I quickly discovered that Unsworth's book involved a bit of work to get through. This novel isn't a mass-market paperback type read, not by a long shot. It's an incredibly well researched, multilayered piece of historical fiction that manages to incorporate nearly every aspect of the slave trade while maintaining a level of prose that would make Charles Dickens stand up and applaud.<br /><br />\\"Sacred Hunger\\" follows many characters throughout its 600 plus pages, from lowly sailors to venture capitalists to slaves to dozens of other major and minor characters. The overarching storyline involves one William Kemp, a wealthy English cotton merchant currently down on his luck, and his effort to reap a quick profit from the slave trade circa 1750. He commissions the building of a vessel for just such a purpose, hires a bellicose tar by the name of Saul Thurso to helm the ship, and stakes his entire fortune on its success. He even enlists his nephew Matthew Paris, a physician who spent time in prison for challenging church dogma, to serve as the ship's doctor. The book flip flops back and forth from the travails of the slave voyage to the adventures of William's son Erasmus, a dour young capitalist whose plans revolve around marrying the daughter of a wealthy businessman and expanding his own family's holdings once his father passes on. Erasmus's plans come to naught when the slave ship disappears somewhere in the Caribbean, leading to a series of events that take many years to unravel. It takes that long to ascertain that Thurso's ship didn't just disappear into thin air, but was hijacked through a mutiny involving slaves, shipmates, and Matthew Paris.<br /><br />Unsworth spares no effort to convey to the reader a sense of actually witnessing the slave trade up close and personal. We learn of the vile techniques used to impress hapless sailors into maritime service through the stories of unfortunate wretches such as Billy Blair and the fiddle player Michael Sullivan. The book shows us the utter brutality inflicted by Thurso and his subordinates on both slaves and the crew. We sit in open-mouthed wonder as we witness how the captains of these ships bartered with African kings over their \\"cargo.\\" We see the ravages of disease on both slavers and slaves alike. And we quickly understand how the sale of human beings degrades everyone involved, from the merchants to the government to the Africans. The author even takes time out of his busy schedule to show how the English drove a wedge between Indian tribes in their quest to acquire territory in North America. Every negative aspect of Atlantic history--the class issues, slavery, territorial ambition, unrestricted trade, greed, murder, and torture--appear in this book in intricate and often nauseating detail. Don't come into this book expecting a joyful experience. The themes in \\"Sacred Hunger\\" are serious business, and Unsworth treats them as such.<br /><br />Without a doubt, the prose work is the best element of the book. Sentences spark and pop off the page as Unsworth effortlessly captures the tones and rhythms of eighteenth century speech. Whether he's writing dialogue that comes out of the mouths of upper class English elites orthe singsong slang of the sailors, the effect is always totally believable. Heck, he even pulls off Pidgin English in the latter part of the book! So excellent is the prose that it's easy to overlook the deep thematic structures of the story. Don't forget that you're reading a narrative that attempts to examine the struggle between unfettered capitalism on the one hand and utopian socialism on the other. A deep pessimism about free markets seems to run throughout the book, which I don't necessarily agree with, but at the same time Unsworth doesn't reject that form of social organization entirely. I don't want to spoil the conclusion for you, but it's obvious at the end that the author recognizes that socialism isn't all its cracked up to be either. No matter what your position is regarding political organization, this book will definitely make you challenge your dearly held convictions. If you seek a more challenging theme than the rather obvious capitalism/socialism duality, try to identify each character's \\"sacred hunger.\\"<br /><br />Speaking of the conclusion (which I still won't spoil), did anyone else wonder about the character's sudden questioning of everything he held dear up to that point? I know I did. An individual this single-minded and...well...evil most likely wouldn't possess the mental faculties necessary to examine his motivations. I'll grant that this ending helped take some of the gruesome edges off the story, and it is poignant in its own way, but it just doesn't make much sense. Perhaps Unsworth wanted to leave his readers with a glimmer of hope that exploitation could give way to compassion and introspection. Whatever the case, pick up this book when you get a chance and follow the brass button. You won't be disappointed.the sailors, the effect is always totally believable. Heck, he even pulls off Pidgin English in the latter part of the book! So excellent is the prose that it's easy to overlook the deep thematic structures of the story. Don't forget that you're reading a narrative that attempts to examine the struggle between unfettered capitalism on the one hand and utopian socialism on the other. A deep pessimism about free markets seems to run throughout the book, which I don't necessarily agree with, but at the same time Unsworth doesn't reject that form of social organization entirely. I don't want to spoil the conclusion for you, but it's obvious at the end that the author recognizes that socialism isn't all its cracked up to be either. No matter what your position is regarding political organization, this book will definitely make you challenge your dearly held convictions. If you seek a more challenging theme than the rather obvious capitalism/socialism duality, try to identify each character's \\"sacred hunger.\\"    Speaking of the conclusion (which I still won't spoil), did anyone else wonder about the character's sudden questioning of everything he held dear up to that point? I know I did. An individual this single-minded and...well...evil most likely wouldn't possess the mental faculties necessary to examine his motivations. I'll grant that this ending helped take some of the gruesome edges off the story, and it is poignant in its own way, but it just doesn't make much sense. Perhaps Unsworth wanted to leave his readers with a glimmer of hope that exploitation could give way to compassion and introspection. Whatever the case, pick up this book when you get a chance and follow the brass button. You won't be disappointed.	2005-06-23
195390:US	52012289	R2UHDHNWT4A2M2	0971880107	298059673	Wild Animus: A Novel	Books	1	13	20	N	N	Rank, slimy garbage	When will the lovefest that surrounds the 1960s end? When will we be free of the mind-numbing dreck imposed upon us by refugees from this time? Everyone knows, at least those of us with more than a single brain cell left in our heads, that the Flower Power era died a painful death decades ago. It's over, folks. Forever. You failed. There's no reason to continue pushing your destructive ideas on new generations of Americans. Unfortunately, if Rich Shapero's novel \\"Wild Animus\\" is any indication, some hardheads from the era of peace and love just haven't absorbed their ignominious defeat yet. Shapero, who apparently took the brown blotter at Woodstock, seems oblivious to the fact that the ideas contained within these pages seem as alien to most Americans born after 1980 as break dancing would appear to a nineteenth century intellectual. Not only is the ideology of \\"Wild Animus\\" idiotic, it's destructive to the mind and body as well. I fervently pray that this book is the only evidence of the 1960s mentality to survive two to three hundred years from now. That way, historians of the future will come away with the proper view of this bankrupt era in American history.<br /><br />\\"How far would you go to find yourself?\\" asks the back cover of Wild Animus. My answer is, \\"Not this far.\\" The story opens by introducing us to a malcontent named Sam Altman, a college student at the University of California, Berkeley (what a surprise), caught in the midst of yet another mindless student protest demonstration. The only purpose of this introductory material is to establish the time frame and bring Sam Altman and a pretty young girl named Lindy together. In no time at all the two move in together, Sam spurns graduate school, and both drop all of their friends. Since Altman makes a living as a drug dealer, he's always got a lot of blotter with which to waste the day. The first sections of the book treat us to pages and pages of brain numbing descriptions of Sammy and Lindy tripping the light fantastic. At some point in the narrative, Sam gets it into his head that he's a nature nut. He also comes to believe that he is a ram named Ransom. Yes, a ram. Big shaggy creature, horns, hooves, the whole ball of wax. A few years after the Berkeley meeting, Altman and Lindy live in the Pacific Northwest (again, what a surprise) where the girl slaves away in minimum wage jobs so her boyfriend can jet up to Alaska and muck around in the wilderness. As a ram now named Ransom. Don't look at me; I didn't write this mess.<br /><br />Fulfilling one's ram instincts takes a lot out of a person. It's difficult in the extreme to hold down any sort of steady work because, let's face it, a shaggy creature with horns and hooves just doesn't leave a good impression on co-workers and customers. No, it's far better to roam around Alaska running from wolves and trying to survive the cold climate than it is raising a family, working, or doing anything that carries the faintest association with responsibility. And if you can get your verbally abused girlfriend to foot the bills, so much the better. Sam is in pursuit of something to do with a mountain; something that his deluded, drug-addled mind thinks will free his \\"molten\\" heart, but it's nothing a few gallons of Thorazine and a straight jacket couldn't cure. I'm not going to say much more except that most of the book details Sam's increasingly dangerous excursion through Alaska while girlfriend Lindy tries to figure out how to help him. Or something along those lines. Whatever. \\"Wild Animus\\" is a disaster in every way, shape, and form. If you feel the need to read a copy of this atrocity, you can always pick up a used copy for a PENNY, a sure sign of the true value of this \\"novel.\\" Bleeecccch!<br /><br />I've heard of \\"Tune in, turn on, and drop out\\" before, but Shapero forgot to drop back in for a reality check. Where to start in deconstructing this pap? Perhaps the writing style is the worst element of the book. Another reviewer referred to Shapero's approach as \\"turgid,\\" and I couldn't agree more. A vast majority of the words in this book form sentences that utterly reek of a pomposity one would find in a story written by a would be literature snob. Unnecessary verbiage clutters the landscape, making each paragraph a nearly insurmountable obstacle. And all of this useless language papers over a plot that is simply hollow at the core. A guy goes nuts off of acid, abuses his girlfriend, and wanders around in the woods? Since when does this nonsense pass for high literature? But even as I write these scathing words, I wonder about Shapero's true purpose. A part of me suspects \\"Wild Animus\\" is a vicious attack on 1960s values, perhaps I want to see the book this way, but I can find no evidence to prove conclusively this opinion. I'm afraid that Shapero is quite serious with the ideas advanced in his novel, which makes this an even sadder read.<br /><br />Believe me, I don't have a problem with anyone who wants to simplify their life by chucking the job, the car, and the trappings of urban existence in order to head out into nature. That's their decision. But to try and pass off a pathetic drug user who is obviously insane as a rugged individualist nature lover worthy of our deepest respect is too much for this reader to swallow. And yes, I received a free copy of this book like millions of other readers. I'm glad I paid nothing to read this pabulum, and I express my deepest condolences to anyone unfortunate enough to have shelled out hard earned green for a copy.hapero's approach as \\"turgid,\\" and I couldn't agree more. A vast majority of the words in this book form sentences that utterly reek of a pomposity one would find in a story written by a would be literature snob. Unnecessary verbiage clutters the landscape, making each paragraph a nearly insurmountable obstacle. And all of this useless language papers over a plot that is simply hollow at the core. A guy goes nuts off of acid, abuses his girlfriend, and wanders around in the woods? Since when does this nonsense pass for high literature? But even as I write these scathing words, I wonder about Shapero's true purpose. A part of me suspects \\"Wild Animus\\" is a vicious attack on 1960s values, perhaps I want to see the book this way, but I can find no evidence to prove conclusively this opinion. I'm afraid that Shapero is quite serious with the ideas advanced in his novel, which makes this an even sadder read.     Believe me, I don't have a problem with anyone who wants to simplify their life by chucking the job, the car, and the trappings of urban existence in order to head out into nature. That's their decision. But to try and pass off a pathetic drug user who is obviously insane as a rugged individualist nature lover worthy of our deepest respect is too much for this reader to swallow. And yes, I received a free copy of this book like millions of other readers. I'm glad I paid nothing to read this pabulum, and I express my deepest condolences to anyone unfortunate enough to have shelled out hard earned green for a copy.	2005-06-22
196837:US	52012289	ROIB1636XER3G	0974670138	52765119	Their Lives: The Women Targeted by the Clinton Machine	Books	5	98	116	N	N	"Just because I could"	Monica Lewinsky. Juanita Broaddrick. Paula Jones. Kathleen Willey. Gennifer Flowers. These are just a few of the names instantly recognizable to anyone who lived through the indignities of the Clinton years. These women, of course, represent the most notable marital indiscretions committed by our esteemed forty-second president of the United States, but there are many, many other names. Like Elizabeth Ward Gracen and Sally Perdue, two other women closely examined in Candice Jackson's devastating book \\"Their Lives: The Women Targeted by the Clinton Machine.\\" Forget about the financial wheeling and dealing behind the Whitewater fiasco. Forget about Hillary Clinton's jackpot in the cattle market. Forget about the bizarre Vince Foster imbroglio. You may even forget about Travelgate, Filegate, and the billion other scandals that plagued the Clinton regime from the moment these two walked through the White House's front door to the moment they stole anything they could get their hands on when leaving in January 2001. The scandalous behavior documented in this book is far worse. Not that these other issues don't matter. They do. But to truly understand the moral vacuity of Clinton and his wife, you've got to look at how they treated women. And here it is.<br /><br />Jackson, an economics major at Stanford and a Pepperdine law graduate, wrote this book for several reasons. One, she experienced a situation not unlike that faced by Juanita Broaddrick's encounter with then Arkansas Attorney General Bill Clinton in a Little Rock hotel room in 1978. Two, the author wanted to show how liberal ideology influenced and reinforced Slick Willie's already well developed misogyny. And three, the book convincingly argues that the American public, confronted with serial infidelity by Bill Clinton, ought to think long and hard about sending Hillary to the White House. This is a woman, contends the author, who enabled her husband's scurrilous behavior, a self-proclaimed feminist whose lust for power overshadowed the very real concerns she should have expressed about Bill's behavior. Through a methodical examination of these seven women's stories, Jackson pulls few punches in describing the breathtaking abuse of power engaged in by the Clinton administration. The dissembling is here all right, those public statements disavowing any knowledge of these claims churned out by the hacks in the White House, but we also learn of more ominous machinations. Threats delivered to women over the telephone, investigations into their backgrounds, \\"sudden\\" IRS audits, and even goons hired by Clinton's cronies showing up in person to intimidate the accusers.<br /><br />By far the most relevant sections of the book discuss how liberal ideology buttressed Clinton's shenanigans. Jackson is an admitted libertarian feminist--which means she supports extremely limited government, tolerance for other views, and the supreme sanctity of civil liberties--so it's not surprising that her political beliefs pop up quite frequently in the book. In fact, she often cites libertarian doctrine in order to pose a counterpoint to liberal cosmology. It's a good way to move into a critique of Clintonian depravity. For example, to a libertarian the individual is all-important, the fount of any nation and the unit from which all rights receive reinforcement. A liberal, on the other hand, believes that the group is the most important civic structure. Whether or not you fit naturally into a group is irrelevant to liberals; they aim all of their policies at groups and tend to ignore those who don't fit. Clinton thus could look at his conquests not as a violation of the group, in this case feminist women like NOW or other politically active bodies, but as single women entirely independent of these organizations. In other words, if they aren't associated with a group, their importance diminishes. They don't have to be treated in the same way. Scary, isn't it?<br /><br />Here's another example. Jackson writes that libertarians support the idea of small, limited government that should devote itself to defense of the nation and not much else. She then explains that liberals--and by extension liberal dogma--promotes the theory of a lumbering, all-powerful government insinuating itself into every aspect of our lives, always by claiming it's taking action because it knows best but always using political force to achieve goals. Nothing new there, right? But how does this apply to Clinton's sordid activities? Easy. In the case of Juanita Broaddrick, the future president believed that forcing a woman to submit to his whims was entirely acceptable. Not only is the point above relevant, i.e. he saw Broaddrick as an individual and not as a member of a politically powerful group, but he also saw himself as a moral liberal entitled to use force to impose his will on others. Perhaps it's a bit difficult to make sense out of what Candice Jackson is trying to say based upon this review since I'm lifting my examples out of chronological order, but the central idea is that certain unmistakably recognizable traits of liberalism enabled, rather than inhibited, Clinton's horrific behavior with women.<br /><br />We should stand up and applaud Candice Jackson's intelligence, wit, clarity, and even her bravery in writing such a charged book. She's certain to come under attack for her analysis, although the damage the media can inflict is much less than they were capable of ten years ago. I've read dozens of books about both Clintons, and this is by far one of the most insightful. It's incumbent on all of us, I think, to become more aware of what went on during the 1990s if we wish to keep Hillary Clinton out of the White House. I don't think she'll win thanks to the detritus she's accumulated over the years, but one never knows. If we can keep books like Candice Jackson's in front of the public, the chances of a repeat of the Clinton years should remain where they belong: near zero.le. Jackson writes that libertarians support the idea of small, limited government that should devote itself to defense of the nation and not much else. She then explains that liberals--and by extension liberal dogma--promotes the theory of a lumbering, all-powerful government insinuating itself into every aspect of our lives, always by claiming it's taking action because it knows best but always using political force to achieve goals. Nothing new there, right? But how does this apply to Clinton's sordid activities? Easy. In the case of Juanita Broaddrick, the future president believed that forcing a woman to submit to his whims was entirely acceptable. Not only is the point above relevant, i.e. he saw Broaddrick as an individual and not as a member of a politically powerful group, but he also saw himself as a moral liberal entitled to use force to impose his will on others. Perhaps it's a bit difficult to make sense out of what Candice Jackson is trying to say based upon this review since I'm lifting my examples out of chronological order, but the central idea is that certain unmistakably recognizable traits of liberalism enabled, rather than inhibited, Clinton's horrific behavior with women. <br /> <br />We should stand up and applaud Candice Jackson's intelligence, wit, clarity, and even her bravery in writing such a charged book. She's certain to come under attack for her analysis, although the damage the media can inflict is much less than they were capable of ten years ago. I've read dozens of books about both Clintons, and this is by far one of the most insightful. It's incumbent on all of us, I think, to become more aware of what went on during the 1990s if we wish to keep Hillary Clinton out of the White House. I don't think she'll win thanks to the detritus she's accumulated over the years, but one never knows. If we can keep books like Candice Jackson's in front of the public, the chances of a repeat of the Clinton years should remain where they belong: near zero.   <br /> <br />  <br />	2005-06-21
197879:US	52012289	R1YZQ6UIRIEW3M	0595270093	551261790	Blind Guides	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A good, solid read	With the election and reelection of President George W. Bush, it's become rather trendy to beat up on Christians. When one speaks of the followers of Jesus these days, one must lower one's voice an octave or two to convey properly the sinister aspects of this particular faith. After all, fundamentalist Christians are, according to most accounts in the mainstream media, taking over the government and ramming their theological dogmas down everyone's throat. It's gotten so bad as of late that federal law requires every citizen to attend church on Sundays, no one can purchase--let alone view--materials offensive to a nebulous conception of common decency, and every school must open and close each day with a lengthy prayer to the Almighty. What's that you say? These things haven't happened yet? According to Scott R. Stahlecker's \\"Blind Guides,\\" the fundamentalist Christian takeover is right around the corner. His novel takes place in the year 2013, a few years after religious conservatives seized control of the United States and instituted many of the censorship measures I mentioned above. People who find themselves out of step with the new America leave for places like Europe where, one presumes, organized religion isn't as deeply entrenched.<br /><br />One member of this new group of expatriates is Stace Manning, a talented photographer whose life took a turn for the worse when his university kicked him out of an exhibition for displaying risqu&eacute; pictures. Our protagonist immediately hit the road, trying to find some place he could regroup and start anew his artistic endeavors. He winds up in Germany working in a photo shop when he happens to meet a reporter named Eva Burtman. The two strike up a tentative relationship hampered in no small part by Manning's inability to get over his ignominious retreat from the university and Eva's reluctance to divulge details about her mysterious job at a newspaper called Schwarz Monatlich. Stace discovers a few details about her work, how Eva's wrapped up in researching a group known as the Christian Reform Movement (CRM), but what exactly she is doing remains a mystery until well into the novel. It turns out that Schwarz Monatlich is a sort of private investigation/media outlet that digs up dirt on politicians, big businessman, and assorted other social evils in order to expose their schemes to the public. While an investigation unfolds, it's imperative to keep information under wraps as long as possible.<br /><br />Eva finds it difficult to keep Manning in the dark because she soon realizes she's falling in love with the man. It's also difficult to keep Stace out of the picture when the investigation soon paints him in a sinister light. Burtman struggles with her newfound feelings as she works tirelessly to uncover a sinister plot of global dimensions. Involving a large Christian organization based out of Munich called the International Christian Coalition (ICC) led by the charismatic Reverend Jeremiah Eisner and a software firm in Texas called Trojan Security, this plot promises to expand radically Christianity's influence in a way never before seen. The technique involves computers and the Internet, and it is indeed an ominous attempt to control the minds of humanity. But will they succeed? Not if Eva Burtman and her colleagues at Schwarz Monatlich have anything to say about it. Exposing this evil to the light of day won't be easy, however. Some of the principal players in the plan have a rather ugly history of using violence to achieve their aims, and they won't hesitate to go after anyone who wants to bring them down. The CRM, ICC, and Trojan Security also have God on their side, and that should see them through any difficulties encountered along the way.<br /><br />There is a little something of everything in the thriller that is \\"Blind Guides.\\" Romance, action, intrigue, and religion--all of these themes intertwine to make the story an interesting read. The best thing going for the book is the lightening fast pace. Stahlecker's book runs 400 pages but doesn't feel nearly that long. I sat down planning on reading 100 pages a day and ended up finishing it in two. When reading a thriller, it's absolutely necessary to move things along quickly, and the author accomplishes this task quite nicely. That's the good. The bad, or I should say distracting, elements of the story include a heavy-handed view of Christianity that might turn off some readers and a too rapid conclusion to the proceedings. Moreover, I had a problem accepting Stace Manning's arguments on censorship. At one point in the narrative he tries to convince Eva that all forms of censorship are evil. Well, I'll agree that MOST censorship is bad, but all? Manning says that everything in nature, at least everything with a form (and that pretty much covers everything) is natural and thus fair game for anyone armed with a camera. Since Stace's career involved fiery photographs of the uninhibited human form, I quickly wondered if Manning would be so freewheeling if children were involved.<br /><br />Nevertheless, \\"Blind Guides\\" is a good read. The central activity of the book's baddies is chilling when you think about it for any length of time, Stace's growing relationship with Eva is realistic and well written, and the German landscape really helps shape the story. Oh, I almost forgot; the author definitely earns points for allowing no harm to come to Pauli, a secondary character's pet dog. On several occasions the story placed Pauli in harm's way, and I kept saying aloud, \\"Better not let anything happen to that dog. Don't do it.\\" Fortunately, Stahlecker must have the same opinion about animals that I do. Anyway, avoid the book if you're a diehard Christian. All others will probably enjoy significant parts of it.he book is the lightening fast pace. Stahlecker's book runs 400 pages but doesn't feel nearly that long. I sat down planning on reading 100 pages a day and ended up finishing it in two. When reading a thriller, it's absolutely necessary to move things along quickly, and the author accomplishes this task quite nicely. That's the good. The bad, or I should say distracting, elements of the story include a heavy-handed view of Christianity that might turn off some readers and a too rapid conclusion to the proceedings. Moreover, I had a problem accepting Stace Manning's arguments on censorship. At one point in the narrative he tries to convince Eva that all forms of censorship are evil. Well, I'll agree that MOST censorship is bad, but all? Manning says that everything in nature, at least everything with a form (and that pretty much covers everything) is natural and thus fair game for anyone armed with a camera. Since Stace's career involved fiery photographs of the uninhibited human form, I quickly wondered if Manning would be so freewheeling if children were involved. <br /> <br />Nevertheless, \\"Blind Guides\\" is a good read. The central activity of the book's baddies is chilling when you think about it for any length of time, Stace's growing relationship with Eva is realistic and well written, and the German landscape really helps shape the story. Oh, I almost forgot; the author definitely earns points for allowing no harm to come to Pauli, a secondary character's pet dog. On several occasions the story placed Pauli in harm's way, and I kept saying aloud, \\"Better not let anything happen to that dog. Don't do it.\\" Fortunately, Stahlecker must have the same opinion about animals that I do. Anyway, avoid the book if you're a diehard Christian. All others will probably enjoy significant parts of it. <br />    <br />          <br />	2005-06-20
198806:US	52012289	R2RYT3AQAMOAYF	0976057549	597262865	Taj	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Delicious	A novel about the Taj Mahal better be good--no, scratch that; it better be great. That's because the structure Mughal emperor Shah Jahan built to celebrate his deceased wife Mumtaz Mahal stands as one of the great wonders of the world. His heartrending loss has turned into humanity's gain. If you don't believe me, look up some pictures on the Internet. Words like \\"incredible,\\" \\"divine,\\" \\"breathtaking,\\" and \\"soul stirring\\" simply fail to capture the essence of the remarkable mausoleum. This monument to love transcends life itself, which was exactly the effect Jahan sought back in the seventeenth century. So take a look at the pictures or, if you're lucky, hop on a plane and go see the place. Then report back here and pick up a copy of Sandra Wilson's \\"Taj.\\" This fictional account of the rise and fall of Shah Jahan--bursting with court intrigues, jealousies, love, and loss all wrapped up in prose that often soars to Olympian heights--is a book that honors the emotions the Mughal emperor wished to impart with his architectural triumph. The condensed version of this overly gushing paragraph is simply this: \\"Taj\\" is a book readers with an interest in historical fiction should read. Even those who pass over historical fiction ought to give it a look.<br /><br />Wilson brings us into the story in 1666 as Shah Jahan lies on his deathbed recalling the sweet memories of his wife. He's no longer emperor thanks to his scheming son Aurangzeb, who deposed his father some eight years prior and sentenced him to confinement in the palace at Agra. With only his dutiful daughter Jahanara to keep him company, Shah Jahan's final years are ones of peace and reflection. Then we get the story, and what a story it is. It's now 1614 as Mumtaz and her husband Prince Khurram (Shah Jahan's title before assuming the throne) journey to the Moonlight Mahal, a secret garden owned by a friend, where the two revel in each other's company. The young prince is the favorite of his father Jahangir, the fourth Mughal emperor, and the monarch's powerful and scheming wife Nur Jahan. Khurram is charismatic, capable, and intelligent--everything a future emperor of a vast and growing empire needs to succeed. He's also young and headstrong, hoping to put to the test his abilities and thus secure a guarantee to the throne. Khurram gets his chance when his father sends him off to campaign against a group of troublemakers in a region called Rajasthan. His overwhelming victory there coupled with his father's fawning adoration soon turns Nur Jahan against the young prince.<br /><br />Nur Jahan's snub of Khurram enrages our hero, and it's not too long before the two are engaged in open warfare to see who will sit on the throne. Jahangir's wife cannot rule herself since she's a woman, but she can exercise power through Khurram's dimwitted half-brother if she can convince her husband to disavow his favorite son. Tragically, her plans initially succeed to the point where Khurram feels he must attack the capital with his own forces in an attempt to seize the throne. Throughout all of these events Mumtaz dutifully stands by her husband, bearing him many children while offering sage political advice and unconditional love. A fascinating digression in the story concerning a villager named Chundar seeking justice from Shah Jahan serves as a sort of bridge to the second half of the story that describes the tragic demise of Mumtaz Mahal and Shah Jahan's efforts to pick up the pieces and move on. Enter the construction of the Taj Mahal, a project that takes twenty-two years to complete. Wilson describes in intricate detail the high level of craftsmanship necessary in building one of the world's greatest architectural triumphs. She also turns the building into a metaphysical experience between Shah Jahan and Allah. Fascinating stuff.<br /><br />My complaints with the book are few, namely the too tight binding that makes the pages difficult to turn and an occasional typo that sometimes interrupts the flow of the story. These are nitpicky, niggling concerns, however, that should not prevent anyone from reading this book. The narrative is definitely homerun material, especially the second part of the story. Wilson knows how to write engaging prose that will have you reaching for a hanky when Mumtaz passes away. She also knows how to write VERY piquant scenes involving Mumtaz and Shah Jahan hooking up in the Moonlight Mahal. It's a rare book that can evoke such dissimilar emotions, but \\"Taj\\" pulls it off beautifully. Like the other reviewer here, I also read John Shors's \\"Beneath a Marble Sky,\\" and I must say I appreciated the chance to read a story about roughly the same time period, one that deals with many of the same characters and issues, but from a markedly different perspective.<br /><br />The caption under a picture of the author on the back cover of the book tells us that she spent time teaching courses at the American International School in New Delhi, and that it was during this time that she decided to find out more about the Taj Mahal. Wilson obviously did her research. I think the best compliment that I can offer to this author and her book is that I hope and pray a major publisher picks \\"Taj\\" up, runs off a bunch of copies, and throws a lot of money into marketing the story to the masses. I know fans of historical fiction would love to give this one a shot, but even readers that know little about history will indubitably find something of interest here. Action, romance, tragedy, love, redemption--\\"Taj\\" has it all and more. Definitely give this one a shot if you get the chance.s interrupts the flow of the story. These are nitpicky, niggling concerns, however, that should not prevent anyone from reading this book. The narrative is definitely homerun material, especially the second part of the story. Wilson knows how to write engaging prose that will have you reaching for a hanky when Mumtaz passes away. She also knows how to write VERY piquant scenes involving Mumtaz and Shah Jahan hooking up in the Moonlight Mahal. It's a rare book that can evoke such dissimilar emotions, but \\"Taj\\" pulls it off beautifully. Like the other reviewer here, I also read John Shors's \\"Beneath a Marble Sky,\\" and I must say I appreciated the chance to read a story about roughly the same time period, one that deals with many of the same characters and issues, but from a markedly different perspective. <br /> <br />The caption under a picture of the author on the back cover of the book tells us that she spent time teaching courses at the American International School in New Delhi, and that it was during this time that she decided to find out more about the Taj Mahal. Wilson obviously did her research. I think the best compliment that I can offer to this author and her book is that I hope and pray a major publisher picks \\"Taj\\" up, runs off a bunch of copies, and throws a lot of money into marketing the story to the masses. I know fans of historical fiction would love to give this one a shot, but even readers that know little about history will indubitably find something of interest here. Action, romance, tragedy, love, redemption--\\"Taj\\" has it all and more. Definitely give this one a shot if you get the chance. <br /> <br />	2005-06-19
199763:US	52012289	R1CCW2JDYOJJUR	0805070044	340213782	The Sorrows of Empire: Militarism, Secrecy, and the End of the Republic	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Flawed, but not fatally	I remember reading Gore Vidal's \\"Dreaming War: Blood for Oil and the Cheney-Bush Junta\\" a couple of years ago with great amusement. Why the giggles? Because the author of such classic works of historical fiction as \\"Burr\\" and \\"Julian\\" hammered home time and time again the concept of America as a bloodthirsty empire. I enjoyed the prose and Vidal's biting wit, of course, but just couldn't get my mind around the idea that this great nation of ours was seeking to create an imperial system on par with Rome. Flash forward to the present day, a couple of years after the start of the conflict in Iraq, and all we hear about now is empire, empire, and empire. Go to the bookstore and look in the current events/politics section and count the number of titles containing the word \\"empire.\\" You'll find quite a few, I assure you. I decided to give one of these books a go recently, Chalmers Johnson's \\"The Sorrows of Empire: Militarism, Secrecy, and the End of the Republic,\\" to see if the argument today is any more convincing than the one made by Gore Vidal a few years ago. After reading this book, I'm still not entirely convinced this contention is valid.<br /><br />Johnson's proof of America's imperial aspirations centers on his claim that our global military bases coupled with a rise of militarism at home has fundamentally changed the nature of our government. The present course of empire building resulted from the collapse of the Soviet Union in the early 1990s, thus leaving America as the sole remaining superpower. According to Johnson, \\"American ideologists\\" managed to convince the public that the United States not only brought about this collapse, but also now needed to go on the offensive in parts of the world previously beyond our reach. New bases sprang up like weeds, bases that cost billions upon billions of dollars a year to maintain. We moved into the Balkans with Camp Bondsteel in Kosovo, Camp Sarafovo in Bulgaria, and established dozens of outposts throughout the Persian Gulf. More bases of operations sprouted up in the former Soviet Republics ringing the oil rich Caspian Sea, in part to secure the reserves of black gold for American corporations and also to set a foundation for future military campaigns in the Middle East. Johnson discusses the rapid growth of listening posts around the world that provide intelligence data to these installations as well as the deleterious effects our military presence has on native populations.<br /><br />The number of military outposts, over 700 and growing rapidly, will probably come as a surprise to most readers, but Johnson doesn't stop there. He contends that these bases couldn't exist without the concomitant growth of militarism in American society. A chapter on the structure of the armed forces attempts to reveal the pervasiveness of their recruiting tactics on all aspects of society while showing the problems--racism, dangerous exposure to radioactive weaponry, failure to find work after military service--new soldiers experience on a daily basis. Just as problematic is the increasing reliance on \\"surrogate soldiers,\\" or private companies hired by the government to run our overseas installations. The author argues that this militarism and the expansion of bases have essentially removed control of our foreign policy from the State Department and placed it under the aegis of the Pentagon. Instead of diplomats striking compromises over conference tables, our government is far more likely to send in troops. Another way of once bringing intractable nations into line, namely breaking their economies through globalization and the transfer of funds through the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, is as dead as Julius Caesar. Now, writes Johnson, we're far more likely to drop a bunch of bombs.<br /><br />Doom and gloom stalks through the pages of \\"The Sorrows of Empire\\" like Jason Voorhees through a new batch of camp counselors. The only way to reverse the current trend of militarism and empire building, according to the book, is through revolution. Wow. It's not often you see a serious author advocating such a solution. Problem is, I don't think Johnson makes a compelling case for such a remedy. There are many things I enjoyed about the book. I thought the chapter describing the problems in today's armed forces makes for fascinating reading. I also enjoyed his discussion of the evils of globalization and how this process ensures most nations in the world will never rise to challenge the economic powerhouses. But I fail to see exactly how all of this equates to a rise in militarism that requires a revolution. Has the military's recruitment practices influenced every aspect of society? Not that I can see. Johnson too often makes it sound like the Pentagon runs every institution in America, which is hardly the case. More than enough avenues exist in this country to criticize the government, the current administration, and the war. How can this occur if the Defense Department runs the country?<br /><br />Another problem with the book concerns his examination of the wheeling and dealing going on in the former Soviet Republics over oil. The information he spins out here is hardly new or surprising. I remember reading about our efforts to secure access to this region at least a decade ago. Are we trying to do whatever it takes to grab as much oil as we can anywhere in the world? Of course! Should we place our young men and women in harm's way to achieve this goal? Ahhh, there's the rub. I don't think we should, but then again I'm not one of these idiots screaming about the oil wars while driving around in an SUV, either. Anyway, I'm just rambling at this point. I do recommend Johnson's book in spite of its failings. There's some good stuff in the rough here; you just have to look for it.rism and empire building, according to the book, is through revolution. Wow. It's not often you see a serious author advocating such a solution. Problem is, I don't think Johnson makes a compelling case for such a remedy. There are many things I enjoyed about the book. I thought the chapter describing the problems in today's armed forces makes for fascinating reading. I also enjoyed his discussion of the evils of globalization and how this process ensures most nations in the world will never rise to challenge the economic powerhouses. But I fail to see exactly how all of this equates to a rise in militarism that requires a revolution. Has the military's recruitment practices influenced every aspect of society? Not that I can see. Johnson too often makes it sound like the Pentagon runs every institution in America, which is hardly the case. More than enough avenues exist in this country to criticize the government, the current administration, and the war. How can this occur if the Defense Department runs the country? <br /> <br />Another problem with the book concerns his examination of the wheeling and dealing going on in the former Soviet Republics over oil. The information he spins out here is hardly new or surprising. I remember reading about our efforts to secure access to this region at least a decade ago. Are we trying to do whatever it takes to grab as much oil as we can anywhere in the world? Of course! Should we place our young men and women in harm's way to achieve this goal? Ahhh, there's the rub. I don't think we should, but then again I'm not one of these idiots screaming about the oil wars while driving around in an SUV, either. Anyway, I'm just rambling at this point. I do recommend Johnson's book in spite of its failings. There's some good stuff in the rough here; you just have to look for it.   <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />      <br />	2005-06-18
201443:US	52012289	R24787ARQ8PMBH	1400051878	58069311	Right Turns: Unconventional Lessons from a Controversial Life	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Another '60s liberal sees the light	A world leader writes an autobiography to explain his or her take on specific events that shaped the course of human history.<br /><br />A scientist puts his life story on paper in order to explain how he or she developed a medical process that saved millions of lives.<br /><br />An entertainer who never finished high school, has an arrest record a mile long, and works maybe three months out of the year churns out an autobiography with the help of a ghostwriter so that hundreds of thousands of his or her adoring fans can find out why this zero is worth millions.<br /><br />Which of these three autobiographies deserves our attention? If you picked the first two, you're right on the money. I can't stand reading some book about empty souls living empty lives, especially when the book in question comes from some Hollywood loser. Even worse, imagine reading a 424-page autobiography written by a guy who isn't a Hollywood star but a critic of Hollywood films. I can't think of anything worse than that! Especially when you consider that only a small fraction of the pages deal with movies. I should have dumped this book in the trash without even cracking the front cover.<br /><br />If I had done that I would have missed out on an intriguing experience.<br /><br />\\"Right Turns: Unconventional Lessons from a Controversial Life,\\" the autobiography of former PBS film critic turned conservative radio talk show host Michael Medved, is a fascinating page turner. Obviously, some liberal readers would rather brush their teeth with a rusty nail than spend a second reading anything the vocal Medved has to say. Those people will miss out on a story that engages in spite of the author's political opinions.<br /><br />Medved's story, distilled into thirty-five \\"lessons,\\" documents his odyssey from a liberal Ivy League student in the revolutionary 1960s to an unapologetic conservative in the present day. It's a journey that starts with his boisterous childhood in Pennsylvania and later California and rapidly moves into describing in-depth his ongoing struggles with his Jewish faith, his relationships with women, his admittedly minor roles in several political campaigns, raising children, how he became a film critic, Hollywood's secret agenda, and many of the movers and shakers he has met over the years. Medved briefly attended law school with Hillary Rodham, had a one on one chat with John Kerry about the future of a campus political organization, and learned to despise Bill Clinton back when Slick was nothing more than an Arkansas boy with a head full of dreams. We even get a full accounting of how the Golden Turkey awards--books written by Michael and his brother Harry--came to fruition. The writing style of the book is at times self-deprecating, often humorous, and always interesting. Say what you will about Medved's political orientation, but it's tough to discount all of the important events and personages he has bore witness to in the last forty odd years.<br /><br />These lessons perform a more important function than merely recounting Medved's adventures. Most of them serve as a means of explaining why conservatism is a better, healthier way of conducting one's life than liberalism. Medved recounts early events in his life that eventually led to his rejection of extremist left-wing beliefs, such as the time his Uncle Moish--a Russian refugee who fled the horrors of the communist revolution in the 1920s--sat his eleven year old nephew down and warned him about the dangers of the \\"Scarlet Plague.\\" The author claims this lecture made it easier for him to resist the destructive lure of latter stage SDS and other Marxist organizations during his university career. Medved's experiences during his years living in Berkeley (he calls it \\"Beserkley\\") during that town's most chaotic period gave him a newfound respect for cops in a time when many people used the word \\"pigs\\" to refer to any officer of the law. The one event that seems most influential in bringing the author over to the conservative camp was his embrace of Orthodox Judaism. As Medved's faith deepened, as he helped found a synagogue in California and shared his conservative faith with other Jews in the area, he understood how religion has a healthy impact on all facets of life.<br /><br />Another interesting aspect of the biography, at least for this movie lover, is Medved's all too brief examination of his career as a film critic and his opinions of Hollywood. Any Tinseltown insider worth his or her salt hates film critics; I would too if I was responsible for some of the pap churned out by the studios, but they must really despise Michael Medved. He discusses here his earlier book, \\"Hollywood vs. America,\\" in which he argued that moviemakers have a hidden agenda to produce films mocking cultural values and traditions even if such movies lose money. Too, he offers up a spirited defense of Mel Gibson's \\"Passion of the Christ,\\" a film excoriated by many of his fellow Jews as anti-semitic trash and a movie laughed at by most of Hollywood. Rather than bashing the movie, the author instead believes it is an affirming piece of work more than deserving of its big box office take. These opinions and attitudes have not endeared Michael Medved to the liberal establishment camped out in Los Angeles.<br /><br />My only complaint about the book centers on the author's comments about women. While I have little doubt that Medved respects his wife and children, he occasionally displays a disturbing tendency to describe women in terms that are...well, crass. He doesn't do it all the time, but it's very noticeable when you stumble across the comments in the text. Certainly, us guys do that all the time, even if we don't say such things aloud. But to put these observations in a book about your life is inappropriate. Despite this mystifying proclivity, I heartily recommend \\"Right Turns.\\"influential in bringing the author over to the conservative camp was his embrace of Orthodox Judaism. As Medved's faith deepened, as he helped found a synagogue in California and shared his conservative faith with other Jews in the area, he understood how religion has a healthy impact on all facets of life. <br /> <br />Another interesting aspect of the biography, at least for this movie lover, is Medved's all too brief examination of his career as a film critic and his opinions of Hollywood. Any Tinseltown insider worth his or her salt hates film critics; I would too if I was responsible for some of the pap churned out by the studios, but they must really despise Michael Medved. He discusses here his earlier book, \\"Hollywood vs. America,\\" in which he argued that moviemakers have a hidden agenda to produce films mocking cultural values and traditions even if such movies lose money. Too, he offers up a spirited defense of Mel Gibson's \\"Passion of the Christ,\\" a film excoriated by many of his fellow Jews as anti-semitic trash and a movie laughed at by most of Hollywood. Rather than bashing the movie, the author instead believes it is an affirming piece of work more than deserving of its big box office take. These opinions and attitudes have not endeared Michael Medved to the liberal establishment camped out in Los Angeles. <br /> <br />My only complaint about the book centers on the author's comments about women. While I have little doubt that Medved respects his wife and children, he occasionally displays a disturbing tendency to describe women in terms that are...well, crass. He doesn't do it all the time, but it's very noticeable when you stumble across the comments in the text. Certainly, us guys do that all the time, even if we don't say such things aloud. But to put these observations in a book about your life is inappropriate. Despite this mystifying proclivity, I heartily recommend \\"Right Turns.\\"  <br />	2005-06-17
201625:US	52012289	R2YOMIJ10UMYRF	0895260476	989380415	The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History	Books	5	42	60	N	N	It's about time!	After reading Thomas E. Woods, Jr's \\"The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History,\\" I'm convinced I received a better education at my state university than those lost souls drifting through the Ivy League vacuum. I hold a bachelor's degree in history, one in religion, and am very close to receiving a master's degree in history--all of which exposed me to all of the topics discussed in this book. And in nearly every class I took, my professors made sure to present differing viewpoints on historical events. They might not have agreed personally with many of these alternate--meaning conservative--interpretations. More than a few of my instructors were liberal in their outlook, a fact readily apparent if you engaged them in conversation outside the classroom. But when standing at the lecture podium most of them left their politics out in the hallway. Even some of the radicals maintained neutrality. I can think of several professors I had for more than one class and to this day I still couldn't tell you about their political leanings. That, I think, is a good thing. We've all heard the horror stories about ideological hacks using their positions to indoctrinate students with a far left worldview.<br /><br />The scope of Woods's book is large, running from the colonial era to Bill Clinton's scandal plagued presidency. At every point in the narrative, the author points out the distortions and downright malarkey passed off as serious scholarship in many schools today. For example, the author claims that focusing on the relationship between Native Americans and the Puritans loses sight of the real issue, namely that the earliest European settlers arrived on these shores seeking religious freedom. Books exist by the truckload detailing the outrages visited upon the Indians by rapacious Puritans, claiming that the settlers used their law courts and technology to steal land from the indigenous populations. Nothing could be further from the truth, argues Woods, who goes on to cite incidents where Puritan courts ruled in favor of Indian property claims. Moreover, the very idea that Indians possessed no conception of private property before the white man arrived falls on deaf ears here. Woods argues that Native Americans sold parcels of land and were happy to do so because they received as part of the deal goods they could not produce themselves.<br /><br />\\"The Politically Incorrect Guide\\" contains far too much information to summarize adequately here, but it's safe to say that the author infuses most--but not all--of the events described in the book with a decidedly conservative viewpoint. His examination of the American Revolution and the drafting of the Constitution positively oozes anti-statist interpretations. Woods stresses the founding fathers' beliefs concerning the separation of powers at the federal level as well as between the national and state governments through the Tenth Amendment. He even argues, convincingly, that states maintained the right to leave the union if they chose, that the Second Amendment endorses private ownership of firearms, and that Congress has always had the power to declare war even though they've largely surrendered that constitutional authority to the executive branch. Woods contends that the Civil War wasn't a civil war in the strict sense but rather a war between two groups of legitimately autonomous states, throws out a couple of embarrassing quotations from Abraham Lincoln about blacks, and shows how the Supreme Court instigated the conflict through its Dred Scott decision. Take practically any conservative position and apply it to American history and you'll find it here in this book. Woodrow Wilson the internationalist warmonger? Right here. How about a negative opinion of FDR's New Deal? Yep.<br /><br />I should say that I quite enjoyed reading this book. The format is interesting, with little sidebars and boxes filled with additional information you probably haven't heard about. He even throws out \\"Books you aren't supposed to read\\" bubbles in case you wish to discover more information about any given topic. But it's the consistency of the whole work that is noteworthy. Instead of merely bashing FDR for radically expanding the social safety net with New Deal programs, for example, he also shows how Herbert Hoover engaged in his own dubious spending sprees. That's not to say that there aren't problems, however. I think he should reexamine settlers' views about Indians, and his argument concerning the introduction of sociological evidence in the Supreme Court over Brown v. Board of Education overlooks the fact that the legal system used this nebulous technique for years. Louis Brandeis was the first to introduce sociological jurisprudence when arguing his case in Muller v. Oregon in 1906. I agree the method is riddled with serious problems no matter what the case, but Woods doesn't seem to recognize such nonsense went on long before 1954. I also consider the final chapter of the book, the one dedicated to Clinton and his crimes, unnecessary. In fact, this part of the tome reads more like a traditional conservative polemic than solid history. Then again he's merely doing what left-wingers have been doing for years with their own textbooks, so who am I to argue?<br /><br />I think anyone interested in American history ought to make a point of perusing this short book. Don't expect to see it in an introductory history course at the university anytime soon, though. I also wouldn't expect this book to overthrow the classroom dogma currently in vogue. Too many people in academia (and government, for that matter) have a vested interest in the status quo, and change comes slowly to an institution where tenure protects professors from competition. Still, I would like to see a few instructors introduce this text into class discussions. Isn't the university setting supposed to be a place where debate over different viewpoints should take place?even throws out \\"Books you aren't supposed to read\\" bubbles in case you wish to discover more information about any given topic. But it's the consistency of the whole work that is noteworthy. Instead of merely bashing FDR for radically expanding the social safety net with New Deal programs, for example, he also shows how Herbert Hoover engaged in his own dubious spending sprees. That's not to say that there aren't problems, however. I think he should reexamine settlers' views about Indians, and his argument concerning the introduction of sociological evidence in the Supreme Court over Brown v. Board of Education overlooks the fact that the legal system used this nebulous technique for years. Louis Brandeis was the first to introduce sociological jurisprudence when arguing his case in Muller v. Oregon in 1906. I agree the method is riddled with serious problems no matter what the case, but Woods doesn't seem to recognize such nonsense went on long before 1954. I also consider the final chapter of the book, the one dedicated to Clinton and his crimes, unnecessary. In fact, this part of the tome reads more like a traditional conservative polemic than solid history. Then again he's merely doing what left-wingers have been doing for years with their own textbooks, so who am I to argue? <br /> <br />I think anyone interested in American history ought to make a point of perusing this short book. Don't expect to see it in an introductory history course at the university anytime soon, though. I also wouldn't expect this book to overthrow the classroom dogma currently in vogue. Too many people in academia (and government, for that matter) have a vested interest in the status quo, and change comes slowly to an institution where tenure protects professors from competition. Still, I would like to see a few instructors introduce this text into class discussions. Isn't the university setting supposed to be a place where debate over different viewpoints should take place?    <br /><br />     <br />	2005-06-16
203788:US	52012289	R1ME9MZR23TTXL	0060529148	356154174	Give Me a Break: How I Exposed Hucksters, Cheats, and Scam Artists and Became the Scourge of the Liberal Media...	Books	4	8	16	N	N	Yummy	Imagine John Stossel's surprise when he discovered that, contrary to the opinion of most of his co-workers in the circus often referred to as the American media, the free market system works. It just doesn't work on Mondays, Tuesdays, and every other Friday. Capitalism works all the time, twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. And it works best, not surprisingly, when government and advocacy groups stand back and let it go. That's right--Stossel's lengthy career as an investigative journalist devoted to exposing business scams and the scamsters who run them took him down the road to puritanical libertarianism. \\"Give Me A Break: How I Exposed Hucksters, Cheats, and Scam Artists and Became the Scourge of the Liberal Media\\" is an examination of that long, hard road that few journalists in this country dare to travel. Heck, it's an examination of a long, hard road few citizens dare to travel. The idea of reducing government to a bare bones operation scares the bejeezus out of both liberals and conservatives. As I soon discovered upon reading the book, it's a path I'm not completely comfortable following to its inevitable conclusion, either.<br /><br />Stossel lays the groundwork for his journey by discussing how he came to work in a newsroom. I quite enjoyed this inspiring part of the book. Although the author attended Princeton University, he readily admits his devotion to study left much to be desired. He literally fell into journalism by accident, amazingly enough, and the first years of plying this demanding trade left him with nothing but cold sweats. Why? Stossel stutters, horribly so, and actually did several stints in front of the camera before seeking treatment for his condition. He began his career in gotcha journalism at roughly the same time, and before long his career skyrocketed. Stossel became the go to guy in uncovering mail order scams and other assorted business shenanigans, sort of a baby boomer version of the venerable Mike Wallace. And as we all know by now, Stossel became very good at his job. So good, in fact, that he gained the opportunity to expand his investigations. The largest corporations cowered at the threat of a John Stossel interview. Lawsuits started pouring in, always a sign that a journalist is likely doing something right. And then our hero had an epiphany.<br /><br />What if the real problem isn't big business but big government and special interest groups? After all, if all of the bureaucratic protection agencies and watchdog organizations were doing their job, why was John Stossel still uncovering scams? Because government is, at best, ineffective and at worst dangerous. \\"Give Me A Break\\" moves into high gear at this point, examining a host of government sponsored initiatives and bureaus. Stossel discovered that more government rarely solves any problem. Limits placed on the marketplace to protect people from abuses? Doesn't help. How about supporting unions and price controls? Government drives up prices and drives out competition when it does so. How about massively expensive programs to save Americans from lead poisoning, chemicals and a thousand other potentially life threatening problems? They don't work, according to Stossel, because the risk posed by any given danger is usually so blown out of proportion that the end result is greater public fear instead of solutions. Welfare rewards and encourages indolence, lawyers' lawsuits drive up costs for everyone, and policies such as the war on drugs intrude on personal freedom. Like I said, classic libertarianism. He even finds more value in Michael Milken's junk bonds than Mother Teresa's humanitarianism. Read the book to see why.<br /><br />It's difficult to argue with libertarianism. Less government IS always preferable to more government. No bureaucracy IS always better than any bureaucracies. History is rife with examples of governments overburden with bureaucracy collapsing because the clutter of rules and regulations made it impossible for that society to respond adequately to impending threats. The idea of living in a free society raises the question, \\"How free?\\" Libertarianism tries to provide an answer by endorsing almost total freedom--freedom to do whatever you wish to your own body, freedom from government intrusion on civil liberties, freedom to conduct your business unfettered by rules and regulations. I like it. Most people would. But there are problems, not the least of which is the natural tendency in humans to exercise power over others. No governmental structure will ever triumph over the laws of nature--not communism, socialism, democracy, or libertarianism. Alas, Stossel never provides any explanation of how we could achieve a libertarian society. How do we function as a country of nearly 300 million people on the principles of personal responsibility and tolerance for others' decisions? Good luck!<br /><br />Most of what Stossel argues, however, bears fruit and is for the most part well reasoned. Especially appealing is his writing style, a breezy, almost chatty method of communicating ideas to people that mirrors in no small way his onscreen persona. The author definitely doesn't come across as a member of the media elite, but more like your friendly next-door neighbor. Too, he possesses a wonderful sense of humor that is often self-deprecating. It's wonderfully refreshing. For example, the chapter where Stossel thanks his readers for paying for repairs on his damaged beachfront property through tax dollars is roll on the floor hilarious. So is the inclusion of several pictures. One series of shots shows Stossel taking a beating from a professional wrestler, and another shows him wondering around a toxic dumpsite in a suit and tie while government workers in protective suits work nearby. Guess those dioxins aren't as dangerous as they seem, eh? Great stuff, and so is the rest of the book. Give \\"Give Me A Break\\" a break soon.egulations made it impossible for that society to respond adequately to impending threats. The idea of living in a free society raises the question, \\"How free?\\" Libertarianism tries to provide an answer by endorsing almost total freedom--freedom to do whatever you wish to your own body, freedom from government intrusion on civil liberties, freedom to conduct your business unfettered by rules and regulations. I like it. Most people would. But there are problems, not the least of which is the natural tendency in humans to exercise power over others. No governmental structure will ever triumph over the laws of nature--not communism, socialism, democracy, or libertarianism. Alas, Stossel never provides any explanation of how we could achieve a libertarian society. How do we function as a country of nearly 300 million people on the principles of personal responsibility and tolerance for others' decisions? Good luck! <br /> <br />Most of what Stossel argues, however, bears fruit and is for the most part well reasoned. Especially appealing is his writing style, a breezy, almost chatty method of communicating ideas to people that mirrors in no small way his onscreen persona. The author definitely doesn't come across as a member of the media elite, but more like your friendly next-door neighbor. Too, he possesses a wonderful sense of humor that is often self-deprecating. It's wonderfully refreshing. For example, the chapter where Stossel thanks his readers for paying for repairs on his damaged beachfront property through tax dollars is roll on the floor hilarious. So is the inclusion of several pictures. One series of shots shows Stossel taking a beating from a professional wrestler, and another shows him wondering around a toxic dumpsite in a suit and tie while government workers in protective suits work nearby. Guess those dioxins aren't as dangerous as they seem, eh? Great stuff, and so is the rest of the book. Give \\"Give Me A Break\\" a break soon.  <br /> <br /> <br />  <br />	2005-06-15
204679:US	52012289	R1TRD5GJ3DPGVL	0761516638	286761738	The Death of Right and Wrong: Exposing the Left's Assault on Our Culture and Values	Books	5	20	26	N	N	Narcissism indeed!	I first encountered the inestimable Tammy Bruce on C-SPAN sometime last year when she delivered a lecture at Florida State University. Her presentation was incredible--smart, funny, and full of insights. Unfortunately, some audience members took exception with her comments. A couple of the rowdier leftists in the crowd stood up and shouted the usual slurs one comes to expect from the tin foil helmet crowd. One person in particular had the nerve to call Bruce a fascist, a label that seemed to amuse this author to no end. Later on, this same individual couldn't identify what historical figure first articulated the ideology of fascism. Oh well, radicals nowadays are always throwing out labels even when they don't have the slightest clue as to their origins. But why did this person call Tammy Bruce a fascist? Because Bruce, an author of two decidedly anti-leftist books, once headed up the National Organization for Women's Los Angeles branch. Yes, she was literally a card-carrying member of the leftist fringe. She fled the organization after realizing that classic feminism had somehow become twisted into a dangerous ideology that threatened to undermine American society.<br /><br />To understand the activities of the \\"Left Elite,\\" as Bruce describes them, one must understand two simple ideas. One, they look at the world in a way alien to a majority of Americans. The author employs the idea of Lewis Carroll's looking glass to describe the surrealism of leftist perceptions about culture and politics. They say weird things and act in weird ways because, sadly, that's how they view the world. Two, Bruce argues that most leftists suffered some sort of traumatic incident--either mental or physical--in their early lives that continues to fester in their later years, incidents that turned these people into \\"malignant narcissists\\" concerned only with individual wants and desires. Moreover, they never moved past the point of their initial victimization, and the rest of us have been paying the price for their damaged psyches ever since. These leftists have projected their sense of victimization onto society as a whole, which explains why every \\"group\\" whines in order to receive special recognition and rewards. Even groups that don't share in the pain of leftist elites soon learned to ape this technique in order to gain special status. Ultimately, the result of all of this is the death of right and wrong, the creation of a moral vacuum in which these oddballs attempt to bring the rest of us down to their level. I know, it is sick.<br /><br />Bruce then spends the rest of the book using these criteria to examine the usual suspects. The Left Elite glorifies cop killer Mumia Abu Jamal, gangsta rap and the concomitant criminality associated with it, and the general coarsening of art and entertainment. Academia, that favorite bogey (and rightfully so) of conservative social commentators, makes an appearance here as Bruce blasts higher education for killing off America's heroes--the Founding Fathers are just one example--in favor of a watered down, touchy-feely, morally relativistic curriculum that churns out young adults who cannot adequately judge the difference between right and wrong. The book contends that this coterie of mentally confused elites hijacked NOW and other organizations like GLAAD, using these associations to push their unhealthy ideas on the American public. For example, there exists a wing of a certain group that views a certain disease as a badge of pride. There are also people promoting the idea that promiscuity amongst minors is a good idea, people that will do or say anything to realize this horrific vision. On and on Tammy Bruce goes, working her way through Maxine Waters, immoral judges and lawyers, Christianity haters, and other assorted crackpots of the left-leaning variety.<br /><br />Keep one thing in mind while reading this book: Tammy Bruce is not a diehard conservative. Far from it. She is, in fact, a pro-choice feminist. Not the sort of person you would think hangs out with conservatives, right? Well, Bruce came to the conclusion long ago that she would rather openly and honestly argue her beliefs with others than accept a philosophy that puts a straight jacket on any form of ideological dissent. And the Left Elite is all about stifling dissent. Any deviation from the party line results in ridicule or, if serious enough, outright excommunication. What \\"The Death of Right or Wrong\\" seeks to do is restore sanity to progressive politics, to take the label of \\"liberal\\" away from the extremists and give it back to the reasonable people. Imagine how embarrassing it is for a decent liberal to have to listen to yet another nutty theory or wacko statement from their so-called \\"leaders.\\" Those on the right expelled most of their fringe elements decades ago. It is long past time for the democrats to do the same. It's no mistake that the Democrats have become increasingly marginalized in national elections over the last decade, a trend likely to continue as long as hardcore radicals speak for all liberals.<br /><br />One of the best things about the book, however, is Bruce's take on Christianity. Everyone knows how the Left Elite views followers of Jesus; they despise them in large part because they abhor any system that places limits on human desires. While Tammy isn't a Christian, she does subscribe to the belief that this religion has provided a foundation for common virtues with which most people agree. She's also sick of seeing endless attacks on Christians while other religions, primarily Islam of the fundamentalist variety, receive support from the Left. Her opinions on Christianity so closely mirror my own that I sat in open-mouthed wonder as I read through these pages. Give \\"The Death of Right and Wrong\\" a read and you're likely to sit in open-mouthed awe as well. It's a great book.ce feminist. Not the sort of person you would think hangs out with conservatives, right? Well, Bruce came to the conclusion long ago that she would rather openly and honestly argue her beliefs with others than accept a philosophy that puts a straight jacket on any form of ideological dissent. And the Left Elite is all about stifling dissent. Any deviation from the party line results in ridicule or, if serious enough, outright excommunication. What \\"The Death of Right or Wrong\\" seeks to do is restore sanity to progressive politics, to take the label of \\"liberal\\" away from the extremists and give it back to the reasonable people. Imagine how embarrassing it is for a decent liberal to have to listen to yet another nutty theory or wacko statement from their so-called \\"leaders.\\" Those on the right expelled most of their fringe elements decades ago. It is long past time for the democrats to do the same. It's no mistake that the Democrats have become increasingly marginalized in national elections over the last decade, a trend likely to continue as long as hardcore radicals speak for all liberals. <br /> <br />One of the best things about the book, however, is Bruce's take on Christianity. Everyone knows how the Left Elite views followers of Jesus; they despise them in large part because they abhor any system that places limits on human desires. While Tammy isn't a Christian, she does subscribe to the belief that this religion has provided a foundation for common virtues with which most people agree. She's also sick of seeing endless attacks on Christians while other religions, primarily Islam of the fundamentalist variety, receive support from the Left. Her opinions on Christianity so closely mirror my own that I sat in open-mouthed wonder as I read through these pages. Give \\"The Death of Right and Wrong\\" a read and you're likely to sit in open-mouthed awe as well. It's a great book.    <br />	2005-06-14
208386:US	52012289	R34W2RUYPNW8R2	0895262746	350670764	Hell to Pay: The Unfolding Story of Hillary Rodham Clinton	Books	5	39	49	N	N	The horror....the horror	The great Roman historian Cassius Dio once wrote, \\"Our history now descends from a kingdom of gold to one of iron and rust\\" in an attempt to explain how the death of the much admired and capable emperor Marcus Aurelius and the subsequent ascent of his depraved heir Commodus permanently sent the world's greatest empire into a tailspin.<br /><br />Hillary Rodham Clinton is our iron and rust.<br /><br />I know how that sounds on the face of it. There are millions of people who would immediately take offense at that statement. Too bad. In the annals of American history, all two hundred plus years of it, we have yet to see a pair of politicians so crass and corrupt, so empty of any virtue, as Bill and Hillary Clinton. Their eight-year reign during the 1990s represents the greatest embarrassment this country has ever suffered through. To be sure, other presidential administrations took a few shots on the chin. Think of Ulysses S. Grant, Warren G. Harding, and Richard Nixon. But in the case of Grant and Harding, both men were merely lousy administrators stabbed in the back by shady underlings. Nixon's crimes, which were far more numerous than the Watergate burglary, sent him into an exile both permanent and disgraceful. This is not the case with Slick Willie and his wife. Both continue to receive laudatory, retch inducing praise from the media establishment and millions of other liberals. Far from retiring to a federal prison, Hillary immediately launched a campaign for a Senate seat in New York and, to that state's everlasting shame, won. That Bill Clinton remains at large is an even bigger affront to decency.<br /><br />Enter Barbara Olson, a one time Justice Department lawyer and wife of current Solicitor General (and possible future Supreme Court justice) Theodore Olson. Tragically, Barbara Olson perished in the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. But before her untimely demise, she wrote \\"Hell to Pay: The Unfolding Story of Hillary Rodham Clinton\\" as a document of the myriad abuses of power committed by the then first lady of the United States and her sorry excuse for a husband. Olson knows exactly what she is talking about in regards to Hillary Clinton; her job at the Justice Department involved investigating the notorious Travelgate and Filegate incidents, two of the many scandals that rocked the Clinton White House. Unfortunately, the author never secured convictions for these two crimes. What she did accomplish, however, will transcend her tragic end. This book will reemerge when Hillary attempts--god help us--to launch her campaign for president of the United States in a year or two. \\"Hell to Pay\\" will serve as a blueprint for why Hillary Rodham Clinton should never hold the highest office in the land. The information contained in this book is devastating, shocking, and disgusting.<br /><br />Largely a biography of the former first lady, Olson's book describes Hillary's early life and formative experiences before moving on to her ascension in the world of politics. Conflicts with a domineering father marked Rodham's early years, a conflict that pushed the young girl to seek approval by becoming an overachiever. Exposure to a left-wing Methodist minister coupled with the discovery of the writings of professional radical Saul Alinsky in college led Hillary down the dark road of radical extremism. In no time at all she was delivering a wacky speech at her college commencement ceremony, editing an anti-authoritarian journal at Yale Law School, and sticking up for Black Panther murderers. To top it all off, Hillary gave to the world several nutty articles about how the government ought to take over childrearing and how children should have the right to sue their parents in court. She never repudiated these views. On and on it goes, as Olson carefully documents nearly every activity this countercultural gal engaged in. Then, of course, there is the fateful meeting with a young law student from Arkansas named Bill Clinton. Fromthis point on, the book begins to address the numerous crimes of Hillary Rodham Clinton.<br /><br />The couple soon married and moved to Arkansas so that Bill could begin his political career. Hillary hated living in such a backward state and, while her husband served as attorney general, kicked off her own career as an East Coast elite through her work with the Legal Services Corporation. She also took up a position with the now notorious Rose Law Firm in Little Rock, engaging in all sorts of questionable legal and financial dealings. When Bill ran into trouble as governor of Arkansas, Hillary became his chief troubleshooter and primary support mechanism. The run for the presidency, Whitewater, the Health Care fiasco, Vince Foster, Travelgate--it's all here in minute, horrific detail. Time and time again, the picture of Hillary that emerges is an exceedingly ugly one. If there is any main thesis in \\"Hell to Pay,\\" it is one of Hillary as a seeker of ultimate power. No altruism exists in this woman or her husband, only a hunger for control over every aspect of our lives. This is one deeply frightening read.<br /><br />Is it too late to stop the rise of Hillary Rodham Clinton? No. Her scandalous past will present a significant obstacle in her quest for higher office, and the mood of the country is quite different than it was during the 1990s thanks to September 11, 2001. But here's something to think about: Hillary has spent the last four years of her Senate career carefully cultivating an image as a terrorist fighter, obviously in an attempt to appear as a hardliner on America's enemies when she runs in 2008. Don't buy it for a second; it's yet another Clinton triangulation to pull the wool over our eyes in order to grab power. She's as corrosive to our future as she was in the 1990s, and Barbara Olson's book stands as a lasting testament to that fact.n. From this point on, the book begins to address the numerous crimes of Hillary Rodham Clinton. <br /> <br />The couple soon married and moved to Arkansas so that Bill could begin his political career. Hillary hated living in such a backward state and, while her husband served as attorney general, kicked off her own career as an East Coast elite through her work with the Legal Services Corporation. She also took up a position with the now notorious Rose Law Firm in Little Rock, engaging in all sorts of questionable legal and financial dealings. When Bill ran into trouble as governor of Arkansas, Hillary became his chief troubleshooter and primary support mechanism. The run for the presidency, Whitewater, the Health Care fiasco, Vince Foster, Travelgate--it's all here in minute, horrific detail. Time and time again, the picture of Hillary that emerges is an exceedingly ugly one. If there is any main thesis in \\"Hell to Pay,\\" it is one of Hillary as a seeker of ultimate power. No altruism exists in this woman or her husband, only a hunger for control over every aspect of our lives. This is one deeply frightening read. <br /> <br />Is it too late to stop the rise of Hillary Rodham Clinton? No. Her scandalous past will present a significant obstacle in her quest for higher office, and the mood of the country is quite different than it was during the 1990s thanks to September 11, 2001. But here's something to think about: Hillary has spent the last four years of her Senate career carefully cultivating an image as a terrorist fighter, obviously in an attempt to appear as a hardliner on America's enemies when she runs in 2008. Don't buy it for a second; it's yet another Clinton triangulation to pull the wool over our eyes in order to grab power. She's as corrosive to our future as she was in the 1990s, and Barbara Olson's book stands as a lasting testament to that fact.   <br />	2005-06-11
217156:US	52012289	R2W1JDKAO6FK0F	1595230033	703264751	Do-Gooders: How Liberals Hurt Those They Claim to Help (and the Rest of Us)	Books	5	22	31	N	N	A body check to the liberal solar plexus	Ahhh, there's nothing better than seeing a new book from the always analytical Mona Charen. My local newspaper, the Omaha World Herald, once carried her editorials on a regular basis. They also reprinted at one time the conservative opinions of Thomas Sowell and Michelle Malkin. Alas, no more. Now I get an eyeful of Bill O'Reilly and George Will balanced by a bunch of leftist hacks I'd just as soon ignore. Although her biting wit has been missing from my paper for some time, I fondly remember spending many a day perusing Charen's observations about the latest left-wing lunacy. Reading her articles and her two books, I soon came to the conclusion that dear Mona is sort of an old guard conservative, meaning Ronald Reagan era conservatism. It's not surprising, really. Charen once worked as a speechwriter for Nancy Reagan as well as served time in the White House's Public Affairs Office. She also helped spread the word about the White House's policies in Central America. For a comprehensive examination of 1980s conservative/liberal battles as seen through the eyes of Charen, read her book \\"Useful Idiots.\\" If you want a book that addresses specific liberal social policies that have led to domestic disaster, read this book.<br /><br />\\"Do-Gooders: How Liberals Hurt Those They Claim to Help\\" feels like an echo of conservative treatments released in the 1980s. There is nothing original here in terms of subject matter--Charen writes about the destructive influence of left-wing thought and action concerning homelessness, schools, crime, racial sensitivity, and the welfare state. Nearly every author in the conservative camp covers most of these issues at some point, but Charen's book is slightly better than most thanks to her reliance on massive statistical evidence to back up her horrific assertions. And they are horrific in the sense that decent Americans have let this nonsense go on for far too long, now going on forty years too long. Ever since the counterculture blighted the American landscape, we've had nothing but problems that seem to go on and on without end. Problems including but not limited to sky-high divorce rates, massive explosions in the numbers of both violent and nonviolent crimes, a tidal wave of costly entitlement programs that bring dependency to thousands upon thousands more citizens every year, an increase in drug use, and an embarrassing number of single mothers.<br /><br />Charen begins her book by casting us back into time, back to the days of the mid to late 1960s when the Supreme Court expanded the rights of criminals through the Miranda and Mapp cases. Sure, these rulings certainly helped some innocent people charged with a crime escape wrongful convictions, but they led to far more thugs getting off on technicalities. These rulings also opened the door to a leniency towards criminals that continues to shock the public. Charen shows us how Judge \\"Turn 'Em Loose Bruce\\" Wright operates in the courtroom, and how Justice Harold Baer let a gang of narcotics dealing thugs go because their efforts to flee from the police constituted \\"a normal response for residents of Washington Heights\\" since it is widely known in that neighborhood that cops are \\"corrupt, abusive, and violent.\\" Leniency on crime not only insults the intelligence of most Americans, it also breeds more crime and fosters distrust of authority in poor neighborhoods where most of these offenses take place. Throw in at roughly the same time LBJ and his \\"Great Society\\" programs, which threw billions of bucks at insolvable problems while normalizing riots and other objectionable behaviors, and you've got a foundation for endless heartache.<br /><br />According to Charen, it was only a hop, skip, and a jump from legitimizing criminal behavior to endorsing the idea that the mentally ill deserved to walk the streets just like the rest of us. After all, if criminals are only practicing an alternative lifestyle surely the residents of the local asylum should have an equal opportunity to live life to the fullest. Thus began the emptying out of state hospitals and the concomitant rise in homelessness. Someone suffering from a long-term illness, like a man named Larry Hogue who terrorized a neighborhood in New York City for years because the authorities couldn't put him away, did not deserve to spend his days locked up where he could receive long-term assistance. Nope, liberals argued that Ronald Reagan and a lack of affordable housing led directly to the plight of the homeless. Remember the days of Comic Relief in the 1980s, the heavily hyped Hollywood gala that ran for nearly the entire span of Reagan's presidency? Homelessness, these people told us, was a big problem exacerbated by having a heartless republican in the White House. Amazingly, homelessness disappeared the day Clinton assumed the presidency. Wow! Slick Willie cured a problem plaguing millions by merely taking the oath of office! Actually, according to the author, studies conducted by numerous groups found the number of homeless in America was at most 250,000 people, hardly the numbers regularly cited by liberals.<br /><br />Charen relentlessly repudiates further liberal policies and actions. School vouchers, a touchy political hot potato, comes under fire. Liberals hate vouchers because they suspect, and rightfully so, that allowing students to attend private schools will undercut the education establishment. They won't come out and say that, of course, because to do so would amount to admitting that most of their campaign contributions come from the teachers' union. In other words, it's far better to let the nation's kids languish in mediocre public schools than give up those reelection dollars. Nice. I could go on and on, but why bother? There is plenty of relevant information in the book that explodes many of the political left's most cherished beliefs. Readers sick of watching the country take a downward spiral will want to check this one out. Then read \\"Useful Idiots.\\"hould have an equal opportunity to live life to the fullest. Thus began the emptying out of state hospitals and the concomitant rise in homelessness. Someone suffering from a long-term illness, like a man named Larry Hogue who terrorized a neighborhood in New York City for years because the authorities couldn't put him away, did not deserve to spend his days locked up where he could receive long-term assistance. Nope, liberals argued that Ronald Reagan and a lack of affordable housing led directly to the plight of the homeless. Remember the days of Comic Relief in the 1980s, the heavily hyped Hollywood gala that ran for nearly the entire span of Reagan's presidency? Homelessness, these people told us, was a big problem exacerbated by having a heartless republican in the White House. Amazingly, homelessness disappeared the day Clinton assumed the presidency. Wow! Slick Willie cured a problem plaguing millions by merely taking the oath of office! Actually, according to the author, studies conducted by numerous groups found the number of homeless in America was at most 250,000 people, hardly the numbers regularly cited by liberals. <br /> <br />Charen relentlessly repudiates further liberal policies and actions. School vouchers, a touchy political hot potato, comes under fire. Liberals hate vouchers because they suspect, and rightfully so, that allowing students to attend private schools will undercut the education establishment. They won't come out and say that, of course, because to do so would amount to admitting that most of their campaign contributions come from the teachers' union. In other words, it's far better to let the nation's kids languish in mediocre public schools than give up those reelection dollars. Nice. I could go on and on, but why bother? There is plenty of relevant information in the book that explodes many of the political left's most cherished beliefs. Readers sick of watching the country take a downward spiral will want to check this one out.Then read \\"Useful Idiots.\\"  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-06-03
217980:US	52012289	R15UQRIHLTVTBN	0895260425	746136200	Winning the Future: A 21st Century Contract with America	Books	4	30	34	N	N	Winning the Presidency?	Gingrich for President? If the article I recently read is any indication, we may see those three words on a bumper sticker at some point in the next three years. I don't remember the source for the article, probably something dredged up by my local paper from the New York Times, but the report indicated that this former Speaker of the House and one of the few sources of illumination during the dark years of the Clinton regime may well toss his hat into the presidential race in 2008. He is eminently qualified to hold the highest office in the land if his record is any indication. Newt Gingrich's Contract with America proved highly popular with a majority of the voting public. His ability to temper some of the more extremist positions advocated by the evil hordes in the White House during the '90s also helped him gain name recognition and support. Certainly, his Washington network will assist him if he chooses to run for the White House. He's even extended a hand in recent months to former nemesis Hillary \\"Red Hilly\\" Clinton over the issue of health care reform. \\"Winning the Future\\" might well be his opening salvo in the future race.<br /><br />Gingrich's 1994 Contract with America sought to apply a leash to an out of control Congress, discourage illegitimacy, balance the federal budget, crack down on crime, keep U.S. troops away from U.N. military commanders, end the welfare dole, and a bunch of other stuff you can find in an appendix at the end of this book. For the most part, Gingrich and his republican colleagues succeeded in fulfilling the contract. Now Newt is articulating a new Contract with America, a 21st Century contract if you will, that identifies a host of pressing new issues that he feels our country must deal with if it is to survive. Not surprisingly, the greatest theme in this document is Islamic terrorism and its threat to our way of life. Other points include reworking Social Security, restoring a belief in God as a central tenet in American life, immigration, and reforming education, health care, and the legal system. A heady agenda, to be sure, but one that Gingrich argues is absolutely essential to long term stability. Considering his past record in Congress, this affable southern historian may well succeed in accomplishing some of these goals if we decide to elect him a few years down the line.<br /><br />Boy, where to start! Although the book runs less than 200 pages, the author covers a lot of ground. Let's start with terrorism, shall we? Gingrich essentially supports most of President Bush's actions in the war against Al-Qaeda. He goes further, however, by saying that we need to triple the size of our intelligence agencies to face down the threat, and we need to amp up the amount of defense spending at the same time. As for the sorry state of Social Security, the book again follows Bush's lead by endorsing privatization of at least part of the payroll tax. Gingrich endorses the Ryan-Sununu bill, a bill calling for private accounts that claims workers will amass some seven trillion dollars in assets by 2020 and will boast surpluses by 2030 that can help pay off the debt accumulated under the currently flawed system. The author supports a guest worker program for hispanic immigrants, argues that the president ought to unseat left-wing judicial activists using a technique implemented by Jefferson against Federalist court stacking, and contends that forcing the health care system to upgrade medical records and other information through computer technology will help reduce costs. Like I said, the book covers a lot of ground.<br /><br />That last point, the importance of science and technological innovation, plays a huge role in many of Gingrich's initiatives. He's a very firm believer that America's greatness stems in large part from its ability to capitalize on the best technology has to offer. The author worries incessantly about the increasingly dismal state of public education in this country, claiming that declining standards in the hard sciences will cost America its edge in developing better medicines, better weapons to combat terrorism, and eventually lead to an undermining of the economy as China and India gain an advantage. He believes that dumping billions into promoting science and technology, through low or zero interest loans to those students planning on studying math and any of the hard sciences, will pay off in the long run. America needs to make it easier for foreign technology students--stymied by visa restrictions put in place as a result of the September 11 disasters--to enter this country, study, and stay as citizens. Gingrich should find a sympathetic audience with this argument in many corners. Other claims, however, don't pass muster.<br /><br />I disagree strongly with his support for a guest worker program for illegal immigrants. Most American citizens regardless of race should. Illegals as they stand now, or as members of a workers' program, drive down wages for everyone else. Everything we hear about this issue revolves around the hoary old claim that \\"Americans don't want these jobs.\\" Horse hockey. Americans don't want low wage jobs, and most of these jobs don't pay a decent wage because the companies can hire and exploit illegals. Cutting off the flow of cheap labor, or at least severely curtailing it, will lead to higher wages. If a company can't cut it without exploiting its labor force, it will go out of business. Other companies will then arise that can do the job cheaper with a better-paid and better-trained labor force. Besides, most of the people that hire illegals pay wages under the table in order to avoid paying taxes. How is that fair to anyone? This problem aside, Gingrich's book is largely relevant and intriguing enough to warrant a wide audience. Give it a shot.ming that declining standards in the hard sciences will cost America its edge in developing better medicines, better weapons to combat terrorism, and eventually lead to an undermining of the economy as China and India gain an advantage. He believes that dumping billions into promoting science and technology, through low or zero interest loans to those students planning on studying math and any of the hard sciences, will pay off in the long run. America needs to make it easier for foreign technology students--stymied by visa restrictions put in place as a result of the September 11 disasters--to enter this country, study, and stay as citizens. Gingrich should find a sympathetic audience with this argument in many corners. Other claims, however, don't pass muster. <br /> <br />I disagree strongly with his support for a guest worker program for illegal immigrants. Most American citizens regardless of race should. Illegals as they stand now, or as members of a workers' program, drive down wages for everyone else. Everything we hear about this issue revolves around the hoary old claim that \\"Americans don't want these jobs.\\" Horse hockey. Americans don't want low wage jobs, and most of these jobs don't pay a decent wage because the companies can hire and exploit illegals. Cutting off the flow of cheap labor, or at least severely curtailing it, will lead to higher wages. If a company can't cut it without exploiting its labor force, it will go out of business. Other companies will then arise that can do the job cheaper with a better-paid and better-trained labor force. Besides, most of the people that hire illegals pay wages under the table in order to avoid paying taxes. How is that fair to anyone? This problem aside, Gingrich's book is largely relevant and intriguing enough to warrant a wide audience. Give it a shot. <br />	2005-06-03
218708:US	52012289	R2JGZLJZV3T8N5	1594678669	871665073	Many Faces to Many Places	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Wonderfully realized allegory on life	I usually skim books before reading them just to get an idea of what I'm getting myself into, and after quickly scanning through Judy Azar LeBlanc's \\"Many Faces to Many Places\\" I thought I was sitting down to read a book aimed at children. The author presents us with a childlike character named Many Faces who possesses the ability to converse with nature, with everything from trees to water to butterflies. Sure sounds like a children's book, right? Then there's the beginning of the story, a beginning that finds Many Faces escaping from a vicious witch who has held the youngster for an indeterminate amount of time. She breaks out of her confinement because the moon tells her to do so. Hmmm. The kids will probably love this book. It's at this point, however, that one should stop in his or her tracks and prepare to be amazed. For once Many Faces leaves her prison and embarks on a strange journey through a land of \\"timeless knowledge,\\" the book speaks to the hearts of self-aware adults everywhere. \\"Many Faces to Many Places\\" isn't a children's book; it's a dense (not in a negative sense) allegorical story about nothing less than life itself. Most kids wouldn't begin to understand this book, in my opinion.<br /><br />Many Faces's journey allows her to meet many interesting creatures, including time in the form of a rushing river, a great golden butterfly of happiness named Elusive, a pair of floating eyes called Faith, and an old man known as Pain. She also encounters several ominous characters deep in a cave, characters with names like Greedy, Stingy, and Betrayal that attempt to trap her and keep her from completing her journey. She escapes from their grasp, however, and continues on her way only to run into more trouble in the Land of Forgotten. Here, Many Faces falls prey to the treacherous King Ekaf and his depraved subjects. Now bearing the name Eslaf on the orders of the king, Many Faces must endure years of indignities. The citizens of this realm always wear masks in order to project aspects of their identities. Too, the haves of the kingdom regularly victimize the have-nots. The deities in this world are money and time, and worshippers must kneel daily to statues of these gods. Other activities, best left unsaid here, rapidly turn Many Faces into a jaded, distant young woman. Only after she escapes from King Ekaf and continues her journey does she find the ultimate truth in a conclusion that feels like it came right out of the Bible.<br /><br />I have mixed feelings about \\"Many Faces to Many Places.\\" On the one hand, I thought the story wildly and wonderfully imaginative. LeBlanc's ability to encapsulate many of life's experiences, whether they are the ups or the downs we all inevitably face, is phenomenal. It's easy to read a book like this and think, \\"Oh, I have gone through that. Everyone who has been alive knows all about that.\\" Who among us hasn't dealt with the temptations of greed, stinginess, and betrayal? Who among us hasn't wondered about the elusiveness of happiness? Who among us has never marveled at the passage of time? The difference between Judy Azar LeBlanc and us (at least most of us) is that she not only sees all of these trials and tribulations as a contiguous whole but also sees how they one aspect of life leads to another. I'm quite impressed that anyone can sit down at a word processor and put most of life's experiences together in a logical narrative AND couch such events in eye grabbing allegory. I also liked the idea of making the protagonist a person of \\"many faces,\\" which obviously is a representation of the many faces of humanity. That LeBlanc manages to fit all of this into ninety plus pages is a rather impressive feat.<br /><br />On the other hand, I suspect more than a few readers may have a problem with the conclusion of the story. In what can only rank as a tacit endorsement of Christianity, Many Faces meets up with an enigmatic man--definitely a Christ figure--on a mountaintop after fleeing from the Land of Forgotten. Their meeting ultimately reveals to Many Faces the errors of her past and allows her to work past them in order to achieve a spiritual sort of \\"rebirth.\\" The language in this section is unmistakably Christian in tone and theme. Not that I have a problem with that. Although I am not a Christian in any sense of the word, I'm not hostile to their belief systems either. But a lot of people are, so much so that you can literally see the blinders descending over their eyes when they are confronted with anything that smacks of Christianity. If you classify as one of these individuals, take note of this fact before sitting down with the book. You will probably still enjoy the other two thirds of the story, however.<br /><br />The Christian tone of the book isn't really a problem for most of us, though. The real value of the book is putting yourself in Many Faces's place when she first encounters the wonders of love, truth, and happiness as well as the dangers represented by materialism and vice. On more than one occasion, early memories of my life flashed before my mind's eye as I recalled how I too dealt with newfound experiences and emotions and, like everyone else, became a fuller person because of it. I heartily recommend spending the hour or two it takes to read \\"Many Faces to Many Places.\\" It's more than likely that you'll consider it time well spent.fleeing from the Land of Forgotten. Their meeting ultimately reveals to Many Faces the errors of her past and allows her to work past them in order to achieve a spiritual sort of \\"rebirth.\\" The language in this section is unmistakably Christian in tone and theme. Not that I have a problem with that. Although I am not a Christian in any sense of the word, I'm not hostile to their belief systems either. But a lot of people are, so much so that you can literally see the blinders descending over their eyes when they are confronted with anything that smacks of Christianity. If you classify as one of these individuals, take note of this fact before sitting down with the book. You will probably still enjoy the other two thirds of the story, however. <br /> <br />The Christian tone of the book isn't really a problem for most of us, though. The real value of the book is putting yourself in Many Faces's place when she first encounters the wonders of love, truth, and happiness as well as the dangers represented by materialism and vice. On more than one occasion, early memories of my life flashed before my mind's eye as I recalled how I too dealt with newfound experiences and emotions and, like everyone else, became a fuller person because of it. I heartily recommend spending the hour or two it takes to read \\"Many Faces to Many Places.\\" It's more than likely that you'll consider it time well spent. <br /> <br />	2005-06-02
230000:US	52012289	R2AXDJJVQ5K6XB	0451212800	43298823	The Resort	Books	4	4	5	N	N	"We're afraid of the consequences"	I recently discovered with some horror that it's been nearly two years since I spent any time with a Bentley Little novel. I read \\"The Policy\\" back in late 2003, bought \\"The Resort\\" shortly after it came out in late 2004, and then went off to read and watch other things. Well, I decided to sit down a day or so ago and finally read \\"The Resort.\\" I'm glad I did. Once again, this book highlights this particular author's penchant for viciously skewering mundane activities and institutions we Americans take for granted. He did the same thing with the U.S. Postal Service in \\"The Mailman,\\" higher education in \\"The University,\\" neighborhood associations in \\"The Association,\\" chain stores in \\"The Store,\\" and insurance companies with \\"The Policy.\\" Now the resort industry takes a shot on the chin in a novel that is both horrific and highly amusing. It's classic Bentley Little here, a book loaded with unsettling gore, torture, and the sort of general nastiness that makes you stop and say, \\"Did he really just say that?\\" It is also, unfortunately, a book that falls prey to one of this author's greatest flaws, namely his tendency to drop the ball when wrapping up the story.<br /><br />The Reata is one of the country's premier resorts, a getaway for the rich and famous boasting a great number of amenities. Guests can lounge by the outdoor pool all day, a pool with a waterfall, slide, and diving boards. If patrons feel the need to work off the pounds, they can take laps in the indoor pool or make use of the state of the art weight room. Two restaurants, the Grille and the Saguaro Room, cater to the guests every whim when it comes to dining out. Tennis courts, hiking trails, a movie theater, saunas, a helicopter pad--you name it, the Reata seems to have it. The resort has a world-class chef who grows his own fruits, vegetables, and spices in a garden. They have people opening doors for guests, and they have a friendly staff always willing to tackle any problem that might arise. Perhaps the Reata's greatest appeal lies in its inaccessibility: the resort sits out in the Arizona desert miles from the nearest town. For the captains of industry and celebrities seeking to escape temporarily from the stresses of high-pressure careers, such remoteness must surely carry great appeal. But these rich customers only arrive during the harsh winter months. During the summer, when the desert heat soars to intolerable levels, the management slashes prices in order to draw in a less distinguished clientele. Enter the Thurman family.<br /><br />Lowell Thurman, his wife Rachel, and his three sons Owen, Curtis, and Ryan arrive for a five-day stay and soon discover that this wonderful getaway hides sinister secrets. The problems start almost immediately when the staff accidentally double books one of the family's rooms. Other suspicious incidents quickly follow, including a strange apparition in the swimming pool, a decidedly unpleasant evening at the Grille, the growing hostility of the staff, and the downright weird goings on at the indoor swimming pool. Then there are the games organized by the activities coordinator, a fellow who goes by the name of Rockne, that quickly turn the resort into a seething cauldron of class warfare. One would think such frightening (and increasingly horrific) events would send the patrons scurrying for the door. Think again. For some unexplainable reason, every terrible incident rapidly fades from the minds of the guests almost as soon as they are encountered. It's obvious that something evil, something powerful and ancient, is working tirelessly to destroy the Reata's customers. It soon falls on the shoulders of the Thurman family to discover what this evil is and how to destroy it. In particular, the psychically perceptive son Ryan will play a central role in uncovering this terror from beyond time and space.<br /><br />I had a lot of fun reading this book. I had so much fun, in fact, that I can't help but compare \\"The Resort\\" to\\"The Store,\\" the Little book that I consider his best work to date. The same elements are in play here: a typical American family caught up in events beyond their control, an emphasis on the destructive tendencies of conformity and groupthink, and a willingness to craft scenes that are simultaneously hilarious and disturbing. \\"The Resort,\\" as with many of Little's books, spends a substantial amount of time simply describing how the family interacts in order to show us their essential \\"averageness.\\" This allows most of us to immediately empathize with them and their impending predicament. And the tendency of these characters to explain away the unfolding weirdness, or to fall in quickly with the rest of the pack, is a subversive slap at the fundamental American belief that we are a nation of independent thinkers. Little recognizes that we're mostly sheep who are more than willing to follow others into the pits of hell rather than stand up and take charge of a situation, which in and of itself can be a rather terrifying realization.<br /><br />But it's the last point, the disturbing yet funny scenes, that move to the fore in this author's novel. The outrageousness of karaoke night at the Grille, the warped golf game witnessed by one of the secondary characters, and the resort sponsored competitions that quickly devolve into gladiatorial death matches will have you busting a gut even as you shudder at the implications of such incidents. On several occasions I simply put down the book and laughed out loud. I'm not sure every reader will share my enthusiasm for Little's unusual take on horror, but \\"The Resort\\" is a good place to start if you're interested in discovering what this author is all about. Only the ending, which feels rushed and is typical of this writer's work, mars an otherwise excellent work. Highly recommended.t\\" to \\"The Store,\\" the Little book that I consider his best work to date. The same elements are in play here: a typical American family caught up in events beyond their control, an emphasis on the destructive tendencies of conformity and groupthink, and a willingness to craft scenes that are simultaneously hilarious and disturbing. \\"The Resort,\\" as with many of Little's books, spends a substantial amount of time simply describing how the family interacts in order to show us their essential \\"averageness.\\" This allows most of us to immediately empathize with them and their impending predicament. And the tendency of these characters to explain away the unfolding weirdness, or to fall in quickly with the rest of the pack, is a subversive slap at the fundamental American belief that we are a nation of independent thinkers. Little recognizes that we're mostly sheep who are more than willing to follow others into the pits of hell rather than stand up and take charge of a situation, which in and of itself can be a rather terrifying realization.  <br /> <br />But it's the last point, the disturbing yet funny scenes, that move to the fore in this author's novel. The outrageousness of karaoke night at the Grille, the warped golf game witnessed by one of the secondary characters, and the resort sponsored competitions that quickly devolve into gladiatorial death matches will have you busting a gut even as you shudder at the implications of such incidents. On several occasions I simply put down the book and laughed out loud. I'm not sure every reader will share my enthusiasm for Little's unusual take on horror, but \\"The Resort\\" is a good place to start if you're interested in discovering what this author is all about. Only the ending, which feels rushed and is typical of this writer's work, mars an otherwise excellent work. Highly recommended.  <br />	2005-05-24
235709:US	52012289	R1YVCFV6FAENHY	044653191X	635347725	Arrogance: Rescuing America From the Media Elite	Books	5	15	19	N	N	An impassioned plea for a fair media	Here they go again.<br /><br />As I write this review for Bernard Goldberg's highly informative book on liberal bias in the American mainstream media, \\"Arrogance,\\" Newsweek magazine is in the doghouse. They released a story claiming that American soldiers, more likely interrogators, threw copies of the Holy Koran in the toilet in an effort to force their Al-Qaeda captives to talk. Muslims quickly caught wind of this tale of woe and began protesting the American presence in Afghanistan, resulting in at least a dozen deaths when security forces attempted to quell the disturbance. Too, a group of clerics in the same country declared a jihad against the United States. Now Newsweek and its resident Jimmy Olsen, Michael Isikoff, are retracting the story. Why? Because they don't have the facts to back up their assertion, that's why. Surprise! But don't worry because no one will be fired, says Newsweek, even though over a dozen people died because someone couldn't bother to investigate a little deeper. Or was it something more sinister? Was it another example of liberal bias, another attempt to chisel a dent into the Bush administration's armor? If it's the latter, you would think the whole Rather incident should have taught them a lesson, right?<br /><br />Wrong, and Goldberg's book partially explains why they haven't learned. The author places the blame on good old-fashioned arrogance, an arrogance born from decades of not having to answer to anyone outside of themselves. It's an arrogance arising from not having any significant relationships outside of their small left-wing cliques in New York City, Los Angeles, and Washington, D.C. It's an arrogance that comes from attending Ivy League schools where, apparently, learning that the rest of the people in this country are ignorant hicks that live in trailer parks is part and parcel of the curriculum. And finally, it's an arrogance that came about because they controlled the media lock, stock, and barrel for years. Those days, argues Goldberg, are just about over thanks to the rise of cable news channels and the Internet. No longer can the so-called \\"old\\" media print whatever suits their fancy without facing the risk that someone out in flyover country will call them on it. In such a situation, two things can happen. The media could make serious attempts at reform or they can stick their heads in the sand and try to ignore the inevitable. Guess which route they chose?<br /><br />Of course, it isn't easy to change overnight (or ever) when you've got a serious case of delusions of grandeur. It isn't so simple to force an editor at the New York Times to take down a phone message for a fellow employee, and it isn't easy for someone like Katie Couric to force a smile when interviewing a conservative on the Today show. But far more importantly, it isn't easy to overcome the sorts of obstacles Goldberg claims exist in the newsroom. \\"Arrogance\\" lifts the veil to show us the seething cauldron of left-wing fanaticism that boils and bubbles at places like NBC, CBS, and the New York Times. Professional organizations for minorities, gays, and women fundamentally shape the stories we see concerning minorities, gays, and women. They issue journalistic standards books recommending what language is appropriate in a story, and they exert their influence whenever an issue pops up that could paint their constituency in a bad light. Acting in concert with these professional groups are dozens if not hundreds of external activist organizations that demand total conformity to their views. Far from being the guardians of society they have always claimed to be, the press is in fact beholden to powerful special interest groups that ultimately limit public discourse on many of the most pressing problems today.<br /><br />Goldberg takes us by the hand to show us the specific issues, but anyone with half a brain already knows what the press isn't truthfully covering. For example, look at the contentious area that is gender. According to the author, the media almost never question the most outrageous statements put forward by groups like NOW. Remember that report claiming domestic violence skyrockets on Super Bowl Sunday? Totally false, yet the press reported it to the public with a straight face. The same thing happens with race relations, gun ownership, gay marriage, abortion, and a host of other topics near and dear to the leftist heart. Either bogus information is passed on to the public or important information is withheld for fear of upsetting some group. Goldberg claims fear of being branded insensitive or racist is part of the problem, but the main difficulty has much to do with personal opinion. Members of the media, by and large, pass on this information or engage in censorship because they personally believe in the left-wing agenda. Journalists think it is their job to act as the vanguard for \\"progressive\\" initiatives, a job made all the more easier by the ideological reinforcement they receive from the aforementioned cliques.<br /><br />Solving the problem of media bias won't be an easy proposition. Goldberg offers a twelve-step program to help break his former colleagues of their disorder. He argues that newsrooms across the country should truly reflect America by hiring not only minorities but also conservatives, libertarians, communists, gun owners, anti-abortion advocates, high school graduates, and anyone else who can offer a different opinion on a given issue. Too, he thinks moving the headquarters out of New York and into the provinces could teach these guys and gals to have a little more respect and a greater perspective. Goldberg's critiques and solutions come wrapped in an easy to read style that should appeal to an audience composed of everyone except, unfortunately, journalists. Too bad. Maybe he can send a copy of the book to Newsweek and Isikoff?a that is gender. According to the author, the media almost never question the most outrageous statements put forward by groups like NOW. Remember that report claiming domestic violence skyrockets on Super Bowl Sunday? Totally false, yet the press reported it to the public with a straight face. The same thing happens with race relations, gun ownership, gay marriage, abortion, and a host of other topics near and dear to the leftist heart. Either bogus information is passed on to the public or important information is withheld for fear of upsetting some group. Goldberg claims fear of being branded insensitive or racist is part of the problem, but the main difficulty has much to do with personal opinion. Members of the media, by and large, pass on this information or engage in censorship because they personally believe in the left-wing agenda. Journalists think it is their job to act as the vanguard for \\"progressive\\" initiatives, a job made all the more easier by the ideological reinforcement they receive from the aforementioned cliques. <br /> <br />Solving the problem of media bias won't be an easy proposition. Goldberg offers a twelve-step program to help break his former colleagues of their disorder. He argues that newsrooms across the country should truly reflect America by hiring not only minorities but also conservatives, libertarians, communists, gun owners, anti-abortion advocates, high school graduates, and anyone else who can offer a different opinion on a given issue. Too, he thinks moving the headquarters out of New York and into the provinces could teach these guys and gals to have a little more respect and a greater perspective. Goldberg's critiques and solutions come wrapped in an easy to read style that should appeal to an audience composed of everyone except, unfortunately, journalists. Too bad. Maybe he can send a copy of the book to Newsweek and Isikoff? <br />	2005-05-18
238447:US	52012289	R2C6FP0D0K19I3	0595326005	284863340	China Diaries: A novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A story that touches your heart	When the Imperial Japanese Army occupied the city of Nanking, China on December 13, 1937, the barbarity that followed should sicken the soul of any decent human being. Operating from the position that the Chinese were subhuman and thus outside of any considerations of decency, the soldiers in the occupying force embarked on a reign of terror that lasted for weeks. By the time the massacre ended, it is estimated that some 300,000 innocent civilians perished from gunshot wounds, stabbings, rapes, decapitations, and assorted other cruelties. Up until a few years ago--some would say up to the present--the activities of the Japanese military in China rarely received adequate attention. Iris Chang's \\"The Rape of Nanking\\" helped bring this incident to the fore, and it also revealed how certain elements in present day Japan are attempting to whitewash their country's involvement in the affair. Unfortunately for the revisionists, photographic evidence as well as some film lensed by a missionary in the city shows all too clearly the aftermath of the atrocities. If you've ever seen these pictures, you already know the mind-blasting horrors that took place in the city. If you haven't seen them, think of the footage shot in the concentration camps in Europe.<br /><br />Where does this introduction lead? To Louis Stannard's \\"China Diaries,\\" a self-published novel that unfolds in part against the backdrop of the Nanking massacre. The story begins in 1994 by introducing us to a pilot named Stephen Cannon, a basically decent guy who never knew his parents because they both perished during World War II. All he has to remember them by--aside from recollections told to him by his father's parents--is the \\"China Diaries,\\" a collection of journal entries penned by his mother Anna Boreisha and the flight logs kept by his father Alex. Much of the material appears to be missing, but the writings Stephen does possess led him to conclude long ago that his Russian mother likely abandoned him in order to head back to China to be with his father. As he soon discovers, however, nothing could be further from the truth. A phone call Stephen receives from a young Asian law student one day leads him on a quest to recover his mother's missing diaries, and also leads to important revelations about his parents and about the Japanese atrocities committed in China before and during World War II. His quest also lands him in hot water with a Japanese organization dedicated to keeping evidence of the massacre out of the hands of the western press.<br /><br />Anna's missing journals come into play much later in the book, after we learn about her background, how she met Alex Cannon, and how the two fled the Japanese invasion of Hong Kong. Boreisha's family, White Russians who settled in China after the Bolsheviks took over, strive to give their daughter a decent upbringing in a country that has little use for them. Anna's father insists that his daughter learn several languages, study history and current events, and stay away from the nightclubs and brothels were most Russian girls must work to survive in a hostile environment. Her knowledge coupled with her extraordinary physical appearance soon finds her working for CNAC, a division of Pan American that provides air service throughout China. But even as Anna works her way up through the ranks of this company, events emerge that entangle her in the shadowy world of espionage. The Americans, Germans, and Japanese are all operating within China, and all sides wish to find out what the others are doing. Events unfold quickly: Anna must flee both the Japanese and those seeking to punish her for spying, she plays a role in rescuing Chinese citizens in Nanking, escapes from the city, meets Alex Cannon, and flies around the world shortly after the outbreak of World War II.<br /><br />\\"China Diaries\\" offers up romance, action, and intrigue without missing a beat. The book runs roughly 450 pages, giving Stannard plenty of time to fully flesh out his characters and the myriad situations they find themselves in. Too, the author shifts time frames, from 1994 to the 1930s and back again, quite effectively. Most of the story focuses on Anna Boreisha's adventures, and it does so in a way that charms the reader. I soon began to care about what happened to this brave young lady, especially after she ends up working for the international relief agencies in Nanking during the height of the Japanese atrocities. This section of the book brings into sharp focus the grinding horrors visited upon the native population, personalizes it if you will, and it's probably what I'll remember most about the book even though it isn't the central aspect of the story. I don't know an enormous amount of specifics about Nanking, but what I did know before I cracked Stannard's book meshes pretty well with what he presents. \\"China Diaries\\" concludes with a selected bibliography at the back of the book for those interested in reading more about Pan American's flight operations in the Pacific as well as the Nanking massacre.<br /><br />There are a few slight problems with the novel, primarily several awkward sentences and some typos that occasionally interrupt the flow of the story, but nothing serious enough to ruin the experience. And \\"China Diaries\\" is an experience, an often brutal experience tempered by a very real humanity and even a dose of good old-fashioned redemption that makes the book a fascinating read. I don't think it is out of order to offer up a round of applause to Louis Stannard for bringing further attention to a series of events that still remain clouded in needless controversy and obscurity. I truly hope this book reaches as wide an audience as possible.time to fully flesh out his characters and the myriad situations they find themselves in. Too, the author shifts time frames, from 1994 to the 1930s and back again, quite effectively. Most of the story focuses on Anna Boreisha's adventures, and it does so in a way that charms the reader. I soon began to care about what happened to this brave young lady, especially after she ends up working for the international relief agencies in Nanking during the height of the Japanese atrocities. This section of the book brings into sharp focus the grinding horrors visited upon the native population, personalizes it if you will, and it's probably what I'll remember most about the book even though it isn't the central aspect of the story. I don't know an enormous amount of specifics about Nanking, but what I did know before I cracked Stannard's book meshes pretty well with what he presents. \\"China Diaries\\" concludes with a selected bibliography at the back of the book for those interested in reading more about Pan American's flight operations in the Pacific as well as the Nanking massacre.  <br /> <br />There are a few slight problems with the novel, primarily several awkward sentences and some typos that occasionally interrupt the flow of the story, but nothing serious enough to ruin the experience. And \\"China Diaries\\" is an experience, an often brutal experience tempered by a very real humanity and even a dose of good old-fashioned redemption that makes the book a fascinating read. I don't think it is out of order to offer up a round of applause to Louis Stannard for bringing further attention to a series of events that still remain clouded in needless controversy and obscurity. I truly hope this book reaches as wide an audience as possible. <br />	2005-05-16
279192:US	52012289	R2IDZ4R5O8JK64	0674014871	586543073	Plants and Empire: Colonial Bioprospecting in the Atlantic World	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Adds much to Atlantic history	Atlantic history is turning into quite the hot topic these days in various academic circles. When I use the phrase \\"Atlantic history,\\" I'm not referring to mere narratives dealing with navies or trading vessels, but rather the sweeping arc of political, economic, cultural, and social dynamics of the nations and continents bordering the Atlantic Ocean. It is a topic that also deals with slavery, piracy, colonialism, revolution, and the rise of capitalism. Histories in this field tend to look at events spanning three or four centuries, usually the 1600s to the 1900s but often greater swaths of time, and how these events arose from the complex interactions of various peoples. I've read quite a few books in this challenging field, from Marcus Rediker's \\"The Many-Headed Hydra\\" to Barry Unsworth's fictional novel \\"Sacred Hunger\\" to a series of essays from Philip D. Curtin. All three were enlightening in particular ways, but all three couldn't possibly hope to cover every aspect of such an enormous topic. Well, Rediker comes close. But plenty of work still exists for the keen-eyed historian. Enter Londa Schiebinger and her \\"Plants and Empire: Colonial Bioprospecting in the Atlantic World.\\" Plants, it seems, moved about as much as people during this time frame.<br /><br />Who collected plants in the New World and took them back to Europe? Were there specific plants sought by European scientists and, if so, which ones and why? These are only a couple of the many questions the author seeks to answer in this book. According to Schiebinger, to find the answers to these vexing questions involves studying the state of botanical study in the 17th and 18th centuries, the role women played in collecting plants and using the medicine distilled from them, the personalities behind the cataloguing of plants, and the various methods used to disseminate knowledge about the medicinal uses of the plants in question. The book explains that the European nation states considered plants a valuable commodity, so much so that kings and princes underwrote the creation of special botanical gardens employing scientists and dozens of men willing to go out into the field to collect specimens. Plants could provide cures for various afflictions or dyes for clothing that could translate into millions in profit for a particular nation. Moreover, the acquisition of material meant fame and fortune for the botanists involved in their collection. Carl Linnaeus, the father of modern scientific classification, pops up in these pages more than once. So do a few women who went out into the field--primarily a man's domain--to write their own treatises on native flora and fauna.<br /><br />Schiebinger mentions many useful plants, but focuses on one in particular to show how empire building and imperialism manifested itself in such an innocuous activity as botany. The Peacock flower, which grew widely in the Caribbean and was used by local women as a way to end unwanted pregnancies, caught the eye of European collectors quite early. These men even knew what the plant's function was. So were does empire enter the picture? First, Schiebinger argues that doctors and botanists attempted to hide the true use of the plant back home--a process of purposefully obscuring scientific data the author calls agnotology--so that European women would not use the plant to terminate pregnancies. At the same time, doctors and researchers never hesitated to use this plant and other abortifacients in experiments on slaves in the New World. Thus knowledge, or the control of knowledge by male scientists, was used to regulate female reproduction and assert a form of dominance over the native populations in the Caribbean. Moreover, Schiebinger asserts that slaves and conquered populations used the Peacock flower because they didn't want their children to live in bondage. Pretty heavy stuff, wouldn't you say?<br /><br />The research in the book is impeccable. The author consulted medical books, botanical collections, memoirs, pharmaceutical pamphlets and catalogues, letters, and other pertinent materials to construct a detailed examination of the importance of botany in European expansion and conquest. \\"Plants and Empire\\" is at its strongest when arguing that herbal medicines were enormously important to European economic trade, more important than we would think. The book is at its weakest when trying to convince the reader that scientists tried to hide the knowledge of abortifacients from European females. Yes, it does appear that the particular trait of the Peacock flower didn't pop up all over the place, but it did appear in a few journals and reports. Besides, the Europeans had access to a large number of effective abortifacients that worked just as well, if not better, than the Peacock flower. Some of these medicines were still available well into the 20th century. Moreover, the argument that the disappearance of midwives, with their vast knowledge of such \\"immoral\\" materials, would result in a loss of this knowledge amongst the general populace seems unlikely. Knowledge, especially \\"forbidden\\" knowledge, is surprisingly resistant to any attempts at restriction.<br /><br />I enjoyed reading Schiebinger's book despite these problems. She's quite a proficient writer, capable of guiding the reader through the often daunting numbers of Latin plant names with the greatest of ease. Too--and I probably shouldn't say this about an academic whose specialty includes gender studies--she's quite attractive if the photograph on the flap is any indication. I could easily see myself sitting in the front row of her class with endearing messages written on my eyelids. Seriously, students of Atlantic history and others who love metahistory would do well to check out this book. It is a fine contribution to the field.botanical collections, memoirs, pharmaceutical pamphlets and catalogues, letters, and other pertinent materials to construct a detailed examination of the importance of botany in European expansion and conquest. \\"Plants and Empire\\" is at its strongest when arguing that herbal medicines were enormously important to European economic trade, more important than we would think. The book is at its weakest when trying to convince the reader that scientists tried to hide the knowledge of abortifacients from European females. Yes, it does appear that the particular trait of the Peacock flower didn't pop up all over the place, but it did appear in a few journals and reports. Besides, the Europeans had access to a large number of effective abortifacients that worked just as well, if not better, than the Peacock flower. Some of these medicines were still available well into the 20th century. Moreover, the argument that the disappearance of midwives, with their vast knowledge of such \\"immoral\\" materials, would result in a loss of this knowledge amongst the general populace seems unlikely. Knowledge, especially \\"forbidden\\" knowledge, is surprisingly resistant to any attempts at restriction. <br /> <br />I enjoyed reading Schiebinger's book despite these problems. She's quite a proficient writer, capable of guiding the reader through the often daunting numbers of Latin plant names with the greatest of ease. Too--and I probably shouldn't say this about an academic whose specialty includes gender studies--she's quite attractive if the photograph on the flap is any indication. I could easily see myself sitting in the front row of her class with endearing messages written on my eyelids. Seriously, students of Atlantic history and others who love metahistory would do well to check out this book. It is a fine contribution to the field.     <br />	2005-04-13
279939:US	52012289	R38BWL4RXM8IHG	0595327826	125260983	Once in Kazakhstan: The Snow Leopard Emerges	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Get thee behind me, Lenin!	Ahhh, Kazakhstan! What a country, eh? Everyone is familiar with this far away spot, this one time member of the Soviet Union that has since become an independent country after the fall of Russian style communism, right? Probably not. Kazakhstan is an obscure, out of the way nation on the other side of the world, which virtually assures that nine out of ten American schoolchildren couldn't find it on a map if their lives depended on it. Heck, nine out of ten American adults couldn't locate this Asiatic nation if their lives depended on it. Only state department wonks, Soviet research specialists, and oil executives probably know much about Kazakhstan. Oh, and Keith Rosten too. He's a lawyer who spent time in this former Soviet Republic on a Fulbright scholarship back in the early 1990s. His duties included teaching courses on American law at a university. His duties also included surviving the day-to-day challenges of living in a former Soviet Republic desperately grasping at that nebulous concept called democracy. \\"Once in Kazakhstan: The Snow Leopard Emerges\\" is Rosten's account of his numerous adventures written in the form of a daily journal.<br /><br />According to Rosten, Kazakhstan is a country struggling to form a coherent identity. Arguably the greatest factor in shaping a vision of itself is its problems with the ethnic makeup of the nation. Throughout the book, the author returns repeatedly to the problems faced by Kazakhstan's Russian, German, Jewish, and Kazakh populations. The imposition of Soviet communism seriously depleted the native population when the endearing Uncle Joe Stalin presided over a kulak style extermination program aimed at turning a nomadic people into a sedentary, rural based group of cheery proletariats. Who cares if a few million wretches died in the pursuit of such a noble dream? Uncle Joe had a vision, a vision that largely succeeded in fundamentally altering the lifestyles of the Kazakh people. Here's to seeing Uncle Joe and his ilk festering in the deepest pits of Hades for all time. But in the process of changing Kazakhstan, thousands upon thousands of ethnic Russians invaded the country to take all the cushy party jobs and generally feed like a plague upon the naïve waifs who lived there. Now that the Soviet Union has faded into memory, the country struggles to define the role of those Russians still living within its borders. Thousands have left, as have Germans living in the region for centuries. Jews as well have largely left for Israel.<br /><br />The problem of building a democracy from the ground up, aside from ethnic insecurities, is a daunting task. Rosten details the process in a largely sober manner tinged with traces of humor. Any nation aspiring to the highest ideals of democracy must have a firm educational footing, yet the author notes how his students are far from inspired scholars. Academics earn next to nothing, even at the university level, so the emphasis on education tends to slip quite often. Students take a huge load of courses but do little real work in any of them. Drinking is a prime factor in laxity on campus, and it's also an important facet of life in Kazakhstan at large. Rosten explains repeatedly his efforts to escape the offers of various liquors, often with little success. Another factor in establishing a firm footing in the democratic tradition revolves around a stable monetary system--or at least a monetary system a nation can call its own. During the author's stay in the country, Kazakhstan attempted to institute its own currency, called the tenge, in order to replace the Russian and Soviet era rubles used by the citizenry. Chaos quickly ensued as the value of money bounced back and forth like a yo-yo. I won't even get into the quagmire that is an election in Kazakhstan. It makes our 2000 race look tame by comparison.<br /><br />Most of the book deals with Rosten's daily experiences in Almaty (once called Alma Alta), the capital of the country. When one acquires lodgings in this city, one soon learns to lower one's expectations. Especially if that person is an American used to American buildings and amenities. Plumbing is a problem in Almaty, especially hot water. As for roaches, well, Rosten tells us these icky pests soon became second nature when staying in apartments and hotels. If you're expecting to clean your clothing with the latest washers and dryers from Sears, forget about it. You wash by hand in the sink or use odd little machines that don't work well. Planning on heading down to the local supermarket for your weekly grocery order? Nope. Kazakhstan has a marketplace where people go to buy food on a daily basis. They also buy goods from little kiosks that sprout up on streets throughout the city. Then there is the problem of getting around the city. A person can walk, but not at night. High crime rates in Almaty during the early 1990s promised dire fates to those stupid enough to go out for a stroll once the sun went down. Driving presents a host of holy horrors.<br /><br />I'm making Rosten's experiences in Kazakhstan sound like a nightmare, but the author is the first to admit that he came away with a great love for the people he met there. They have problems in nearly every aspect of their lives, but they also possess a tenacity that saw them through the horrors of communism. The book concludes with the author noting several changes he witnessed on return trips to the country, some good and some bad. As for the book itself, \\"Once in Kazakhstan\\" is a wonderful example of travelogue literature in both the positive and the negative: positive because such books give the reader an intimate look at a foreign culture not readily available from newspapers or other sources, and negative because we rarely see anything beyond what Rosten sees. Nonetheless, this is a great book about a great nation.en one acquires lodgings in this city, one soon learns to lower one's expectations. Especially if that person is an American used to American buildings and amenities. Plumbing is a problem in Almaty, especially hot water. As for roaches, well, Rosten tells us these icky pests soon became second nature when staying in apartments and hotels. If you're expecting to clean your clothing with the latest washers and dryers from Sears, forget about it. You wash by hand in the sink or use odd little machines that don't work well. Planning on heading down to the local supermarket for your weekly grocery order? Nope. Kazakhstan has a marketplace where people go to buy food on a daily basis. They also buy goods from little kiosks that sprout up on streets throughout the city. Then there is the problem of getting around the city. A person can walk, but not at night. High crime rates in Almaty during the early 1990s promised dire fates to those stupid enough to go out for a stroll once the sun went down. Driving presents a host of holy horrors.  <br /> <br />I'm making Rosten's experiences in Kazakhstan sound like a nightmare, but the author is the first to admit that he came away with a great love for the people he met there. They have problems in nearly every aspect of their lives, but they also possess a tenacity that saw them through the horrors of communism. The book concludes with the author noting several changes he witnessed on return trips to the country, some good and some bad. As for the book itself, \\"Once in Kazakhstan\\" is a wonderful example of travelogue literature in both the positive and the negative: positive because such books give the reader an intimate look at a foreign culture not readily available from newspapers or other sources, and negative because we rarely see anything beyond what Rosten sees. Nonetheless, this is a great book about a great nation.    <br /> <br />  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />   <br />	2005-04-12
301308:US	52012289	R3DKDJR2X0XXKL	0595311849	125282483	Out of the Blue: Book One of Project Infinity	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Highly entertaining!	I long for those wonderful days of childhood when I could kick back with a horror, science fiction, or action novel and whittle away the hours lost in make believe worlds. Now I spend my time in a different world where I don't get to read as much as I want or read the sorts of things I want. This world is called reality. The real world is a frightening place filled with strange people saying strange things as well as a particularly loathsome activity sometimes referred to as \\"work.\\" For me, work consists of going to graduate school for a master's degree in history. This means that I do read things every now and then--when I can sandwich the activity between going to class, writing unexciting papers on obscure historical events, and watching cheesy movies--but the types of things I read, for the most part, hardly qualify as entertaining experiences. When you grind through stuff that uses the word \\"hermeneutic\\" as an adjective and as an adverb (that would be \\"hermeneutically\\"), you know you've strayed about as far as possible from the traditional cheap paperback novel. Fortunately, I still get the chance to read something interesting once in awhile. Enter Tom Inabnet's \\"Out of the Blue.\\"<br /><br />\\"Out of the Blue\\" is a science fiction novel, apparently the first in a projected series, concerning a top-secret government laboratory that houses something called \\"Project Infinity.\\" Developed by brilliant physicist Dalton Parker over a number of years, Infinity is a device that can transmit matter from one point to another in mere seconds. You could send a cheeseburger from the local fast food place to a plate in your kitchen in the blink of an eye, or zip over to Tahiti for the weekend without ever boarding a plane. The applications of such a device are endless, of course, involving everything from space travel to fighting wars. Sadly, there is a downside to such a device. What would happen if terrorists got their hands on Project Infinity? They could send an assassin right into the oval office, or plant a nuclear bomb anywhere in the world, or use the device to steal all the gold in Fort Knox. Who knows what those nefarious bomb throwers would do if given the chance? Whatever the case, it wouldn't be good. The Pentagon brass funding the project recognize the inherent dangers in their new toy, and that is why they have a highly trained military specialist named Major John Starling keeping an eye on things. When the device suddenly disappears in a deadly flash, the story kicks into high gear.<br /><br />It soon becomes apparent who is behind the abduction of this valuable asset. What isn't clear, however, is where the device went or who helped the people responsible for stealing it. Did Dalton Parker have a hand in the nefarious plot? Doubtful, since he inadvertently ended up going along with the project when it disappeared. What about his beautiful, highly intelligent assistant Sheri Armstrong? She also disappeared with the machine, and since everyone knows her and Parker battled for control of the program, it wouldn't be out of line to suspect her. Perhaps Bill Paxton, another researcher working on the project and a close friend of Parker, knows more than he's willing to let on. Even Dalton's sultry ex-wife Amy comes under suspicion. While Starling sorts through the list of possible traitors back in New Mexico, Dalton and Armstrong attempt to figure out where they and the laboratory went. They soon end up in the custody of the man responsible for the theft, a man who plans on selling his newfound services to the highest bidders in the Middle East. Problem is, this guy and his goons didn't count on dealing with the highly intelligent Parker, who will ultimately teach these thugs a lesson they won't soon forget.<br /><br />\\"Out of the Blue\\" is an entertaining, well-written novel. The plot doesn't contain anything we haven't seen before in countless other stories, but that doesn't take away much from the experience. Inabnet is at his best when writing in lots of twists and turns, so many that the reader is kept constantly guessing as to the identities of those responsible for lending a hand in the theft of the project. At one point even Major Starling looks like he has a hand in the plot. These red herrings keep the book moving along at a smart pace. Too, the author had me totally buying into the idea that such a device could actually work. There are even some romance and chase scenes thrown in for good measure. What didn't work as well is character development and motivation. As some of the other reviewers pointed out, the Amy character is off the charts in the evil department, so much so that she comes off looking like a Bond villain. The relationship between Armstrong and Parker also seems forced considering how much they supposedly hated each other during the project's development, but I'll buy that the tragedy and danger they go through in the jungles of Brazil could realistically bring about the sort of lovey dovey rapprochement Inabnet describes.<br /><br />Despite these niggling problems, \\"Out of the Blue\\" is a great read and a welcome respite from the humdrum scholarly stuff I read on a daily basis. If this book is any indication, the rest of the series ought to rank quite high on the entertainment meter. Tom Inabnet should be proud of himself for writing such an enjoyable yarn; he definitely should take pride in the fact that he avoided using the word \\"hermeneutics\\" anywhere in the narrative, too!at his best when writing in lots of twists and turns, so many that the reader is kept constantly guessing as to the identities of those responsible for lending a hand in the theft of the project. At one point even Major Starling looks like he has a hand in the plot. These red herrings keep the book moving along at a smart pace. Too, the author had me totally buying into the idea that such a device could actually work. There are even some romance and chase scenes thrown in for good measure. What didn't work as well is character development and motivation. As some of the other reviewers pointed out, the Amy character is off the charts in the evil department, so much so that she comes off looking like a Bond villain. The relationship between Armstrong and Parker also seems forced considering how much they supposedly hated each other during the project's development, but I'll buy that the tragedy and danger they go through in the jungles of Brazil could realistically bring about the sort of lovey dovey rapprochement Inabnet describes. <br /> <br />Despite these niggling problems, \\"Out of the Blue\\" is a great read and a welcome respite from the humdrum scholarly stuff I read on a daily basis. If this book is any indication, the rest of the series ought to rank quite high on the entertainment meter. Tom Inabnet should be proud of himself for writing such an enjoyable yarn; he definitely should take pride in the fact that he avoided using the word \\"hermeneutics\\" anywhere in the narrative, too!   <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />	2005-03-26
304252:US	52012289	R1R205TBNMQSCW	0521629438	338360436	The Rise and Fall of the Plantation Complex: Essays in Atlantic History (Studies in Comparative World History)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	History on a huge scale	In a way I shudder at the idea of reviewing a book like Philip D. Curtin's \\"The Rise and Fall of the Plantation Complex: Essays in Atlantic History\\" for the simple fact that a book containing fourteen detailed essays is daunting to summarize. Which essay should receive the most attention? The reviewer of Curtin's book soon realizes that such a question does not have an easy answer. Nearly all of the articles contained in this slim volume warrant far more attention than I can give them in a 1000 word review. I'll have to resort to sweeping generalization in the main, most likely, but that's acceptable considering the focus of these writings deals with a sweeping topic. Atlantic history is metahistory, encompassing as it does some three or four hundred years and stretching through Europe, Africa, South America, the Caribbean, and North America. It is also a story filled with tales of exploration, greed, bondage, and freedom. Atlantic history is a hot topic from what I've gathered, what with books like Marcus Rediker's \\"The Many Headed Hydra\\" gaining quite a lot of attention in the academic world. Then again, maybe I think it's a pressing subject since I've read several books on the theme for a class at school.<br /><br />Curtin focuses on the rise and spread of the plantation complex, which he calls an \\"entity,\\" beginning with the discovery of sugar in the Mediterranean during the time of the Crusades. Located primarily on the island of Cyprus, Europeans harvested sugar there for roughly two hundred years. With the reconquest of the Levant by Muslims, growers and consumers sought out new sources of the product. Enter the slow move into the New World and the introduction of a plantation structure that was feudalistic in nature, relied on slave labor, and was controlled by a political system overseas. The \\"true\\" plantation existed solely for profit, for supplying goods for distant markets, and needed slaves to operate the fields because the European populations had not yet overcome the numerous diseases and hardships found in the harsh climes of South America, the Caribbean, and Africa. Had Europeans merely waited until they built up immunity to diseases, argues Curtin, it's quite possible slavery as we recognize it today might never have existed. He also posits the interesting observation that plantations in the American South were not \\"true\\" plantations and as such receive little mention in his articles. He's more interested in the large European concerns spreading like a plague through South America and the Caribbean.<br /><br />Curtin doesn't solely examine the structure of the plantation, although he does spend some time discussing the geography of a typical sugar plantation, the types of buildings found there, how the goods went to market, and how the same forms adapted to different climates. He throws in a detailed examination of the African slave trade, how it arose, who participated in it (both Europeans and Africans readily engaged in the selling of human beings), and argues that the decline and fall of powerful African states led to an increase in the number of people available for the slave markets. The author also argues that the plantation, no matter what its location, represented a form of \\"cultural demography\\" in that the Europeans who built them moved into a region and supplanted the local population (most of them died) with non-native inhabitants. The racial and social composition of our world today is largely a result of the plantation system and the demographic changes it wrought. It's an amazing claim and one that, if accepted, equals in importance the barbarian migrations that rocked the Roman world in the fourth and fifth centuries.<br /><br />Curtin postulates some theories to help explain the demise of the plantation complex, too. He contends that the democratic revolutions in the New World and Europe put an end to these exploitative economic enterprises, primarily the series of rebellions that resulted inan independent Haitian state in 1804 but also including the American and French Revolutions. Even moderate attempts at democratization in England helped bring about the abolishment of slavery (remember, American plantations don't count) and thus sealed the plantation complex's doom. Also lending a hand was the emergence of the European Enlightenment, which tended to look at non-western lands and people as \\"exotic,\\" a view that planted the seeds for later anti-slavery movements and increased attention to what was going on in the mother country's backwaters. By the 1880s Brazil was freeing slaves to SAVE money because droughts and laws aimed at preventing the importation of new slaves decreased their value to the point that it was too expensive to keep them around.<br /><br />\\"The Rise and Fall of the Plantation Complex\\" makes abundant use of detailed maps and graphs, something that, as incredible as it sounds, many history books fail to do. I did have two quibbles with the book. The first is the atrocious editing, or should I say lack of editing, that plagues nearly every page of this book. Errors are so numerous that the flow of the text is seriously hampered. And none other than Cambridge University Press published it! My second problem centers on Curtin's complaints about \\"Eurocentric\\" history and how historians ought to look beyond that bias. That might have been a problem in 1990 when the book first appeared, but even a cursory glance at the history section in the local bookstore today will reveal dozens of titles written from a decidedly non-European point of view. Despite these niggling problems, Curtin's book is a good read for both historians and interested laypersons (laypeople?) intrigued by the subject.ted in an independent Haitian state in 1804 but also including the American and French Revolutions. Even moderate attempts at democratization in England helped bring about the abolishment of slavery (remember, American plantations don't count) and thus sealed the plantation complex's doom. Also lending a hand was the emergence of the European Enlightenment, which tended to look at non-western lands and people as \\"exotic,\\" a view that planted the seeds for later anti-slavery movements and increased attention to what was going on in the mother country's backwaters. By the 1880s Brazil was freeing slaves to SAVE money because droughts and laws aimed at preventing the importation of new slaves decreased their value to the point that it was too expensive to keep them around. <br /> <br />\\"The Rise and Fall of the Plantation Complex\\" makes abundant use of detailed maps and graphs, something that, as incredible as it sounds, many history books fail to do. I did have two quibbles with the book. The first is the atrocious editing, or should I say lack of editing, that plagues nearly every page of this book. Errors are so numerous that the flow of the text is seriously hampered. And none other than Cambridge University Press published it! My second problem centers on Curtin's complaints about \\"Eurocentric\\" history and how historians ought to look beyond that bias. That might have been a problem in 1990 when the book first appeared, but even a cursory glance at the history section in the local bookstore today will reveal dozens of titles written from a decidedly non-European point of view. Despite these niggling problems, Curtin's book is a good read for both historians and interested laypersons (laypeople?) intrigued by the subject. <br />	2005-03-23
344143:US	52012289	R11U7IY6NAJ65R	0595318827	612917860	The Gift of Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Jean Lynch's homage to her daughter	Alpha 1 Antitrypsin Deficiency is an archetypical medical term that on the surface doesn't appear that serious. Doctors and researchers are great at coming up with jargon, aren't they? Heck, \\"deficiency\\" doesn't sound life threatening at all, merely hinting at a lack of some substance your body needs to work properly. Just pop a needle in a syringe, inject some Alpha 1 Antitrypsin, and the person suffering from this infirmity can go on his or her merry way. Not quite. According to Jean Lynch's experiences with her daughter Linda, who suffered from and ultimately passed away due to this genetic lung disorder, Alpha 1 Antitrypsin Deficiency is a deathly serious matter that, if left untreated, will eventually cause the demise of the afflicted person. Alpha 1 is protein manufactured in the liver that helps protect our lungs from an enzyme released by white blood cells. If the levels of this protein drop or cease altogether, this enzyme will relentlessly destroy the elasticity of the lungs. The result should be apparent at this point: as lung tissue deteriorates our bodies cannot absorb the necessary amounts of oxygen needed to live. Death caused by this genetic disorder is slow and agonizing.<br /><br />There is hope, however, if physicians catch the disease early. Drugs are always an option, and a lung transplant can help prolong life significantly if the body does not reject the new organ. Sadly, Linda failed to respond to either drugs or a transplant. Doctors, ever the ruthless pragmatists, decided not to perform another transplant when the first one failed. Enter \\"The Gift of Life,\\" a book that captures perfectly the hope, the indecision, the guilt, the agony, and the other thousand or so emotions inherent in dealing with a sick loved one. Compounding the tragedy contained within these pages is the fact that we have a mother struggling to save her eldest child, a mother who worked as a registered nurse with terminal patients for decades. The experience gained from years of watching others slip away provides little relief when dealing with your own flesh and blood, and Lynch's account contains all the frustrations and angers that arise when dealing with the byzantine structure known as the American medical establishment; a medical establishment that won't give a woman another lung transplant when the first one failed to take. A medical establishment that shunts patients off to hospice care when a chance for recovery could still exist. A medical establishment that allows interns to tell patients they probably won't receive further treatment because they won't live.<br /><br />Jean Lynch's chronicle of her late daughter's illness rocked me to the core because I'm currently watching a loved one struggle with terminal lung and bone cancer. Like Jean and Linda, I've sat in hospital rooms for hours on end praying for the time that we could take our family member home. I've listened to four different doctors--or more, there are always more doctors--give four or more different opinions on why my relative is in the hospital again. I've heard a doctor hand down a death sentence with more finality than a prisoner guilty of capital murder ever heard from a judge, only to learn a few weeks later that the latest, last hope treatment appears to be working. I've seen a loved in one in so much pain that she could only lie in bed and shake with agony and fear. I've seen family members trying to cope with the impending tragedy and ever present uncertainty in ways good and bad. It is difficult, if not impossible, to go through what Jean and Linda did without feeling anger at those around you. At the same time, the anger is often irrational when placed into the larger context of the tragedy. But that sort of reflection comes much later, apparently, and not in the midst of visits to the doctor, painful treatments, and all the other nastiness that comes with a terminal illness.<br /><br />The book concludes with protracted and agonizing descriptionsof Linda's final days at her mother's home. Jean and her other daughter Sandra cared for their relative right up to the last moment with only minimal assistance from hospice nurses. I'm surprised that Linda stayed with her mother and not in a hospice ward. My ill relative has made it abundantly clear that she wishes to spend her last days in a facility where she can receive around the clock care, primarily to save us from the agony of watching her expire at home. These discussions on hospice care highlight a situation that is assuming great importance in the medical field. As the American population ages millions will soon have to make a decision about where and how they wish to spend their final hours. How will people afford this treatment? Will the government provide assistance? How will hospice change to meet the growing demands placed upon it by society? Jean Lynch brings to light another important aspect of this seldom discussed treatment, namely who decides which patients go into hospice and when. Lynch expresses anger that the doctors wrote her daughter off as a lost cause when options still existed to extend her life. These are problems most of us will face far too soon.<br /><br />I won't say I enjoyed \\"The Gift of Life\\" because it is not the type of book one reads for pleasure. What it does do is provide a record of a personal tragedy extraordinarily close to when it unfolded. Lynch's narrative is almost stream of consciousness in that the reader gets the sense the author threw everything down on the page before she had a chance to work it out in her own mind. Since I am going through a slightly similar situation right now, trust me when I say that many of her thoughts and feelings are totally authentic. \\"The Gift of Life\\" is a tough, demanding read that will hopefully find a wider audience.tions of Linda's final days at her mother's home. Jean and her other daughter Sandra cared for their relative right up to the last moment with only minimal assistance from hospice nurses. I'm surprised that Linda stayed with her mother and not in a hospice ward. My ill relative has made it abundantly clear that she wishes to spend her last days in a facility where she can receive around the clock care, primarily to save us from the agony of watching her expire at home. These discussions on hospice care highlight a situation that is assuming great importance in the medical field. As the American population ages millions will soon have to make a decision about where and how they wish to spend their final hours. How will people afford this treatment? Will the government provide assistance? How will hospice change to meet the growing demands placed upon it by society? Jean Lynch brings to light another important aspect of this seldom discussed treatment, namely who decides which patients go into hospice and when. Lynch expresses anger that the doctors wrote her daughter off as a lost cause when options still existed to extend her life. These are problems most of us will face far too soon.  <br /> <br />I won't say I enjoyed \\"The Gift of Life\\" because it is not the type of book one reads for pleasure. What it does do is provide a record of a personal tragedy extraordinarily close to when it unfolded. Lynch's narrative is almost stream of consciousness in that the reader gets the sense the author threw everything down on the page before she had a chance to work it out in her own mind. Since I am going through a slightly similar situation right now, trust me when I say that many of her thoughts and feelings are totally authentic. \\"The Gift of Life\\" is a tough, demanding read that will hopefully find a wider audience. <br /> <br />       <br />	2005-02-19
354757:US	52012289	R3A7I0S8VCP70F	0595329179	193464535	Waiting for the World to End	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Beautiful yet heartbreaking	I am the sort of person who spends an inordinate amount of time watching movies of a decidedly low budget caliber. I spend so much of my time watching films that any spare time for books usually revolves around the drudge of forced reading for school. That is why it is such a delight to come across a novel like Nicole Hunter's \\"Waiting for the World to End.\\" There is more genuine human emotion in this novel about a man struggling with loneliness than in any book I have read in the last year. How moving and thoughtful is this book? Here's an indication: I sat down with Hunter's book intending to read only the first couple of chapters since I had several other important things to take care of. The next thing I know it is the middle of the night and I am halfway done with the book. I finished it upon waking the following day. I cannot convey to you how rare it is for me to do something like this. I can always put something down and come back to it later, even if I enjoy it immensely. Not so in the case of \\"Waiting for the World to End.\\" I had to finish reading to see what would happen to the protagonist Thomas Olsen.<br /><br />In a way Olsen is also his own antagonist. He's a man in the prime of his life, forty-one to be exact, and a man in an enviable position. His job as an English teacher at an Indiana high school coupled with his success as head basketball coach has endeared him to his students, their parents, the school's administrators, and nearly everyone else in town. Olsen is the sort of teacher students remember for the rest of their lives, the sort of teacher that inspires students to use some of their free time in order to paint an ornate mural on his classroom wall. Can you see why he's in an enviable position? Most people would give anything to find something to do in life that garners such admiration and respect from others. Problem is, all of Olsen's accomplishments are external. Inside he dies a little more every day because of loneliness and bad memories. His loneliness stems from his inability to find the right woman with which to share his wonderful life. The bad memories are legion, starting with a former girlfriend's terminated pregnancy during his youth and leading up to the present day with recollections of his unpleasant childhood. His parents, both distinguished university professors, failed to bond with their only son and failed to support his decision to teach high school.<br /><br />A ray of sunlight pierces the black veil surrounding Olsen's heart when he meets the beautiful Mary Wendling, the mother of Tom's star basketball player Ben. Her mere presence sends his mind racing, and subsequent encounters only confirm that this woman is the answer to all of Olsen's woes. He loves her in a way few people ever experience, but there are problems. Mary is married to a man who helped rescue her from a problematic youth. Moreover, Ben presents a significant barrier to any potential relationship. Tom worries that the boy will interpret any move he makes on Mary as a violation of their own close bond. That Olsen considers Ben Wendling the son he never had only further complicates matters. As the years pass by, the bond between Tom, Ben, and Mary grows stronger. Mary's son heads off to Tucson State at the same time Olsen gets a job offer there, so the two gain the opportunity to continue their relationship in a new way. Meanwhile, back in Indiana Mary encounters problems in her marriage to Virgil that could potentially clear the way for a liaison with Tom. Ben's impending wedding could finally be the time and place where Olsen conquers his eternal loneliness. Or perhaps not. It's to Hunter's credit that her novel refuses to deliver an ending of the type we have seen in hundreds of other books. Instead she gives us a finale approximating real life.<br /><br />\\"Waiting for the World to End\\" is a triumph, a book bursting at the seams with intense examinations of human emotions, characters struggling with their relationship to God, and the problem of reaching across the spaces between people in order to make meaningful and lasting connections. This last point is particularly relevant to the Tom Olsen character. Try as he might, he has great trouble connecting with people. He has friends at the school, certainly, and he befriends an elderly neighbor who lives across the street from him (a situation that has repercussions later in the novel), but he never seems to follow through on his relationships. It's quite rare that anyone ever shows up at his house, and when they do they don't stay for very long. His home is a symbolic reflection of his lonely personality. He's a bit of a recluse, but an unwilling recluse. On this point alone I connected with the book; I'm a lot like this character in that respect, as I don't let many people into my life very easily. I consider any book great when I can relate to it in some manner, and I related big time with \\"Waiting for the World to End.\\"<br /><br />I suspect most readers will find something to identify with in this book. In an increasingly impersonal age, where computers and e-mail often serve as substitutes for face to face contact, we can expect to see more and more Tom Olsens. Nicole Hunter has written a memorable book indeed, one that ought to become a bestseller if there is any justice in the world. I'm going to hold on to my copy for many years to come; I have the feeling it's going to be worth a lot of money someday.ir relationship to God, and the problem of reaching across the spaces between people in order to make meaningful and lasting connections. This last point is particularly relevant to the Tom Olsen character. Try as he might, he has great trouble connecting with people. He has friends at the school, certainly, and he befriends an elderly neighbor who lives across the street from him (a situation that has repercussions later in the novel), but he never seems to follow through on his relationships. It's quite rare that anyone ever shows up at his house, and when they do they don't stay for very long. His home is a symbolic reflection of his lonely personality. He's a bit of a recluse, but an unwilling recluse. On this point alone I connected with the book; I'm a lot like this character in that respect, as I don't let many people into my life very easily. I consider any book great when I can relate to it in some manner, and I related big time with \\"Waiting for the World to End.\\" <br /> <br />I suspect most readers will find something to identify with in this book. In an increasingly impersonal age, where computers and e-mail often serve as substitutes for face to face contact, we can expect to see more and more Tom Olsens. Nicole Hunter has written a memorable book indeed, one that ought to become a bestseller if there is any justice in the world. I'm going to hold on to my copy for many years to come; I have the feeling it's going to be worth a lot of money someday.  <br />   <br />	2005-02-10
417884:US	52012289	R3TFV1P4946MAN	0595205232	650293944	The Islander	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Thoroughly engrossing	John Allen has written one of the most compelling works of historical fiction I have seen in a long, long time. \\"The Islander,\\" the first book in a proposed three-part saga, tells the story of Maximilienne Carpentier. Who is Maximilienne Carpentier? According to the book's introduction, Allen and his wife took a trip to Scandinavia some years ago only to discover Carpentier's diary in a small maritime museum on the coast of Denmark. Intrigued by the basics of the story, further investigation uncovered a mysterious yet intriguing tale. A young French woman washed up on shore after a powerful storm in the year 1877, babbling away in her native tongue about an island and someone named Emilie. Since the locals did not understand French, and Maximilienne was suffering from prolonged exposure to the harsh elements, the Danes wrote off most of what she said to exhaustion and delusion. Carpentier died soon after, and the diary traveled up and down the coastline before coming to rest in the museum. When Allen and his wife translated the document, they discovered numerous references to Charles VII, Emperor Pedro II of Brazil, and other verifiable historical figures. It began to sound as though Carpentier was far from delusional after landing on the coast of Denmark.<br /><br />The diary begins with bucolic descriptions of life on an unnamed island somewhere between France and French Guiana. Only three people live on the island: Maximilienne, her mother Agathe, and her father Pierre. Their existence is exceedingly tranquil, filled with days of simple labor and mild amusements. Maximilienne spends her time writing, drawing pictures, swimming, playing with turtles in the ocean, and exploring the various caves and rock formations on the island. There is also plenty of work to do, such as fishing, tending the vegetable garden, and repairing the small structure the family calls home. Every few months a ship, helmed by a family friend named Claude Besson, arrives at the island bringing newspapers and critical supplies unavailable in nature. Despite the occasional dangers the family face, such as isolation from civilization and the storms that move through from time to time, all three get along splendidly. Maximilienne loves her mother and father and willingly accepts her life away from France. She's never known anything but her existence on the island and thus never questions her parents about why they live here. After Agathe passes on, daughter and father continue on as before. But when her father suddenly falls ill, he summons Maximilienne to his bedside for an important conference.<br /><br />Although Pierre expires before finishing his story, his daughter learns some important information about why the family resides on the island. Apparently, Pierre fled France with his family after escaping from prison. Times were rough when Maximilienne was a child, so rough that her father stole some goat milk from a farmer to nourish his child. Alas, the authorities discovered the crime and apprehended Pierre. With the help of Agathe and Claude Besson, Pierre escaped from prison and eluded a large manhunt until the time he could set sail for the island. The Carpentier family has lived away from the homeland ever since. This revelation, that her father is a criminal, deeply shocks Maximilienne. Even more shocking is her encounter with Claude Besson a few months later. The sailor fills in some of the gaps her father failed to discuss, specifically that Pierre is the scion of a wealthy French family involved in the arms industry. Maximilienne's father, Besson relates, wanted nothing to do with the selling of weapons, so his brother Maurice runs the business. Or at least he does on paper since his scheming, depraved wife Camille is the real power behind the throne. In no time at all Camille arrives on the island with a couple of thugs, her son Victor, and her daughter Emilie. What follows is a battle of wits as Maximilienne does whatever it takes to saveher home from the evil plans of Camille.<br /><br />\\"The Islander\\" is a book chock full of action, romance, violence, and betrayal. In short, Allen's novel has all the makings of an extraordinarily entertaining read. Although the first part of the book moves slowly as the author fleshes out the daily activities of the Carpentier family, the plot kicks into high gear after Pierre succumbs to his illness. Maximilienne soon learns she can trust no one, and that life on the island has deprived her of the rudimentary social skills necessary in successfully reading other people's emotions and ulterior motivations. On several occasions her ignorance about what makes people tick nearly claims her life. It's to the author's credit that we totally buy into the idea of Maximilienne's initial gullibility and later wisdom. Allen has a way of writing about women that few male authors possess. He captures perfectly--although perhaps I should wait to see what a woman has to say about the book--the emotional turmoil a young woman goes through when facing down a lover turned enemy as well as the mental anguish involved in making the grim decision to take another human being's life.<br /><br />John Allen can write background, too. His descriptive powers know no bounds when describing the vitality of the island. Maximilienne lives and operates in a world teeming with natural wonders, from the waterfall and fresh water pools on one end of the isle to the rocky crags she scales with remarkable ease. These descriptions seem overdone in the first part of the book, but they come in handy when the action starts firing. You'll know exactly why she's doing what she's doing, and where, thanks to the author's thoroughness early on. I can think of no better compliment than to label \\"The Islander\\" a great read. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.save her home from the evil plans of Camille. <br /> <br />\\"The Islander\\" is a book chock full of action, romance, violence, and betrayal. In short, Allen's novel has all the makings of an extraordinarily entertaining read. Although the first part of the book moves slowly as the author fleshes out the daily activities of the Carpentier family, the plot kicks into high gear after Pierre succumbs to his illness. Maximilienne soon learns she can trust no one, and that life on the island has deprived her of the rudimentary social skills necessary in successfully reading other people's emotions and ulterior motivations. On several occasions her ignorance about what makes people tick nearly claims her life. It's to the author's credit that we totally buy into the idea of Maximilienne's initial gullibility and later wisdom. Allen has a way of writing about women that few male authors possess. He captures perfectly--although perhaps I should wait to see what a woman has to say about the book--the emotional turmoil a young woman goes through when facing down a lover turned enemy as well as the mental anguish involved in making the grim decision to take another human being's life. <br /> <br />John Allen can write background, too. His descriptive powers know no bounds when describing the vitality of the island. Maximilienne lives and operates in a world teeming with natural wonders, from the waterfall and fresh water pools on one end of the isle to the rocky crags she scales with remarkable ease. These descriptions seem overdone in the first part of the book, but they come in handy when the action starts firing. You'll know exactly why she's doing what she's doing, and where, thanks to the author's thoroughness early on. I can think of no better compliment than to label \\"The Islander\\" a great read. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did. <br />	2004-12-20
420059:US	52012289	R1IIFEUX023JFE	0895261391	468254470	Useful Idiots: How Liberals Got It Wrong in the Cold War and Still Blame America First	Books	5	21	27	N	N	"Idiots" is too kind a word	It's amazing how many of these political books you can read in a short period of time. I always like to take advantage of the lull holidays and breaks from school provide to read the latest offerings from pundits, syndicated columnists, and assorted conspiracy crackpots. The presidential election of 2004 seems to have brought forth a record number of these sorts of books from every point on the political spectrum. Mona Charen, whose face is quite familiar in these parts thanks to her syndicated column in the local newspaper, wrote \\"Useful Idiots: How Liberals Got It Wrong in the Cold War and Still Blame America First\\" to call attention to the American Left's absolute inability to oppose any evil threatening the United States. Actually, that last statement isn't entirely true: the American Left did eventually support taking action against German National Socialism in the 1940s. But since then they have persistently refused to assist this country in its battles against the forces of darkness. First, it was the Cold War against communism. Now, fears Charen, they are grumbling about prosecuting the war against Islamic terrorists in general and Al-Qaeda in particular. What else can we expect from people who used to wave Vietcong flags from rooftops?<br /><br />\\"Useful Idiots,\\" which is a phrase supposedly uttered by Lenin about western left-wingers, argues that many of the same people who fought tooth and nail to keep America from battling communist governments and pro-communist insurgencies from the 1960s to the 1980s are now claiming that they opposed Marxism from the start. Incredible, isn't it? Unfortunately for people like Jane Fonda, Phil Donahue, Peter Jennings, Dan Rather, Madeleine Albright, Jimmy Carter, Al Gore, and Teddy Kennedy, Orwell's memory hole doesn't exist in this country yet. Their statements in support of appeasing the USSR, China, North Korea, Cuba, and all the rest of the communist hellholes are widely available in library archives. In the first few chapters of her book, Charen argues that it wasn't always this way with the Left. There was a consensus about what approach America should take regarding the rise of Marxist-Leninist states in the 1950s and early 1960s. Liberal presidents including Harry Truman, John Kennedy, and Lyndon Johnson advocated a strident anti-communism that was in many ways harsher than far right-wing hawks. Why did their attitudes change? Vietnam. The White House's failure to do whatever was necessary to win the war resulted in a high body count and an expansion of the draft.<br /><br />From this point forward it's been nothing but a long litany of whining about American foreign policy, usually whining based on a secret sympathy for communist states and a hatred of the United States. Our refusal to support the South Vietnamese government after we pulled out led to the deaths of hundreds of thousands. When the Khmer Rouge began slaughtering millions in neighboring Cambodia a few years later, the Left blatantly ignored the human tragedy of the event and worked hard to insure the West would stay out of this emerging \\"paradise.\\" On and on it goes, with Charen documenting each successive attempt by the useful idiots to prevent American intervention in states falling to the communist menace. New Soviet leaders like Andropov and Chernenko received the most fawning praise in the pages of the New York Times while the election of Ronald Reagan caused grave consternation. So convinced was the Left of Reagan's inherent evil that they spent most of the 1980s demanding reckless cuts in national defense despite evidence that the Soviet Union had no intention of suspending its arms buildup. The Left sung hymns of praise to the FMLN in El Salvador and the Sandinista regime in Nicaragua, truly believing that these murderous red thugs could do no wrong. No evidence of atrocities deterred them from their visions of utopia just as no action taken by the United States was ever seen as sincere and altruistic.<br /><br />How bad did things get during this time? Consider this quote from fellow traveler and useful idiot of the highest caliber Suzanne Ross about the discovery that Cuba lobotomized most of their mental patients during a time when the rest of the civilized world condemned the practice: \\"We have to understand that there are differences between capitalist lobotomies and socialist lobotomies.\\" How can you rationally argue with such fools? This statement would be funny if it wasn't so colossally sick. Charen concludes her book with another story about Cuba, the Elian Gonzalez brouhaha that captured the nation's attention several years ago. Amazingly, the Clinton administration and the leftist mouthpieces in the media insisted the boy return home to Cuba, a startling turn of events considering their unwavering support for every other form of immigration into the country. The reason, according to \\"Useful Idiots,\\" revolves around the love the Left has for Uncle Fidel and his utopian paradise. Charen cites numerous statements from various media figures, and big names at that, professing their love for Castro's health care system, his educational system, and his big-hearted concern for children as proof that Elian should go home. Why are we even listening to these dolts anymore?<br /><br />Charen's book ends, interestingly enough, on a point that David Horowitz takes up in his book \\"Unholy Alliance: Radical Islam and the American Left,\\" namely by posing a question about why the American Left offers the same support to Islamic terrorists that it did to communists. What I liked best about Charen's book is something she never overtly discusses: if the end of the Cold War proved the essential error of leftist arguments about restraining American foreign policy, why should we trust them now in the war on Islamic terrorists? Moreover, has the Left ever been right about anything related to foreign affairs? Maybe in the post-World War II era, but their track record from then to now can't withstand serious scrutiny.istic.  <br /> <br />How bad did things get during this time? Consider this quote from fellow traveler and useful idiot of the highest caliber Suzanne Ross about the discovery that Cuba lobotomized most of their mental patients during a time when the rest of the civilized world condemned the practice: \\"We have to understand that there are differences between capitalist lobotomies and socialist lobotomies.\\" How can you rationally argue with such fools? This statement would be funny if it wasn't so colossally sick. Charen concludes her book with another story about Cuba, the Elian Gonzalez brouhaha that captured the nation's attention several years ago. Amazingly, the Clinton administration and the leftist mouthpieces in the media insisted the boy return home to Cuba, a startling turn of events considering their unwavering support for every other form of immigration into the country. The reason, according to \\"Useful Idiots,\\" revolves around the love the Left has for Uncle Fidel and his utopian paradise. Charen cites numerous statements from various media figures, and big names at that, professing their love for Castro's health care system, his educational system, and his big-hearted concern for children as proof that Elian should go home. Why are we even listening to these dolts anymore? <br /> <br />Charen's book ends, interestingly enough, on a point that David Horowitz takes up in his book \\"Unholy Alliance: Radical Islam and the American Left,\\" namely by posing a question about why the American Left offers the same support to Islamic terrorists that it did to communists. What I liked best about Charen's book is something she never overtly discusses: if the end of the Cold War proved the essential error of leftist arguments about restraining American foreign policy, why should we trust them now in the war on Islamic terrorists? Moreover, has the Left ever been right about anything related to foreign affairs? Maybe in the post-World War II era, but their track recordfrom then to now can't withstand serious scrutiny. <br />	2004-12-17
421106:US	52012289	R8K701W4AB0IY	1400054184	925221592	How to Talk to a Liberal (If You Must): The World According to Ann Coulter	Books	5	18	32	N	N	Don't mess with this lady!	You know it's Christmas (or some other break away from the grind of school) when I start reading and reviewing political screeds! The controversial conservative talking head Ann Coulter is someone I've wanted to read for a long time. I checked out a few of her relatively short articles on the Internet, but not enough to get a real feel for her sarcastic writing style. I passed on \\"Slander\\" and \\"Treason,\\" choosing instead to peruse her latest work \\"How to Talk to a Liberal.\\" I think reading this book was a good choice for an introduction to her worldview. It's a compilation of her articles on various topics dating back to the 1990s, touching on everything from the pernicious lying at the New York Times, the Clintons, gun control, drug legalization, activist judges, CBS news, the 2000 Election imbroglio, feminism, Teddy Kennedy, terrorism, Elian Gonzalez, the Confederate flag, race, John Kerry, and just about any other issue of concern to both liberals and conservatives over the last ten to fifteen years. If you've ever seen Ann Coulter tearing it up on the television talk shows, you know what you're in for with \\"How to Talk to a Liberal.\\" Terms like \\"polemicist\\" apply in spades here.<br /><br />And thank goodness someone like Coulter finally came along. For far too long we've had to sit by while kooks like James Carville, Paul Begala, the entire editorial staff at the New York Times, and dozens of other card carrying members of the American Left debase the public forums. Yes, I'm saying Coulter goes over the top, but I'm also saying, \\"Who cares?\\" I agree wholeheartedly with her assertion that conservatives unfortunately strive to earn the Left's approval no matter what the cost. Late stage democracy simply doesn't abide such quaint, antiquated concepts like personal integrity or public virtue--which explains why Clinton served two terms in the White House--so the conservatives might as well get down in the gutter and bellow with the best of them if republicans want the public to hear their opinions over the babble. Coulter says as much in the introduction to the book, a lengthy list of what one should do when confronted with a member of the leftist species: don't back down in a fight, don't give up before the argument even begins, make every effort to outrage liberals and leftists, don't be defensive, never apologize for anything, never compliment a Democrat or play nice with them, and do not allow liberals to bribe you into joining their cause.<br /><br />The introduction is a smorgasbord of pithiness, sort of a rapid fire version of Ann Coulter whittled down to a few pages, but the real joy are the dozens and dozens of articles that follow. Never afraid of calling it like she sees it, the author blasts our lovable left-wingers every chance she gets. You want to talk about Ted Kennedy? Ann does, bringing up again and again his failure to open a car door for a lady at Chappaquiddick, his penchant for drinking, and his rapid removal from college for cheating on a Spanish test. Best Kennedy rebuke? Ann imagines herself at a confirmation hearing responding to an inquiry from the senator with, \\"We'll drive off the side of that bridge when we come to it, Senator Kennedy.\\" Ouch! Of course, none of these comments would be necessary if the good senator from Massachusetts quit trying to set himself up as the irreproachable voice of the Democratic Party. To be fair, I think Coulter goes overboard with the frequent references to Kennedy's well-known love for liquor since he supposedly quit the sauce a few years ago, but that is really beside the point according to the author. Liberals refuse to play fair, so why should conservatives persistently take the high ground only to fall prey to the Left's scurrilous attacks? Call her what you will, but at least she's up front about where she stands.<br /><br />Coulter's primary target of attacks is the New York Times. We all know how secondary and tertiary newspapers and television stations relyon the Times for their news leads. We also know the Times is so biased toward the left that it barely qualifies as journalism let alone as an independent news organization. Jayson Blair, anyone? You remember him: he was the Times reporter that sat in a bar somewhere in New York City all day inventing his stories. The newspaper, afraid to fire him because of his race, printed retraction after retraction while they shifted him around to different departments. When the story finally broke in the national news, the New York Times tried to shrug the whole thing off. Coulter reminds us how the Blair incident constitutes only one small part of a larger, more dangerous ethical quandary faced by a newspaper proclaiming to be an unbiased source of information. She exposes the left-wing partiality at the Times repeatedly, proving how the paper unswervingly supports radical social, political, and economic positions near and dear to lefty hearts. I wondered if it was a joke that a blurb from the New York Times on the back cover of the book said, \\"A great deal of research supports Ms. Coulter's wisecracks.\\" Do you think the paper fired the employee who wrote that comment?<br /><br />Every conservative or libertarian, and even political moderates for that matter, should enjoy the articles contained in this book. You definitely don't even need to be a diehard right-winger to giggle over Coulter's acerbic witticisms, just someone tired of listening to the same \\"progressive\\" drivel day after day. I think I may yet get around to reading \\"Slander\\" and \\"Treason\\" if they share in any way, shape, or form the keen insights and amusing quips found in this book.rely on the Times for their news leads. We also know the Times is so biased toward the left that it barely qualifies as journalism let alone as an independent news organization. Jayson Blair, anyone? You remember him: he was the Times reporter that sat in a bar somewhere in New York City all day inventing his stories. The newspaper, afraid to fire him because of his race, printed retraction after retraction while they shifted him around to different departments. When the story finally broke in the national news, the New York Times tried to shrug the whole thing off. Coulter reminds us how the Blair incident constitutes only one small part of a larger, more dangerous ethical quandary faced by a newspaper proclaiming to be an unbiased source of information. She exposes the left-wing partiality at the Times repeatedly, proving how the paper unswervingly supports radical social, political, and economic positions near and dear to lefty hearts. I wondered if it was a joke that a blurb from the New York Times on the back cover of the book said, \\"A great deal of research supports Ms. Coulter's wisecracks.\\" Do you think the paper fired the employee who wrote that comment? <br /> <br />Every conservative or libertarian, and even political moderates for that matter, should enjoy the articles contained in this book. You definitely don't even need to be a diehard right-winger to giggle over Coulter's acerbic witticisms, just someone tired of listening to the same \\"progressive\\" drivel day after day. I think I may yet get around to reading \\"Slander\\" and \\"Treason\\" if they share in any way, shape, or form the keen insights and amusing quips found in this book.     <br />	2004-12-17
421280:US	52012289	R13CYFLFJBFDPE	089526076X	905276632	Unholy Alliance: Radical Islam and the American Left	Books	5	22	32	N	N	Communism never went away	David Horowitz is in a unique position to write a book outlining the tacit connections between the American Left and Islamic fundamentalist terror organizations. The author of \\"Unholy Alliance: Radical Islam and the American Left,\\" once a strident communist and member of the 1960's New Left anti-war movement, moved away from his prior beliefs due in large part to the Black Panther Party. In his autobiography \\"Radical Son,\\" Horowitz relates how members of that terrorist organization murdered one of his female friends after she discovered evidence of the group's illegal activities. Any attempt on the part of the author to call attention to his suspicions resulted in condemnation from his friends and associates, all of whom were too busy worshipping the Panthers' superficial \\"guerilla\\" war against the government. This crime eventually opened his eyes to the massive hypocrisy inherent in left-wing politics. And nowhere is that hypocrisy more evident than in the Left's position regarding communism. How can the Left pay lip service to human rights while supporting groups and governments responsible for the deaths of millions upon millions of innocent people? Moreover, how can they shift their allegiance from Marxism to radical Islam, two philosophies that couldn't seem further apart? Read on.<br /><br />The book begins with a description of the loathsome Al-Qaeda attacks of September 11, 2001, the deadliest attack on the United States since Pearl Harbor. Horowitz explains how the Left immediately mobilized to oppose any American retaliation for the assault. While mainstream Republicans and Democrats forged a shaky consensus on what actions the country should take, old communist and pro-communist hardliners with roots stretching back to the 1960s started organizing new resistance organizations in preparation for yet another round of protests regarding American foreign policy. Groups like Act Now to Stop War and End Racism (ANSWER), People for the American Way, the ACLU, the National Lawyers Guild, Moveon.org, and roughly a trillion other alphabet left-wing and pro-communist organizations sprang up to argue vociferously against the latest acts of American \\"aggression.\\" Horowitz convincingly argues that many of these groups work in concert with Islamic terrorist cells here and abroad to undermine American resolve and action. For example, the Justice Department indicted attorney Lynne Stewart of the National Lawyers Guild for helping her client Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman (the man responsible for the first attack on the World Trade Center in the early 1990s) communicate with Egyptian terrorists.<br /><br />But how did the Left connect with the Islamic kooks? The answer, according to the book, lies in the collapse of the Soviet Union, the subsequent end of the Cold War, and a neverending hatred of the capitalist system personified in the form of the United States. Diehard reds like historians Eric Hobsbawm, Gerda Lerner, Howard Zinn, and activist Leslie Cagan refused to accept the premise that communism failed to provide the dreamed about utopian paradise promised for so long. The reality of communist failures across the globe demanded a reassessment instead of a rejection of long held beliefs. In most cases, merely claiming that the USSR and its concomitant client states never represented \\"real\\" communism was enough to reaffirm loyalty to the Marxist philosophy. In other instances, substituting contentions over race and gender in place of state controlled economics sufficed to keep the anti-American dream alive. All of these things have one thing in common: America is at fault, whether through the inequalities of capitalist markets or through its imperialist, sexist, and racist domestic and foreign policies. For leftists it's enough that Islamic terrorists oppose America, period.<br /><br />The recent presidential election, with all of its talk about values and religion, would seem to present an extraordinary obstacle to the author's thesis. How can the atheistic, morally relativistic, pro-communist American Left support a bunch of thugs motivated above all by religion? After all, Al Qaeda and its affiliates cloak all of their demands in the rhetoric of Islamic fundamentalist language and symbols. Again, contends Horowitz, the answer comes from the Left's communist credentials. Remember Marx's adage about religion being \\"the opiate of the oppressed\\"? Good old Karl believed that religion arose as a response to the sufferings brought upon the masses by capitalism. Destroy the free market, he believed, and religion would disappear as though it never existed. Thus the Left believes that the ultimate destruction of America will \\"liberate Islamic fanatics from the need to be Islamic and fanatic.\\" It's kind of difficult to imagine Howard Zinn and Osama Bin Laden hugging each other like long lost pals, isn't it? Then again, maybe it isn't.<br /><br />There is much more to learn from Horowitz's book than what I summarized here. I did have a couple of problems with his analysis, however. First, he seems to think the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have been wonderful successes, a claim I would never agree with in whole. Iraq, even setting aside the heavy-handed biases of the New York Times and other left-wing mouthpieces, is far from a success story. Second, not all opposition to the war has a communist hiding behind the scenes or is a front for communist subversion. I oppose the war and I'm as far from a communist as you can get. Horowitz does rightfully maintain in several places in the book that legitimate opposition to the war exists, but he never examines such opposition in depth. Perhaps he should have done so for the sake of balance. Nevertheless, I love reading books written by David Horowitz. His insights into the Marxist mind, thanks to his years of experience as a communist revolutionary now turned conservative, always hit the target with the force of a sledgehammer. \\"Unholy Alliance\\" is no exception.thesis. How can the atheistic, morally relativistic, pro-communist American Left support a bunch of thugs motivated above all by religion? After all, Al Qaeda and its affiliates cloak all of their demands in the rhetoric of Islamic fundamentalist language and symbols. Again, contends Horowitz, the answer comes from the Left's communist credentials. Remember Marx's adage about religion being \\"the opiate of the oppressed\\"? Good old Karl believed that religion arose as a response to the sufferings brought upon the masses by capitalism. Destroy the free market, he believed, and religion would disappear as though it never existed. Thus the Left believes that the ultimate destruction of America will \\"liberate Islamic fanatics from the need to be Islamic and fanatic.\\" It's kind of difficult to imagine Howard Zinn and Osama Bin Laden hugging each other like long lost pals, isn't it? Then again, maybe it isn't. <br /> <br />There is much more to learn from Horowitz's book than what I summarized here. I did have a couple of problems with his analysis, however. First, he seems to think the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have been wonderful successes, a claim I would never agree with in whole. Iraq, even setting aside the heavy-handed biases of the New York Times and other left-wing mouthpieces, is far from a success story. Second, not all opposition to the war has a communist hiding behind the scenes or is a front for communist subversion. I oppose the war and I'm as far from a communist as you can get. Horowitz does rightfully maintain in several places in the book that legitimate opposition to the war exists, but he never examines such opposition in depth. Perhaps he should have done so for the sake of balance. Nevertheless, I love reading books written by David Horowitz. His insights into the Marxist mind, thanks to his years of experience as a communist revolutionary now turned conservative, always hit the target with the force of a sledgehammer. \\"Unholy Alliance\\" is no exception.     <br />	2004-12-16
421319:US	52012289	R1018J5C5OOECT	1591134765	534378489	Corporate Myopia	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Entertaining	Harold L. Prevett, the author of \\"Corporate Myopia,\\" is a veteran of the Second World War, later worked as an aerospace engineer designing technology for the early Mars and Jupiter space probes for NASA, and wrote this novel at the age of eighty-eight. It's nice to read a story about America during World War II written by a person who experienced the events first hand. I can't remember the exact figure off the top of my head or who said it, but I think it was Bob Dole who recently commented that nearly seventy five percent of the veterans of the Second World War are no longer with us. And we are losing more of them everyday. My own grandfather--who is, thankfully, still with us--fought in the war as a marine in the notoriously ugly Pacific island hopping campaigns. He only recently talked a bit about his wartime experiences, and even then his stories were mostly about his trip home. All wars are damaging experiences to the human soul, but I think it's telling that some sixty years after the Japanese defeat my grandfather still refuses to talk about it. The fact that my grandfather fought in World War II provided the impetus to read Prevett's book. I'm glad that I did even though the war plays a small part in the overall scope of the novel.<br /><br />The book starts a few months before the war by introducing us to Carl Emerson and Douglas Graf, two guys caught up in a rivalry to impress Kim Durand, the daughter of wealthy East Coast industrialist Roger Durand. It's a friendly rivalry at first, involving a competitive tennis match between the two at the Durand mansion, Doug making Carl look ridiculous by pushing him into the swimming pool, and Doug letting the air out of Carl's tires so he can't tag along when he takes Kim and her friend Hazel out for a night on the town. A particularly harsh blow occurs at a party held for Carl and Doug, both of whom are going off to war after Pearl Harbor, when Roger Durand mistakenly gives an expensive watch to Douglas rather than to Carl, the intended recipient. You could say class plays a part in the hijinks at the beginning of the book, but when the war breaks out class tends to fade into the background when Carl and Douglas end up imprisoned in the same prisoner of war camp behind German lines. The two men launch a daring yet highly inventive and successful escape from the camp. Both return to their homes to begin careers in post-World War II America.<br /><br />Carl's wooing of Kim and his relationship with Doug constitutes only one part of \\"Corporate Myopia.\\" The second important element involves Roger Durand's highly unethical business practices as the head of Sunrise Industries, Inc., a business left to him and his brother George by their demanding father. George stands clear of the company so his brother can run it, but that doesn't mean he isn't concerned about his sibling's frequent moral lapses. During the war, Roger frequently obtains government contracts for important materials only to charge an arm and a leg for his services. His family--George, his wife Laurie, and Roger's wife Sylvia--barely convince Roger to reject a shady deal with other corporations that involve a conspiracy to defraud the government. Problems persist after the war as Roger adamantly refuses to remove lead from his Dura-best brand of paints. The resulting baby boom and attendant need for housing should increase profits to their highest levels ever, but bad press about lead based products and the rise of latex paints leads to abysmal returns and increasing tensions in the Sunrise boardroom. It seems that Roger's father told him to never, ever mess around with the Dura-best formula no matter how the market changes. As Roger's fortunes plummet, Kim's plans to marry Carl appear threatened. It's going to take a miracle to bring off the wedding.<br /><br />I liked \\"Corporate Myopia.\\" Prevett touches on several important issues that arose after the war ended, issues that also remain relevant today. It is interesting to compare Roger Durand's schemes to revive Sunrise with Enron, Tyco, Imclone, WorldCom, and all the other businesses currently in deep trouble for cooking the books. Too, Prevett touches on gender issues through the character of Kim. She graduates from Yale with a master's degree in economics and secures a teaching job at a university just as academia starts to boom as a result of the G.I. Bill. The book uses Kim's choice to take a job as the jumping off point to examine the rather contentious issue of women in the workplace. Remember, by this time Rosie the riveter had already gone back home to her husband and her kitchen, so a stigma still attached itself to any young lady seeking a job outside the home. Although Carl's response--which is one of excitement that Kim is working--seems a bit out of place and anachronistic, it's not entirely beyond the pale either. Women DID work outside the home during this period, and there were men who supported the idea.<br /><br />I think Prevett's book is a pretty good effort for a first novel. I liked the characters, the two plots, and the pacing of the story. I would have liked to see more background on Roger's childhood relationship with his father since that bond had such a huge effect on why he refused to change his Dura-best business model. This niggling problem doesn't affect the larger impact of the book, however. \\"Corporate Myopia\\" is a fun, simple (but not simplistic) tale about a time rapidly fading into the history books. It's worth reading.nteresting to compare Roger Durand's schemes to revive Sunrise with Enron, Tyco, Imclone, WorldCom, and all the other businesses currently in deep trouble for cooking the books. Too, Prevett touches on gender issues through the character of Kim. She graduates from Yale with a master's degree in economics and secures a teaching job at a university just as academia starts to boom as a result of the G.I. Bill. The book uses Kim's choice to take a job as the jumping off point to examine the rather contentious issue of women in the workplace. Remember, by this time Rosie the riveter had already gone back home to her husband and her kitchen, so a stigma still attached itself to any young lady seeking a job outside the home. Although Carl's response--which is one of excitement that Kim is working--seems a bit out of place and anachronistic, it's not entirely beyond the pale either. Women DID work outside the home during this period, and there were men who supported the idea. <br /> <br />I think Prevett's book is a pretty good effort for a first novel. I liked the characters, the two plots, and the pacing of the story. I would have liked to see more background on Roger's childhood relationship with his father since that bond had such a huge effect on why he refused to change his Dura-best business model. This niggling problem doesn't affect the larger impact of the book, however. \\"Corporate Myopia\\" is a fun, simple (but not simplistic) tale about a time rapidly fading into the history books. It's worth reading. <br />	2004-12-16
421961:US	52012289	RFQGRBCHBTC8Z	0595318673	655494008	Dreamtime: A Collection of Short Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Unsettling, bizarre, and wonderful	What is a dream? Is it merely that state achieved during sleep when fleeting images only half remembered later trace their way through your mind? Or are there other dream states? How about an alternate reality? Could one stumble into something so extraordinary and so beyond the common frame of reference that it constitutes a sort of waking dream? Author Robert Steiner seems to think so. He compiled eleven short stories outlining his belief under the title \\"Dreamtime.\\" The author, a Harvard graduate who worked as a research scientist at the Naval Medical Research Institute in Bethesda, Maryland, has written a series of tales that evoke memories of such writers of the supernatural as William Hope Hodgson and even, in a certain narrative way, Clark Ashton Smith. Not all of the stories delve into the paranormal, but all of the stories do give the reader a decidedly eerie sensation of \\"not quite rightness\\" that only the masters of supernatural fiction manage to achieve. You won't find a lot of monsters from beyond time and space or fabled lands on other planets in \\"Dreamtime.\\" What we do get is something far more sinister and far more personal. This is one creepy set of stories.<br /><br />The first story in the collection, \\"The Decoy,\\" doesn't exactly set the tone for the rest of the book. Don't get me wrong; it's a great story. But it doesn't expose us to the bizarre like the rest of the tales do. In this one, a young man ready to head off to graduate school decides to take a most unusual summer job in Italy helping the authorities there crack down on street criminals. Why he would be perfect for the job only emerges in degrees: it seems that his physical appearance is so repugnant that the Italian cops think he looks like a dupe of the type criminals love to victimize. He's actually quite intelligent, of course, which is another trait the police are looking for. Needless to say, he works wonders busting up packs of pickpockets until an encounter with a particularly ruthless gang of Russian thugs changes our young hero forever.<br /><br />The next story, \\"The Hiker's Tale: At Anton's Restaurant,\\" is more conventionally weird, if that makes any sense. A man decides to take a long hike to a dinner party only to run headlong into a dangerous snowstorm. He sits down on a stump to rest--never a good thing to do when it's cold and snowing outside--only to resume his trip a few minutes later. He stumbles over a brightly lit gentleman's club/restaurant in a place he never noticed on previous excursions. Invited inside by the friendly personnel, he sits down to partake of the inn's fantastic menu only to wake up suddenly in the hospital, a victim of frostbite and extreme exhaustion. Was it real or only a dream of a warm, welcoming place conjured up by an injured mind and body in order to sustain itself?<br /><br />The next four tales share a similar trait in that we are seeing people or animals emerging from some other place or time to affect characters in the present day. \\"The Student Pilot\\" introduces us to a mysterious man who shows up for flight lessons even though he seems to know everything about flying airplanes. His identity, strongly hinted at toward the end of the story, makes us wonder whether what we are seeing is a case of reincarnation or something more eerie. The same can be said for \\"Canine Fantasies,\\" a truly odd tale of a man hypnotized into thinking a phantom dog follows him everywhere he goes. Is it the recalled spirit of his childhood pet or a merely a hallucination? Problem is, this spirit helps the main character out in a big way on several occasions. \\"The Returning Student\\" eschews pilots and dogs in favor of a university teacher's encounter with an enigmatic student resembling one of our most famous authors. In \\"The Disappearance\\" the author treats us to yet another reappearing historical figure, this time a figure straight out of the Bible.<br /><br />For something darker and scarier, turn to \\"Phoenix Street,\\" \\"The Seaside Witch,\\" and \\"The Uninvited Guest.\\" The first involves a Harvard graduate student stressing out over finishing his thesis who disintegrates into a nervous wreck after glimpsing the visage of an evil looking woman glaring at him from the window of a house. \\"The Seaside Witch\\" involves a strange case of two individuals meeting again years after a chance encounter. The witch appears only briefly and in a way that doesn't set off alarm bells until the end of the story. My favorite story, and one that will definitely stay with me for some time, is \\"The Uninvited Guest.\\" Some poor wretch caught in the fog pulls up to a house filled with chattering people throwing out very grim political opinions. This story made me think of Jack London's \\"The Iron Heel.\\" The last tales include a science fiction story, \\"Round Trip,\\" about an astronaut returning to earth after a forty-year excursion among the stars, and a delightfully optimistic look at the afterlife called \\"The Pilgrim.\\"<br /><br />Steiner has written some real gems here. He definitely has a knack for creating delightfully bizarre environments in the space of a few pages. His writing style works well too: you get the sense rather quickly that this is an author who ponders over each and every sentence to make sure he gets everything just right. He might have worked in science as a career, but his talents extend far beyond the laboratory and the microscope.reet,\\" \\"The Seaside Witch,\\" and \\"The Uninvited Guest.\\" The first involves a Harvard graduate student stressing out over finishing his thesis who disintegrates into a nervous wreck after glimpsing the visage of an evil looking woman glaring at him from the window of a house. \\"The Seaside Witch\\" involves a strange case of two individuals meeting again years after a chance encounter. The witch appears only briefly and in a way that doesn't set off alarm bells until the end of the story. My favorite story, and one that will definitely stay with me for some time, is \\"The Uninvited Guest.\\" Some poor wretch caught in the fog pulls up to a house filled with chattering people throwing out very grim political opinions. This story made me think of Jack London's \\"The Iron Heel.\\" The last tales include a science fiction story, \\"Round Trip,\\" about an astronaut returning to earth after a forty-year excursion among the stars, and a delightfully optimistic look at the afterlife called \\"The Pilgrim.\\"  <br /> <br />Steiner has written some real gems here. He definitely has a knack for creating delightfully bizarre environments in the space of a few pages. His writing style works well too: you get the sense rather quickly that this is an author who ponders over each and every sentence to make sure he gets everything just right. He might have worked in science as a career, but his talents extend far beyond the laboratory and the microscope.  <br />	2004-12-16
432793:US	52012289	R2RH4I2TC49N9X	0674061829	819469517	Barren in the Promised Land: Childless Americans and the Pursuit of Happiness	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Suitable for teething	Elaine Tyler May's \\"Barren in the Promised Land: Childless Americans and the Pursuit of Happiness\\" fills an important gap in American social history. Through the use of myriad sources--largely secondary sources but also a collection of more than 500 letters sent to the author by voluntarily and involuntarily childless people--May concludes that the issue of reproduction and the social, economic, and political responses to it changed over time. The author decided to explore the topic after witnessing the public spectacle of the \\"Baby M\\" case, in which a surrogate mother hired by an infertile couple to bear their child chose to keep the baby instead of relinquishing custody as required by prior arrangement. Media reports on the case presented surrogate motherhood as a recent phenomenon, a claim May found to be erroneous upon further investigation. The press also presented infertility as a recently discovered problem, another claim the author easily refuted. It was how the media framed the Baby M case that interested the author the most, namely how public and private life in America interacts regarding the issue of childbearing. Reproduction as a private activity and its importance, or perceived importance, in the public sphere forms a central component of the book's structural framework.<br /><br />Beginning in colonial times, reproduction and the public sphere were inseparable. The economic importance of children to the family, and the family as a pillar of the larger society, led to great social pressure on women to bear as many children as possible. The overtly religious atmosphere of the time labeled the childless sinful. May points out that many of the women accused of witchcraft either had no children or less than the customary number. With the creation of the American nation and the subsequent expansion to the shores of the Pacific, childbearing became an important tenet of the Manifest Destiny ideology. Male settlers broke the soil and built civilization; women populated it with children. Simultaneously, society began associating children with familial happiness. No less a figure than George Washington waxed optimistic about the importance of the \\"connubial life\\" in which children figured prominently. Another shift occurred when massive immigration into the country during the late nineteenth and early twentieth century fundamentally challenged the prior conceptions of childbirth. Descendents of the original Anglo-Saxon colonists began issuing dire warnings about \\"race suicide\\" as white childlessness increased. The emergence of eugenics was a direct result of the social strains caused by the immigration of \\"unfit\\" races. The fear of alien peoples also inspired a great concern about who should or should not have the right to bear children. Sterilization became the answer.<br /><br />Starting in the post-World War II years and continuing for some time after, laws appeared on the books allowing physicians to sterilize some men and a large number of women deemed \\"feebleminded\\" or mentally unfit. The sterilization efforts eventually zeroed in most heavily on the poor and minority groups. Despite the flurry of public activity to stimulate the \\"right\\" sorts of childbearing, many women proved amazingly resistant to these pleas. A growing number passed up the opportunity to have children in favor of other pursuits. Public concern with all things children soared during the Baby Boom, when a huge increase in the number of methods and treatments to cure infertility took place in a country obsessed with equating children with happiness, success, and domestic security. After the tumult of the 1960s, and accelerating in the 1970s and beyond, voluntary childlessness not only increased but also gained a measure of acceptance even as the infertile sought even more intricate and expensive medical procedures in an effort to cure their problem.<br /><br />May's study is at its best when examining the problems of childlessness from the colonial era to the 1960s. In these chapters, she strongly ties the issue of barrenness to historical cause and effect. She cites, for example, films, statements made by noted public figures such as J. Edgar Hoover, and numerous magazine articles published during the 1950s to make a strong argument for the centrality of reproduction in American society during that time. There is such overwhelming evidence in support of childbearing in the post war years that it is not difficult at all to imagine the intense pressure placed on those individuals and couples unfortunate enough to suffer from infertility. May allows us to see how damaging the absence of children could be to a couple. A man applying for work in the 1950s and early 1960s could miss out on numerous job opportunities if he and his wife did not have children because employers thought such people were irresponsible or untrustworthy. Workers without children continue to suffer in the office and factory today, as employers still tend to pay employees with children higher wages.<br /><br />\\"Barren in the Promised Land\\" falters once it moves beyond the 1970s. After briefly discussing the reemergence of a new pronatalist movement in the 1980s, May resorts to a laundry list of the pros and cons of voluntary and involuntary childlessness culled from her letters. Unfortunately, the reader never gets a sense of how the comments in these letters tie into the larger framework of American society. Where is the examination of institutional response to the issue of childbearing after the 1970s? More specifically, how did the childlessness issue shape the larger social, economic, and political landscape in the late 1980s and after? In the introduction to her book, May explains that the Baby M case inspired her to write this study of childlessness. Strangely, the author mentions the case once or twice and then never refers to it again. A chapter devoted solely to this incident might have shed further light on the thorny issue of public versus private spheres as they relate to reproduction, thus giving the study additional weight. Moreover, it is an excellent example with which to specifically examine the convoluted situation that childlessness became in the 1980s and 1990s.colonial era to the 1960s. In these chapters, she strongly ties the issue of barrenness to historical cause and effect. She cites, for example, films, statements made by noted public figures such as J. Edgar Hoover, and numerous magazine articles published during the 1950s to make a strong argument for the centrality of reproduction in American society during that time. There is such overwhelming evidence in support of childbearing in the post war years that it is not difficult at all to imagine the intense pressure placed on those individuals and couples unfortunate enough to suffer from infertility. May allows us to see how damaging the absence of children could be to a couple. A man applying for work in the 1950s and early 1960s could miss out on numerous job opportunities if he and his wife did not have children because employers thought such people were irresponsible or untrustworthy. Workers without children continue to suffer in the office and factory today, as employers still tend to pay employees with children higher wages. <br /> <br />\\"Barren in the Promised Land\\" falters once it moves beyond the 1970s. After briefly discussing the reemergence of a new pronatalist movement in the 1980s, May resorts to a laundry list of the pros and cons of voluntary and involuntary childlessness culled from her letters. Unfortunately, the reader never gets a sense of how the comments in these letters tie into the larger framework of American society. Where is the examination of institutional response to the issue of childbearing after the 1970s? More specifically, how did the childlessness issue shape the larger social, economic, and political landscape in the late 1980s and after? In the introduction to her book, May explains that the Baby M case inspired her to write this study of childlessness. Strangely, the author mentions the case once or twice and then never refers to it again. A chapter devoted solely to this incident might have shed further light on the thorny issue of public versus private spheres as they relate to reproduction, thus giving the study additional weight. Moreover, it is an excellent example with which to specifically examine the convoluted situation that childlessness became in the 1980s and 1990s.  <br /> <br />	2004-12-07
439018:US	52012289	R2W8WLSMXOIMSY	0595325270	173752514	Slipping to Normal: A Matter of Leadership	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Fixing corporate immorality	When the Internet bubble went pop, a lot of people lost a lot of money. They lost so much money, in fact, that someone had to take a fall. Why? If the public couldn't pin the blame for their own ignorance of how the stock market works on someone, a loss of confidence in the free market could have resulted in serious and long lasting repercussions. Enter into the picture Enron, Tyco, Martha Stewart, Imclone, and a bunch of other corporate drones. I'm not saying any of these companies or individuals are innocent--not only are they not innocent, it's probably the tip of the iceberg. My own limited experience with the corporate world provided plenty of evidence that corruption, greed, and general lawlessness run rampant amidst the cubicles. I once worked for a chap who was so unethical that I shed nary a tear a few years later upon learning his business failed. As I prepare to embark once again on a voyage that may well carry me into the corrupt cesspool of corporate America, I'm glad that I read Bill Arthur's \\"Slipping to Normal.\\" Not that I think the book will do an ounce of good, mind you. The privileged few have turned the workplace into such a cutthroat arena that I think redemption is out of the question. Yet reading the book at least gives one the sense of how much better the world could be.<br /><br />The impetus for \\"Slipping to Normal\\" came from thousands of encounters Arthur had with business executives. Many of them poured their hearts out to the author, at the time a dean at a business school, about their horrific ethical quandaries in the dog eat dog world of corporate America. The torrent of comments made Arthur realize that business schools largely failed to instill in the students a sense of proper ethics. According to the author, the business world (along with the world at large) suffers from a moral malaise that has only gotten worse with time. Difficulties start at a microcosmic level with stolen staplers, dishonest use of sick leave, and other seemingly minor acts of deceit. Leaders who refuse to nip these problems in the bud, due to an affliction which Arthur labels \\"passive self-interest,\\" fail to avert later, serious problems because it is easier to just let the small stuff pass by unchallenged. The Enron collapse didn't happen overnight, but was the result of a series of small infractions that coalesced into a bigger problem because no one took steps to correct the deceit when it first appeared. Arthur provides plenty of real life examples and case studies to illustrate the dangers of passive self-interest and unchecked immorality in the workplace.<br /><br />Perhaps the biggest difficulty in arresting the growth of immoral practices in business and the larger society centers on the economic system currently in vogue in the United States. It's not capitalism that is the problem per se, as Arthur vigorously supports Adam Smith, but Keynesian economics. Arthur sees this system, its heavy emphasis on spending now with no thought for tomorrow, as a primary cause of immoral behavior. After all, if you don't have to worry about what happens in the future, you're more likely to do whatever it takes to succeed today. Even worse, Keynesian economics relies heavily on manipulation of the money supply and the creation of increasingly baroque governmental bureaucracies. Increased government spending and bureaucracies result in loss of personal freedoms and dependency on federal handouts, not to mention a bigger role for the government in the economy. And an increasingly visible and heavy-handed government actively influencing the economy is not a good thing in the long term. People come to expect things from the government--entitlements, handouts, whatever you want to call it--that act as a corruptive influence in every aspect of our daily lives. Where there is corruption, there is moral ambivalence.<br /><br />So how do we emerge unscathed from the dilemma erected around us? Arthur claims that good old-fashioned Christian ethics may well save the day. You know, Christian ethics--the stuff Jesus talked about in the New Testament. Our reliance on human centered ethics (Arthur calls it consensus ethics) has led us down the path of disaster. In the author's opinion, Christian ethics can be as simple as just treating other people as you would like to be treated. It's more than that, of course, and the book frequently pulls citations from the Bible in order to demonstrate how the teachings of Jesus apply to our frenetic modern world. In a way, some of the stuff contained in \\"Slipping to Normal\\" should be a no-brainer--when has the human race ever done anything right on its own? It makes sense that we should rely on something beyond ourselves, something timeless and immutable, to motivate us to do better. You definitely don't need to subscribe to the Christian faith to recognize the timeless and immutable ethical implications of the Bible.<br /><br />At the same time, I think Arthur's reliance on Christian ethics is a central flaw of the book. He does acknowledge that other religions support similar ethical systems and would thus do as good a job reining in immoral behavior in the office, but I don't see people making the distinction. Can you imagine any consensus emerging over the mass imposition of Christian ethics in the corporate arena? Maybe it would work after they settled the millions upon millions of lawsuits filed by people shrieking about the violations to their personal belief systems. The recent election alone reveals in spades just how polarizing a force Christianity is in this country, and I think it's a bit too much to expect citizens to separate the Christian religion from Christian ethics. It's like separating class from Marxism. Despite this problem, the book is worth reading.d Christian ethics may well save the day. You know, Christian ethics--the stuff Jesus talked about in the New Testament. Our reliance on human centered ethics (Arthur calls it consensus ethics) has led us down the path of disaster. In the author's opinion, Christian ethics can be as simple as just treating other people as you would like to be treated. It's more than that, of course, and the book frequently pulls citations from the Bible in order to demonstrate how the teachings of Jesus apply to our frenetic modern world. In a way, some of the stuff contained in \\"Slipping to Normal\\" should be a no-brainer--when has the human race ever done anything right on its own? It makes sense that we should rely on something beyond ourselves, something timeless and immutable, to motivate us to do better. You definitely don't need to subscribe to the Christian faith to recognize the timeless and immutable ethical implications of the Bible.  <br /> <br />At the same time, I think Arthur's reliance on Christian ethics is a central flaw of the book. He does acknowledge that other religions support similar ethical systems and would thus do as good a job reining in immoral behavior in the office, but I don't see people making the distinction. Can you imagine any consensus emerging over the mass imposition of Christian ethics in the corporate arena? Maybe it would work after they settled the millions upon millions of lawsuits filed by people shrieking about the violations to their personal belief systems. The recent election alone reveals in spades just how polarizing a force Christianity is in this country, and I think it's a bit too much to expect citizens to separate the Christian religion from Christian ethics. It's like separating class from Marxism. Despite this problem, the book is worth reading. <br />	2004-12-01
445794:US	52012289	R3UCL487MCB9AE	067400535X	793673931	The Great Arizona Orphan Abduction	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Excellent microhistory	Linda Gordon's \\"The Great Arizona Orphan Abduction\\" tells one small story in order to examine a far larger one. In 1904 the Catholic sisters in the employ of the New York Foundling Hospital attempted to place several white, Catholic orphans with Mexican families in the mining towns of Clifton-Morenci, Arizona. The white Protestant residents in the towns objected strenuously to the placements, and joined together to steal the children away from the prospective Mexican parents. Appalled by the scenes of mob activity and the threats made on their lives, as well as the idea of Protestants adopting Catholic children, the Foundling Hospital sued in court to retrieve the orphans. The case first went to the Arizona Territorial Supreme Court before moving on to the United States Supreme Court, which ultimately gave permanent custody of the children to the Arizona whites. This story as told by the author--an excellent example of microhistorical research--provides the impetus to pursue a host of larger subjects involving labor issues, gender, class, mob violence, and child welfare. The overarching theme is race relations.<br /><br />To understand the orphan imbroglio, Gordon contends, one must understand the racial attitudes whites held about Mexicans. In the late nineteenth century, when Anglos were a weak minority trying to establish themselves in the Southwest, Mexicans could more or less stand on an equal footing with many of the white laborers and settlers. What changed? The arrival of more white settlers increased the power of Anglos. Too, the implementation of large-scale industry--here, the consolidation of individual copper mines--as the sole means of employment in the region brought about an unspoken agreement between Anglo laborers and mine owners to keep Mexican wages low.  Finally, the consolidation of white political power helped to disenfranchise Hispanic laborers. Underpinning these issues was an unchanging opinion of Mexicans. Whites saw them as dirty, itinerant immigrants whose presence threatened to drive down wages. While itinerancy was a reality in the late nineteenth century, by 1904 much of the Mexican community had settled down. Many of the mineworkers lived in Clifton-Morenci with their families and children, were productive residents, and usually only returned to Mexico for brief visits.<br /><br />The orphans from New York, therefore, stepped into a complicated racial situation, a situation further exacerbated by Anglo women. They were the ones who first noticed the nuns giving children to Mexican families, and they brought their husbands into the fray in short order by promoting a vigilante solution. Gordon sees this aspect of the orphan incident as a prime example of how women could step beyond their traditional boundaries in order to take part in the public sphere normally closed to them. And this applied to both Mexican and Anglo women, as it was Hispanic women who agreed to adopt the children and Anglo women who fought to take them away. Mexican wives sought to adopt the children because they believed that a white child would make the family whiter, and therefore more acceptable to American society. White wives and mothers wished to remove the orphans from the Mexican homes because they subscribed to the racial attitudes of the time, namely that Hispanic laborers were dirty, indolent, and poor.<br /><br />Linda Gordon does an excellent job of locating and scouring meager materials for information on this minor event. Her sources--court records, oral histories, interviews, and New York Foundling Hospital records--allow her to piece together most of the details concerning the actual abduction as well as the underlying issues. Her connection of the mining strike of 1903 to a hardening of racial attitudes about Mexicans is extraordinarily well done. Gordon argues that this strike, which started as a joint Anglo-Mexican effort to gain better wages and safer working conditions, allowed the company to break up the protest by painting Hispanic laborers as dangerous radicals with view threatening to white interests. That the exact same situation occurred during a 1983 walkout reveals the tenacity of racial divisions and helps confirm the accuracy of Gordon's assessment. Her perceptive analysis of the orphan trial, in which she claims that the nuns lost the case because they failed to realize that the real issue was race and not religion, is another example of effective speculation backed up by evidence. Not all of the author's conclusions seem well grounded, however. For instance, her discussion of vigilantism and the role it played in the orphan abduction raises a niggling question that begs for further elaboration.<br /><br />Vigilantism, according to Gordon, occurred throughout the United States in various forms. The most pernicious type, and the one that has garnered the most attention from scholars, is the southern manifestation involving the lynching of blacks. In Clifton-Morenci during the orphan abduction, the author claims that the posse organized to recoup the children, along with the mob that threatened the sisters from the New York Foundling Hospital, constituted a vigilante action even though no one swung for it. While one cannot argue with the book's claim that many of the actions taken by the white citizens of the two towns classified as extralegal maneuvers, at least one incident in the chain of events raises a question. Why did the leaders of the town, the very same men intimately tied to the vigilante action, summon a judge to issue a ruling justifying the abduction? And why were the leaders of this legal coup \\"lacking confidence that the court system would decide in their favor\\" on this issue? Even though Judge Little refused to issue adoption papers to the whites, he also refused to assist the sisters. Everything Gordon describes about Arizona's overtly racist economic, political, and legal systems up to this point leads one to believe that court proceedings in the matter would result in an overwhelming victory for the whites, as indeed it ended up being. This is a small point to complain about in what is otherwise a solidly researched study of racism in the early twentieth century.k up the protest by painting Hispanic laborers as dangerous radicals with view threatening to white interests. That the exact same situation occurred during a 1983 walkout reveals the tenacity of racial divisions and helps confirm the accuracy of Gordon's assessment. Her perceptive analysis of the orphan trial, in which she claims that the nuns lost the case because they failed to realize that the real issue was race and not religion, is another example of effective speculation backed up by evidence. Not all of the author's conclusions seem well grounded, however. For instance, her discussion of vigilantism and the role it played in the orphan abduction raises a niggling question that begs for further elaboration. <br /> <br />Vigilantism, according to Gordon, occurred throughout the United States in various forms. The most pernicious type, and the one that has garnered the most attention from scholars, is the southern manifestation involving the lynching of blacks. In Clifton-Morenci during the orphan abduction, the author claims that the posse organized to recoup the children, along with the mob that threatened the sisters from the New York Foundling Hospital, constituted a vigilante action even though no one swung for it. While one cannot argue with the book's claim that many of the actions taken by the white citizens of the two towns classified as extralegal maneuvers, at least one incident in the chain of events raises a question. Why did the leaders of the town, the very same men intimately tied to the vigilante action, summon a judge to issue a ruling justifying the abduction? And why were the leaders of this legal coup \\"lacking confidence that the court system would decide in their favor\\" on this issue? Even though Judge Little refused to issue adoption papers to the whites, he also refused to assist the sisters. Everything Gordon describes about Arizona's overtly racist economic, political, and legal systems up to this point leads one to believe that courtproceedings in the matter would result in an overwhelming victory for the whites, as indeed it ended up being. This is a small point to complain about in what is otherwise a solidly researched study of racism in the early twentieth century.   <br />     <br />  <br />  <br />        <br /> <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />	2004-11-24
452404:US	52012289	R153A92D5YA1G0	0595317626	177693672	Moon Tide Monterey	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Engaging	Cami Trevaller, like many American young people recently graduated from high school, is drifting in life. The daughter of affluent businessman Arthur and former hippy Arlene, she feels trapped in her life. Her father expects her to go to Stanford, and then on to Harvard Business School just like he did and just like her sister Nina is doing now. Problem is Cami isn't sure that's what she wants to do. But she isn't sure what her alternatives are, either. The funny thing about life, which Barry Johnson captures perfectly in \\"Moon Tide Monterey,\\" is that forces beyond our control often decide what we should do for us. And that is what happens to Cami one day as she wonders along the California beach. Hearing the disconsolate cries of a stranded harbor seal, Cami's investigation and subsequent rescue of the little creature leads her to a stint as a volunteer at the Marine Mammal Center, a non-profit organization devoted to saving California's marine life. This decision isn't completely altruistic, of course, since Cami's encounter with a handsome marine biology major named Sky partly influences her newfound loyalty to marine mammals, but she soon discovers that the work transcends mere physical attraction.<br /><br />Between visits with Happy (the aforementioned harbor seal), Cami must deal with increasing tensions at home with her parents over the Marine Mammal Center. All of the people Trevaller works with are enormously friendly and caring, and it isn't too long before our heroine begins to harbor a secret longing to chuck plans for business school in favor of a career as a marine biologist or veterinarian, a career that promises fulfillment over financial security. Capitalist and hypercompetitive Daddy can't stand the idea of such nonsense, however, and works behind the scenes to separate his daughter from the enviros working down at the Center. Cami, undeterred by her father's increasing attentions, spends more and more time rescuing hapless sea creatures. Some of the missions are quite dangerous, especially the investigation Sky and Cami undertake to discover who is responsible for shooting sea lions. Fisherman in the area routinely employ drastic measures to protect their catches from roving sea lions--Johnson introduces us to Jorge Arguento, the captain of a fishing vessel working in the area, in order to show us the techniques local fishermen use--but outright killing of animals brings down the rage of nearly everyone in the area. Cami's involvement in bringing the savages responsible to justice results in a denouement involving both a criminal act and a family reconciliation.<br /><br />I consider \\"Moon Tide Monterey\\" one of the better publish it yourself novels I have had the pleasure of reading over the past several months. The background information on Barry Johnson mentions that novelist Frederick Manfred recommended the author for an Endowment for the Arts Award in Writing while Johnson was a student at the University of South Dakota. I can see why. While the basic storyline of \\"Moon Tide Monterey\\" isn't particularly original (How many of these \\"lost girl/boy finds direction in life from an unexpected quarter\\" have we seen over the years? Quite a few.), the author carries it off quite well here. Cami Trevaller and her father Arthur receive more development than any of the other characters, but that's acceptable considering that these two are the protagonist and antagonist of the story. Most importantly, and I'm still surprised that I caught on to this facet of the novel considering how passively I read most books, is how the stranded harbor seal pup Happy symbolizes the odyssey Cami undergoes throughout the novel.<br /><br />When Cami discovers Happy on the rocks, both seal and girl are lost--cast adrift, if you will--from their parents. In some respects the event that separated Happy from her mother, a massive storm, echoes the emotional and physical turmoil Cami underwent during her adolescence, turmoil involvingdrugs and a bad experience with a relationship. Both seal and girl end up at the Marine Mammal Center, futures still uncertain but with the potential for improvement. As the novel draws to a close, Cami and Happy find fulfillment. The seal returns to the sea fully grown, healthy, and ready to live life. Too, Cami has grown, is healthy, and is ready to live her own life independent of the control of her parents. Arthur and Arlene Trevaller show up to watch Happy return to the sea, showing their change in attitude concerning their daughter's decision, but just as Cami is seeing Happy off so too are Arthur and Arlene seeing their own daughter strike out on her own. Neat, huh? Maybe I should have majored in English. Anyone can write a novel with nothing more than superficialities to propel the story to its conclusion. Barry Johnson goes much further by imbuing \\"Moon Tide Monterey\\" with some intriguing symbolism, always the sign of a talented writer.<br /><br />My only quibbles with Johnson's book are minor. For example, I wish he had spent more time examining Arlene Trevaller. The novel describes her as a former hippy, a real flower power type back in the day, but we don't really see any of that in the story. Wouldn't her character provide a strong counterbalance to Arthur's raging capitalistic nature? Too, Cami's sister Nina, who followed her father's instructions without questioning his wisdom, pops in from time to time to chat with her sister without making a noticeable contribution to the story. A longer novel might have allowed the author to flesh out these characters, along with a few other minor players, in greater depth. I'll close by saying I quite enjoyed this novel, enough to give it five stars, and hope Barry Johnson continues writing.lving drugs and a bad experience with a relationship. Both seal and girl end up at the Marine Mammal Center, futures still uncertain but with the potential for improvement. As the novel draws to a close, Cami and Happy find fulfillment. The seal returns to the sea fully grown, healthy, and ready to live life. Too, Cami has grown, is healthy, and is ready to live her own life independent of the control of her parents. Arthur and Arlene Trevaller show up to watch Happy return to the sea, showing their change in attitude concerning their daughter's decision, but just as Cami is seeing Happy off so too are Arthur and Arlene seeing their own daughter strike out on her own. Neat, huh? Maybe I should have majored in English. Anyone can write a novel with nothing more than superficialities to propel the story to its conclusion. Barry Johnson goes much further by imbuing \\"Moon Tide Monterey\\" with some intriguing symbolism, always the sign of a talented writer. <br /> <br />My only quibbles with Johnson's book are minor. For example, I wish he had spent more time examining Arlene Trevaller. The novel describes her as a former hippy, a real flower power type back in the day, but we don't really see any of that in the story. Wouldn't her character provide a strong counterbalance to Arthur's raging capitalistic nature? Too, Cami's sister Nina, who followed her father's instructions without questioning his wisdom, pops in from time to time to chat with her sister without making a noticeable contribution to the story. A longer novel might have allowed the author to flesh out these characters, along with a few other minor players, in greater depth. I'll close by saying I quite enjoyed this novel, enough to give it five stars, and hope Barry Johnson continues writing.  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />  <br /> <br /> <br />    <br />    <br />	2004-11-18
454225:US	52012289	R3EMTBPX3UVN5B	0252070798	169618850	Heroes of Their Own Lives: The Politics and History of Family Violence--Boston, 1880-1960	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Feminist look at family violence	\\"Child abuse is not usually a product of unilateral brutality but of familial power struggles, shaped by extrafamilial social factors and historical change,\\" argues Linda Gordon in \\"Heroes of Their Own Lives: The Politics and History of Family Violence.\\" Those social and historical factors, the author contends, changed over time. So too did those activities that constituted abuse. One could substitute \\"wife beating,\\" \\"child neglect,\\" and \\"incest\\" in the place of child abuse in this sentence. Through a variety of sources--legal documents, social workers' case histories, and relief agency registers--Gordon examines how conceptions of family violence changed in Boston between 1880 and 1960, and why they changed. Her subjects are not upperclass families and individuals, but the lowest strata of Boston society. They are the Irish and Italian immigrants, the unemployed or underemployed, and the transient. To understand Gordon's analysis of family violence, it is important to understand feminism, male domination of the family, and gender roles.<br /><br />The author argues that the one thing that changed slowly during the period was how society and social workers viewed the family, a view too often adopted by writers on the subject. Historians, she argues, tend to think of the family as a seamless unit headed by the breadwinning father. The mother and children each have their own roles to fulfill within the unit, but all activity and decision flows from the male head of the family. Gordon scoffs at this generalization, claiming that the family is not a seamless unit but an agglomeration of individuals with aspirations that often conflict. The failure of social workers in Boston to alleviate child abuse, child neglect, wife beating, and incest stemmed from their overemphasis on \\"stresses\\" and failure to acknowledge this underlying power structure of the family. These stresses--extreme poverty, alcoholism, and unemployment--contributed to outlandish behavior. But the inability of women to take independent action to combat the problems facing their families allowed bad behavior to flourish. Social workers, reflecting the beliefs of society, attempted to rebuild patriarchal families at the expense of female independence.<br /><br />The pressure put on single mothers to reconstruct the patriarchal family through remarriage or reconciliation with abusive husbands, along with a similar pressures placed on married women to maintain a household even in the face of extreme abuse, exacerbated family violence. A vicious cycle emerged concerning women caught up in abusive families. For single mothers, they had to work for a living if they wished to care for their children and maintain a home. But in doing so, they left their children unattended or in the care of others. Social workers saw female employment as a potential form of child neglect and as a violation of patriarchy that required a variety of responses, from court actions to removing the children from the household. Women could survive through only two methods: quit working or get their man back in the house. Gordon argues that only during times when a strong feminist movement emerged did society begin to view family violence in its proper context, as a problem of power and gender relationships and not a series of social problems flowing from poverty, alcohol, and unemployment.<br /><br />Gordon's ability to tease out information from scanty sources is amazing, and is probably the best aspect of the book. She found her greatest challenges in the nineteenth century records, a time predating the emergence of professional social work and its attendant requirement of extensive written case histories recording all aspects of the clients' lives. The author relates in several places that the only evidence she could rely upon consisted of a few lines scrawled in a musty ledger. But by putting together enough of these incomplete records, Gordon managed to reconstruct a better picture of what wenton in the early days of Boston's relief efforts. Pictures showing neglected children add an additional poignancy to many of the heartrending stories of personal tragedy in the book.<br /><br />A significant problem with Gordon's book is limiting her research to Boston, Massachusetts. Gordon's arguments that Boston's experiences with immigrants represented similar problems in other states is not completely accurate. Although she notes that the city's high immigrant population made it exceptional, she does not go far enough in explaining how much of an exception it was. Massachusetts was home to a huge number of immigrants, far more than any other area in the United States in the nineteenth century. The immigrants strained the state's resources to the breaking point, which might account in some part for many of the faults she finds with the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (MSPCC) and other agencies. The city and the state simply did not have the funds to deal effectively with the problem of family violence. The importance of the MSPCC to other social agencies in the country probably stemmed from the recognition that Massachusetts had more immigrants to deal with than anyone else.<br /><br />A related dilemma concerns the sorts of institutions the author studied. While she made excellent use of the sources she consulted, there is a tendency to not look further. Family violence, from all indications, was at times a charged political issue. Gordon explains that the MSPCC was a political organization, supporting legislation at various times in its early history, and also possessing police powers to enter homes and remove children. The term \\"politics\\" in the title of the book refers to personal politics between family members, but examining the more common meaning of the word might have helped. Why not consult legislative records at the city and state level? Moreover, other institutions existed to assist the poor, especially poor immigrants. Political machines, although far from altruistic organizations, helped immigrant men find employment, and agencies run by ethnic groups also lent a hand. Immigrants to the United States did not have as many options to better their conditions as did native-born citizens, but they had more options than Gordon claims.at went on in the early days of Boston's relief efforts. Pictures showing neglected children add an additional poignancy to many of the heartrending stories of personal tragedy in the book. <br /> <br />A significant problem with Gordon's book is limiting her research to Boston, Massachusetts. Gordon's arguments that Boston's experiences with immigrants represented similar problems in other states is not completely accurate. Although she notes that the city's high immigrant population made it exceptional, she does not go far enough in explaining how much of an exception it was. Massachusetts was home to a huge number of immigrants, far more than any other area in the United States in the nineteenth century. The immigrants strained the state's resources to the breaking point, which might account in some part for many of the faults she finds with the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (MSPCC) and other agencies. The city and the state simply did not have the funds to deal effectively with the problem of family violence. The importance of the MSPCC to other social agencies in the country probably stemmed from the recognition that Massachusetts had more immigrants to deal with than anyone else. <br /> <br />A related dilemma concerns the sorts of institutions the author studied. While she made excellent use of the sources she consulted, there is a tendency to not look further. Family violence, from all indications, was at times a charged political issue. Gordon explains that the MSPCC was a political organization, supporting legislation at various times in its early history, and also possessing police powers to enter homes and remove children. The term \\"politics\\" in the title of the book refers to personal politics between family members, but examining the more common meaning of the word might have helped. Why not consult legislative records at the city and state level? Moreover, other institutions existed to assist the poor, especially poorimmigrants. Political machines, although far from altruistic organizations, helped immigrant men find employment, and agencies run by ethnic groups also lent a hand. Immigrants to the United States did not have as many options to better their conditions as did native-born citizens, but they had more options than Gordon claims.  <br /> <br />	2004-11-16
462464:US	52012289	R1ENNLM7TOS77Q	0300065094	922041540	Fallen Women, Problem Girls: Unmarried Mothers and the Professionalization of Social Work, 1890-1945 (Yale Historical Publications Series)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Touchy topic	Summarizing Regina Kunzel's thesis in \\"Fallen Women, Problem Girls: Unmarried Mothers and the Professionalization of Social Work, 1890-1945\\" is not an easy proposition due to the complexity of her arguments. In fact, the title of the book only describes part of the story. The author traces the importance of three female elements within the confines of institutions devoted to caring for out of wedlock mothers. The first element describes the importance of the Protestant women--Kunzel calls them evangelicals--who founded and managed a chain of homes for unmarried women in the late nineteenth century. A second element, the social workers, begins to enter the picture in a big way after the turn of the century. Finally, Kunzel studies the actions of the mothers living within these homes. Relying on a variety of sources--including letters, case files, professional journals, and the records from the various homes--the author finds that facilities for unmarried women helped shape the identities of all three groups in important ways. She goes even further by claiming that homes for unmarried mothers served as a nexus for gender, race, and class issues prevalent in the wider society.<br /><br />Kunzel starts her book with an examination of the evangelical women involved in the Salvation Army and the Florence Crittenton Mission, two of the largest Protestant organized shelters for out of wedlock mothers. The women behind these first efforts to help single mothers practiced a form of \\"benevolent\\" care that \\"promoted sisterly bonds across lines of class and reputation, and promised to redeem \\"fallen women\\" through domesticity, religion, and womanly sympathy\\" (35). These female workers relied on a theory of \\"seducement and abandonment,\\" which almost always placed the blame for illegitimacy on men, to raise funds and to explain away behavior that society universally condemned. Protestant women believed that keeping the mother and the child together would achieve the purpose of building families, an idea of central importance in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.<br /><br />Social workers, most of whom were women trained in professional schools, made serious inroads into the Protestant homes after the turn of the century. Kunzel argues that these new professionals approached unmarried mothers with a cool objectivity that directly opposed the emotionally based care practiced by the evangelicals. Scientific methodologies bolstered by the collection of quantifiable data formed the core of the new gospel preached by the social workers, and the history of professional social work inside evangelical homes is in part a history of conflict between these two groups of women. Seducement and abandonment as causes of illegitimacy went by the wayside, replaced with questionable psychiatric theories that on the one hand labeled lower class women \\"feebleminded\\" and \\"sexual delinquents\\" while calling middle class white single mothers \\"neurotic.\\"  In other words, social workers not only placed the onus for illegitimacy on the women, but also made class distinctions in diagnosing causes of out of wedlock births. By giving themselves over completely to professionalism, these women hoped to develop a new gender identity that de-emphasized the societal view that reform work was largely work suited to females.<br /><br />Kunzel does an exceptional job examining how mothers in the homes responded to the efforts of both the evangelical reformers and the social workers. The author contends that acts of rebelliousness against house rules, escape attempts from the institutions, and a tendency to lie to social workers about the specifics of their conditions all constitute an attempt on the part of these women to make an unwanted pregnancy meaningful to their own lives. That society refused to listen to or take these stories seriously, argues Kunzel, is beside the point. What is important is that unmarried mothers were not passive elements within these homes.<br /><br />The efforts of social workers to change the methods of treatment in the homes for mothers mirrored what professionals were trying to do in orphanages at roughly the same time. In Chicago, for instance, orphanages discovered that funding organizations like the Community Fund never hesitated to use the disbursement of money as leverage to bring about policy changes favorable to professional social workers. Kunzel describes a similar process in her book, but this time it was something called Community Chests. These organizations sought to take control of privately organized reform houses, and they faced tough challenges from the Protestant women running the institutions. Despite the hostilities engendered by this interference, both orphanages and homes for unmarried women accepted some changes in their overall methods, even going so far as to hire social workers to take part in rehabilitation as long as the professionals allowed the Protestants in charge to retain ultimate control.<br /><br />One question that comes to mind after reading Regina Kunzel's study involves other religious reform homes. What exactly happened in institutions founded by other religious faiths, namely ones run by Catholics? Since it is impossible to imagine that Catholic women never gave birth to illegitimate children, where did they go for assistance? Moreover, a home for Catholic out of wedlock mothers would probably have nuns serving in the roles evangelical women played in Protestant institutions. A whole host of questions arises. Did the Church finance Catholic institutions and exert control over them or did the managers raise funds at the local level? What did the nuns running the homes do that was different than the Protestants? Were there similarities? Did social workers make headway into Catholic homes for unmarried women? If so, did professionals seek the same goals that Kunzel documents in her book? These intriguing questions are worth investigating if the records exist and are open to researchers. Despite the limited scope of the book, Kunzel's solid research goes a long way in explaining how social workers managed to bring yet another reform movement into their orbit.homes. <br /> <br />The efforts of social workers to change the methods of treatment in the homes for mothers mirrored what professionals were trying to do in orphanages at roughly the same time. In Chicago, for instance, orphanages discovered that funding organizations like the Community Fund never hesitated to use the disbursement of money as leverage to bring about policy changes favorable to professional social workers. Kunzel describes a similar process in her book, but this time it was something called Community Chests. These organizations sought to take control of privately organized reform houses, and they faced tough challenges from the Protestant women running the institutions. Despite the hostilities engendered by this interference, both orphanages and homes for unmarried women accepted some changes in their overall methods, even going so far as to hire social workers to take part in rehabilitation as long as the professionals allowed the Protestants in charge to retain ultimate control. <br /> <br />One question that comes to mind after reading Regina Kunzel's study involves other religious reform homes. What exactly happened in institutions founded by other religious faiths, namely ones run by Catholics? Since it is impossible to imagine that Catholic women never gave birth to illegitimate children, where did they go for assistance? Moreover, a home for Catholic out of wedlock mothers would probably have nuns serving in the roles evangelical women played in Protestant institutions. A whole host of questions arises. Did the Church finance Catholic institutions and exert control over them or did the managers raise funds at the local level? What did the nuns running the homes do that was different than the Protestants? Were there similarities? Did social workers make headway into Catholic homes for unmarried women? If so, did professionals seek the same goals that Kunzel documents in her book? These intriguing questions are worth investigating if the records exist and are open to researchers. Despite the limited scope of the book, Kunzel's solid research goes a long way in explaining how social workers managed to bring yet another reform movement into their orbit. <br /> <br />	2004-11-09
469189:US	52012289	R2PNAKSWDS6FW5	0807050075	754357842	The Many-Headed Hydra: Sailors, Slaves, Commoners, and the Hidden History of the Revolutionary Atlantic	Books	4	11	14	N	N	From the bottom up	I recently had the opportunity to see Marcus Rediker speak about his latest book, \\"Villains of All Nations: Atlantic Pirates in the Golden Age.\\" The room he spoke in was absolutely packed, and not just with students seeking to curry favor with their professors. Little kids turned up, as did local high school students. People who went to college when Eisenhower was president turned up as well. Why all the hoopla to see an academic speaking on a weekday evening? One word: pirates. People of all stripes love pirates. They simply can't get enough of these ruffians even though they have been gone from the scene for a couple of hundred years. Something about these rogues appeals to the American spirit, a spirit that also embraces the gunslinger of the Old West. We love the idea of rugged individuals living outside the norms of society, even if that life often led to a violent death at a young age. Look at all the films dealing with pirates and gunslingers, the most recent of which is \\"Pirates of the Caribbean\\" starring Johnny Depp. But the book I think Rediker's reputation will ultimately rest upon is this one, \\"The Many-Headed Hydra,\\" written with fellow historian Peter Linebaugh.<br /><br />Pirates ultimately play only a small role in this book. What we have here is an attempt to rewrite the entire history of the transatlantic region from a bottom up perspective. In other words, this book isn't a history of the monarchs of England, or the American Founding Fathers, or the merchants who owned the trading companies. It is a history of those too often ignored over the ages, those who toiled on the plantation, those who acted as foot soldiers in the armies of conquest, those who sailed the ships that brought slaves to the New World, and those held in bondage. It is a book about the men, women, and children who built the very tools necessary for the development and expansion of capitalism and colonization. It is a book about the nefarious \\"hydra,\\" that mythic beast slain by Hercules and whose name the elites applied to anyone who dared challenge their authority. Francis Bacon wrote a treatise about this \\"hydra,\\" arguing that they were subhuman \\"monsters\\" that the authorities should eradicate at the earliest opportunity. These wretches became the \\"hewers of wood and drawers of water,\\" or peons good only for the basest labors.<br /><br />The authors argue that several key factors played a part in the creation of this hydra. The most important was expropriation, that disastrous English policy that displaced thousands upon thousands of small farmers so that large landowners could fence in land, which led to such massive social unrest that the authorities had to do something about it. They chose to terrorize, to incarcerate, and execute those opposed to the new order. They also chose to ship many of these people overseas to use them as cheap labor to develop properties in the new world. The authors define subsequent events, everything from slave rebellions in Jamaica to a 1741 insurrection in New York, as class warfare between the poor and the wealthy. Members of the hydra (I should say heads of the hydra), according to the authors, always sought to unify their class interests in order to throw off the yoke of the oppressors. And the oppressors always managed to negate these attempts.<br /><br />\\"The Many-Headed Hydra\\" is an enormous effort of scholarship, covering so many obscure events in British, Caribbean, and American history that the casual reader's mind will certainly founder under the onslaught of information. I'm a graduate student in history and I occasionally found myself looking up some of the events and people cited by the authors. Moreover, there are a couple of extraordinarily dense chapters examining how the hewers of wood and the drawers of water expropriated religion to their own class ends that will further boggle the mind. Not to worry, however, as the general themes of the book crystallize quite clearly through exampleafter example of the attempted rise of the underclass and the subsequent crackdown by those in power. There are so many examples that follow this template that by the time the reader gets to the end of the book he or she is tempted to yell, \\"Enough already! I get the idea!\\" Eventual irritation aside, Rediker's and Linebaugh's book is an impressive reinterpretation of transatlantic history. It is also, unfortunately, rabidly left wing and biased. The following example will show the book's emphasis on underclass agency as well as its tendency to overstate its case.<br /><br />Rediker and Linebaugh claim that impressment, that scurrilous activity effort by naval officers and ships' captains to forcibly coerce sailors into foreign service, was the key factor in starting the American Revolution. While it is no doubt true that the underclass in the American colonies had different beefs with their English masters than the colonial elites did, this book goes way too far in trying to show that the ENTIRE impetus for the revolution started with the underclass. According to the authors, colonial elites witnessing the riots started by disgruntled sailors and other \\"riffraff\\" were inspired to internalize this revolutionary fervor. Hogwash. All you need to do is go look for T.H. Breen's \\"Tobacco Culture,\\" which successfully proved that wealthy colonial planters agitated for war because they owed so much money to English merchants that to stay within the British orbit would have ruined them. At best, we can say that BOTH the underclass and the upperclass had reasons to oust the British, and then went separate ways later. \\"The Many-Headed Hydra\\" is useful because it gives us another way to think about transatlantic history, but its one-sided arguments omit much.xample after example of the attempted rise of the underclass and the subsequent crackdown by those in power. There are so many examples that follow this template that by the time the reader gets to the end of the book he or she is tempted to yell, \\"Enough already! I get the idea!\\" Eventual irritation aside, Rediker's and Linebaugh's book is an impressive reinterpretation of transatlantic history. It is also, unfortunately, rabidly left wing and biased. The following example will show the book's emphasis on underclass agency as well as its tendency to overstate its case. <br /> <br />Rediker and Linebaugh claim that impressment, that scurrilous activity effort by naval officers and ships' captains to forcibly coerce sailors into foreign service, was the key factor in starting the American Revolution. While it is no doubt true that the underclass in the American colonies had different beefs with their English masters than the colonial elites did, this book goes way too far in trying to show that the ENTIRE impetus for the revolution started with the underclass. According to the authors, colonial elites witnessing the riots started by disgruntled sailors and other \\"riffraff\\" were inspired to internalize this revolutionary fervor. Hogwash. All you need to do is go look for T.H. Breen's \\"Tobacco Culture,\\" which successfully proved that wealthy colonial planters agitated for war because they owed so much money to English merchants that to stay within the British orbit would have ruined them. At best, we can say that BOTH the underclass and the upperclass had reasons to oust the British, and then went separate ways later. \\"The Many-Headed Hydra\\" is useful because it gives us another way to think about transatlantic history, but its one-sided arguments omit much.    <br />  <br />	2004-11-02
470795:US	52012289	R1429O9A6AJOB1	0226110842	788963910	A Home of Another Kind: One Chicago Orphanage and the Tangle of Child Welfare	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Amazing	When one thinks of orphanages, Oliver Twist asking \\"Can I have some more, please?\\" comes to mind. So does the image of the orphanage as a giant warehouse packed to the rafters with filthy children cowering under the harsh glare of psychotic social workers. Kenneth Cmiel's \\"A Home of Another Kind: One Chicago Orphanage and the Tangle of Child Welfare\\" does much to refute this view. Certainly, some orphanages were cesspools that mistreated their charges, but most genuinely tried to assist the children under their care. Cmiel's book, through the use of a plethora of source materials--including orphanage records, government documents, and personal interviews-- successfully charts the changing course of child welfare by looking at the Chicago Nursery and Half-Orphan Asylum from its founding in 1860 to its reorganization as a research center in 1984. Most importantly, he uses his findings to trace the changing attitudes regarding the care of dependent and delinquent children in the country at large.<br /><br />The author discovers that the early years of the Chicago Nursery and Half-Orphan Asylum, from 1860 to roughly 1900, were a time of private, religion based assistance. The people that ran the institution on a daily basis were Protestant, wealthy, and female. They lived near the asylum, which meant that they took a personal interest in the condition of the institution and the children living there. The women running the orphanage also helped raise the funds necessary to operate the building on a yearly basis. Children chosen to live in the asylum came from working class families undergoing some sort of catastrophic upheaval, disasters that left one or both of the parents needing someone to watch their offspring while they put their family back together again. As a result, children in the orphanage during the early years of its existence rarely lived there very long. Progressive ideas about childcare, which began in earnest after 1900, sought to change the practices of the asylum by creating a unified network of facilities dependent upon citywide umbrella organizations that disbursed both funds and the latest social service theories. While successful in some areas, these Progressive ideas failed to gain power over Chicago area orphanages and asylums because privately owned facilities refused to give up control.<br /><br />The Great Depression, World War II, and the post-war period saw public funding increase from a trickle to a flood. With the boost in public funding came rules and regulations that severely curtailed the traditional authority of the private managing boards. The Chicago Nursery and Half-Orphan Asylum, now known as Chapin Hall as a result of a new facility built with donated funds, gradually turned over control of the organization to the professionally trained staff. The institution also went on the public dole, receiving hundreds of thousands of dollars from the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS). With public money came new responsibilities, primarily rejecting dependent kids in favor of delinquent children with a host of emotional and physical problems. Chapin Hall became a \\"residential treatment facility\\" staffed with dozens of highly trained professionals working intensively with the youths. When the state government began a policy of \\"deinstitutionalization\\" in the 1970s, a policy that sought to remove as many children from public orphanages and asylums as possible, Chapin Hall failed to respond to the new reality and closed after running deep deficits for several years. The institution reopened as a children's research center under the ownership of the University of Chicago.<br /><br />Cmiel's book is a wonderful work because it succeeds in personalizing the history of the Chicago orphanage. The author consistently brings to the foreground the personal elements of social history that are often lost in lengthy descriptions of changing policies, power struggles, and theories on childcare. The reader gains a very real sense of what it was like to live in an asylum. For instance, Cmiel describes how the children living in the orphanage in the late nineteenth century, both male and female, had their heads shaved in order to prevent lice. And the descriptions of youths with serious mental and emotional problems in the later years of the orphanage, children abandoned by their parents and left to languish at Chapin Hall for years, brought tears to the eyes of this reader. It is rare for a history book to elicit this sort of reaction. Arguably the most surprising element in the book concerns the process of deinstitutionalization, and who started that process. Conservatives usually shoulder the blame for closing down hospitals, mental asylums, and other shelters. But Cmiel's research points the finger at liberals coming into power in the 1970s. They supported reducing the number of children in institutions with programs designed to keep kids at home or in small group houses scattered throughout the city. It was only later that Republicans signed on to the policies when they too discovered the amount of money the state would save in the process. It seems there is enough guilt to go around for both parties.<br /><br />It is difficult to find problems with Cmiel's study due to the excellent research and strict parameters of the study. Yet there are a few areas that could use additional explanation or elaboration. For example, at several points in the narrative the author contends that Catholic facilities eluded Progressive efforts to exert financial and operational control far longer than most of the city's other institutions. Not until the DCFS pumped massive amounts of money into privately controlled facilities did the Catholics turn over control. Why were Catholic operations impervious to the earlier Progressive attempts to unite Chicago's childcare institutions under a broad operational umbrella when others were not? Was Catholic unity the reason these asylums resisted change for so long? Or was it something else? If it was the latter, could the Protestant organizations like Chapin Hall have done something similar and thus explored other options to keep control of their institution, if even for awhile longer?ildcare. The reader gains a very real sense of what it was like to live in an asylum. For instance, Cmiel describes how the children living in the orphanage in the late nineteenth century, both male and female, had their heads shaved in order to prevent lice. And the descriptions of youths with serious mental and emotional problems in the later years of the orphanage, children abandoned by their parents and left to languish at Chapin Hall for years, brought tears to the eyes of this reader. It is rare for a history book to elicit this sort of reaction. Arguably the most surprising element in the book concerns the process of deinstitutionalization, and who started that process. Conservatives usually shoulder the blame for closing down hospitals, mental asylums, and other shelters. But Cmiel's research points the finger at liberals coming into power in the 1970s. They supported reducing the number of children in institutions with programs designed to keep kids at home or in small group houses scattered throughout the city. It was only later that Republicans signed on to the policies when they too discovered the amount of money the state would save in the process. It seems there is enough guilt to go around for both parties. <br /> <br />It is difficult to find problems with Cmiel's study due to the excellent research and strict parameters of the study. Yet there are a few areas that could use additional explanation or elaboration. For example, at several points in the narrative the author contends that Catholic facilities eluded Progressive efforts to exert financial and operational control far longer than most of the city's other institutions. Not until the DCFS pumped massive amounts of money into privately controlled facilities did the Catholics turn over control. Why were Catholic operations impervious to the earlier Progressive attempts to unite Chicago's childcare institutions under a broad operational umbrella when others were not? Was Catholic unity the reasonthese asylums resisted change for so long? Or was it something else? If it was the latter, could the Protestant organizations like Chapin Hall have done something similar and thus explored other options to keep control of their institution, if even for awhile longer? <br />  <br />  <br />   <br />   <br />	2004-11-01
471101:US	52012289	R1UQOIM663O4HV	0312341156	246588173	Where the Right Went Wrong: How Neoconservatives Subverted the Reagan Revolution and Hijacked the Bush Presidency	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Eye opening	You know we live in politically polarized times when Patrick Buchanan writes a book that appeals to both conservatives and liberals. Who would have thought such a thing possible? Ten years ago it was impossible. Buchanan was the boogeyman, the old, scary paleoconservative that liberals and leftists alike loved to hold up to universal revulsion. His campaigns for the presidency elicited nothing but scorn from the political \\"mainstream.\\" His service to Richard Nixon and Ronald Reagan served as proof positive to the crackpots that this was a man we could--and should--never trust. Some went so far as to tar Buchanan with the \\"anti-Semite\\" brush because he dared to question our government's inflexible support for Israel. They also tossed in the label \\"racist\\" for good measure, not because he was one but because his conservatism practically demanded the charge. Well, Patrick Buchanan dealt with these scurrilous labels and continued to appear as the token conservative on the left-leaning network news shows. And he continued to write books warning America of the dangers we face from the big spenders, the morally bankrupt, and the religion haters. \\"Where the Right Went Wrong\\" is Patrick Buchanan's magnum opus, a book that convincingly argues that the current (as of this writing) Bush regime is as far from conservative as possible.<br /><br />\\"Where the Right Went Wrong\\" is the first Buchanan book I read, and I am impressed. This guy is cogent, smart as a whip, and seems unwilling to sell out his core values. The author put pen to paper because the last four years of the Bush administration have left him feeling decidedly unenthusiastic. Why? The president spends more money than a liberal. The president refuses to confront leftist challenges to the culture. The president used the September 11th attacks to involve us in a destructive and expensive war overseas for no other reason than to fulfill an ideology formulated by his neoconservative advisors. The president has accelerated the outflow of American manufacturing jobs to third world nations under the auspices of NAFTA. The president refuses to stem the tide of illegal immigration across the Mexican border, thus contributing to higher crime rates, an increase in expensive entitlement programs, and a decrease in wages. Then there is the ongoing fiasco in Iraq, an expensive quagmire that squanders American blood and treasure in a fruitless quest to democratize the Middle East.<br /><br />Buchanan spends a significant portion of his book discussing the neoconservatives in the current administration. We all know their names: Paul Wolfowitz, Douglas Feith, and Richard Perle are the most important figures, but there are others. The author contends that these neoconservative elements converted Cheney, Rumsfeld, and Bush to their way of thinking, a way of thinking that endorses imperial campaigns around the globe in the name of spreading democracy. Buchanan defines neoconservatives as former left wing kooks who \\"converted\\" to conservatism back in the 1970s and 1980s. They aren't conservatives at all, argues the book, because they support massive government spending on social programs and refuse to fight for traditional values. Even worse, neoconservatives forged an interventionist, unilateral foreign policy that will require us to send our military anywhere in the world at any time in the name of protecting or establishing democracy. No serious threat need exist for us to attack another nation. Buchanan rightly says this new policy is an adaptation of the Brezhnev Doctrine that allowed the Soviet Union to invade Afghanistan in order to install a communist regime. And we know what happened to the Soviet Union, don't we?<br /><br />\\"Where the Right Went Wrong\\" is much, much more than an analysis of the neoconservative nuts in the White House. Buchanan identifies two distinct strands of Islam battling for supremacy in the Middle East. In a chapter on Islamic history, the author claims that a secular Islam exemplified by men like Kemal Ataturk and a militant faction subscribing to the methods of the late Ayatollah Khomeini will decide which direction the Arab world will go in the future. We risk upsetting this contest when we invade their countries, kill their people, support their pro-western regimes, and attempt to impose democracy. Buchanan follows up with a detailed look at the development of terrorism, going all the way back to Czarist Russia to look at how this form of violence emerged. Repeatedly, the book shows how terrorism beat powerful states that overreacted by using reckless force. States that responded cautiously and with the confidence of its citizens often turned aside terrorist threats. Guess how we responded after September 11th? Actually, you shouldn't have to guess. Subsequent chapters deal with China, the economy, the loss of congressional power, and that merry band of lunatics sometimes referred to as the American judiciary.<br /><br />I did spot one problem in Buchanan's analysis of American foreign policy. He continually hammers on how the neoconservative philosophy replaces the old policy of containment that worked so well during the Cold War. Problem is, the conservative response to the implementation of this policy in the late 1940s was vicious, sustained, and loud. Even \\"Mr. Conservative\\" himself, Robert Taft, excoriated containment as yet another example of the government involving our country in dangerous foreign entanglements. History proved that containment played a large role in bringing down the Soviet bear, but will the neoconservative plan fare as well? I doubt it. Buchanan concludes his book with the requisite list of things we should do to roll back the damage, and even discretely endorses voting for Bush for the sake of returning sanity to the Supreme Court. Personally, I think we're in deep trouble. Great powers never willingly back down from threats because to do so compromises their great power status. Sadly, the lessons spelled out here will fall on deaf ears.a secular Islam exemplified by men like Kemal Ataturk and a militant faction subscribing to the methods of the late Ayatollah Khomeini will decide which direction the Arab world will go in the future. We risk upsetting this contest when we invade their countries, kill their people, support their pro-western regimes, and attempt to impose democracy. Buchanan follows up with a detailed look at the development of terrorism, going all the way back to Czarist Russia to look at how this form of violence emerged. Repeatedly, the book shows how terrorism beat powerful states that overreacted by using reckless force. States that responded cautiously and with the confidence of its citizens often turned aside terrorist threats. Guess how we responded after September 11th? Actually, you shouldn't have to guess. Subsequent chapters deal with China, the economy, the loss of congressional power, and that merry band of lunatics sometimes referred to as the American judiciary. <br /> <br />I did spot one problem in Buchanan's analysis of American foreign policy. He continually hammers on how the neoconservative philosophy replaces the old policy of containment that worked so well during the Cold War. Problem is, the conservative response to the implementation of this policy in the late 1940s was vicious, sustained, and loud. Even \\"Mr. Conservative\\" himself, Robert Taft, excoriated containment as yet another example of the government involving our country in dangerous foreign entanglements. History proved that containment played a large role in bringing down the Soviet bear, but will the neoconservative plan fare as well? I doubt it. Buchanan concludes his book with the requisite list of things we should do to roll back the damage, and even discretely endorses voting for Bush for the sake of returning sanity to the Supreme Court. Personally, I think we're in deep trouble. Great powers never willingly back down from threats because to do so compromises their great power status. Sadly, the lessons spelled out here will fall on deaf ears. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-10-31
473866:US	52012289	R2HAO0ILPRF0NB	0595664393	141338329	Creator: A Superhero Epic	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Needs a lot of work	I was enormously chary when sitting down to read Alexander B. Edwards's self published novel \\"Creator: A Superhero Epic.\\" Why? I generally distrust products based on comic book characters or comic book motifs. I also tend to smirk at stories supposedly based on role-playing games. Don't get me wrong; I've seen plenty of films and read several books similar to this one that did an excellent job of bringing superheroes and the like to life. Heck, when I was twelve and thirteen I collected comic books and played games like Dungeons and Dragons. And I liked doing so then. I even kept all of my comic books from two decades ago, safely packing them away in plastic and boxes for the day when I can sell them for thousands of dollars (yeah, right). But I agreed to read \\"Creator,\\" and planned on doing so with an open mind. For all I knew before I started the book, Edwards's story could attain such heights of wondrousness that a major publisher would pick up an option to publish his novel. And since the author claims this book is the first in a planned set of stories, a series of movies based on the stories may well be playing at the Cineplex in four or five years. It saddens me to say that this is unlikely to happen.<br /><br />\\"Creator,\\" set in an alternate world, tells the story of an earth divided between normal humans and mutants. Most mutants, all of whom possess various amazing powers, must keep a low profile since the rest of the world views them with suspicion or outright hostility. The only acceptable mutants are the ones who form superhero organizations in order to battle crime. These groups work closely with the government, primarily an intelligence apparatus known as the Special Investigation Agency (SIA), to save the world whenever necessary. You've got groups like the Energy, Light, and Fire based out of New York, but \\"Creator\\" focuses in on the formation of a new group called Eternal Champions. It all starts with a few scenes set in outer space, where the queen of an alien race nearly perishes after a diplomatic mission turns disastrous. The principals involved, including a few mutants from our world, decide they must travel to earth to seek out a vessel in which they can transfer the monarch's spirit. Flash forward to, well, earth. It is here we meet a chap named Richard Octavian, a seemingly harmless doctoral candidate at a university who is in reality a powerful mutant. It turns out that Octavian is actually ninety-two years old, but he appears as a young man because he can change his shape at will.<br /><br />An assassination attempt on Octavian reveals the presence of yet another mutant in hiding on campus, one Larcis G. Draven. This guy convinces Richard to form a superhero organization--along with another mutant who just happens to be mute--after the attack, not an easy thing to accomplish considering Octavian's reticence to have anything to do with government service again. You see, he worked as an operative in Vietnam and came away from the experience horribly scarred. But Larcis is insistent, so the two quickly secure government funding for their project and soon engage in their first mission. The SIA wants the Eternal Champions to fly into San Francisco in order to rescue a downed aircraft of important dignitaries. It isn't the San Francisco we know and love, however, but rather a huge penal complex ruled by a powerful mutant named Sargon. In go the Eternal Champions, a huge battle ensues, and when the group returns they have two female mutant inmates in tow. Since these two women helped thwart the dastardly Sargon's nefarious plans, a presidential pardon allows them to join the Eternal Champions as full-fledged members. Another mission soon looms on the horizon when the aforementioned aliens arrive on earth.<br /><br />\\"Creator\\" sounds intriguing, doesn't it? Well, it's not for several reasons. First, the book reads like a combination of \\"The X-men\\" and \\"Escape From New York,\\" which it probably is since the author says he came up with the idea in the early 1980s, a time when this comic book and film arrived on the scene. Second, the editing is horrible. Typographical errors practically drip off every page, and while I can always muster sympathy for someone caught with a few typos in their writing, \\"Creator\\" contains far too many to ignore. These errors seriously hamper the flow of the novel. Third, and closely related to my second complaint, is the number of continuity errors in the story. For instance, the book at one point claims that Octavian attended a class, but later we discover that school hasn't even started yet. Fourth, the dialogue between characters is so leaden that it will set your teeth on edge. At first, I sort of looked past this problem because writing dialogue is not an easy thing to do. I know I would have to practice long and hard to learn how to do it. But after awhile, I simply couldn't ignore the problem any longer. Exchanges resemble something an adolescent would put to paper in a creative writing class.<br /><br />I'm not dumping on the book out of spite. I do think that the author could, with a lot of work, greatly improve the technical aspects in his second book. Proofreading is an absolute necessity for removing typos and continuity errors, and the dialogue might improve if the author reads it aloud to see if it flows naturally. One thing the author did do well was balancing numerous plot threads. I see no reason why subsequent installments in this story arc could not improve with significant effort. As it stands, \\"Creator\\" earns two stars.the author says he came up with the idea in the early 1980s, a time when this comic book and film arrived on the scene. Second, the editing is horrible. Typographical errors practically drip off every page, and while I can always muster sympathy for someone caught with a few typos in their writing, \\"Creator\\" contains far too many to ignore. These errors seriously hamper the flow of the novel. Third, and closely related to my second complaint, is the number of continuity errors in the story. For instance, the book at one point claims that Octavian attended a class, but later we discover that school hasn't even started yet. Fourth, the dialogue between characters is so leaden that it will set your teeth on edge. At first, I sort of looked past this problem because writing dialogue is not an easy thing to do. I know I would have to practice long and hard to learn how to do it. But after awhile, I simply couldn't ignore the problem any longer. Exchanges resemble something an adolescent would put to paper in a creative writing class. <br /> <br />I'm not dumping on the book out of spite. I do think that the author could, with a lot of work, greatly improve the technical aspects in his second book. Proofreading is an absolute necessity for removing typos and continuity errors, and the dialogue might improve if the author reads it aloud to see if it flows naturally. One thing the author did do well was balancing numerous plot threads. I see no reason why subsequent installments in this story arc could not improve with significant effort. As it stands, \\"Creator\\" earns two stars. <br />	2004-10-29
477906:US	52012289	R2CYOJE1RMMRDR	0807847127	192424173	Reconstructing the Household: Families, Sex, and the Law in the Nineteenth-Century South (Studies in Legal History)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Thought provoking	Peter Bardaglio's \\"Reconstructing the Household: Families, Sex, and the Law in the Nineteenth-Century South\\" is a polite reassessment of, as well as an expansion upon, Michael Grossberg's \\"Governing the Hearth: Law and the Family in Nineteenth-Century America.\\" Through the use of similar primary sources, i.e. records from lower and appellate courts, legal treatises, and personal papers, Bardaglio challenges Grossberg's assertion that America uniformly moved from a family structure dominated by patriarchs to one shaped by jurists and the state over the course of the nineteenth century. The author of \\"Reconstructing the Household\\" claims that the American South served as a massive exception to that argument by maintaining a strict adherence to an organic, or patriarchal, family organization until the Civil War fundamentally changed many aspects of domestic relations law in the region. Moreover, Bardaglio contends that this male centered family unit served as the central organizing feature of the southern state, a unit that acted as an intermediary between the state and the rest of society.<br /><br />The author divides his study into two sections: one outlining the hierarchy of the southern legal system and the organization of the family prior to the Civil War, and one examining the radical restructuring of domestic relations law after the conflict of 1861-65. Antebellum society centered on the heads of the household, which in the South meant free white males. All aspects of the family unit--including women, children, and even slaves--revolved around this all-powerful male figure. The law not only recognized but also encouraged this reality in its rulings concerning family relations. For example, in the rare cases of divorce or other instances of family dissolution the courts routinely awarded custody of children to the father. Women possessed few rights outside of their husband's domain, and could usually only maintain control over the children when their spouse specifically granted guardianship to his wife in his will. Slaves, tied to their owners and thus nominally under their absolute control, presented southern jurists with a dilemma. The fear of miscegenation led state governments and courts to interfere in the family arena, which Bardaglio indicates was the most significant instance of state intrusion into private life in the South before the Civil War.<br /><br />The Civil War was a catastrophic disaster for the southern legal system. The widespread destruction of court records and the loss of talented legal scholars and lawyers on the battlefields represented a momentous setback to antebellum legal practices. But the subsequent resurrection and reshaping of courts by northern authorities rapidly brought about a massive change in how new southern judges and advocates practiced domestic relations law. Just as significant was the introduction of market capitalism, which eroded the agrarian based economic system over the following decades. This change had the same effect it did in the North; it translated into an emerging legal emphasis that shattered the monolithic patriarchal family by recognizing the individual. The terms seen in Grossberg's book, the \\"tender years\\" doctrine and the \\"best interests of the child\\" among them, moved to the forefront in southern legal rulings. Tentative recognition of rights for women and children that began as a trickle before the Civil War became a flood as judges paved the way for the state to decide who could adopt children, who could raise children, what constituted rape, and a host of other family related matters. In other words, the southern family morphed into Grossberg's republican family, or an amalgamation of individuals within the family possessing rights not contingent on the traditional head of the household.<br /><br />Bardaglio's book is most effective when it describes how southern judges avoided intruding on the patriarchal society. The author discovered that the issue of incest presented a startling example of how the legal system could function as a protector of the elite class and its beliefs. Relationships between family members or in-laws are not rare occurrences in any society, and the American South was no exception. Judges spoke out about the practice in an unequivocally hostile manner, arguing that sexual contact between kin relations was a practice that would undermine the society built upon elite conceptions of how that culture should function. But, as Bardaglio convincingly argues, southern jurists went out of their way to condemn the behavior on an individual basis instead of denouncing the patriarchal system as a whole. Because the organic family fosters an environment of extraordinarily close physical and emotional contact between the dominant male and subordinate females, the author contends that the result often drifted into a sexual relationship. For the judges who had to preside over the resolution of such distasteful behavior, it was easier for them to believe incest was an anomaly instead of an inherent problem in the structure of southern domestic relations.<br /><br />Arguably the biggest difference between the Grossberg and Bardaglio treatments of domestic relations law in the nineteenth century deals with abortion and contraceptive practices. Grossberg examined these two aspects in great detail while Bardaglio omits them. Why? Both methods of birth control must have played some part in southern life, if not in the years before the Civil War then definitely afterwards when market capitalism made major inroads into the South. It is no secret that slave owners looked forward to bondswomen giving birth to children because they could hold them as property. Were there stringent bans on black women practicing birth control? How did southern slave owners enforce these bans, if they existed? Moreover, was there a change in law and public opinion on the issue of birth control after emancipation? If so, how and why did it change? None of these questions begin to scratch the surface of the role birth control played amongst the white inhabitants of the region. These questions are fascinating, and the potential answers might very well increase the understanding of how southern domestic relations law differed from its northern counterpart in the nineteenth century.e of incest presented a startling example of how the legal system could function as a protector of the elite class and its beliefs. Relationships between family members or in-laws are not rare occurrences in any society, and the American South was no exception. Judges spoke out about the practice in an unequivocally hostile manner, arguing that sexual contact between kin relations was a practice that would undermine the society built upon elite conceptions of how that culture should function. But, as Bardaglio convincingly argues, southern jurists went out of their way to condemn the behavior on an individual basis instead of denouncing the patriarchal system as a whole. Because the organic family fosters an environment of extraordinarily close physical and emotional contact between the dominant male and subordinate females, the author contends that the result often drifted into a sexual relationship. For the judges who had to preside over the resolution of such distasteful behavior, it was easier for them to believe incest was an anomaly instead of an inherent problem in the structure of southern domestic relations. <br /> <br />Arguably the biggest difference between the Grossberg and Bardaglio treatments of domestic relations law in the nineteenth century deals with abortion and contraceptive practices. Grossberg examined these two aspects in great detail while Bardaglio omits them. Why? Both methods of birth control must have played some part in southern life, if not in the years before the Civil War then definitely afterwards when market capitalism made major inroads into the South. It is no secret that slave owners looked forward to bondswomen giving birth to children because they could hold them as property. Were there stringent bans on black women practicing birth control? How did southern slave owners enforce these bans, if they existed? Moreover, was there a change in law and public opinion on the issue of birth control after emancipation? If so, how and why did it change? None of these questions begin to scratch the surface of the role birth control played amongst the white inhabitants of the region. These questions are fascinating, and the potential answers might very well increase the understanding of how southern domestic relations law differed from its northern counterpart in the nineteenth century. <br />   <br /> <br />	2004-10-25
483707:US	52012289	R34PXZ2YPL097Y	0595311598	164707296	Love and The Power	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Monumental	The first couple of chapters in John Eidemak's \\"Love and The Power\\" introduce us to Paul and Ann Dockett, an English couple of above average means thanks to Paul's job as a bank manager for the now infamous BCCI (Bank of Credit and Commerce International) financial institution. You remember BCCI; it was a central component of the huge savings and loan implosion back in the early 1990s that cost American taxpayers billions in bailout money. Many big name people were involved in this scandal, people that worked hard behind the scenes to avoid indictment and conviction. Paul Dockett, as we learn from Eidemak's story, is not one of these big fishes. He's just a guy who got in over his head when a con man named Aaron Nicholstein set him up to take a fall for shady bank loans. As the authorities whisk Paul away to jail, a man named Erick Elgberg offers his wife Ann a job ferrying large amounts of cash around Europe. It turns out that Elgberg is only the point man for a powerful figure named John Forbes, a man who runs a vast criminal empire that took nearly forty years to build. \\"Love and The Power\\" devotes most of its 465 pages to tracing the rise and fall of a powerful and ruthless underworld figure.<br /><br />It all started in the 1950s when John Forbes realized his single mother toiled too hard as a servant for a wealthy British family. Angered that the aristocratic Carvens have everything handed to them on a silver platter merely because of a title, Forbes decides that a life of crime is the best way to rise in society. He lifts an antique pistol from a museum and sells it to a fence by the name of Arthur Black for a couple of hundred pounds, thus beginning a career that will see his net worth soar into the billions. Forbes quickly moves into burglary, stealing valuable art objects at the behest of the knowledgeable Black. John becomes so successful that he must learn a thing or two about the legitimate business world in order to set up a front operation--in this case a toy import business--to hide his ill-gotten gains. A further effort to establish respectability by marrying the Carvens beautiful daughter, Lady Catherine, nearly falters when the police pinch him on an auto theft charge. Rather than let prison break him, Forbes embarks on more ambitious plans by setting up a criminal network involving drug smuggling. As the pages fly by, John's \\"Invisible Company\\" grows in size and scope, hampered only by occasional setbacks inherent in any unsavory venture as well as personal problems involving Catherine and his son Michael.<br /><br />Simultaneously, Eidemak examines Erick Elgberg. A Danish entrepreneur who started out in life as a frivolous playboy, Elgberg first makes his mark by forming the largest clothing conglomerate in Denmark, a consortium of interests named GIANT. Unfortunately, in an effort to buy up the stock of a larger company, Elgberg and his associates fail to disclose crucial information necessary to carry off the deal. In come the lawyers and the authorities, and GIANT collapses amidst a flurry of fraud charges and prison sentences for Elgberg and his partners. Disgraced by the scandal, Elgberg nonetheless ends up back in business after a prison job places him in a small company teetering on the brink of insolvency. The Dane convinces the owner to sell out and, through another small piece of luck, manages to turn his stake into a steady career as a corporate liquidator. It's illegal, for the most part, but Elgberg stifles his conscience for the sake of his own financial future as well as for his wife Andrea. Soon, Elgberg falls into orbit around John Forbes. Forbes sees Elgberg as the perfect man to help him turn his empire legit, and Elgberg likes the money and power he gains from associating with Forbes. But Paul and Ann Dockett, from way back at the beginning of the book, throw a wrench in the two men's plans for global financial dominance.<br /><br />Eidemak's book is a sensational, powerful read. Wordslike \\"epic\\" and \\"tour de force,\\" as clich&eacute;d as those two terms are when applied to literature, kept popping up in my mind as I worked my way through this lengthy tome. I also noticed I began making comparisons to Mario Puzo's \\"The Godfather,\\" not because of any ethnic connotations--there is nary a Sicilian to be found anywhere in the book--but because Eidemak's novel deals primarily with the pursuit of power derailed by personal tragedy. What you have here is a universe of major and minor characters so well developed that you feel like you know them personally at the end of the story. The author incorporates numerous themes in his yarn, everything from crime thriller to romance to tearjerker, that it simply boggles the mind that one book could contain this much yet pull it off so naturally. \\"Love and The Power\\" zips along at such a whipsaw fast pace that it gives a new meaning to the term \\"unputdownable,\\" and although I did set it down from time to time as pressing personal matters moved to the forefront, I did so with the greatest reluctance.<br /><br />I have little doubt that \\"Love and The Power\\" could attain great popularity with a wider audience; I could even see this book as an entertaining major motion picture. Eidemak is a marvelous writer made even better by his command of the English language, a command all the more impressive considering the author is Danish and therefore must know English as a second language. Too, since I don't know much about the business world, his steady grasp of corporate machinations and his ability to explain them clearly is a great help. \\"Love and The Power\\" is one of the best books I've read this year.Words like \\"epic\\" and \\"tour de force,\\" as clichd as those two terms are when applied to literature, kept popping up in my mind as I worked my way through this lengthy tome. I also noticed I began making comparisons to Mario Puzo's \\"The Godfather,\\" not because of any ethnic connotations--there is nary a Sicilian to be found anywhere in the book--but because Eidemak's novel deals primarily with the pursuit of power derailed by personal tragedy. What you have here is a universe of major and minor characters so well developed that you feel like you know them personally at the end of the story. The author incorporates numerous themes in his yarn, everything from crime thriller to romance to tearjerker, that it simply boggles the mind that one book could contain this much yet pull it off so naturally. \\"Love and The Power\\" zips along at such a whipsaw fast pace that it gives a new meaning to the term \\"unputdownable,\\" and although I did set it down from time to time as pressing personal matters moved to the forefront, I did so with the greatest reluctance. <br /> <br />I have little doubt that \\"Love and The Power\\" could attain great popularity with a wider audience; I could even see this book as an entertaining major motion picture. Eidemak is a marvelous writer made even better by his command of the English language, a command all the more impressive considering the author is Danish and therefore must know English as a second language. Too, since I don't know much about the business world, his steady grasp of corporate machinations and his ability to explain them clearly is a great help. \\"Love and The Power\\" is one of the best books I've read this year. <br />	2004-10-20
484779:US	52012289	R20K253MXSQWGF	0595321631	436652814	The Drone Virus	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very frightening	I've read more than a few of these publish it yourself novels, and have discovered a rather surprising fact: most of them are pretty darn good. I've seen a few that barely clear the bar due to abundant typographical errors, plot problems, or unconvincing character development; but the majority of the novels I read were definitely books that a big publishing house could easily pick up for wide distribution. Gerald Clarke's \\"The Drone Virus\\" is a novel that falls in the \\"darn good\\" category. Here's a book that is, at various times, a medical thriller, a technological thriller, and a murder mystery. That's quite a batch of ingredients mixed in the same bowl, but under the rock steady stewardship of Clarke--who is an ophthalmologist and a computer technician by trade--the result is an enormously entertaining novel that manages to scare anyone who has ever had to deal with the frightening, many headed hydra that is the health care industry. When I think about computer viruses, I think about losing my hard drive on my PC. I'm vaguely aware that hackers can disrupt important computer networks with viruses. But I never considered the implications of a bug placed inside an MRI scanner. Clarke shows us how easily someone could do this very thing.<br /><br />Stephen Rogers has a lot going for him. Once upon a time he was a successful financial trader in Chicago, one of the best in fact, who could make millions for himself and his clients with minimal effort because he has the canny ability to successfully navigate his way through the high pressure world of stock trading. Rogers even possessed the know-how to build a special computer program with the help of his friend Tony Chang, a program that every other trader with a seat on the exchange paid big bucks for in order to increase their profit potential. Sadly, God threw our hero a couple of curveballs that changed his life forever. First, his wife Lauren perished in a gang shoot out at the supermarket several years before the story starts, leaving Stephen with a daughter and a broken heart. Second, his daughter Jamie came down with a serious case of cancer that nearly took her life. Only with the help of Doctor John O'Brien, a leading cancer specialist and the innovator of a new genetic therapy aimed at deactivating cancer cells, did Jamie Rogers pull through her harrowing ordeal. She still has to go back to the Children's Hospital for check ups, and it is during one of her visits to the hospital when Stephen Rogers's life takes a further turn for the worse.<br /><br />Jamie Rogers must undergo an examination in the hospital's new, state of the art MRI scanner, a rather mundane procedure for the most part, so Dr. O'Brien can see if she is cancer free. Something terrible happens to Jamie during the scan, something that causes her to suffer continuous seizures. After his daughter expires from this sudden malady, Stephen devotes his life to discovering what cost him his only child. He can't help but blame the new scanner since Jamie slipped into seizures during the procedure. Everyone at the hospital, from John O'Brien to his doctor daughter Colleen O'Brien to administrator Derek Sloane, dismisses Rogers's accusations as pure fantasy. How could an MRI scanner cause irreversible brain damage and seizures? Besides, the hospital's pathologist Dr. Krupper did an autopsy and found that the cancer had reemerged. As tough as it is to accept, the case of Jamie Rogers appears to be closed--or is it? As Stephen Rogers applies the tenacity he once exhibited on the floor of the Chicago Stock Exchange to solving the mystery of his daughter's fate, he uncovers one sinister machination after another. Other children experienced fatal injuries during a trip through the MRI machine. Moreover, the hospital administration will seemingly do anything to gain FDA approval for their machine. Something sinister is going on in \\"The Drone Virus.\\"<br /><br />Clarke's novel is more than a by the numbers mystery yarn. The author makes his opinions about the current state of the health industry quite clear throughout the story. According to \\"The Drone Virus,\\" the corporate mentality of profit/loss has overtaken our hospitals, subverted the fundamental belief that people come first when health is an issue, and turned physicians into employees whose primary function entails seeking out research grants and prestigious awards. Power politics in a medical research facility is a dog eat dog world, with doctors carrying out vendettas against other doctors because of conflicting research goals and findings. Ultimately, it is the patient that suffers from the overemphasis on profit and the vicious backstabbing going on outside the ward. Many of the health care professionals in \\"The Drone Virus\\" are so concerned with their own position and problems that they simply refuse to believe Stephen Rogers when he claims something is wrong with the scanner. Only when the evidence becomes overwhelming does the motivation for profits come to light in particularly nasty ways.<br /><br />I can think of only one small thing in the book that I found confusing. Surprisingly, my bewilderment had little to do with the medical jargon or computer lingo, both of which Clarke does an excellent job of explaining even to this science idiot. The problem I had concerned the character of Marilyn. We meet her at the beginning of the book and see her pop up several times throughout the story, but Clarke never explains her relationship to Stephen Rogers. At first I thought she was his wife, then his girlfriend, before finally figuring out that she was just a friend who wanted something deeper from Rogers. It's nitpicky, I know, but it did bother me. This problem aside, I loved the book. Hopefully, the movie will come out on DVD next year.arn. The author makes his opinions about the current state of the health industry quite clear throughout the story. According to \\"The Drone Virus,\\" the corporate mentality of profit/loss has overtaken our hospitals, subverted the fundamental belief that people come first when health is an issue, and turned physicians into employees whose primary function entails seeking out research grants and prestigious awards. Power politics in a medical research facility is a dog eat dog world, with doctors carrying out vendettas against other doctors because of conflicting research goals and findings. Ultimately, it is the patient that suffers from the overemphasis on profit and the vicious backstabbing going on outside the ward. Many of the health care professionals in \\"The Drone Virus\\" are so concerned with their own position and problems that they simply refuse to believe Stephen Rogers when he claims something is wrong with the scanner. Only when the evidence becomes overwhelming does the motivation for profits come to light in particularly nasty ways. <br /> <br />I can think of only one small thing in the book that I found confusing. Surprisingly, my bewilderment had little to do with the medical jargon or computer lingo, both of which Clarke does an excellent job of explaining even to this science idiot. The problem I had concerned the character of Marilyn. We meet her at the beginning of the book and see her pop up several times throughout the story, but Clarke never explains her relationship to Stephen Rogers. At first I thought she was his wife, then his girlfriend, before finally figuring out that she was just a friend who wanted something deeper from Rogers. It's nitpicky, I know, but it did bother me. This problem aside, I loved the book. Hopefully, the movie will come out on DVD next year.  <br />	2004-10-19
500733:US	52012289	R3LIMDEM1VAY63	0807842257	245323133	Governing the Hearth: Law and the Family in Nineteenth-Century America (Studies in Legal History)	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Dry but the general argument holds up	Any attempt to assemble a detailed picture of society must take into consideration the legal structures that function within that culture. A court system works in two ways: judges influence society through its rulings as often as society at large influences the judicial system. Michael Grossberg's \\"Governing the Hearth: Law and the Family in Nineteenth-Century America\\" is a work that combines a comprehensive examination of early American law with aspects of social history in an attempt to arrive at an overarching theme of the development of family law--what would later become \\"domestic relations\\" law--and its influence on the larger society. Grossberg relies heavily on legal sources, including appellate court rulings and legal tracts, to construct a three-stage progression of American family law.<br /><br />According to the book, colonial family law was patriarchal in structure, tied closely to the state, and relegated women and children to the control of men. The American Revolution threw the colonial legal system, already under stress from a variety of factors including but not limited to the ability of settlers to leave for new lands, into chaos. What appeared in its place after a lengthy period of legal transformation involving an amalgamation of English legal principles and an emerging belief in American common law was a form Grossberg calls the republican family. The republican unit displaced the old patriarchal legal system in favor of laws that recognized individuals within the family. Too, this new form believed that state intervention in domestic matters was an evil best avoided. From the middle to the end of the nineteenth century, family laws across the board came under frequent assault from social reformers seeking to increase the role of the state in every aspect of the family. The end result was a hybrid of republican values and state intervention, of judicial discretion and legislative directives.<br /><br />The author examines courtship contracts, nuptials, the fitness of those seeking to marry, contraception and abortion, the legal rights of illegitimate offspring, and custody rights. Repeatedly, Grossberg contends that the courts took the initiative in constructing a body of laws and rulings that supported individual rights within the family. Nowhere is this support more apparent than in laws concerning the rights of women and children. Custody cases tossed out the old concepts of colonial patriarchy, in which fathers held the ultimate power over spouses and children, and replaced it with a new system that allowed mothers to keep their children in cases of family disintegration. As for children, judges began allowing illegitimate offspring to petition for shares of family estates, something that was never allowed under the male oriented English law. Moreover, magistrates considered the emotional and physical well being of children, arguing that the \\"best interests of the child\\" required a reassessment of the father's dominance in family life. In this way and many others, argues Grossberg, judges assumed a patriarchal function in the American family.<br /><br />\\"Governing the Hearth\\" is at its most fascinating describing the issues of birth control during the nineteenth century. The turmoil over this subject today tends to obscure how unimportant the issue was in the early part of the nineteenth century. American jurists subscribed to a belief stretching back into medieval times that claimed an abortion was not a sin or crime until the baby moved inside the womb. Called \\"quickening,\\" this belief stood as accepted law until social reformers began agitating for new rulings against abortions performed at any stage of impregnation. Likewise, contraceptives came under attack from figures such as Andrew Comstock, who convinced Congress to pass laws banning the use of medicines and devices sent through the mail. One reason these chapters intrigue is because they show the relationship between the states and the federal government. During the early to mid nineteenth century, state's rights carried more weight than the powers of the federal government. The issues surrounding abortions are so controversial today that it staggers the imagination to realize there was a time when individual states decided the issue. Grossberg unfortunately never mentions how state versus federal rights played a part in family law.<br /><br />The chapters on birth control laws succeed as well because they constitute one of the few areas in which the author links social history with his legal research. It is in these sections that the reader encounters the people involved in both sides of the issues, the unfortunate souls caught up in the tumult the courts experienced as the social reformers won their battles. Far too often the issues and court cases covered in this book seem like they float beyond the reach of any social, political, or economic realities. In some cases there can be little question as to why the courts dealt with certain issues. Even a cursory knowledge of American history explains why issues arose over the polygamy question in what is present day Utah. The same goes for miscegenation and the incorporation of freed slaves into preexisting marriage laws. But other parts of the book raise questions about what inspired legal changes during a particular time. On several occasions, Grossberg resorts to vague references about Victorian era perceptions regarding female behavior, specifically in the chapter on breach of marriage contracts. This explanation seems overly simplistic.<br /><br />\\"Governing the Hearth\\" ultimately does make a compelling case for its central thesis, namely that the American legal system went through three distinct phases as outlined above. The book also convincingly argues that the fortunes of women and children improved greatly during the nineteenth century, and does so without overestimating their gains. For example, while women could retain custody of their children in the event of family disintegration they still had to fit societal standards of good conduct as defined by a patriarchal mentality. But the fact that women began to emerge as individuals with definite rights was family law's most significant contribution during the nineteenth century, laying the groundwork for greater gains in the next 100 years.e federal government. During the early to mid nineteenth century, state's rights carried more weight than the powers of the federal government. The issues surrounding abortions are so controversial today that it staggers the imagination to realize there was a time when individual states decided the issue. Grossberg unfortunately never mentions how state versus federal rights played a part in family law. <br /> <br />The chapters on birth control laws succeed as well because they constitute one of the few areas in which the author links social history with his legal research. It is in these sections that the reader encounters the people involved in both sides of the issues, the unfortunate souls caught up in the tumult the courts experienced as the social reformers won their battles. Far too often the issues and court cases covered in this book seem like they float beyond the reach of any social, political, or economic realities. In some cases there can be little question as to why the courts dealt with certain issues. Even a cursory knowledge of American history explains why issues arose over the polygamy question in what is present day Utah. The same goes for miscegenation and the incorporation of freed slaves into preexisting marriage laws. But other parts of the book raise questions about what inspired legal changes during a particular time. On several occasions, Grossberg resorts to vague references about Victorian era perceptions regarding female behavior, specifically in the chapter on breach of marriage contracts. This explanation seems overly simplistic. <br /> <br />\\"Governing the Hearth\\" ultimately does make a compelling case for its central thesis, namely that the American legal system went through three distinct phases as outlined above. The book also convincingly argues that the fortunes of women and children improved greatly during the nineteenth century, and does so without overestimating their gains. For example, while women could retain custody of their children in the event of family disintegration they still had to fit societal standards of good conduct as defined by a patriarchal mentality. But the fact that women began to emerge as individuals with definite rights was family law's most significant contribution during the nineteenth century, laying the groundwork for greater gains in the next 100 years.     <br /> <br />	2004-10-04
505834:US	52012289	R2LB7UIMYX7NAE	1400053781	925238834	Weapons of Mass Distortion: The Coming Meltdown of the Liberal Media	Books	5	27	33	N	N	Stop the Insanity!	L. Brent Bozell's \\"Weapons of Mass Distortion: The Coming Meltdown of the Liberal Media\\" arrived on the scene long before the recent revelations linking CBS news to documents, since revealed as counterfeit, impugning President Bush's National Guard record. Too bad. The author could have written his book on this issue alone. Bozell, the founder and president of the Media Research Center, spends his days investigating incidents of media bias. Not surprisingly, the bias he uncovers is decidedly liberal in scope. This conclusion is no surprise to me or to millions of other Americans who have known for years that news outlets like CBS, NBC, ABC, CNN, MSNBC, NPR, The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, Newsweek, Time Magazine, and dozens of other purportedly \\"balanced\\" sources of news absolutely reek of left wing favoritism. What else could you expect? The employees at these places consist primarily of graying baby boomers; those spoiled, insolent brats whose existence has been a pox on our country for four decades. Not every baby boomer is a problem let alone a frothing at the mouth radical, of course, but the ones who are unfortunately decided to pursue careers in the public spotlight and never tire of giving the rest of us headaches. Bozell's book excoriates these capering clowns, nearly all of which we know all too well.<br /><br />Actually, I shouldn't call these fire breathers clowns since what Bozell explains to us in the book is deadly serious business, touching every aspect of our lives as well as influencing the nation's future. \\"Weapons of Mass Distortion\\" begins with a survey of recent literature dealing with media bias. The usual suspects appear--Al Franken, Dan Rather, Peter Jennings, Eric Alterman, and Joe Conason--all of whom scoff at the idea that the mainstream media support left wing agendas. In fact, some of these guys argue that the media have a right wing bias, citing such incidents as the 2000 election to bolster their claims. Nonsense, argues Bozell, who then sets out to prove how time and again the media mandarins set the agenda. How do they do it? You already know. It's how Katie Couric sighs when interviewing a conservative figure, or the eye rolling and tone of exasperation when a reporter or interviewer must deal with one of those clueless right wing evildoers. It's the unabashed gushing, giggling, and general sycophancy whenever Hillary and Bill Clinton roll into the studio for another round of self-promotion. It's labeling news stories with the tag \\"conservative\\" as a signal for sinister activities while left leaning organizations and figures get a pass. It's often just not covering stories at all if the left will suffer as a result.<br /><br />Bozell sees these things happening repeatedly in coverage of the Clinton presidency, gun control, the economy, abortion rights, religion, and the environment. Stories of major import receive coverage based solely on their relevancy to pre-conceived left wing agendas. The media always support pro-environmental activism even though the science behind the blathering is often crackpot. If you're a Christian, forget about getting a fair shake from the mainstream media; they despise the Catholic Church and conservative protestant denominations for having the temerity to actually oppose certain behaviors. The gall! Where the book really shines, though, are the chapters covering the horrors of the Clinton regime and the travesty that was Election 2000. Bozell proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that Slick Willy and Red Hilly received favorable treatment from the media during those scandal plagued years. Sure, the media threw a few punches over the whole Lewinsky incident, but other more sinister scandals dropped out of the headlines never to return (if they got their in the first place). Even worse than the eight-year lovefest accorded the Clintons was the disaster of the last presidential election. Bozell indicts the media with nothing less than creating a constitutional crisis because their man Gore didn't win the election.<br /><br />\\"Weapons of Mass Distortion\\" concludes with a thoughtful analysis of the coming implosion of the liberal media. According to Bozell, the proliferation of alternative media on both television and the Internet presents a serious threat to business as usual at CBS, NBC, ABC, and all the rest. Viewers are defecting in droves to search out less ideologically driven news sources, forcing the big outlets to adapt to the change by adding conservative voices to their staffs. Most continue to resist the looming disaster, steadfastly standing by the old \\"we're not biased\\" mantras that served them so well for decades. Bozell says they do so at their own risk. The world is a constantly changing, dangerous place that can no longer support the slanted viewpoints of a coterie of wealthy liberal media celebrities (who are predominantly white, by the way, a fact that seems lost on these people even as they brand other institutions as racist and exclusive).<br /><br />If I had a problem with the book, it is the omission of Hollywood as a prime force of liberal media. I realize Bozell wanted to focus on news organizations, but we cannot forget that Tinseltown disseminates most of the left wing propaganda we see and hear. As bad as Rather, Jennings, Brokaw, and the rest of the motley crew is, they don't hold a candle to the poison oozing out of California. It's gotten so bad that I have to shut my mind off whenever the extreme left wing themes pop up in a movie or show. If I didn't, I couldn't watch most of the stuff produced in the last twenty years! Bozell's book is a good read, although I don't see it changing anyone's mind. Liberals will continue to deny bias while conservatives gnash their teeth in frustration. By all means give it a shot.han creating a constitutional crisis because their man Gore didn't win the election. <br /> <br />\\"Weapons of Mass Distortion\\" concludes with a thoughtful analysis of the coming implosion of the liberal media. According to Bozell, the proliferation of alternative media on both television and the Internet presents a serious threat to business as usual at CBS, NBC, ABC, and all the rest. Viewers are defecting in droves to search out less ideologically driven news sources, forcing the big outlets to adapt to the change by adding conservative voices to their staffs. Most continue to resist the looming disaster, steadfastly standing by the old \\"we're not biased\\" mantras that served them so well for decades. Bozell says they do so at their own risk. The world is a constantly changing, dangerous place that can no longer support the slanted viewpoints of a coterie of wealthy liberal media celebrities (who are predominantly white, by the way, a fact that seems lost on these people even as they brand other institutions as racist and exclusive).  <br /> <br />If I had a problem with the book, it is the omission of Hollywood as a prime force of liberal media. I realize Bozell wanted to focus on news organizations, but we cannot forget that Tinseltown disseminates most of the left wing propaganda we see and hear. As bad as Rather, Jennings, Brokaw, and the rest of the motley crew is, they don't hold a candle to the poison oozing out of California. It's gotten so bad that I have to shut my mind off whenever the extreme left wing themes pop up in a movie or show. If I didn't, I couldn't watch most of the stuff produced in the last twenty years! Bozell's book is a good read, although I don't see it changing anyone's mind. Liberals will continue to deny bias while conservatives gnash their teeth in frustration. By all means give it a shot.   <br />	2004-09-29
509795:US	52012289	R15YJLAIRNFWGG	1574888498	892390637	Imperial Hubris: Why the West is Losing the War on Terror	Books	4	21	25	N	N	Dreadfully frightening	September 11, 2001. A disaster of epic proportions unfolds in New York City and Washington, D.C. Live television replays the searing images over and over again, and even after seeing those planes wreak such havoc, you still cannot believe your eyes. Flash forward to October 7, 2001 as George Bush launches his invasion of Afghanistan in an effort to unseat the ultraconservative Islamic Taliban government widely known to be harboring Al Qaeda chief Osama Bin Laden. Since the theocratic rulers of Afghanistan possess little in the way of a developed military organization, our troops and air power rapidly topple the regime. Osama and his minions head for the hills and later Pakistan, easily avoiding American search and destroy teams bent on bringing them to justice. Then comes the invasion of Iraq in March 2002. Our government claims weapons of mass destruction held by Saddam Hussein, a link between the Baath party and Al-Qaeda, and the liberation of the Iraqi people through the installation of a democratic form of government are the three overriding reasons to launch this newest offensive on global terrorism. As of September 2004, we continue to occupy Afghanistan and Iraq with little hope for an end to the threat in sight.<br /><br />According to the author of \\"Imperial Hubris,\\" a senior government analyst who chooses to go by the name \\"Anonymous,\\" something has gone dreadfully wrong in our battle to destroy Bin Laden and his cronies. In chapter after devastating chapter, the book outlines one colossal U.S. failure after another in our efforts to defeat Islamic insurgents. The first mistake occurred when the present administration failed to immediately deploy a military strike force to Afghanistan, an action that could have delivered a greater blow to Al Qaeda. A second massive failure was the invasion of Afghanistan and the installation of a pro-western government in Kabul. \\"Imperial Hubris,\\" through a complex yet commonsense series of arguments backed up by facts, claims that our government blithely went into Afghanistan without utilizing any of the information we gathered about the country during the Soviet occupation of the late 1970s and 1980s. We ignored the tribal composition of this landlocked nation, the personalities leading the various ethnic factions, and the larger regional importance of Afghanistan in relation to Pakistan, India, Russia, and Iran. No matter what the Americans do in this country, argues the author, failure is assured. And, an Islamic government along the lines of the Taliban will once again rule the country no matter what happens.<br /><br />If you think the above is bad, read on. Anonymous rips apart our primary method of combating global terrorism. Our government sees nothing wrong with pursuing a legalistic means of bringing down Al Qaeda and its affiliated organizations, something the author sees as so wrong headed as to threaten the future of America. You cannot, he argues, solely use the FBI and other federal policing agencies (including the Army) to arrest and incarcerate terrorists. It's a method that is too slow and consumes too many resources to be effective in the long run. Training camps across the Muslim world have been turning out jihadists for decades, tens of thousands of them, and our actions in the Middle East continue to bring new recruits to Osama's banners. The book claims that the most effective, if controversial, response to the events of September 11, 2001 and the numerous bombings and assassinations going on overseas is to reassess our view of the man himself, Osama Bin Laden. Is he a fanatical, psychopathic lunatic hungry for the blood of innocents? Or is he a calm, charismatic fundamentalist with a list of real grievances against the United States? Anonymous sides with the latter, writing that our support for corrupt governments in Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and the Gulf States in order to obtain cheap oil infuriates Muslims of all stripes. So does our unflinching, unthinking support for Israel; our acceptance of atrocities committed against Muslims in Russia, China, and India; our continued presence in the Middle East; and our military actions in Iraq and Afghanistan. If there's a theme here, it is that Bin Laden and his followers hate us for what we do and not who we are. He attacks our actions and not our belief systems.<br /><br />Arguably the book's biggest flaw centers on Anonymous's arguments that we need to abandon our support for the corrupt, pro-western Arab regimes. I agree that supporting these dictators while we claim to abhor all tyrants is hypocrisy on a metaphysical scale (what hasn't been in this war?), but replacing those regimes with fundamentalist Islamic governments will spell doom for the rest of the world, maybe not in five or ten or even twenty years, but eventually. It's this sort of short term thinking that's gotten us into this mess in the first place. I don't know about you, but I don't look forward to seeing a resurgent Ottoman Empire within my lifetime. Anonymous avers that Osama is currently waging a defensive, not offensive, Jihad against the West (not a completely tenable argument by any means), but the installation of a fundamentalist regime reaching across several Muslim states will turn a defensive Jihad into an offensive one in a heartbeat. Get out your prayer mats and Korans, folks! Can you speak Arabic?<br /><br />Every American should read \\"Imperial Hubris.\\" The elites in this country haven't a clue as to how to handle this situation; they are moral cowards more interested in amassing wealth and furthering their careers than doing what it takes to deal with this problem. They have no concept of history, of the ultimate failure of puppet regimes and imposing alien belief systems on foreign lands. What should we do? I don't know. Neither political party possesses the expertise to protect us. I think we'll have to absorb a few more catastrophes before we wake up to the realities of the situation. I pray I am wrong.support for Israel; our acceptance of atrocities committed against Muslims in Russia, China, and India; our continued presence in the Middle East; and our military actions in Iraq and Afghanistan. If there's a theme here, it is that Bin Laden and his followers hate us for what we do and not who we are. He attacks our actions and not our belief systems. <br /> <br />Arguably the book's biggest flaw centers on Anonymous's arguments that we need to abandon our support for the corrupt, pro-western Arab regimes. I agree that supporting these dictators while we claim to abhor all tyrants is hypocrisy on a metaphysical scale (what hasn't been in this war?), but replacing those regimes with fundamentalist Islamic governments will spell doom for the rest of the world, maybe not in five or ten or even twenty years, but eventually. It's this sort of short term thinking that's gotten us into this mess in the first place. I don't know about you, but I don't look forward to seeing a resurgent Ottoman Empire within my lifetime. Anonymous avers that Osama is currently waging a defensive, not offensive, Jihad against the West (not a completely tenable argument by any means), but the installation of a fundamentalist regime reaching across several Muslim states will turn a defensive Jihad into an offensive one in a heartbeat. Get out your prayer mats and Korans, folks! Can you speak Arabic? <br /> <br />Every American should read \\"Imperial Hubris.\\" The elites in this country haven't a clue as to how to handle this situation; they are moral cowards more interested in amassing wealth and furthering their careers than doing what it takes to deal with this problem. They have no concept of history, of the ultimate failure of puppet regimes and imposing alien belief systems on foreign lands. What should we do? I don't know. Neither political party possesses the expertise to protect us. I think we'll have to absorb a few more catastrophes before we wake up to the realities of the situation.I pray I am wrong.  <br />	2004-09-26
511788:US	52012289	RXYMG636NTJAS	0972930930	577517367	Poisoning Eros	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Soul shattering	\\"O'Rourke digs down into some loamy soil-what she comes up with is disturbingly dark, and often, very funny\\" writes veteran horror writer Jack Ketchum in a blurb on the back cover of \\"Poisoning Eros.\\" Since Monica O'Rourke co-wrote this deeply disturbing gorefest with Wrath James White, I guess the same description applies to him. Except for the \\"very funny\\" part; I found nothing about anything I read in this book worth chuckling about. In fact, you're probably wearing a straightjacket as we speak if you found anything remotely amusing about \\"Poisoning Eros.\\" Don't get me wrong; I love extreme horror and dark fantasy just as well as the next psychopath, but White and O'Rourke explode so many boundaries, obliterate so many taboos, that even my iron shod stomach rumbled in a not so polite way as I meandered through the novel. I decided to pick up \\"Poisoning Eros\\" after reading \\"Teratologist,\\" a novella Wrath James White penned in conjunction with goremeister supreme Edward Lee. Amazingly, this book easily eclipses the atrocities of \\"Teratologist.\\" It arguably overshadows the sickening stories of Charlee Jacob, Poppy Z. Brite, Matthew Stokoe, and just about any other gore filled opus released in the last few years. That's saying something.<br /><br />Welcome to the intriguing world of Gloria, a once beautiful and popular adult film starlet now slogging through a damaged world fueled by hard drugs and alcohol. The fast days of big money and fan conventions are long gone, replaced with work so degrading to the human soul that I refuse to mention it here. Gloria allows herself to wallow in depravity for a few measly bucks so she can continue her binges. The poor woman longs for her former glories, but she also longs to return to the only man who truly loved her and the daughter she gave up to pursue her sleazy career. Any hopes for a tearful reunion seem far off, however, until she meets a mysterious man who promises her huge paychecks if she agrees to engage in a physical union with a supernatural being. Gloria doesn't quite realize the implications of the deal let alone truly believe what she sees while doing it, but a buck is a buck and these fat checks will arrest those horrible narcotics withdrawals that pop up with frightening regularity. There is a catch in the deal, though. Gloria must promise to work for no one else ever again. She agrees without taking it seriously. After all, how will this guy know what she's up to?<br /><br />Guess what? He does know what she's doing, and a whole lot more. Turns out this sinister chap made a deal with a demon in the underworld, the same demon showing up in one form or another to dally with Gloria. Our heroine (or anti-heroine depending on your view) discovers that she is caught up in a horrible pact fraught with eternal peril to her immortal soul. The second half of the book finds Gloria imprisoned in the pits of Hell, where she toils in the service of a fallen angel. Prepare yourself for page after page of intricate descriptions of the worst sorts of fleshly atrocities. We've all heard the hoary stories about the flaming pits, roasting souls, and screams without end; O'Rourke and White take them to heart and promptly shove them in your face. This is grueling, soul shattering stuff the likes of which you've never seen before. Just when you think you cannot possibly take anymore, the book shifts focus by examining themes of emotional healing, redemption, and tough personal choices involving the bonds between mother and daughter. I was quite surprised to discover that \\"Poisoning Eros\\" is a book that actually makes you think after you close the cover for the final time.<br /><br />All fans of extreme horror need to pick this one up posthaste. That more buffs don't know the book exists is surprising. While I'd like to describe some of the juicy details in the story, the subject matter is so beyond the pale that public decency prohibits my doing so. I can say I found \\"Poisoning Eros\\" to be anextremely well written story, and one that doesn't toss aside character development and plot in favor of gore. We come to know Gloria as a fully developed human being who, despite her rock bottom life and low self-esteem, never loses her sense of self or the ability to love her daughter. She's beaten, cheated, mistreated, emotionally damaged, lied to, and generally treated like refuse but she never loses sight of something better in life or in the afterlife. I don't think it is a stretch to say you might actually come to like this lady's pluck. It's to the authors' credit that they manage to bring these themes to the surface of what is essentially an ocean of gore. Dig down into that loamy soil and give \\"Poisoning Eros\\" a shot; you might just end up liking the darn thing!be an extremely well written story, and one that doesn't toss aside character development and plot in favor of gore. We come to know Gloria as a fully developed human being who, despite her rock bottom life and low self-esteem, never loses her sense of self or the ability to love her daughter. She's beaten, cheated, mistreated, emotionally damaged, lied to, and generally treated like refuse but she never loses sight of something better in life or in the afterlife. I don't think it is a stretch to say you might actually come to like this lady's pluck. It's to the authors' credit that they manage to bring these themes to the surface of what is essentially an ocean of gore. Dig down into that loamy soil and give \\"Poisoning Eros\\" a shot; you might just end up liking the darn thing!   <br />	2004-09-24
512035:US	52012289	R3FW8SVF3AP6XM	0970009712	940674905	Excitable Boys	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Uneven	It is often difficult to find books like \\"Excitable Boys.\\" This anthology of gross out horror stories, edited by well known horror author Richard Laymon's daughter Kelly, contains some of the sickest tales of over the top mayhem yet captured on paper. Most horror authors tend to shy away from the nauseating content you find in these stories for the simple fact that mainstream readers won't buy them. But for a select minority of poor wretches who crave tales that push the bounds of bad taste, myself included among them, books like this one are a godsend. I usually need to turn to Ed Lee's latest stomach churner (an author who contributed the best story here, by the way) to satiate my cravings. Occasionally, you'll stumble over another author offering up a gory surprise, like Poppy Z. Brite's \\"Exquisite Corpse,\\" Bret Easton Ellis's \\"American Psycho,\\" or practically anything published by Charlee Jacob just to cite a few examples, but these experiences are few and far between. I had high hopes for \\"Excitable Boys,\\" a book that unfortunately turned out to be a mixed bag on several points.<br /><br />The best parts of the book, aside from Lee's entry, were the introduction and conclusion. Kelly Laymon explains in \\"Take a Tour Through the Sewer\\" how the book came about. The answer lies in a little extracurricular activity that takes place every year at the World Horror Convention. Many authors congregate at this event to sign books, talk up potential customers and publishers, party, and generally lord it over the rest of us who have to hold regular jobs for a living. They also gather together for something called the Gross Out Contest, where anyone, presumably, can stand up and read a disgusting composition specifically created for this contest. After witnessing the shenanigans at the 2000 WHC, Laymon decided to put together a collection of these gut busters under one cover. According to the conclusion, written by contributor Geoff Cooper, the antics of some of the authors at the Gross Out Contest often eclipse the horrific tales. Cooper relates a story about one of the authors eating live worms whilst reading his tale of terror. Yummy! Well, we always hear how nutty authors can be, but it's difficult in the extreme to imagine Ernest Hemingway, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Edith Wharton, or any other well known literary figure scarfing down annelids. Those crazy horror authors!<br /><br />A quick run down of the stories is in order, I guess, even though others have done an exemplary job of explaining the grue filled nightmares contained within these pages. My favorite story, as I mentioned, was Ed Lee's \\"The McGrath Model SS40-C, Series S.\\" Lee is an interesting author, capable of writing mainstream horror novels (\\"City Infernal,\\" \\"Infernal Angel,\\" \\"Messenger\\") while saving the hard stuff for small press companies. I prefer the latter; stories and novels set in nightmarish worlds that resemble our everyday existence yet overflow with shocking depravity. Ed seems to think we're headed toward a New Dark Age, a time when the thin veneer of civilization and morality will break down into barbarism and degeneracy. Whether you agree with his ideas or not, the story here definitely falls into this category. Readers familiar with his work will recognize Paul Vinchetti, the ruthless mafia don involved in a host of unsavory rackets best left omitted in a public review. The tale focuses on a plastic surgeon held prisoner by Vinchetti until he pays off a gambling debt. Unfortunately, how the good doctor must pay off the debt involves one grotesque scene after another as Vinchetti's enemies undergo dreadful surgeries. Read it to believe it.<br /><br />The rest of the entries aren't as good, with the possible exception of Rain Graves's disturbing tale about a child seeking solace from an abusive father and Ryan Harding's yarn about a couple of warped individuals making a snuff film. Once you get through these three stories, the collection levels off significantly. Michael McCarty's contribution, \\"The Constipated Cannibal,\\" needs no further explication from me; the title speaks for itself. \\"Full of It,\\" from \\"The Rising\\" author Brian Keene, deals with the disgusting horrors unleashed on a militia compound after far right wing extremists dispose of a federal agent. There are a few other stories, the titles of which I'm not even going to mention and which sadly fall prey to the law of diminishing returns. All of the stories are chock full of unsettling situations and descriptive gore, however, although some do a better job than others. Believe me when I tell you \\"Excitable Boys\\" is one disturbing book.<br /><br />It is, regrettably, an uneven one. Most of the stories eschew such fundamentals as plot and character development in favor of shock and awe visuals. A couple are nothing more than adolescent paeans to grossness similar to the stuff you and your friends used to come up with during a sleep over when you were thirteen. To be fair, I think many of these yarns don't translate well to the written page. They are, after all, very short stories created for the sole purpose of shocking an audience of jaded horror authors and fans in a spoken forum. Too, I wasn't impressed with the presentation. The edit job is bare bones at best, and it looks like someone justified (justified!) the text, meaning you've got huge spaces between words and sentences toward the bottom of the page. Nonetheless, aficionados will want to pick this one up if for no other reason than to own the Ed Lee story. All others should stay far away.significantly. Michael McCarty's contribution, \\"The Constipated Cannibal,\\" needs no further explication from me; the title speaks for itself. \\"Full of It,\\" from \\"The Rising\\" author Brian Keene, deals with the disgusting horrors unleashed on a militia compound after far right wing extremists dispose of a federal agent. There are a few other stories, the titles of which I'm not even going to mention and which sadly fall prey to the law of diminishing returns. All of the stories are chock full of unsettling situations and descriptive gore, however, although some do a better job than others. Believe me when I tell you \\"Excitable Boys\\" is one disturbing book. <br /> <br />It is, regrettably, an uneven one. Most of the stories eschew such fundamentals as plot and character development in favor of shock and awe visuals. A couple are nothing more than adolescent paeans to grossness similar to the stuff you and your friends used to come up with during a sleep over when you were thirteen. To be fair, I think many of these yarns don't translate well to the written page. They are, after all, very short stories created for the sole purpose of shocking an audience of jaded horror authors and fans in a spoken forum. Too, I wasn't impressed with the presentation. The edit job is bare bones at best, and it looks like someone justified (justified!) the text, meaning you've got huge spaces between words and sentences toward the bottom of the page. Nonetheless, aficionados will want to pick this one up if for no other reason than to own the Ed Lee story. All others should stay far away. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-09-23
514416:US	52012289	R13NUC1TK3RPMV	0843946334	614948685	Prey	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Problematic yet enjoyable	I have only read four of Graham Masterton's novels to date-\\"The Burning,\\" \\"The House That Jack Built,\\" \\"Spirit,\\" and \\"Prey\\"-and all four have left a lasting impression on me. I don't understand why this author does not receive more praise from horror readers. Why does an overrated writer like Richard Laymon sell thousands upon thousands of mass-market reprints, receiving laudatory accolades the likes of which haven't been seen since Roman generals celebrated triumphs and ovations in the streets of Rome, while Masterton remains in the shadows? Beats me. I'll take a Graham Masterton novel over the vast amount of hash that passes for horror any day. His novels literally burst with energy, extreme gore, and intriguing plots. For instance, this author took the old haunted house theme and reworked it in a new, intriguing way in \\"Spirit\\" and \\"The House That Jack Built.\\" With \\"Prey,\\" Masterton fleshes out H.P. Lovecraft's story \\"The Dreams in the Witch House\\" into a lengthy novel loaded with soul numbing horror. While I agree with many other reviewers who state that this book is not Masterton's best effort, I disagree when they say it's an unworthy read. Even an average effort from this storyteller is a cracking good yarn.<br /><br />\\"Prey\\" takes place on the Isle of Wight, a location known to me primarily as the site of one of the best live performances from Emerson, Lake, and Palmer. But forget about hearing \\"Pictures at an Exhibition\\" here. Masterton introduces us to Fortyfoot House, a monolithic structure with a past so horrifying that it's continuing presence instills great dread in the natives. David Williams, an interior decorator plodding through a shattered marriage and catastrophic financial difficulties, moves into the house with his son Danny to renovate the decaying abode in an effort to resuscitate his ill fortunes. Right from the start weird incidents occur. Father and son witness through the windows of a shattered chapel a ghostly man clad in black moving across the lawn. An old painting of an evil, red headed woman in the same chapel scares both of them. And then there are the scratching noises in the attic, noises that David first attributes to common rats until he hears the local myth about Brown Jenkin. According to the hysterical tales floating around the island, Brown Jenkin is a dangerous supernatural creature of frightening size and shape. Moreover, there is talk about local children disappearing whenever strange lights appear in Fortyfoot House. David Williams considers this talk nonsense and begins renovating with the help of a young woman named Liz who turned up to squat at the abandoned house.<br /><br />After the local exterminator dies in an extremely grotesque manner while searching for Brown Jenkin, Williams begins feeling real dread. Despite increasingly bizarre occurrences, however, he refuses to leave Fortyfoot House. After all, he needs the money the job will bring in. Still you would think the apparitions moving across the lawn and in the picture hanging on a wall in the house would cause the most stouthearted to head for the hills, especially when one's child is in danger. But Williams stays as things get weirder. More deaths occur, as do more malefic hallucinations. David learns about the history of Fortyfoot House from a local woman and the local vicar, learns about the family that lived there and ran the place as an orphanage, about a wicked woman named Kezia Mason and her alleged ties to witchcraft. And he learns more than he ever cared to know about Brown Jenkin and the purposes of the house when he opens a trapdoor in the attic only to stare into a nightmare beyond all known conceptions of time and space. \\"Prey\\" goes well beyond the bare bones story created by H.P. Lovecraft, turning \\"The Dreams in the Witch House\\" into nothing less than an apocalyptic tale where the eldritch horrors of the Cthulhu mythos put in a personal appearance.<br /><br />I ultimately liked \\"Prey,\\" especially Masterton's skillful creation of a detailed backstory explaining the origins of Fortyfoot House. I enjoyed the gory sequences as well (check out what happens to the vicar when he and David decide to step through that trapdoor). What I couldn't help but notice were the numerous plot holes threading their way through the story, plot holes so huge you could lob the planet Jupiter straight through them without touching the edges. What in the heck is this guy doing staying in the house after these nightmares start unfolding on a regular basis? And with a kid? No way, Jose. Masterton occasionally does an effective job of overcoming this problem, at least in the beginning, but after a time the continued presence of these people in Fortyfoot House just doesn't ring true. And while I thought the ending exciting and properly disturbing in the grand tradition of Lovecraft, I didn't buy for a second how Williams suddenly got another chance to avoid the disastrous effects of the house. Doesn't that sort of negate the events of the entire novel? And why not just grab Liz and run off instead of letting her go?<br /><br />Yes sir, there are more than a few problems with \\"Prey.\\" Are they enough to ruin the book? Hardly. The pace moves at lightening speed once Masterton establishes the plot elements, the creative history of the house is massively entertaining, and there is enough bloodshed to warm the black hearts of the gorehounds. I can't give the book five stars though, both for the issues listed above and the lack of the distinctive Lovecraft narrative voice. One of the things I love about good old H.P. is the ornate (some would say overblown) prose, which always seems to add an additional gravitas to the shrieking horrors. Masterton writes in plain old English, effective enough for a good story but not comparable to the master. An entertaining read.sterton's skillful creation of a detailed backstory explaining the origins of Fortyfoot House. I enjoyed the gory sequences as well (check out what happens to the vicar when he and David decide to step through that trapdoor). What I couldn't help but notice were the numerous plot holes threading their way through the story, plot holes so huge you could lob the planet Jupiter straight through them without touching the edges. What in the heck is this guy doing staying in the house after these nightmares start unfolding on a regular basis? And with a kid? No way, Jose. Masterton occasionally does an effective job of overcoming this problem, at least in the beginning, but after a time the continued presence of these people in Fortyfoot House just doesn't ring true. And while I thought the ending exciting and properly disturbing in the grand tradition of Lovecraft, I didn't buy for a second how Williams suddenly got another chance to avoid the disastrous effects of the house. Doesn't that sort of negate the events of the entire novel? And why not just grab Liz and run off instead of letting her go? <br /> <br />Yes sir, there are more than a few problems with \\"Prey.\\" Are they enough to ruin the book? Hardly. The pace moves at lightening speed once Masterton establishes the plot elements, the creative history of the house is massively entertaining, and there is enough bloodshed to warm the black hearts of the gorehounds. I can't give the book five stars though, both for the issues listed above and the lack of the distinctive Lovecraft narrative voice. One of the things I love about good old H.P. is the ornate (some would say overblown) prose, which always seems to add an additional gravitas to the shrieking horrors. Masterton writes in plain old English, effective enough for a good story but not comparable to the master. An entertaining read.        <br />	2004-09-21
516766:US	52012289	R3GUCEBA3TTSPE	0807854409	523172524	Notorious in the Neighborhood: Sex and Families across the Color Line in Virginia, 1787-1861	Books	4	32	32	N	N	Race and reality in Virginia	Joshua Rothman's \\"Notorious in the Neighborhood: Sex and Families across the Color Line in Virginia, 1787-1861\\" is a book in the tradition of C. Vann Woodward's \\"The Strange Career of Jim Crow.\\" Both treatments on the history of race relations in the American South explode popular myths about how whites and blacks acted in a slave society. The common misconception about the color line, still very much in vogue today outside academia, posits that whites managed to maintain a nearly complete separation of the races from the colonial era to the end of the Civil War. Rothman, Woodward, and other American historians know differently. Woodward forcefully argued that segregation, the institution held dearly by generations of southerners, only gradually came into being from the 1880s forward. Rothman examines another aspect of slavery and segregation, namely interracial unions and relationships, to arrive at the conclusion that many whites in the South engaged in liaisons with blacks regardless of their social standing or class. The author focuses on Virginia because that region often personified the opinions and stature of the South as a whole.<br /><br />Rothman's sources-including the requisite court records, divorce filings, newspapers, government records, and narratives that are the bread and butter of the social historian-easily bolster his thesis. The author argues that during the early national and antebellum period, relationships between the races flourished as long as the people involved followed an important caveat. His first example is the Thomas Jefferson/Sally Hemings entanglement. Rothman argues that nearly everyone in Albemarle County, Virginia, where the founding father resided, knew about his relationship with one of his slaves. The white population tacitly accepted this technically illegal union because such relationships were frequent but kept under wraps. In other words, as long as those involved remained quiet about their sexual activities with slaves, no one called them on it. The author claims that the attempt to expose Jefferson's relationship for political gain actually had the reverse effect: white southerners resented having their double standard exposed to the light of day. The other example Rothman cites, the David Isaacs/Nancy West attachment, provides reinforces the author's conclusions about the Jefferson/Hemings acquaintance while also providing a counterpoint. In this case, whites brought charges against the two because they openly flaunted their illicit liaison. Again, as long as people involved in an interracial affair kept the matter close to the vest, little usually came of it.<br /><br />Interactions across the color line involved every level of Virginia society. Rothman examines criminal cases in Richmond, slave crimes, interracial divorce and adultery, and the position of mixed bloods in this white/black culture. Repeatedly, the book uncovers evidence that race was not intractable but rather a nebulous conception upon which generations of whites erected increasingly baroque legal, political, and economic policies. For instance, the relations between blacks and whites in Richmond unfolded with a minimum of constraint for decades as long as the authorities contained these contacts to a specific part of the city. Murders of whites by slaves did not automatically result in a death sentence, but often involved a careful consideration of the mitigating factors that led to the crime. Whites who sued for divorce on the grounds of interracial adultery rarely made race the central argument in their petition. And the legal codes created to determine who was white and who was black in Virginia led to utter chaos because such laws failed to account for the increasing mixed blood population, a population that did not fall easily into either category. Rothman finds again and again that the 1850s saw a hardening of racial attitudes as the South came under increasing attack from the North on the issue of slavery.<br /><br />\\"Notorious in the Neighborhood\\" excels in providing yet further proof that race is a socially constructed notion owing more to ideology than biology. The author proves that race, at least in Virginia during the period in question, meant different things to different people at different times. The legal codes defining race changed several times, something that could never happen if race was a fixed category. Rothman discovers that efforts to tighten up racial categories, to institute a precursor to the notorious \\"one-drop\\" rule of the later Jim Crow era, deeply concerned many lawmakers who believed that meddling with blood quotients could redefine many white people as black. If race never changes, how could someone suddenly become black or white with the flick of a pen? The racial policies of the South assumed idiotic heights as judges, politicians, and other civil authorities navigated through the strange new world created by the increasing mixed blood population. When confronted with the reality of interracial offspring, laws defining racial separation and identification hiccupped. The best example Rothman gives of the ambiguity of the race system sits at the beginning of chapter six where he spells out sixty-one different racial categories recognized in Virginia during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.<br /><br />Rothman's book stumbles slightly when it fails to examine the role of religion in these forays across the color line. Obviously, as the other evidence presented in the book easily proves, southern churches failed to prevent interracial sex. Why? White southerners certainly were a church going people, and we know that the pulpit served as a major dissemination hub of racist theories and doctrines. Did southern churches follow the arc of other institutions by subscribing to a \\"don't ask, don't tell\\" policy regarding interracial relations in the early national and antebellum period only to harden their stance as the Civil War loomed on the horizon? What was the position adopted by the churches concerning mixed blood offspring? Did the churches influence the political debates on racial legislation, divorce and adultery petitions, and interracial crime? It would seem Rothman relegates religion to a subservient position in society more at home with modern America than the pre-Civil War South.s in the Neighborhood\\" excels in providing yet further proof that race is a socially constructed notion owing more to ideology than biology. The author proves that race, at least in Virginia during the period in question, meant different things to different people at different times. The legal codes defining race changed several times, something that could never happen if race was a fixed category. Rothman discovers that efforts to tighten up racial categories, to institute a precursor to the notorious \\"one-drop\\" rule of the later Jim Crow era, deeply concerned many lawmakers who believed that meddling with blood quotients could redefine many white people as black. If race never changes, how could someone suddenly become black or white with the flick of a pen? The racial policies of the South assumed idiotic heights as judges, politicians, and other civil authorities navigated through the strange new world created by the increasing mixed blood population. When confronted with the reality of interracial offspring, laws defining racial separation and identification hiccupped. The best example Rothman gives of the ambiguity of the race system sits at the beginning of chapter six where he spells out sixty-one different racial categories recognized in Virginia during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.    Rothman's book stumbles slightly when it fails to examine the role of religion in these forays across the color line. Obviously, as the other evidence presented in the book easily proves, southern churches failed to prevent interracial sex. Why? White southerners certainly were a church going people, and we know that the pulpit served as a major dissemination hub of racist theories and doctrines. Did southern churches follow the arc of other institutions by subscribing to a \\"don't ask, don't tell\\" policy regarding interracial relations in the early national and antebellum period only to harden their stance as the Civil War loomed on the horizon? What was the position adopted by the churches concerning mixed blood offspring? Did the churches influence the political debates on racial legislation, divorce and adultery petitions, and interracial crime? It would seem Rothman relegates religion to a subservient position in society more at home with modern America than the pre-Civil War South.	2004-09-19
517639:US	52012289	R3IROCQS4R76E	0595316239	107840623	The Jihad Virus: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Ripping good yarn	Since I don't read thrillers all that often, I can't say whether or not the events of September 11, 2001 fundamentally changed the genre. You would think that dark day would, though. I suspect the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon provided writers of medical, biological, and terrorist themed thrillers with a plethora of plot narratives to exploit. I do know writers in this genre are particularly sensitive to whatever threats the United States faces at the moment, as well they should be. A few years ago I read one of these books that dealt with the rise of a dangerous religious cult, right around the time the Heaven's Gate group went bonkers. September 11, 2001 sits in a league of its own, with the threat of nuclear, biological, and chemical disasters hovering over our heads even three years later. The opportunities for terrorists to strike at us are endless, and so are the possibilities for writing a book about Islamic fundamentalists threats. \\"The Jihad Virus\\" is such a novel, a book detailing the potential dangers of an Al-Qaeda type group attacking the United States with a modified form of everyone's favorite friend from yesteryear, smallpox.<br /><br />The story of this potentially catastrophic disaster comes to us in the form of a narrative told by Phineus \\"Fin\\" Morton, a reporter whose beat covers the medical field. He's the guy who punches up the articles on the latest cancer treatments or the groundbreaking work in the field of virus research. Old Fin knows he's on to something huge when he attends what he thought would be a routine press conference in the Pacific Northwest. It's hardly routine. Morton is on hand to hear the details of a smallpox outbreak near the Canadian border. The authorities downplay the incident, of course, but then announce they're bringing in Stuart Holloman, head of a huge research laboratory named Immune Corporation, to help contain the problem. We learn this is the company that developed a cure for one of those nasty African viruses, and that they hope to study the potential lethality of this latest outbreak. Fin Morton immediately hops to it, securing an interview with Holloman at his office and thus positioning himself at ground zero if a big story should break. While Fin doesn't care a whit for Stuart Holloman, rightly ascertaining the guy's a greedy capitalist posing as a researcher so he can make big bucks in the research field, the reporter comes to a different conclusion when he meets Immune Corporation's star researcher Peyton McKean.<br /><br />McKean, it turns out, was the guiding light behind the African virus cure. Holloman keeps the guy under wraps so the competition can't get their greedy mitts on him. The scientist, a deep thinking but easy going chap, takes a shine to Morton and quickly shows him everything that goes on in the laboratory. Before you can say \\"smallpox,\\" McKean receives a call from his squirrelly cousin Mike about weird goings on at a ranch out in the hinterlands. According to the phone call, some Yemeni billionaire named Sheik Abdul-Ghazi is up to no good. Mike claims he saw some men taking a handcuffed woman into an outbuilding, a woman the press recently reported missing from a bar in Seattle. Peyton McKean and Fin Morton, their suspicions aroused, decide to drive out to Mike's place to investigate. Sure, it would be easier to tell everything they suspect to the FBI, but both men have good reason to suspect one of the agents might not be on the up and up, so they go it alone. Bad mistake. The Sheik and his minions are producing the engineered smallpox, and they promptly pull a nasty trick on Morton, McKean, and Mike after catching the trio snooping around the ranch. What follows is non-stop action as our heroes must stop the terrorists from destroying America, save their own lives, and produce a cure. Fin Morton must also decide what to do about his feelings for a beautiful Egyptian horse trainer named Jameela Noori.<br /><br />There is no other way to do this than to come right out and say it: \\"The Virus Jihad\\" is a smashing great thriller, a book that moves faster than Fin Morton's stripped down Jaguar. Author Thomas Hopp is eminently qualified to write a biological thriller, considering his background as a biotechnologist and founder of a multi-billion dollar research company, but who would have thought a guy accustomed to test tubes and microscopes could pen such a nail biting thriller? You get car chases, a beautiful woman, shootouts, crooked cops, a deadly plague, and romance all in the space of 213 pages. You get fundamentalist terrorists encoding engineered viruses with scientific ciphers spelling out \\"DIE DIE DIE.\\" And you get enough twists and turns to satisfy even the most jaded reader. Sure, a few of the events in the narrative are implausible, such as the fortuitous phone call from Mike, or the incredible luck involved in patching together a workable vaccine, but implausibility in this case doesn't interfere at all with the book's impact. \\"The Jihad Virus\\" is an immensely entertaining book.<br /><br />The best aspect of Hopp's story, in my opinion, is how he doesn't assume his readers know a lot about virology, biology, and any other related -ologies. He explains in minute but easily understandable detail what McKean does in the laboratory, how scientists study viruses, and how a combination of egos and corporate red tape often ties up scientific discoveries. I'm familiar with the wacky world of academia, but the connect the dots approach to cutting edge biotechnology sure helped this science dummy feel better. If you love thrillers, I can't imagine you wouldn't heartily enjoy \\"The Jihad Virus.\\"here is no other way to do this than to come right out and say it: \\"The Virus Jihad\\" is a smashing great thriller, a book that moves faster than Fin Morton's stripped down Jaguar. Author Thomas Hopp is eminently qualified to write a biological thriller, considering his background as a biotechnologist and founder of a multi-billion dollar research company, but who would have thought a guy accustomed to test tubes and microscopes could pen such a nail biting thriller? You get car chases, a beautiful woman, shootouts, crooked cops, a deadly plague, and romance all in the space of 213 pages. You get fundamentalist terrorists encoding engineered viruses with scientific ciphers spelling out \\"DIE DIE DIE.\\" And you get enough twists and turns to satisfy even the most jaded reader. Sure, a few of the events in the narrative are implausible, such as the fortuitous phone call from Mike, or the incredible luck involved in patching together a workable vaccine, but implausibility in this case doesn't interfere at all with the book's impact. \\"The Jihad Virus\\" is an immensely entertaining book. <br /> <br />The best aspect of Hopp's story, in my opinion, is how he doesn't assume his readers know a lot about virology, biology, and any other related -ologies. He explains in minute but easily understandable detail what McKean does in the laboratory, how scientists study viruses, and how a combination of egos and corporate red tape often ties up scientific discoveries. I'm familiar with the wacky world of academia, but the connect the dots approach to cutting edge biotechnology sure helped this science dummy feel better. If you love thrillers, I can't imagine you wouldn't heartily enjoy \\"The Jihad Virus.\\" <br />	2004-09-18
521076:US	52012289	RZBYCZKX071YA	080143291X	261984461	Colonial Intimacies: Indian Marriage in Early New England	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Thorough and insightful	Edmund Morgan's \\"The Puritan Family\\" explored the structures of the Puritan social and political elites. John Demos's \\"A Little Commonwealth: Family Life in the Plymouth Colony\\" dug deeper to uncover information about the lower social classes in the early American settlements. Ann Marie Plane's \\"Colonial Intimacies: Indian Marriage in Early New England\\" expands upon the two previous works by exploring the social, political, legal, and economic interactions between the European settlers and the indigenous population. The author's sources encompass a broad spectrum of available materials: court records, travel narratives, religious sermons, essays, and census information all contribute greatly to her probing analysis of native family life. All three books taken together provide a multifaceted view of the earliest English settlements in North America. The only element missing from these three works is an environmental history of the early English colonies, and for all I know someone has already written one.<br /><br />\\"Colonial Intimacies\\" claims the English efforts to help the natives adapt to European lifestyles \\"often strengthened, rather than loosened, the boundaries between people.\\" To understand how good intentions created divisions, the study seeks to answer several questions about the effects of colonialism on not only the indigenous peoples but the English as well. The author wishes to discover how the arrival of the Puritans changed the Indian culture, and how the Indians reacted to this intrusion. Too, Plane examines whether or not the settlers were successful in imposing their belief systems, principally the English institution of marriage, on the native population. She concludes that the Europeans, despite strenuous efforts in the years immediately following their arrival, failed to completely convert the various tribes to their style of living. What emerged instead after roughly 150 years of colonialism was a weird hybrid of English common law marriage-called spousals-and pre-colonial Indian relationship forms.<br /><br />According to Plane's research, traditional Indian marriage and family structure differed significantly from the European structure. The most important aspect of native relationships \\"were those of clan affiliation and kinship, not conjugal unions.\\" Moreover, polygyny, or the taking of more than one wife, was a part of indigenous marriage for certain elite tribal members. Wives held more power in Indian relationships, in terms of providing food and tending the land, than they did in the European household. The divorce process was less important for natives than it was for the English. With the arrival of the Puritans, missionaries went to work at once to fundamentally change the concept of Indian marriage and family. Polygyny, the central role of wives, and kinship relationships became sins that only a shift to the nuclear, patriarchal household of English tradition could expunge.<br /><br />King Philip's War of 1675-76 led to a tectonic shift in how the Europeans interacted with the locals. The emphasis on creating thousands of native \\"little commonwealth\\" families gave way to an almost disinterested concern about what the Indians did with their lives. Some missionaries still toured the praying towns to preach and convert, still instructed the locals on how to pray and worship, but the increasing presence of African American slaves and the rise of a mulatto class saw the English changing their goals. They now turned from seeking religious conversion toward developing a racial caste system replete with all of the inequalities attendant to that type of social organization. Plane argues quite convincingly that the Indians overtly and covertly fought to retain their social status by having their marriage and family customs legally codified in English courts.<br /><br />The court case resulting in the emergence of Indian marriage customs as an accepted legal tenet spotlights one of the book's greatest strengths, namely native agency in the development of seventeenth and eighteenth century New England. Although the author does not explicitly refer to the concept of agency until the last two or three pages of the book, there is little doubt that the indigenous people still created a viable history under the veneer of colonial occupation. Moreover, native agency influenced the colonists. For instance, the first missionary efforts converted many tribal members to Christianity, but these Puritan teachers were forced to examine their own views when converts asked probing questions about this new religion, or when they pointed out that European families often failed to practice the very things the missionaries preached. The interaction between the two peoples forced Puritans to look deeper into their theology than ever before.<br /><br />One common result of the wars against the native peoples, since documented by dozens of American historians, was the despotic policies the federal government and settlers imposed upon the vanquished Indians. The government viciously suppressed the Dakota Uprising of 1862, ultimately carrying out the largest mass execution in United States history as well as further solidifying the reservation system after this conflict drew to a close. The later wars on the plains also resulted in the internment of the Lakotas on reservations, a process resulting in a fundamental, damaging transformation from a hunter based society to an agricultural lifestyle that eventually paved the way to policies seeking cultural assimilation. Plane's book is a revelation because she concludes that the Puritans essentially left the natives to their own devices, in terms of family and marriage, after King Philip's War. An increase in debt peonage and forced labor counts as one measure of repression, as does selling off Indian children into servitude, both of which the Puritans did after the war. But nowhere do the English march the Indians off to reservations, nor do the settlers attempt a systematic cultural assimilation as seen in later eras of American history. The author might have arrived at a deeper understanding of her topic had she examined this unique phenomenon further.eatest strengths, namely native agency in the development of seventeenth and eighteenth century New England. Although the author does not explicitly refer to the concept of agency until the last two or three pages of the book, there is little doubt that the indigenous people still created a viable history under the veneer of colonial occupation. Moreover, native agency influenced the colonists. For instance, the first missionary efforts converted many tribal members to Christianity, but these Puritan teachers were forced to examine their own views when converts asked probing questions about this new religion, or when they pointed out that European families often failed to practice the very things the missionaries preached. The interaction between the two peoples forced Puritans to look deeper into their theology than ever before. <br /> <br />One common result of the wars against the native peoples, since documented by dozens of American historians, was the despotic policies the federal government and settlers imposed upon the vanquished Indians. The government viciously suppressed the Dakota Uprising of 1862, ultimately carrying out the largest mass execution in United States history as well as further solidifying the reservation system after this conflict drew to a close. The later wars on the plains also resulted in the internment of the Lakotas on reservations, a process resulting in a fundamental, damaging transformation from a hunter based society to an agricultural lifestyle that eventually paved the way to policies seeking cultural assimilation. Plane's book is a revelation because she concludes that the Puritans essentially left the natives to their own devices, in terms of family and marriage, after King Philip's War. An increase in debt peonage and forced labor counts as one measure of repression, as does selling off Indian children into servitude, both of which the Puritans did after the war. But nowhere do the English march the Indians off to reservations, nor do the settlers attempt a systematic cultural assimilation as seen in later eras of American history. The author might have arrived at a deeper understanding of her topic had she examined this unique phenomenon further. <br />  <br /> <br />	2004-09-15
524144:US	52012289	R2E624NH7HS35Q	0595664679	972500834	Smiles and Cries	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Some good, some bad	I should start by saying I am not a poetry person. I never, ever read couplets, sonnets, haikus, free verse poems, or anything else that smacks even remotely of this form of literary expression. Are couplets and sonnets even poems? See, I don't know! I was always the kid who dreaded the day the teacher began English class with a sunny \\"Let's read some poetry today!\\" exclamation. And writing poems--forget about it. I couldn't effectively rhyme my way out of a paper bag. It's not that I am a hardhearted sort who simply cannot connect with the emotional themes of poetry; I don't fault anyone for enjoying the stuff, and actually wish I could learn to appreciate the experience more than I do. I don't even have a problem with poets per se. Anyone who can encapsulate a stirring message in a few short lines earns my respect. Problem is, nowadays most poets aren't really poets. There are far too many people claiming they are poets when they simply do not possess the skills to write the stuff. These folks are poets in their own minds. No longer do we see a Lord Byron, or a Siegfried Sassoon, or a Wilfred Owen (O.K., I have read some poetry--can you tell I mostly perused British poets writing about World War I?). I think the type of society we live in today inhibits the creation of decent poetry.<br /><br />LeRoy Robert Allen decided to write some poetry, quite a bit of it in fact, and self-publish the collection under the title \\"Smiles and Cries.\\" The back cover blurb outlining the author's life reveals an interesting background. Allen grew up poor, spending time in a reformatory and the Merchant Marines, before moving on to arms smuggling in Asia. He later moved to Hawaii and struck it rich in real estate, macadamia nuts, and bananas. Wow! I think of the things I've done in my life, or lack thereof, and marvel at this resume of exciting experiences. Perhaps Allen can translate such a varied, intriguing life into lines of golden verse. The answer is a resounding yes and no. Yes, there are poems in \\"Smiles and Cries\\" of profound depth and exquisite style. Unfortunately, there are also poems in \\"Smiles and Cries,\\" greater in number than the former, that fail to ever leave the ground. The style of all the entries here is a mix of conventional forms peppered with slangy, irreverent attitude.<br /><br />The poems that work well make the collection worth reading. Just look at this stanza of \\"Old Man Walking,\\" a commentary on getting old yet still noticing the things that make life worth living:<br /><br />\\"Suddenly! That gust of wind,<br /><br />the old man surely grinned.<br /><br />Young lady's skirt flew above her thigh,<br /><br />'Our Man' found a new high.\\"<br /><br />Or how about \\"Home Wrecker's Jamboree,\\" a poem about emotions that lead to discord in relationships and life:<br /><br />\\"Jealousy and envy<br /><br />are the home wreckers of our day.<br /><br />They always revel<br /><br />When suspicion and backbiting are at play.\\"<br /><br />Many of the best poems in the collection deal with relationships between people and how misperceptions and sinister motivations interfere with the pursuit of true happiness. When \\"Smiles and Cries\\" is good, it's very good.<br /><br />I didn't like some of the poems for a variety of reasons. Sometimes I didn't like how the words rhymed. For example, do we really need a poem that tries to match a word to \\"thingamabob\\"? For that matter, do we always need to read poems that rhyme? I used to get into trouble in school writing free verse when the teacher wanted something that sounded snappy and rhythmic, but some of the best poems I ever read were written in free verse. Allen should give the form a shot once in awhile.<br /><br />Overall, though, I'm not going to be that hard on \\"Smiles and Cries.\\" Even though many of these poems don't connect with me on any level, several shine quite brightly. The book is only eighty-three pages long, which means you can get through it at most in a couple of hours. If you like poetry, or even if you don't, you'll probably find a few things to like here.oetry, or even if you don't, you'll probably find a few things to like here.   <br /> <br />	2004-09-12
532087:US	52012289	R117IBRCYIX2CW	0595316808	139504047	A Song From An Empty Forest: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Poor Emily Rezell	Emily Rezell's life is about to undergo a tectonic shift. The main character of Kathleen Ann Anderson's \\"A Song from an Empty Forest,\\" the young girl came into the world under the most questionable of circumstances. Her mother, imprisoned in her home due to an out of wedlock pregnancy, perished during a spur of the moment escape attempt. This woman did manage to give birth to her child before succumbing, however, and the story immediately shifts seventeen years into the future, 1957 to be exact, to begin the story of the hapless Emily. The teenager knows little about her mother and the events of 1940, but she understands her presence in her grandfather's farmhouse is most unwelcome. Emily tries to do her best cooking, cleaning, and generally waiting hand and foot on the men in her life, but it's never enough. Despairing that her family will ever treat her decently, she discovers from a female relative a few tentative bits of information about her deceased mother, and decides to escape to freedom. The plan goes off with one big hitch: her Uncle Frank, an evil man with a disgusting proclivity, dies during a confrontation with his young and beautiful niece. Rezell thus goes forth in the world with a possible murder charge hanging over her head.<br /><br />With nothing more than two hundred dollars in her pocket, Emily heads west to California in search of Samuel Dimsmoore, a man who wrote a letter to her mother long ago. On the train west, Rezell meets a nice young doctor who will figure prominently in her future. In the meantime, once she arrives in San Francisco she must secure lodgings and employment since two hundred dollars won't go far even in the late 1950s. Almost immediately on her disembarkation from the train, Rezell falls into trouble when a waitress at a diner takes the clueless farm girl to one of the city's better known houses of ill repute. Our heroine doesn't recognize her surroundings immediately, but it doesn't take long for her to recognize something isn't quite right about the place. Upon her arrival, Emily catches the eye of the wealthy Donald Schillings, a mysterious man who knows the young woman just arrived on the scene and thus wishes to hire her as a nanny to his children. The two kids are great, but the house and atmosphere of the Schillings place would rub anyone's nerves raw. It turns out Donny has a few unpleasant secrets, secrets accounting for his huge wealth and massive political clout. Emily takes it upon herself to bring down the Schillings Empire, and at the same time uncover clues about her mysterious past.<br /><br />I generally liked Anderson's book. The subject matter, namely a young girl embarking on a series of adventures with a heavy emphasis on romance, is not the sort of thing I normally read. Heck, I usually wouldn't even admit that I read a book carrying the romance label. But since I confessed some time back to reading--and hugely enjoying--Marian Keyes's \\"The Other Side of the Story,\\" I guess I can't hurt my credibility any further with this book. Fortunately, a significant element of mystery threads its way through the story, enough to blot out the romance themes from time to time. \\"A Song from an Empty Forest\\" is at its best when developing the Emily character. The reader cannot help but sympathize with the series of tragedies that make up this young girl's life. Several incidents, specifically Uncle Frank's attentions and the eventual unmasking of the girl's father, could very well lead to the social and familial isolation Emily encounters at home. Anyone experiencing the same sort of situations would definitely end up hitting the road. The surprise here is that it takes Rezell so long to do so.<br /><br />What I liked about the book was often offset by many problems. Expect to see quite a few grammatical errors and typos in the book. \\"A Song from an Empty Forest\\" is a self-published manuscript, which means that editing sometimes falls low on the list of priorities. Regular readers of these types of novels soon learn to live with this problem, and I don't wish to pick on Anderson as I have read other books with far more typographical errors than this one, but it is a valid point to mention to prospective readers because bad grammar often interferes with a novel's narrative flow. I will say that I never felt this was the case with Anderson's novel; the errors are there but they are fairly easy to work through. The biggest problem I noted were misplaced commas, and again I don't hold this against the author. I know for a fact that I misuse commas all the time--along with semicolons (a biggie), colons, dashes, and many other writing rules.<br /><br />A bigger problem involved Emily's relationship to her Uncle Frank. Considering what went on between the two, I felt the author didn't give enough weight to these tragedies. Rezell suffered for some six or seven years from Frank's malefic activities yet we don't learn about it for many pages. Only when her uncle confronts her immediately prior to her final departure from the farm do we even learn what he's been doing to his niece. I'm no expert on abusive relationships, but I can't imagine Emily wouldn't bear more scars from these encounters, that they wouldn't dominate her every waking moment; she seems awfully blas&eacute; about the whole thing when it should serve as the primary reason for her decision to leave. This problem aside, I enjoyed the book. The author does have a few interesting ideas that, with a bit more attention to detail and plot elements, could emerge as a truly wonderful reading experience.lar readers of these types of novels soon learn to live with this problem, and I don't wish to pick on Anderson as I have read other books with far more typographical errors than this one, but it is a valid point to mention to prospective readers because bad grammar often interferes with a novel's narrative flow. I will say that I never felt this was the case with Anderson's novel; the errors are there but they are fairly easy to work through. The biggest problem I noted were misplaced commas, and again I don't hold this against the author. I know for a fact that I misuse commas all the time--along with semicolons (a biggie), colons, dashes, and many other writing rules. <br /> <br />A bigger problem involved Emily's relationship to her Uncle Frank. Considering what went on between the two, I felt the author didn't give enough weight to these tragedies. Rezell suffered for some six or seven years from Frank's malefic activities yet we don't learn about it for many pages. Only when her uncle confronts her immediately prior to her final departure from the farm do we even learn what he's been doing to his niece. I'm no expert on abusive relationships, but I can't imagine Emily wouldn't bear more scars from these encounters, that they wouldn't dominate her every waking moment; she seems awfully blas about the whole thing when it should serve as the primary reason for her decision to leave. This problem aside, I enjoyed the book. The author does have a few interesting ideas that, with a bit more attention to detail and plot elements, could emerge as a truly wonderful reading experience.  <br /> <br />   <br />	2004-09-05
537295:US	52012289	R1KADX9VHP9908	0195128907	464297485	A Little Commonwealth: Family Life in Plymouth Colony	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Myth shattering	When the historian Edmund Morgan wrote \\"The Puritan Family\\" in 1966, he used as his primary sources the sermons and essays of important clergymen to tell the story of the early American social and political elites. John Demos seeks to complement as well as go beyond Morgan's efforts with \\"A Little Commonwealth: Family Life in the Plymouth Colony.\\" By examining new sources and employing new methodologies, the author fashions a picture of the Puritan family that embraces a wider cross section of the colony's social classes. His sources-including wills, court records, and physical artifacts such as furniture and architecture-reveal a fuller understanding of America's earliest settler families.<br /><br />The book explodes myth after myth about the Puritans, arguing that the common conception of dour, maniacally religious zealots dedicated to burning witches and ferreting out religious heresies is at best a fabulous oversimplification and at worst outright incorrect. Demos examines the physical setting of the Plymouth colony, particularly the size of the houses, implements of daily living, and clothing. He looks at the structure of the household, and how the various family members interacted with each other and with the larger community. The book goes further by studying how individual settlers developed psychologically from early childhood to old age. In the Plymouth colony, the family functioned as a school, a business, a church, a vocational training ground for community members, and a welfare institution. The author contrasts the American family of three centuries ago with the institution today, claiming that Plymouth families fused every aspect of life into an inseparable whole rooted in the home. The modern family tends to separate life into public and private spheres, and turns over many of the above functions to outside entities.<br /><br />\\"A Little Commonwealth\\" has several strengths as a work of history. The book stands as a prime example of the shift in the discipline occurring in the 1960s and 1970s. Previous historians relied extensively-and almost exclusively-on written sources. As every historian knows, the individuals who could read and write in the past were often the elites of society. Hence, literary sources emphasized privileged modes of living while ignoring the activities of the majority of humanity. Demos's book attempts to dig down into the lower classes by expanding the base of available source material. The author forms hypotheses based on this evidence that could never have been extracted from essays, speeches, or literary works. Moreover, his methodological approaches open up new vistas in studying the past. Trends in anthropology, psychology, sociology, and archeology all serve his study with varying degrees of success as he pieces together family life in the Plymouth colony.<br /><br />Unfortunately, borrowing theories from other branches of the social sciences also opens up a Pandora's box of problems for the historian, problems unlikely to ever find satisfactory resolution. For instance, the use of psychohistorical analysis in studying the past is fraught with peril. A historian simply does not possess the necessary training to put the past into a proper psychological framework. Demos's declaration that he took an intensive one-year series of courses in a graduate psychology department does not necessarily translate into success when constructing profiles of long dead subjects. Psychology requires live subjects, hundreds of hours of carefully structured interviews, and rigorous testing before formulating a hypothesis or proving a theory can take place. Historians do not have the metaphorical couch on which they can place their subjects to do such an analysis. Arguably the section that most suffers from Demos's reliance on psychohistory is his examination of the infancy and early childhood of Plymouth settlers. The sources concerning children are scarce at best, often tangential, and rarely providethe type of evidence a psychologist would need to formulate a concrete theory.<br /><br />The problem of pyschohistorical methodology aside, a rather glaring omission in \\"A Little Commonwealth\\" revolves around the relationship of the settlers to their new surroundings. While the author underscores the importance of New England's geographical and meteorological influences on the recently arrived Europeans, chiefly the lure of vacant lands eventually leading to an outflow of settlers to virgin territories, he fails to provide any detailed information about the relationship between the Puritans and the indigenous populations. References to Indians in the book are vague and sporadic, relegated to a passing mention in the chapter on servants and a short history of King Philip's War. This conflict, according to the introductory background chapter, devastated the Plymouth colony. Would this war not then have had an effect on the family structure? In a broader sense, what was the effect of the native population on the settlers' families over the course of the colony's history? Subsequent research on indigenous populations since the release of Demos's book covers the topic in some depth. Perhaps blaming the author for ignoring the Indians is an anachronistic criticism, as the movements to secure Indian rights that eventually led to a reappraisal of their role in American history did not start in earnest until the early 1970s.<br /><br />A reprint of \\"A Little Commonwealth\\" comes as no surprise considering its importance to the present state of historical study. The book served as a bridge between two schools of inquiry: the old one emphasized a study of the past that relied heavily on sources written by educated social, political, religious, and economic elites. The new history, which we see everywhere today, strives to uncover the currents swirling beneath the privileged classes. Too, Demos brought into his field a multitude of methodologies from other branches of the social sciences, methods still employed, although with greater caution, by researchers today. If the results of psychohistory and quantitative analysis have since proved problematic, the initial promise this book offered to the discipline led to a major reassessment of the profession and an enlargement of what constituted viable fields of historical research.rovide the type of evidence a psychologist would need to formulate a concrete theory. <br /> <br />The problem of pyschohistorical methodology aside, a rather glaring omission in \\"A Little Commonwealth\\" revolves around the relationship of the settlers to their new surroundings. While the author underscores the importance of New England's geographical and meteorological influences on the recently arrived Europeans, chiefly the lure of vacant lands eventually leading to an outflow of settlers to virgin territories, he fails to provide any detailed information about the relationship between the Puritans and the indigenous populations. References to Indians in the book are vague and sporadic, relegated to a passing mention in the chapter on servants and a short history of King Philip's War. This conflict, according to the introductory background chapter, devastated the Plymouth colony. Would this war not then have had an effect on the family structure? In a broader sense, what was the effect of the native population on the settlers' families over the course of the colony's history? Subsequent research on indigenous populations since the release of Demos's book covers the topic in some depth. Perhaps blaming the author for ignoring the Indians is an anachronistic criticism, as the movements to secure Indian rights that eventually led to a reappraisal of their role in American history did not start in earnest until the early 1970s.  <br /> <br />A reprint of \\"A Little Commonwealth\\" comes as no surprise considering its importance to the present state of historical study. The book served as a bridge between two schools of inquiry: the old one emphasized a study of the past that relied heavily on sources written by educated social, political, religious, and economic elites. The new history, which we see everywhere today, strives to uncover the currents swirling beneath the privileged classes. Too, Demos brought into his field a multitude of methodologies from other branchesof the social sciences, methods still employed, although with greater caution, by researchers today. If the results of psychohistory and quantitative analysis have since proved problematic, the initial promise this book offered to the discipline led to a major reassessment of the profession and an enlargement of what constituted viable fields of historical research. <br /> <br />	2004-08-31
549715:US	52012289	R1CKNSQWQ7W7RE	0812971450	925731689	Rendezvous in Black (A Modern Library 20th Century Rediscovery)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Titanic and soul shattering	How could anyone not love Cornell Woolrich? He ranks right up there with James M. Cain, Dashiell Hammett, and Raymond Chandler as one of the godfathers of pitch-black noir. Unfortunately, Woolrich's voluminous short stories and his many novels for the most part remain out of print. No excuse exists to merit such blatant disrespect. Happily, several Woolrich works have begun to reemerge to the delight of noir fans. For example, Woolrich biographer and all around noir aficionado Frances M. Nevins edited a collection of fourteen delightfully bleak stories in the recent \\"Night & Fear.\\" Now we have \\"Rendezvous in Black\\" thanks to the Modern Library publishing house. We can only hope that other novellas head to store shelves soon, specifically \\"The Bride Wore Black\\" and \\"Night Has A Thousand Eyes.\\" But even more fascinating than his stories is the author's life. Cornell Woolrich lived from one black depression to another. He worshipped his mother, drank incessantly, and kept his true sexuality repressed. It was an overriding fear of his mortality and the cruel randomness of the world around him, however, which fueled his desolate visions. Sad to say, but Woolrich's miseries have given generations of fans something to sing about ever since.<br /><br />\\"Rendezvous in Black\\" excels as an archetype of white knuckled, totter on the edge of your seat noir, a story even better than the author's phenomenal and oft copied \\"I Married a Dead Man.\\" This yarn concerns the activities of one Johnny Marr, an ecstatic young man set to marry the love of his life. When his girl, Dorothy, perishes in a freak accident involving a bottle dropped from a low flying plane, Marr's sanity melts away. The desolate young lover discovers the names of five men who bear the blame for the tragedy that destroyed his life, and he promptly embarks on a mission to wreak bloody revenge on these strangers. Marr will go after the people these men love the most in life, using any tricks he can muster in an effort to avenge his shattered life. Woolrich makes sure the reader understands exactly how far gone Marr is in the first chapter, as we see the young man continue to turn up at the couple's favorite meeting place night after night, waiting desperately for a woman who will never show up. Marr's activities assume a mindless repetition, an unremitting yet senseless hope that Dorothy will eventually appear, thus setting the tone for his single minded, relentless revenge plots later on.<br /><br />A rendezvous for each of Marr's enemies, five in all, unfold with cold, methodical precision. The first rendezvous achieves the least suspense of the five, a short chapter serving as a post-mortem of Marr's first act of revenge. It is here we learn how Marr will attack his enemies (through important women in their lives), and meet the cop, Detective Cameron, who takes on the case. The second rendezvous will set your nerves on edge as an illicit affair leads to disastrous consequences, including a vengeance seeking wife and a walk to the electric chair, for the second man on Johnny's list. In the third rendezvous, a wedge driven between a man and his wife results in a murder and a suicide. As the fourth act unfolds, a conceited, secretive daughter discovers the hard way that she should have listened to Detective Cameron and her parents. The denouement, the fifth rendezvous, involves that last man on the list and his childhood love. It also tries to show that nothing, neither running to the ends of the earth nor the best laid plans, will deter fate. If you feel like you've been chewed up and spit out by the time you reach the end of the book, don't fret. This reaction is normal when reading Cornell Woolrich. It is, in fact, exactly what you want to feel.<br /><br />The strength of \\"Rendezvous in Black\\" comes not from its staccato prose and descriptive metaphors, although these elements do play a large part in the success of the novel, but in Woolrich's bleak cosmology built on an unholy trinity of love turned bad, paranoia, and crushing fate. The accident that claims Dorothy, a bottle falling from the heavens, and the subsequent disasters visited upon those individuals Marr deems responsible, displays the writer's belief in a unsystematic, frequently cruel world where events unfold with ruthless certainty. Love is a good thing, or can be a good thing, but too often it morphs into something that can fuel neverending hostility and destruction. Richard Dooling, the author of the introduction to this edition of the novel, does an excellent job explicating the numerous themes in Woolrich's writings, a better job than I could possibly hope to do in a short review. But you don't need really need an introduction to see that the mindset behind the book is seriously depressing.<br /><br />The number of continuity errors, implausible events, and other mistakes in \\"Rendezvous in Black\\" leap off the page. I find it impossible to believe someone could drop a bottle out of an airplane as late the 1940s, for example. Too, I kept wondering whether Johnny Marr ever aged, as a considerable period of time passes from Dorothy's demise to the end of the book. How could Johnny possibly have wooed the teenaged Madeleine if he was in his late twenties? And considering Woolrich describes Detective Cameron as a bumbler, the cop possesses a tenacity that eventually pays off in the end. None of these problems takes anything away from the sheer power of the novel. There were times I literally felt like I couldn't stand the tension anymore, and any book that can cause that sort of sensation deserves attention. If you love noir, you need to read this one immediately.an unholy trinity of love turned bad, paranoia, and crushing fate. The accident that claims Dorothy, a bottle falling from the heavens, and the subsequent disasters visited upon those individuals Marr deems responsible, displays the writer's belief in a unsystematic, frequently cruel world where events unfold with ruthless certainty. Love is a good thing, or can be a good thing, but too often it morphs into something that can fuel neverending hostility and destruction. Richard Dooling, the author of the introduction to this edition of the novel, does an excellent job explicating the numerous themes in Woolrich's writings, a better job than I could possibly hope to do in a short review. But you don't need really need an introduction to see that the mindset behind the book is seriously depressing. <br /> <br />The number of continuity errors, implausible events, and other mistakes in \\"Rendezvous in Black\\" leap off the page. I find it impossible to believe someone could drop a bottle out of an airplane as late the 1940s, for example. Too, I kept wondering whether Johnny Marr ever aged, as a considerable period of time passes from Dorothy's demise to the end of the book. How could Johnny possibly have wooed the teenaged Madeleine if he was in his late twenties? And considering Woolrich describes Detective Cameron as a bumbler, the cop possesses a tenacity that eventually pays off in the end. None of these problems takes anything away from the sheer power of the novel. There were times I literally felt like I couldn't stand the tension anymore, and any book that can cause that sort of sensation deserves attention. If you love noir, you need to read this one immediately. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-20
554447:US	52012289	R1RNWV7G4JH3YB	0786015799	26280904	The Harvest	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Well done but derivative	After reading Scott Nicholson's first mass-market novel, \\"The Red Church,\\" I expressed a few minor complaints. I wrote in a review that I found several continuity errors that, while not detracting from the intriguing plot and impressive writing style, did mark Nicholson as a first time novelist. I am pleased to announce that such errors do not appear in \\"The Harvest,\\" this author's 2003 sophomore effort. Dawn never breaks over the horizon at two divergent periods in time. People don't enter buildings more than once without leaving them in the first place. It's nice to see a technical problems cleared up. I know from my own writing experience, which is way less than anything this writer has had to deal with, that it's tough to work up a piece without errors slipping through the cracks. I've read and reread twenty or thirty page papers for school until my eyes are ready to melt and STILL see errors in them when the professor hands them back. I've even had other people proof my stuff and those little critters still sneak through. So let's give Scott Nicholson a round of applause for ferreting out the sort of incongruities found in \\"The Red Church.\\"<br /><br />\\"The Harvest,\\" set in Windshake, North Carolina, is essentially a reworking of \\"Invasion of the Body Snatchers\\" liberally soaked in moonshine. An alien creature crash lands up in the Appalachian Mountains, and begins to assimilate a whole cast of wacky, off beat characters. You've got college psychology professor Tamara Leon, a woman with a horrible talent for predicting the future. You've got her radio disc jockey husband Robert, whose flagging career places him at the microphone of Windshake's hick AM radio station. Then there's Chester Mull, an alcoholic hillbilly living up in the mountains with his mangy dog Boomer. His best friend is Herbert DeWalt, a wealthy real estate developer and ex-hippy who moved to the mountains in order to escape the hustle and bustle of big city life. Then there's the ultra religious Bill Lemly, a one time top athletic prospect and owner of a big lumberyard whose goal in life is to strike up a relationship with the pretty secretary at the local Baptist Church. I could go on and on with the characters, from the domineering mayor to a disgruntled black man named James to the seedy preacher at the Baptist Church, but the list would run on for pages. Let's just say there are characters aplenty to keep track of in this story.<br /><br />This alien creature, whatever it is, doesn't think intelligent life exists on the planet earth. With nothing to bother its conscience, the being rapidly begins to spread its icky tendrils and spores over the countryside. Any living creature--plant, animal, or human--that comes in contact with the life form rapidly transmogrifies into shambling, green eyed monstrosities whose only purpose in life is to convert other living creatures into shambling, green eyed monstrosities before everything turns into a pile of steaming ooze. Apparently, this alien thrives on draining energy out of the environment, and in doing so it can manipulate humans under its influence. The only force standing in the way of the alien's domination and destruction of the globe is Tamara Leon and her mental powers, powers that she refers to as the Gloomies. Before too long, Leon hooks up with DeWalt and Chester Mull for the ultimate showdown with the glowing green abomination dwelling in a cave up in the mountains. The group better act fast if they wish to stop a catastrophe: Windshake is preparing to celebrate its annual festival, which means thousands of people from points beyond will be within easy reach of the creature.<br /><br />After finishing \\"The Harvest,\\" I was not as pleased as I thought I would be. The story is competently executed and at times engaging, but the book is derivative of so many other horror novels and films that I couldn't help but think of how many times I have seen this plot before. There is plenty that is good. Nicholson does deserve kudos for juggling so many major and minor characters. It's not an easy thing to successfully develop the number of actors found here in a book of less than 400 pages, but the author pulls it off and makes the whole process look simple. The book also delves quite frequently into humor through the Chester Mull character, a classic curmudgeon if there ever was one. His sarcastic thoughts and observations had me laughing myself sick. The best part of \\"The Harvest,\\" however, is the writing style. I guess I forgot how effectively Nicholson puts pen to paper. The author's descriptive abilities and penchant for stream of consciousness prose is a breath of fresh air in the mass-market paperback field. If you appreciate good writing, you will probably enjoy this book.<br /><br />Still, the derivative, unoriginal plot left me grousing as I closed the cover for the final time. I initially thought about giving the book three stars, but I think I'll bump the rating up to four. I think if Nicholson comes up with a unique idea, he will really hit all the right notes. Perhaps \\"The Manor,\\" his most recent book set to coast onto my reading list in a few weeks, will fire on all cylinders. Until then, I need to remember the good things about \\"The Harvest\\": great writing, interesting and funny characters, and a horror story placed in a vivid southern atmosphere. These three elements should appeal to most horror fans. I hope Scott Nicholson keeps writing, as he's certain to hone his abilities to an irresistible edge in the near future.on does deserve kudos for juggling so many major and minor characters. It's not an easy thing to successfully develop the number of actors found here in a book of less than 400 pages, but the author pulls it off and makes the whole process look simple. The book also delves quite frequently into humor through the Chester Mull character, a classic curmudgeon if there ever was one. His sarcastic thoughts and observations had me laughing myself sick. The best part of \\"The Harvest,\\" however, is the writing style. I guess I forgot how effectively Nicholson puts pen to paper. The author's descriptive abilities and penchant for stream of consciousness prose is a breath of fresh air in the mass-market paperback field. If you appreciate good writing, you will probably enjoy this book.<br /><br />Still, the derivative, unoriginal plot left me grousing as I closed the cover for the final time. I initially thought about giving the book three stars, but I think I'll bump the rating up to four. I think if Nicholson comes up with a unique idea, he will really hit all the right notes. Perhaps \\"The Manor,\\" his most recent book set to coast onto my reading list in a few weeks, will fire on all cylinders. Until then, I need to remember the good things about \\"The Harvest\\": great writing, interesting and funny characters, and a horror story placed in a vivid southern atmosphere. These three elements should appeal to most horror fans. I hope Scott Nicholson keeps writing, as he's certain to hone his abilities to an irresistible edge in the near future.	2004-08-16
554693:US	52012289	R1BZYKHLG16PAB	0843952040	875977385	Messenger	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Behold the Messenger!	I am an unabashed Edward Lee fan. Although I have only read a few of his novels, the smorgasbord of unsettling violence, intense erotica, and whiplash prose make his writings enormous fun for a dedicated horror fan. The biggest problem facing a potential reader is how to acquire many of his books and short stories. Nearly all of his old mass-market efforts are out of print, many other novels and collections are available only through wallet busting small press editions, and the subject matter of a majority of his tales virtually insures much of his work will remain in obscurity. In other words, I am an Ed Lee fan insofar as my meager funds allow. It does appear a ray of hope is breaking on the horizon: Lee now writes novels for mass market powerhouse Leisure press, and a few of his earlier works are starting to reappear in slightly more affordable trade paperbacks. \\"Messenger\\" falls into the mass-market cheapie paperback category. Lee's Leisure publications unfortunately tone down the over the top violence we're used to, perhaps in an effort to appeal to a general audience incapable of accepting the sorts of atrocities outlined in \\"The Bighead\\" and \\"Portrait of a Psychopath as a Young Woman,\\" two other Lee novels that wallow in depravity.<br /><br />Still, watered down Ed Lee is preferable to no Lee at all. \\"Messenger\\" tells the story of a series of horrific nightmares unfolding in the town of Danelleton, Florida. It's a nice town, a town where everyone waves to everyone else. It's a town that's starting to grow into a small city, which requires the postal service to open a second mail hub in order to handle the explosion of packages, letters, and other correspondence endemic to a bustling population center. Roughly twenty years before the main events of the story, a mysterious package arrived at the Danelleton post office, a package that led directly to a killing spree of epic proportions. Now, two decades later, the horror that unfolded in Danelleton on a beautiful Florida day once again rears its ugly head. But no one makes the connection at first, not the postmaster of the new branch office, Jane Ryan, or chief of police Steve Higgins, or anyone else in town. When a pretty, mild mannered postal employee named Marlene Troy strolls into the main post office and pumps bullets into everyone she finds, warning flags start to fly. An enigmatic message Troy left behind, a sketch of a bell with a star emblem, soon appears at subsequent mass killings committed by other postal employees. What is going on?<br /><br />Think cult activity. Think satanic doings. Think of Lucifer's need for a mouthpiece to the world known to certain individuals as the Messenger. It turns out a very special object of massive import to the underworld resides in the musty basement of the new branch post office, an object with the ability to turn the sane and rational into enraged, frothing at the mouth murderers capable of the most heinous of crimes. No one in Danelleton is safe from the minions of the Messenger, not the postal employees who so often fall under the scurrilous influence of this fallen angel or the citizens walking around with targets on their backs. It's up to Jane Ryan, Steve Higgins, and a mysterious figure who knows more than he is willing to let on named Alexander Dhevic to decode the crimes and figure out how to stop Hell's machinations. It won't be easy, though. The Messenger has his eye on everyone, especially Jane Ryan and her children, and what the Messenger wants he usually gets. One way or the other.<br /><br />Of the Edward Lee Leisure novels--\\"City Infernal,\\" \\"Infernal Angel,\\" \\"Monstrosity,\\" and this one--I think \\"Messenger\\" is the best one of the batch. I liked the idea of a fallen angel using postal employees to carry his unholy messages to the world. I also enjoyed several of the imaginative atrocities described in loving detail. For example, one postal worker under the spell of the Messenger pays a visit to a local Catholicgirl's school to wreak some decidedly unwholesome havoc. Another minion gives a whole new meaning to the concept of barbecue. I've read more than a few novels from Ed Lee, so I know he's more than capable of describing carnage with more gusto than he shows here, but \\"Messenger\\" is still a lot of fun. The conclusion takes the reader for a ride too, with so many twists and turns that you should be highly suspicious of any reviewer who will claim--and they will, too, you just wait and see--that they saw the whole thing coming long in advance. It's disappointing to realize I shall have to wait another year or so before this writer's next mass-market paperback hits store shelves.<br /><br />\\"Messenger\\" is enjoyable, but the book does have its flaws. I found it extremely hard to believe that Jane Ryan had no idea a massacre took place in Danelleton twenty years before she took the job of postmaster. Dozens of people perished at the hands of a crazed postal employee and no one knows about it? People who work for the post office don't know about it? C'mon! Totally unbelievable! Everyone knows the national media would have been all over a story like that, even back in the 1980s. Lee's explanation that the Danelleton city council hushed it up fails to provide an adequate explanation for such a huge plot hole. A few other comparable problems pop up from time to time, but such difficulties seldom interfere with the flow of the narrative. \\"Messenger\\" is a great starter book for readers interested in moving beyond King and Koontz into the darker realms of horror fiction.tholic girl's school to wreak some decidedly unwholesome havoc. Another minion gives a whole new meaning to the concept of barbecue. I've read more than a few novels from Ed Lee, so I know he's more than capable of describing carnage with more gusto than he shows here, but \\"Messenger\\" is still a lot of fun. The conclusion takes the reader for a ride too, with so many twists and turns that you should be highly suspicious of any reviewer who will claim--and they will, too, you just wait and see--that they saw the whole thing coming long in advance. It's disappointing to realize I shall have to wait another year or so before this writer's next mass-market paperback hits store shelves. <br /> <br />\\"Messenger\\" is enjoyable, but the book does have its flaws. I found it extremely hard to believe that Jane Ryan had no idea a massacre took place in Danelleton twenty years before she took the job of postmaster. Dozens of people perished at the hands of a crazed postal employee and no one knows about it? People who work for the post office don't know about it? C'mon! Totally unbelievable! Everyone knows the national media would have been all over a story like that, even back in the 1980s. Lee's explanation that the Danelleton city council hushed it up fails to provide an adequate explanation for such a huge plot hole. A few other comparable problems pop up from time to time, but such difficulties seldom interfere with the flow of the narrative. \\"Messenger\\" is a great starter book for readers interested in moving beyond King and Koontz into the darker realms of horror fiction.  <br /> <br />	2004-08-16
556406:US	52012289	R3BIWU6LURQUNM	0595313493	154317546	The Servants of Freedom: The SOF	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A truly magnificent effort	When was the last time you read a story about an American Air Force officer serving in Europe in the 1970s written in the style of Ernest Hemingway, Eudora Welty, and William Wordsworth? If you answered \\"never,\\" you haven't read Keith Parris's \\"The Servants of Freedom.\\" When I first received a copy of this book, I snickered at the author's claims that he invoked the memory of the abovementioned writers in this lengthy novel. The snickering tapered off roughly twenty pages into the story, and stopped altogether soon after that. As hard as it is to believe, Parris has pulled off the impossible; he indeed wrote a story in the style of some of the nineteenth century masters. \\"The Servants of Freedom\\" is not only a riveting story about the trials and travails of a young Air Force officer struggling to fit into the grueling lifestyle of piloting jet fighters in Cold War Europe, the book also continually connects with the reader on an emotional level as the protagonist of the tale, Lieutenant Troy Pearson, learns about life and love from the men and women serving with him. The story even raises the specter of terrorism, race relations, and internecine squabbles in the armed services.<br /><br />Troy Pearson always knew he wanted to fly when he grew up. As a child, he used to go out with friends and fly model airplanes on the weekends. When he graduated from college, Pearson joined the Air Force and went into fighter pilot training school. The rigors of the program, along with the abject brutality of learning how to survive capture by enemy forces during basic training, convinces the young pilot he will soon fly the friendly skies over Vietnam. Instead, the Air Force sends him to Europe to patrol the Iron Curtain. Stationed in West Germany, Pearson isn't on base for more than a few hours when a faction of the Baader-Meinhof Gang, that loveable gang of leftist losers who stirred up lots of trouble in Europe during the 1970s and 1980s, bombs the base's dining facilities. The terrible incident, which claims the life of one officer, doesn't stop our pilot from striking up a friendly relationship with Jenny Kiley, an Air Force brat who takes quite a shine to Pearson. Before he even climbs aboard a jet fighter, the pilot searches for an apartment with Kiley, weathers the ritual of driver training school European style, runs into a heap of trouble at a race relations seminar run by a scheming sergeant, and sits through a briefing mission about German terrorists.<br /><br />Many of the incidents described in the book seem mundane on the surface. How much interest could an author inspire in his readers about driving school? About looking for an apartment? Or training in a flight simulator? As weird as it sounds, Parris manages to make every day activities seem magical. If you think about those nineteenth century authors, they did the same thing. You can pick up a book by Charles Dickens, George Eliot, or a handful of other writers of that era and run into a chance encounter between two acquaintances that encompass twenty or thirty pages of richly detailed text. Most modern writers skip over such banalities in favor of the spectacular or sensational because they don't know how to bring out the interesting nuances in every day life. Certainly, Parris's book does contain many scenes of on the edge of your seat action, particularly during the flying sequences, but the book's beauty resides largely in Pearson's interactions with his friends, his female encounters, and his thoughts about military life.<br /><br />I suspect that most of us who have never served our country in the armed forces think of the military as a monolithic institution staffed by men and women trained to follow orders in lieu of any form of independent thinking, and this type of military does exist in the book. Repeatedly, Pearson must make choices and decisions based on rules that, if resulting in an error, could cost him his career. One example is the seminar on race relations where Pearson voices his opinion about how special privileges for certain minorities is itself a form of racism. His brave stand results in a showdown with the sergeant in charge of the program, a showdown fraught with peril for the young lieutenant when he must engage in a confrontation with a deeply bigoted enlisted man about a confederate flag in the barracks. While Parris's book does show how tough and sometimes unfair the military can be, he also shows the reader how many thoughtful, deeply sensitive men and women put on the uniform everyday in order to protect our country.<br /><br />I don't think a thousand word review can do \\"The Servants of Freedom\\" any justice. Parris's book certainly ranks as one of the top five books I have read this year, an amazing revelation when one considers this novel is a self-published effort. As I read the book, I continually wondered why a big publisher didn't pick this one up for distribution. Perhaps the oddity of an eloquent prose style fused with the topic of the United States military struck some publishing houses as odd. I, however, loved the book and heartily recommend it to both fans of military literature and to general audiences. Hopefully, \\"The Servants of Freedom\\" will soon become one of those rare do it yourself books that grabs enough attention from readers that a HarperCollins or a similar publisher will step in and re-release it. Too, perhaps this humble review will draw a modicum of attention to a wonderful, magical read.elations where Pearson voices his opinion about how special privileges for certain minorities is itself a form of racism. His brave stand results in a showdown with the sergeant in charge of the program, a showdown fraught with peril for the young lieutenant when he must engage in a confrontation with a deeply bigoted enlisted man about a confederate flag in the barracks. While Parris's book does show how tough and sometimes unfair the military can be, he also shows the reader how many thoughtful, deeply sensitive men and women put on the uniform everyday in order to protect our country. <br /> <br />I don't think a thousand word review can do \\"The Servants of Freedom\\" any justice. Parris's book certainly ranks as one of the top five books I have read this year, an amazing revelation when one considers this novel is a self-published effort. As I read the book, I continually wondered why a big publisher didn't pick this one up for distribution. Perhaps the oddity of an eloquent prose style fused with the topic of the United States military struck some publishing houses as odd. I, however, loved the book and heartily recommend it to both fans of military literature and to general audiences. Hopefully, \\"The Servants of Freedom\\" will soon become one of those rare do it yourself books that grabs enough attention from readers that a HarperCollins or a similar publisher will step in and re-release it. Too, perhaps this humble review will draw a modicum of attention to a wonderful, magical read.    <br /> <br />	2004-08-14
557319:US	52012289	R6R2XPHRL40I4	0595218431	368195914	Duck Blood Soup	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Devastating	While you are likely to see many, many books detailing the horrific effects of drug addiction, stories concerning professionals abusing narcotics are not high on the list. Usually, members of the lower classes fall prey to the clutches of drugs more often than lawyers, doctors, or corporate executives. We know real life is quite different. Lawyers, doctors, and business magnates do drink to excess or abuse drugs. What the exact numbers are I wouldn't know, but I do know that careers with high stress factors do lead to higher incidents of destructive behaviors. What could be more stressful than working the long hours of an attorney, or dealing with life and death on a daily basis? Imagine going to school for nearly a quarter of a century (as a surgeon in training does), and then finding out you simply cannot hack the grinding hours, your fellow physicians, and the memories of a bad childhood. What do you do? With \\"Duck Blood Soup,\\" Dr. Joseph Molea pens a fascinating look into the dark recesses of a surgeon free falling into prescription painkiller torment. If you need a touchstone here, think \\"Requiem for a Dream\\" with a medical degree.<br /><br />Rocky VanSlyke seems to have it all made. He managed to move past a horrible childhood to become a doctor specializing in surgical medicine. Working at All Saints Hospital in inner city Philadelphia as a trainee surgeon, he's now in his fourth year as chief surgical resident. Rocky even dates a pretty nurse named Karla when he isn't saving lives on a daily basis. Yep, everything seems to go well until our heroic doctor falls in with Vincent G. Buddy, the grossly obese hospital attorney. This guy has a big problem with abusing prescription medications, namely Demerol and Percocet, and it isn't too long before the shrewd lawyer sets his sights on the emotionally unbalanced VanSlyke as his next Doctor Feelgood. Vincent and Rocky spend an increasingly inordinate amount of their downtime cruising through the city streets cashing in prescriptions for narcotics. Then it's back to the attorney's apartment for an evening of pill popping, injections, and IV drips of quantities vast enough to kill an army. Predictably, the abuse escalates to frightening proportions as VanSlyke begins writing prescriptions daily so Vincent can fill them at the pharmacy. As events spiral increasingly out of control, tragedies of life long import await the young healer at the end of the road, tragedies requiring the right choices if he is to survive another day.<br /><br />Rocky VanSlyke's drug problems partly stem from his hyper stressful career as a saver of lives, but the real difficulties emerge from his childhood. The doctor grew up in a military family based somewhere in Georgia. His home life was not the thing of fond remembrances; his mother was an alcoholic, promiscuous woman who could not stand taking care of her young son in between her numerous illicit trysts. VanSlyke's father was a gung-ho army type, always away on missions to save the country and the world. And there's a lot of saving needed by the country as the Cuban Missile Crisis looms large and the Cold War heats up to fever pitch. None of this helps Rocky, though, as he witnesses his mother routinely cheat on his father, burn through the family's money, and verbally abuse her husband. The events of his childhood culminate in a startlingly violent denouement with life long implications for our hapless hero. Molea writes the story in such a way that scenes of VanSlyke's terrible childhood traumas flit in and out of the larger drug addled narrative. It is to the author's credit that he relates Rocky's disastrous experiences in this volcanic environment without using it to excuse his later drug problems.<br /><br />\\"Duck Blood Soup\\" is a frightening book if for no other reason than seeing a doctor, a man responsible for the health and well being of others, destroying his life with painkillers. Although he starts out \\"responsibly\\" with his pain pills and injections, it isn't too long before he's going to work immediately after injecting himself with Demerol. One horrific scene in the book, which takes place at the hospital, involves the accidental demise of a patient as a direct result of carelessness on the part of VanSlyke. Did his drug abuse have anything to do with the incident? The narrative never spells that out definitively one way or the other, but the implications of the incident are horrifying nonetheless. Most of us will at one time or another end up in a hospital recovering from ailments both serious and minor, and we don't want to think that the attending physician might be hopped up on prescription drugs when life or death decisions are taking place. Heck, we don't even want to think our doctors abuse any substance at any time in their lives. Molea's story strips away the naïve belief that doctors are above such base failings like drug addiction. They are, after all, only human just like the rest of us, with the same frailties and needs as any other person.<br /><br />The only problem I experienced with \\"Duck Blood Soup\\" (the title of which, by the way, makes more sense after reading the story) concerned the presence of a small number of typographical errors. Don't worry about it, though, since the number of mistakes is small and in no way hampers the flow of this engaging yet deeply frightening story. Molea's book throws a troubling light on a problem most of us would prefer to leave in the dark. It's a story of addiction as powerful as Selby's \\"Requiem for a Dream,\\" and belongs on the bookshelf of any reader interested in examining the ghastly underbelly of addiction in our modern society.in pills and injections, it isn't too long before he's going to work immediately after injecting himself with Demerol. One horrific scene in the book, which takes place at the hospital, involves the accidental demise of a patient as a direct result of carelessness on the part of VanSlyke. Did his drug abuse have anything to do with the incident? The narrative never spells that out definitively one way or the other, but the implications of the incident are horrifying nonetheless. Most of us will at one time or another end up in a hospital recovering from ailments both serious and minor, and we don't want to think that the attending physician might be hopped up on prescription drugs when life or death decisions are taking place. Heck, we don't even want to think our doctors abuse any substance at any time in their lives. Molea's story strips away the nave belief that doctors are above such base failings like drug addiction. They are, after all, only human just like the rest of us, with the same frailties and needs as any other person. <br /> <br />The only problem I experienced with \\"Duck Blood Soup\\" (the title of which, by the way, makes more sense after reading the story) concerned the presence of a small number of typographical errors. Don't worry about it, though, since the number of mistakes is small and in no way hampers the flow of this engaging yet deeply frightening story. Molea's book throws a troubling light on a problem most of us would prefer to leave in the dark. It's a story of addiction as powerful as Selby's \\"Requiem for a Dream,\\" and belongs on the bookshelf of any reader interested in examining the ghastly underbelly of addiction in our modern society.  <br />	2004-08-13
567458:US	52012289	R1H3EYIT1V71RJ	0679723218	774338233	Mildred Pierce	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Brilliant	James M. Cain's reputation as a master of the noir genre rests largely on his phenomenally grim 1934 story &quot;The Postman Always Rings Twice,&quot; 1935's &quot;Double Indemnity,&quot; and this 1941 classic &quot;Mildred Pierce.&quot; No other noir writer's reputation-whether Raymond Chandler, Dashiell Hammett, or Cornell Woolrich-rests on only two or three stories. How is it possible to sustain a literary legacy based on two, maybe three stories that you could read in three single sittings? Think movies. You can thank Billy Wilder and Raymond Chandler for Cain's enduring legacy. These two guys collaborated on the script for &quot;Double Indemnity&quot; the film, a film that has since become one of the classics of American cinema. And don't forget Joan Crawford won an Oscar for her work in the screen version of &quot;Mildred Pierce.&quot; Too, if memory serves correctly, there are two film versions of &quot;The Postman Always Rings Twice,&quot; one of them starring Jack Nicholson and Jessica Lange. If I were a writer, I wouldn't be too enthusiastic that my legacy rested on film versions of my stories. From what I've read of the noir masters, Cain isn't nearly as good of a storyteller as Chandler, Hammett, or Woolrich. He isn't as good as Jim Thompson or David Goodis either, for that matter. He's still good, though.<br /><br /> Fortunately, although it isn't as noir as &quot;Double Indemnity&quot; or &quot;The Postman Always Rings Twice,&quot; &quot;Mildred Pierce&quot; is a wonderful story embodying several key elements of the noir genre. The novel is the story of Mildred Pierce, a young, leggy housewife and mother in California trying to make the best of a bad situation during the Great Depression. Like millions of other Americans during those trying times, Mildred's financial situation falters when her husband Bert's unemployment threatens to cost the family their home. Since Bert is also cheating on his wife, Mildred eventually forces her man to permanently leave. This situation leaves our heroine caring for her two children, Veda and Moira, without a source of income. Thanks to a helpful neighbor mixed up in bootlegging, a Mrs. Gessler, Mildred obtains enough support until she finally lands employment as a waitress at a Los Angeles hash house. Pierce is a tough lady, full of pride and ideals about what a woman should do in life, but economic uncertainty forces her to make tough choices. Her no nonsense attitude, along with her abilities as a fine cook, soon allows the woman to build a small restaurant/pie shop. A few more years of hard work finds Mildred with three restaurants and a bursting bank account in a time when people still stand in bread lines. She's a success story.<br /><br /> Cain is not content to allow his readers to bask in the glow of Mildred's success. As tough of a woman as she is, as careful about business as she is, Mildred Pierce has two problems that threaten to permanently destroy her life. The first problem is Veda, Pierce's eldest daughter. This girl is your archetypical snob, a young lady so enamored of the finer things in life that she will stop at nothing to obtain social position and wealth. Mildred recognizes her daughter's failings, but insists on doting on her while showering the girl with expensive gifts. Despite all the attentions she receives, Veda loathes her mother. She considers the idea of Mildred working in a restaurant unconscionable, and constantly works behind the scenes to heap scorn upon her mother. The second problem involves men. Mildred Pierce cannot seem to find a good man, as she soon discovers after hooking up with a somewhat wealthy loafer and snob named Monty Beragon. It isn't too long before Veda and Monty hit it off to the everlasting detriment of Mildred. Although both depend on Pierce for money, they can't stand her seemingly lowly status and plebian manners. You can rest assured that events will soon reach a frightful denouement, one loaded with shattering emotional conflicts that wreck lives and destroy relationships.<br /><br /> &quot;Mildred Pierce,&quot; in my opinion, is even better than Cain's noir novellas &quot;Double Indemnity&quot; and &quot;The Postman Always Rings Twice.&quot; You won't find a crime like murder anywhere in the story, nothing requiring a crafty cover up or the presence of law enforcement officials. The book instead focuses on the unhealthy relationship between a mother and a daughter both proud and spoiled in their own ways. In many ways, this destructive relationship is worse than the illicit affairs of the protagonists in the previously mentioned two books: Mildred and Veda hurt each other innumerable times, and go on hurting each other until the bitter end whereas Cain's other memorable characters quickly reach a point of no return. There is no end to the emotional suffering of the characters in this story, although despite what other readers have thought the conclusion does hold out a glimmer of hope that Mildred will overcome her weaknesses and rebuild her shattered life.<br /><br /> Don't worry about the lack of a juicy crime, though, since other aspects of the story intrigue immensely. Mildred Pierce as a character is quite wonderful; you simply can't help but like the lady despite her flaws. Conversely, Veda as drawn by Cain is one of the great evil characters of literature. You'll gape at her soulless machinations, wondering how she gets away with such despicable behaviors and fervently hoping for a serious comeuppance. Too, it's nice to get a look at pre-World War II California, an atmosphere that Cain makes excellent use of throughout the story. I recommend heartily that all beginning Cain fans read &quot;Mildred Pierce&quot; alongside his two other masterworks. Sadly, it seems many of his readers tend to overlook this non-noir noir classic. I'm glad I didn't.emotional conflicts that wreck lives and destroy relationships. <br />  <br /> &quot;Mildred Pierce,&quot; in my opinion, is even better than Cain's noir novellas &quot;Double Indemnity&quot; and &quot;The Postman Always Rings Twice.&quot; You won't find a crime like murder anywhere in the story, nothing requiring a crafty cover up or the presence of law enforcement officials. The book instead focuses on the unhealthy relationship between a mother and a daughter both proud and spoiled in their own ways. In many ways, this destructive relationship is worse than the illicit affairs of the protagonists in the previously mentioned two books: Mildred and Veda hurt each other innumerable times, and go on hurting each other until the bitter end whereas Cain's other memorable characters quickly reach a point of no return. There is no end to the emotional suffering of the characters in this story, although despite what other readers have thought the conclusion does hold out a glimmer of hope that Mildred will overcome her weaknesses and rebuild her shattered life.  <br />  <br /> Don't worry about the lack of a juicy crime, though, since other aspects of the story intrigue immensely. Mildred Pierce as a character is quite wonderful; you simply can't help but like the lady despite her flaws. Conversely, Veda as drawn by Cain is one of the great evil characters of literature. You'll gape at her soulless machinations, wondering how she gets away with such despicable behaviors and fervently hoping for a serious comeuppance. Too, it's nice to get a look at pre-World War II California, an atmosphere that Cain makes excellent use of throughout the story. I recommend heartily that all beginning Cain fans read &quot;Mildred Pierce&quot; alongside his two other masterworks. Sadly, it seems many of his readers tend to overlook this non-noir noir classic. I'm glad I didn't.  <br />  <br />  <br />  <br />  <br />  <br />  <br />  <br />	2004-08-03
571499:US	52012289	R15W0ZCKD8Q8A8	0809321394	142725482	If I Were Boss: The Early Business Stories of Sinclair Lewis	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Thank you, Sinclair Lewis	If you made a short list of notable literary efforts from America's first Nobel Prize in Literature winner, the inestimable Sinclair Lewis, titles such as &quot;Main Street,&quot; &quot;Babbitt,&quot; and &quot;Elmer Gantry&quot; would probably sit near the top. More discerning fans of the master satirist might throw in &quot;Dodsworth,&quot; &quot;It Can't Happen Here,&quot; and &quot;Kingsblood Royal.&quot; What you wouldn't find anywhere on this speculative list are the short stories between the pages of &quot;If I Were Boss: The Early Business Stories of Sinclair Lewis.&quot; Why? According to the intricate yet astoundingly informative introduction by Anthony Di Renzo, none of the fifteen stories contained in the anthology have been republished since their original appearance between the years 1915-1921 in magazines like &quot;The Saturday Evening Post.&quot; If you stagger under the knowledge that works of a Nobel Prize winner have been out of print that long, you'll really have a fit once you read this collection. Every one of the tales in this book is wonderful. Everything you know about Lewis-his scathing wit, his boundless cynicism tempered with a secret hope for the triumph of humanity, his spot on ability to recreate the American vernacular-infuses every page of every story.<br /><br /> If I had to pick a specific story as my personal favorite, I would pick the four stories that make up what is the Lancelot Todd cycle. Lewis spent many years of his life working in advertising, loathed the profession, and promptly took his revenge with stories like &quot;Snappy Display,&quot; &quot;Slip It to 'Em,&quot; &quot;Getting His Bit,&quot; and &quot;Jazz.&quot; These four tales document the unsavory career of Lancelot Todd, America's premier advertising guru and an unbridled charlatan. Always on the lookout for the perfect con, Todd spends his days writing peppy newsletters for large business concerns and spewing out self-help books designed to teach the workingman how to get ahead. He devotes his free time to seeking a higher position in society and cultivating a cirrhotic liver. Lewis scathingly paints a picture of Todd's machinations only to bring him down in the end as his latest caper falls apart. The best example is &quot;Slip It to 'Em,&quot; where Todd runs a car company into the ground only to find he must transport his latest wealthy conquest to an important meeting in one of the lemons his company foisted on the public. You haven't laughed until you have read a Lancelot Todd story. The only thing I could think of after these four stories was where I could get my hands on more of them.<br /><br /> All of the stories in the collection pertain to issues still relevant today. In &quot;If I Were Boss,&quot; salesman Charley McClure strives to make a name for himself at his firm only to discover the same issues he excoriated his own boss for come back to haunt him years later when he runs the show. &quot;Honestly-If Possible&quot; explores the sometimes painful relationship between men and women in the office place. So does &quot;A Story with a Happy Ending,&quot; but in a different way. Leonard Price eventually undergoes the humiliating experience of working for a woman he initially hired years before. The confusing experience of workplace conflicts finds expression in &quot;Way I See It,&quot; where Lewis uses a shifting perspective to examine the contentious relationship between a rental agent and his boss. Even corporate takeovers and office backstabbing get a spotlight in &quot;The Whisperer,&quot; an unnerving tale about a fast buck quack obliterating his internal opposition in his bid for the top spot at an unprofitable pharmaceutical company. Repeatedly, I was amazed at how the many issues Lewis raises in these stories continue to have importance in today's corporate world. It would seem we haven't advanced very far since the 1910s and 1920s, at least regarding gender roles and business ethics.<br /><br /> Don'tthink for a minute that Lewis completely despises his subjects. In &quot;The Good Sport,&quot; the author brings one of those fly by night, wiseacre salesman who run from job to job down to earth in a particularly humbling yet ennobling way. &quot;A Matter of Business&quot; finds a businessman agonizing over whether to remain loyal to a local supplier or whether to buy trendy yet shoddy products from a national concern. The last story, &quot;Number Seven to Sagapoose,&quot; is a truly beautiful heart wrencher about a traveling shoe salesman's ability to make a huge difference in the lives of certain individuals and, by extension, humanity as a whole. It is in these stories that we see Lewis's caustic barbs and deep cynicism stripped away to reveal a man who fervently hoped that mankind could overcome its ridiculous social constructions and petty trappings in order to achieve a higher, nobler purpose.<br /><br /> As I closed the cover to &quot;If I Were Boss&quot; for the final time, I felt a deep kinship with Sinclair Lewis, realizing that he and I share many of the same thought processes and beliefs. I couldn't help but think that I would have gotten along just fine with Lewis if I had personally known him. I think I understand him as a person, however misguided that assumption might be, and now realize how difficult his life must have been. When one sees humanity in the way Lewis sees it, when one recognizes the pettiness and banalities we surround ourselves with, one quickly understands how difficult it is to function in life. That's why I think Lewis relied so heavily on humor in his stories: if you cannot laugh at the utter ridiculousness of modern life, you will quickly find yourself screaming with rage. These insights on my part hint at the powerful qualities of the author's stories and his writing ability. If you're the eternal cynic who can still laugh, pick this book up right away./> Don't think for a minute that Lewis completely despises his subjects. In &quot;The Good Sport,&quot; the author brings one of those fly by night, wiseacre salesman who run from job to job down to earth in a particularly humbling yet ennobling way. &quot;A Matter of Business&quot; finds a businessman agonizing over whether to remain loyal to a local supplier or whether to buy trendy yet shoddy products from a national concern. The last story, &quot;Number Seven to Sagapoose,&quot; is a truly beautiful heart wrencher about a traveling shoe salesman's ability to make a huge difference in the lives of certain individuals and, by extension, humanity as a whole. It is in these stories that we see Lewis's caustic barbs and deep cynicism stripped away to reveal a man who fervently hoped that mankind could overcome its ridiculous social constructions and petty trappings in order to achieve a higher, nobler purpose.  <br />  <br /> As I closed the cover to &quot;If I Were Boss&quot; for the final time, I felt a deep kinship with Sinclair Lewis, realizing that he and I share many of the same thought processes and beliefs. I couldn't help but think that I would have gotten along just fine with Lewis if I had personally known him. I think I understand him as a person, however misguided that assumption might be, and now realize how difficult his life must have been. When one sees humanity in the way Lewis sees it, when one recognizes the pettiness and banalities we surround ourselves with, one quickly understands how difficult it is to function in life. That's why I think Lewis relied so heavily on humor in his stories: if you cannot laugh at the utter ridiculousness of modern life, you will quickly find yourself screaming with rage. These insights on my part hint at the powerful qualities of the author's stories and his writing ability. If you're the eternal cynic who can still laugh, pick this book up right away.  <br />	2004-07-30
575271:US	52012289	RUWT4FYB87CYR	1892669110	783241170	Warfear, A Collection of Strange War Tales	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Could have been better	On the surface, &quot;Warfear: A Collection of Strange War Tales&quot; sounds like a winner. Just think of it: horror writers fusing the mind shattering destructiveness of war with otherworldly horror! How could you lose with such a collection of short stories? I always thought that mixing war with the dark depths of the supernatural would make for a great read, so when I saw &quot;Warfear&quot; in an issue of &quot;Cemetery Dance,&quot; I just knew I needed to pick up a copy. After reading the thirteen stories in the book-contributed by Don D'Ammassa, James A. Moore, C.J. Henderson, Peter Garratt, Steve Mosby, Jeremy Shipp, James Chambers, Tim Curran, Mike Wiecek, Jeffrey Thomas, Bruce Gehweiler, Mark McLaughlin, and Michael McCarty-I discovered &quot;Warfear&quot; is definitely a mixed bag as far as anthologies go. I dislike saying so, but this collection is probably one best left on the shelf for most horror fans. There are good stories here, a few of them quite good, but the rest fail to achieve originality or effective shock value. I pictured tales that would really stretch the imagination, stories that would leave me gasping for breath, but such is not to be.<br /><br /> It's best to start with what works. The most impressive story in &quot;Warfear&quot; comes from the delightfully twisted mind of James A. Moore. I'm familiar with this author, having read his novel &quot;Fireworks&quot; some time ago, but I wasn't prepared for his creepy contribution here. Entitled &quot;War Stories,&quot; Moore's tale involves two battle wizened veterans, one from the Vietnam War and one from the Second World War, sitting around swapping stories about the myriad horrors they saw during their tours of duty. When one of the storytellers says &quot;I reckon I should tell you about the Chateau,&quot; the tale goes into a detailed description of a world gone mad. This chateau just happens to involve a grotesque laboratory built by German soldiers to create a supernatural fighting force. The descriptions of what goes on in the basement of this building are horrific enough, but Moore hits a homerun by never explaining the enigmatic, grinning soldier who brings the whole thing down. As a jaded horror fan, a fan that has watched hundreds of horror movies and read about as many horror novels, I couldn't believe it when this story actually gave me the chills. Yep, I not only looked over my shoulder a few times after finishing this one, I literally got goose bumps, if only for a few seconds!<br /><br /> Two other winners are &quot;The Tale of the Spanish Prisoner&quot; and &quot;The Chattering of Tiny Teeth&quot; by James Chambers and Tim Curran, respectively. The former is a Lovecraftian tinged tale about a family secret linked back to the American campaign against Barbary Coast pirates in the early 19th century. A strange cargo picked up in the jungles of South America hides an evil so terrifying in its implications that it reaches through time to destroy members of the Webster family. &quot;The Chattering of Tiny Teeth,&quot; set in the muddy trenches of the First World War, gradually reveals the presence of ghoulish creatures preying on the deceased soldiers in no man's land. When a band of troops head out to deal with the nightmarish creatures, they discover an ancient evil not easily vanquished by mere mortals. As one would expect in a tale set in the blood-spattered trenches of World War I, Tim Curran's yarn is a veritable bloodbath of gore and mayhem. Regrettably, the numerous typos speckled on every page frequently disturb the narrative flow.<br /><br /> The rest of the stories-excepting Jeffrey Thomas's dimension bending science fiction blast called &quot;The Schism&quot;-don't live up to the three above. C.J. Henderson's &quot;The Laughing Man&quot; is a very short story about Vikings fleeing from their enemies that just doesn't deliver the goods. A Lovecraft influenced tale about an American soldier during the Revolutionary War neitherscares nor grosses out. &quot;Military Mite,&quot; an apocalyptic story about a new weapons system that escapes from the lab, is a good start but too short to be effective. &quot;Military Deferment&quot; is unexciting, as is &quot;Glow Worm&quot; &quot;Of Rain and Fire,&quot; and &quot;Verst 7156.&quot; I just couldn't get into these stories even though the settings were intriguing. For example, &quot;Of Rain and Fire&quot; presented a future where reincarnated samurai warriors battle a technologically advanced civilization. &quot;Verst 7156&quot; focused on American soldiers guarding a bridge from the Red Army in Siberia circa 1920. &quot;Military Deferment&quot; deals with the horrific results of a German military operation in Africa during the Second World War. Perhaps the most disappointing story is &quot;The Spitzbergen Raid,&quot; about a mysterious cadre of German officers' attempts to cover up a bizarre secret lodged in the icy climes of the Arctic. After a great lead up, this story fell flat on its face.<br /><br /> As you can see, I would have a tough time recommending a book based on the merits of four stories. I think the initial idea a good one though, and I welcome future horror stories based in wartime situations. In the case of &quot;Warfear,&quot; most of the stories have that early writers effort feel, as though most of the contributors wrote them early in their careers and mailed the manuscripts in after realizing someone would finally publish them. A few, sad to say, look like last minute works-you know, that deadline is rapidly approaching and you just have to bang something out and send it in no matter how hastily slapped together. Maybe I'll write a story with this theme; I could do better than several of the efforts gathered together in &quot;Warfear.&quot;r neither scares nor grosses out. &quot;Military Mite,&quot; an apocalyptic story about a new weapons system that escapes from the lab, is a good start but too short to be effective. &quot;Military Deferment&quot; is unexciting, as is &quot;Glow Worm&quot; &quot;Of Rain and Fire,&quot; and &quot;Verst 7156.&quot; I just couldn't get into these stories even though the settings were intriguing. For example, &quot;Of Rain and Fire&quot; presented a future where reincarnated samurai warriors battle a technologically advanced civilization. &quot;Verst 7156&quot; focused on American soldiers guarding a bridge from the Red Army in Siberia circa 1920. &quot;Military Deferment&quot; deals with the horrific results of a German military operation in Africa during the Second World War. Perhaps the most disappointing story is &quot;The Spitzbergen Raid,&quot; about a mysterious cadre of German officers' attempts to cover up a bizarre secret lodged in the icy climes of the Arctic. After a great lead up, this story fell flat on its face. <br />  <br /> As you can see, I would have a tough time recommending a book based on the merits of four stories. I think the initial idea a good one though, and I welcome future horror stories based in wartime situations. In the case of &quot;Warfear,&quot; most of the stories have that early writers effort feel, as though most of the contributors wrote them early in their careers and mailed the manuscripts in after realizing someone would finally publish them. A few, sad to say, look like last minute works-you know, that deadline is rapidly approaching and you just have to bang something out and send it in no matter how hastily slapped together. Maybe I'll write a story with this theme; I could do better than several of the efforts gathered together in &quot;Warfear.&quot;  <br />  <br />  <br />  <br />  <br />  <br />  <br />	2004-07-27
577741:US	52012289	R22AWRJIJZWUBJ	0679722645	951875669	The Maltese Falcon	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Noir from the Master of Noir	Even the most cursory examination of the noir genre will quickly turn up Dashiell Hammett's name. Not only is he a giant in the field, with books like &quot;The Maltese Falcon&quot; and &quot;The Thin Man&quot; to his credit, he practically invented the genre by fusing traditional pulp detective narratives to a snappy, streetwise sensibility. Some of the best noir stories I ever read were Hammett's Continental Op tales. I have read a lot of these types of stories over the past few years, everything from Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe yarns to James M. Cain's classic thrillers, and I have to say I have rarely been disappointed with the result. I worried slightly when I finally decided to sit down with Hammett's classic &quot;The Maltese Falcon.&quot; The movie version starring Humphrey Bogart is an unmitigated cinematic classic, no doubt, but would the book measure up? Usually, movies never match up to their book versions; such is not the case here. After reading the book, I don't think I should have worried as much as I did. Hammett's story contains all the classic noir elements: the staccato prose, the damsel in distress, murders, manipulation, and the requisite explanation of the moral code held by main character Sam Spade. &quot;The Maltese Falcon&quot; is a gem of a book that I should have read years ago.<br /><br /> Sam Spade has never even heard of a Maltese Falcon when he and his partner Miles Archer agree to take what on the surface looks like an easy case. A lady shows up at the office claiming that a guy named Floyd Thursby presents a danger to her. All she wants is for either Archer or Spade to follow this guy around and make sure they know what he's up to. No big deal. Spade and his partner routinely take mundane cases, and when this woman sweetens the pot with a couple hundred bucks, the two detectives don't hesitate for a minute to seal the deal. Spade's at home asleep when he receives the phone call that something unpleasant happened to his partner. He soon learns that something unpleasant happened to Floyd Thursby as well. The police recognize that this general unpleasantness is important and try to make Spade's life unpleasant. Sammy doesn't like it when his life's complications bring in the city's finest, doesn't like it at all, so he leans on his female client to figure out what his chances are in escaping a stretch in the stir. Along the way, the detective discovers his client's real name is Brigid O'Shaugnessy, that she's involved in some sort of shady international smuggling deal, and that he, Spade, is now right in the middle of it.<br /><br /> By the time our hero runs into Joel Cairo, a dandy sporting perfume soaked hankies, he's knows he's on to something big. Cairo wants to hire the detective to search for an enigmatic object, a black statuette of a bird, which seems to carry great value. Throw in an obese art collector named Gutman and a gunsel who cannot look his enemies in the face, and the cast of characters is complete. Spade's got his work cut out for him with this seedy bunch, but the bad guys forgot one simple fact when they started messing around with Sam Spade. This private detective is a man accustomed to walking the fine line between criminals and the police, used to dealing with men and women who would sooner reach for a gun than bat an eye. Gutman, Cairo, and O'Shaugnessy also never bothered to learn that Sam Spade has his own strict code of ethics that prevent him from becoming a pretty woman's sap or letting the bad guys go. Nothing will compromise this man's ethics, not a priceless art treasure worth millions of dollars nor a redheaded beauty's amorous overtures. Even when a man Spade disliked fell victim to a crime, like Miles Archer, the detective knows he is duty bound to follow through. &quot;When a man's partner is killed he's supposed to do something about it. It doesn't make any difference what you thought of him. He was your partner and you're supposed to do something about it.&quot;<br /><br /> &quot;The Maltese Falcon&quot; takes a while to warm up, but when the story finally gets going it is a roller coaster ride all the way to the conclusion. Spade is the consummate private cop, a man impervious to the charms of others (or nearly so). He can search a hotel room in no time flat, figure out the bad guys are tailing him, and verbally spar with even the most hard nosed cop. He's a master of controlled facial expression, of tightly checked emotion. Spade's a whiz with his fists when he needs to be, and he needs to be on a regular basis. Most importantly, he knows how the psychology of the criminal mind works. The final confrontation between all parties in the Maltese Falcon affair takes place in Sam Spade's apartment, and the face to face is a masterwork of mental feint and parry. If you need a reason to read Hammett's book, this series of scenes is it. Spade methodically turns each of the principals against each other, slowly and with relentless, unforgiving power.<br /><br /> While &quot;The Maltese Falcon&quot; is a masterstroke on the part of author Hammett, I still consider Raymond Chandler my favorite noir author (with Cornell Woolrich running a close second). Whichever author you ultimately prefer, noir isn't as much about the mystery and its ultimate resolution as it is about the atmosphere, the dialogue, the violence, and the ethics of the men standing on the front lines of the war between civilization and those dark forces, lurking in the alleys and back streets, working to bring about chaos and destruction in the urban jungles. Give this one a go immediately.g about it.&quot;  <br />  <br /> &quot;The Maltese Falcon&quot; takes a while to warm up, but when the story finally gets going it is a roller coaster ride all the way to the conclusion. Spade is the consummate private cop, a man impervious to the charms of others (or nearly so). He can search a hotel room in no time flat, figure out the bad guys are tailing him, and verbally spar with even the most hard nosed cop. He's a master of controlled facial expression, of tightly checked emotion. Spade's a whiz with his fists when he needs to be, and he needs to be on a regular basis. Most importantly, he knows how the psychology of the criminal mind works. The final confrontation between all parties in the Maltese Falcon affair takes place in Sam Spade's apartment, and the face to face is a masterwork of mental feint and parry. If you need a reason to read Hammett's book, this series of scenes is it. Spade methodically turns each of the principals against each other, slowly and with relentless, unforgiving power. <br />  <br /> While &quot;The Maltese Falcon&quot; is a masterstroke on the part of author Hammett, I still consider Raymond Chandler my favorite noir author (with Cornell Woolrich running a close second). Whichever author you ultimately prefer, noir isn't as much about the mystery and its ultimate resolution as it is about the atmosphere, the dialogue, the violence, and the ethics of the men standing on the front lines of the war between civilization and those dark forces, lurking in the alleys and back streets, working to bring about chaos and destruction in the urban jungles. Give this one a go immediately.  <br />  <br />  <br />	2004-07-25
582222:US	52012289	RKMCL8PTZ9F9F	0446691674	578975146	A Fine Dark Line	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Deeply satisfying mystery yarn	It is unusual for a writer to successfully cross the boundaries between literary genres, but Joe R. Lansdale does so with ease. He's written horror stories and novels, science fiction, and mysteries. What's more, the author has won awards in different genres, from six Bram Stoker Awards for horror to the Edgar Award and the American Mystery Award. Up until a month ago, I never read a Joe Lansdale book. I heard of him over the years, always meant to pick up one of his books, but just never got around to it. The recent release and the subsequent clamor of praise for &quot;Bubba Ho-Tep,&quot; a Lansdale short story adapted for the big screen by &quot;Phantasm&quot; creator Don Coscarelli, finally inspired me to sit down with a Lansdale tome or two. Surprisingly, I picked two of his mystery stories, the recent &quot;Sunset and Sawdust&quot; and &quot;A Fine Dark Line.&quot; I liked the former, a whodunit set in the steamy environs of East Texas during the Depression. I also, it turns out, enjoyed the former, a whodunit set in East Texas during the late 1950s. Lansdale writes about East Texas because he knows the region like the back of his hand. It's possible the writer may well do for the Lone Star state what Stephen King did for Maine and what Bentley Little is trying to do for Arizona.<br />&quot;A Fine Dark Line&quot; stars Stanley Mitchel, Jr., a man in his late fifties recalling a series of startling events that occurred in the Summer of 1958 when he was thirteen years old and living in Dewmont, Texas. The Mitchel family was well off in Dewmont since they owned the local drive-in theater. Stanley Mitchel, Sr., the patriarch of the clan, is a no nonsense type of guy who doesn't hesitate to hand out a few slaps to keep peace in the family. For instance, when daughter Callie falls under suspicion for sleeping with the local bad boy, Chester, Stanley Mitchel makes sure the lout doesn't come around anymore. With his family and employees, the father is different; a loving, caring man who believes that his children and wife should have all the decent things in life. Although he embodies many of the racial attitudes of the day, he acquiesces to his spouse's demand to take in a black woman named Rosy Mae when domestic problems with her abusive boyfriend Bubba Joe threaten to put the woman in the local morgue. Mitchel Sr. puts up with the taciturn Buster Abbot Lighthorse Smith, an alcoholic black man who runs the projection booth at the theater. In short, the family is what you would call liberal today, but radical in 1950's Texas.<br />The mystery begins in earnest when Stanley Mitchel Jr., with loyal dog Nub in tow, uncovers a cache of letters in the wooded area behind the drive-in. These epistles, written back during the Second World War, detail an enigmatic relationship between two people known only as 'M' and 'J'. Intrigued, Stanley investigates the origins of these love letters and in the process uncovers several nasty secrets about the town's richest residents. Soon, Stanley joins forces with the moody Buster Smith. Together the two embark on a covert operation to discover the identities of the two letter writers, an operation that rapidly uncovers more than the two unlikely sleuths thought possible. Nothing less than murder, corruption, and several other unsavory activities come to light. A seemingly unrelated subplot involving Stanley's friend Richard and the boy's hyper religious and abusive father plays a significant role in the inevitable final showdown. During the course of the story, Stanley Mitchel, Jr. moves from childhood into adulthood as he learns how the world really works. &quot;A Fine Dark Line&quot; is primarily a mystery story, but it is also a coming of age story as well as a tale about changing race relations in the South.<br />While I have only read two Lansdale books to date, I already detect a pattern in the man's writings. First, his concerns about race permeate his books. As a child of the South during the tumultuous days of the 1960s, Lansdale must have personally witnessed many of the riots, marches, and other activities associated with the Civil Rights struggle. The author is obviously no Bull Conner or George Wallace, however. Stanley Mitchel's family's attitudes about local blacks must have been similar to the opinions held by Joe Lansdale's family. Second, the author's prose strikes all the right chords. Clean, sparse, and to the point, Lansdale wastes few words describing his characters and the atmosphere of East Texas. He advances the plot effortlessly, without any needless exposition so common amongst his more verbose colleagues. Finally, Lansdale knows how to write effective scenes, perhaps best evidenced in &quot;A Fine Dark Line&quot; with the chase sequence in the woods where Richard, Callie, and Stanley meet up with the ominous Bubba Joe while on a quest to discover more information about the letters. It is a scary situation while at the same time revealing several important plot elements in the space of a just a few pages.<br />&quot;A Fine Dark Line&quot; is a fine dark read. The story moves at a lightening fast pace, is humorous in spots (witness Stanley's observations about the balloons), and fleshes out even minor characters effectively. The only drawback I saw was the jacket flap, which was full of errors. For example, the flap refers to Buster Abbot Lighthorse Smith as Buster LIGHTHOUSE Smith (?) and misspells Stanley Mitchel's last name. If I were Joe Lansdale, I'd have been furious over these slipshod mistakes. &quot;A Fine Dark Line&quot; felt like a good place to start for me, the novice Lansdale reader. Now if I can just find a few of his horror stories, I'll go a little further.he tumultuous days of the 1960s, Lansdale must have personally witnessed many of the riots, marches, and other activities associated with the Civil Rights struggle. The author is obviously no Bull Conner or George Wallace, however. Stanley Mitchel's family's attitudes about local blacks must have been similar to the opinions held by Joe Lansdale's family. Second, the author's prose strikes all the right chords. Clean, sparse, and to the point, Lansdale wastes few words describing his characters and the atmosphere of East Texas. He advances the plot effortlessly, without any needless exposition so common amongst his more verbose colleagues. Finally, Lansdale knows how to write effective scenes, perhaps best evidenced in &quot;A Fine Dark Line&quot; with the chase sequence in the woods where Richard, Callie, and Stanley meet up with the ominous Bubba Joe while on a quest to discover more information about the letters. It is a scary situation while at the same time revealing several important plot elements in the space of a just a few pages.<br />&quot;A Fine Dark Line&quot; is a fine dark read. The story moves at a lightening fast pace, is humorous in spots (witness Stanley's observations about the balloons), and fleshes out even minor characters effectively. The only drawback I saw was the jacket flap, which was full of errors. For example, the flap refers to Buster Abbot Lighthorse Smith as Buster LIGHTHOUSE Smith (?) and misspells Stanley Mitchel's last name. If I were Joe Lansdale, I'd have been furious over these slipshod mistakes. &quot;A Fine Dark Line&quot; felt like a good place to start for me, the novice Lansdale reader. Now if I can just find a few of his horror stories, I'll go a little further.	2004-07-20
585637:US	52012289	R31MB22Q5R44PF	059530253X	885318963	A Small Case of Murder	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A premium blend mystery	Whenever I think of mystery books, which isn't often, my mind conjures up images of Agatha Christie, Raymond Chandler, or Dashiell Hammett. More often I picture television mystery shows like &quot;Murder She Wrote,&quot; &quot;Poirot,&quot; or the wonderful &quot;The Rockford Files.&quot; The mystery genre is, however, a genuine mystery to me. I just don't read that many books that fall under this rubric. I prefer horror novels, classics, or non-fiction books on history, politics, and philosophy. Oh, I've read a few of the better known mystery stuff, like most people have, but I tend to avoid them as a general rule. And then along comes someone like Lauren Carr, an author whose whodunit book &quot;A Small Case of Murder&quot; is such a winner on every level that I quickly wondered why I've been ignoring the genre for so long. Unfortunately, a quick search for other books from this author turned up nothing, but I imagine that problem will soon be rectified if word gets out about this complex, massively entertaining story. I hesitate to make grandiose pronouncements about a genre I know little about, but this lady may well go places soon if this book is any indication.<br />Joshua Thornton, a recently retired lawyer who worked for the Navy, heads back to his childhood home in Chester, West Virginia to raise his five children after his wife passed away. The attorney seeks nothing but a restful atmosphere in which to recuperate from his personal tragedy, but events in this small town soon put an end to such naïve hopes. While cleaning out the attic of the Thornton place, one of the children discovers a letter hinting at a horrific discovery that took place on a nearby farm some thirty years ago. The letter writer, one Lulu Jefferson, recounted finding a corpse while out on a group date with Joshua's parents. Jefferson passed away under suspicious circumstances after writing the letter, as Joshua soon finds out, but the information revealed in the correspondence casts suspicion on one of the most powerful men in the area, the Reverend Orville Rawlings. As the story progresses, we discover that the Lulu Jefferson incident wasn't the only strange occurrence to attach itself to Rawlings and his odd clan. Soon, Thornton finds himself and his family caught up in a series of events that put the lawyer at odds with the aging minister.<br />With only his cousin Dr. Tad MacMillan and his childhood friend Jan Martin as allies, Thornton begins to investigate the Rawlings family. A double homicide involving childhood flame Beth Davis and Vicki Rawlings, the wayward granddaughter of Reverend Orville, leads to Joshua's appointment as a special prosecutor in the case, which further enflames the deteriorating relationship between the Rawlings and Thornton. Throw in a pushy reporter named Tess Bauer, a sheriff who might be on the take, the deceased town doctor with a few telling secrets stashed away, an enigmatic informant by the name of Amber, and you have all the fixings for one astonishing plot twist after another. The Rawlings clan is rotten to the core, evil incarnate perhaps, and Joshua Thornton aims to take them down hard once the case sinks its teeth into him. Who killed Beth Davis? Who killed Vicki Rawlings? And why are more bodies turning up on what seems like a daily basis? It will take all of Thornton's mental abilities to solve this difficult case. Moreover, he quickly finds out the hard way that his family faces extreme danger as he pushes towards a conclusion. I'm not even going to risk spoiling the conclusion except to say there's nary a butler to be found anywhere along the way.<br />&quot;A Small Case of Murder&quot; indeed! Bodies fall with frightening regularity in this extremely fast paced mystery thriller. Like all mystery stories, the book ends with a smashing denouement loaded with shocking revelations that has you thinking about the clues you missed along the way. What struck me full across the face, other than that this book is a cracking great mystery novel, are the &quot;Peyton Place&quot; qualities to the story. You've got a town, Chester, West Virginia, full of people living double lives. Dreadful debaucheries permeate the village, making me wonder exactly what it is in the water supply that would spawn such a cast of deviant characters. Even the heroes in the story boast an assortment of flaws. Tad MacMillan, for example, is a recovering alcoholic whose relationships with women in the area are shady even in the best of lights. Jan Martin, who runs the town drugstore, has an ugly temper and a recklessness that nearly results in criminal charges for not keeping track of her narcotics supply. Joshua Thornton, although he adores his kids, has a tough time reconciling his love for a case with becoming an effective single father. Carr seems to have a fondness for flawed personalities, a love that makes the book all the more realistic.<br />&quot;A Small Case of Murder&quot; suffers a few small flaws. There are more typos in the book than I like to see, not as many as other books have, but enough to occasionally disrupt the flow of the narrative. Too, I thought the Thornton kids were a tad too perfect, too untroubled, to stand as archetypes of the typical American family. The denouement, despite its deeply satisfying wrap up of the mystery, seemed too pat. I kept wondering why the ones facing the blame just didn't get up and walk out. Despite these problems, the book is a smashing good read. I can't imagine giving this anything less than five stars. Lauren Carr, we can only hope, will write more books in the near future. If you like mystery yarns, you'll want to read this one soon.book is a cracking great mystery novel, are the &quot;Peyton Place&quot; qualities to the story. You've got a town, Chester, West Virginia, full of people living double lives. Dreadful debaucheries permeate the village, making me wonder exactly what it is in the water supply that would spawn such a cast of deviant characters. Even the heroes in the story boast an assortment of flaws. Tad MacMillan, for example, is a recovering alcoholic whose relationships with women in the area are shady even in the best of lights. Jan Martin, who runs the town drugstore, has an ugly temper and a recklessness that nearly results in criminal charges for not keeping track of her narcotics supply. Joshua Thornton, although he adores his kids, has a tough time reconciling his love for a case with becoming an effective single father. Carr seems to have a fondness for flawed personalities, a love that makes the book all the more realistic. <br />&quot;A Small Case of Murder&quot; suffers a few small flaws. There are more typos in the book than I like to see, not as many as other books have, but enough to occasionally disrupt the flow of the narrative. Too, I thought the Thornton kids were a tad too perfect, too untroubled, to stand as archetypes of the typical American family. The denouement, despite its deeply satisfying wrap up of the mystery, seemed too pat. I kept wondering why the ones facing the blame just didn't get up and walk out. Despite these problems, the book is a smashing good read. I can't imagine giving this anything less than five stars. Lauren Carr, we can only hope, will write more books in the near future. If you like mystery yarns, you'll want to read this one soon.	2004-07-17
588379:US	52012289	R14ZAGYN5WWH5Y	0843953292	306904594	In Silent Graves	Books	5	49	51	N	N	Majestic and unforgettable	When I cracked the cover of Gary Braunbeck's &quot;In Silent Graves&quot; and read roughly the first 100 pages, my blood ran as cold as ice. Not from the increasing sense of doom and gloom, although there is plenty of that going on initially, but from the disturbingly eerie resemblence between the opening chapters of this book and the novels of horror author Tom Piccirilli. If you've read Piccirilli's books, you know what I'm talking about. He's the guy who takes an interesting idea and derails it by burdening the plot with over the top surrealism. I've read two of Piccirilli's horror books, &quot;The Night Class&quot; and &quot;The Deceased,&quot; and felt as though I'd stepped into a world created by a crazed Salvador Dali. These two books made no sense whatsoever yet fans around the world lauded them as the best new thing in horror. I feared Gary Braunbeck's book was going to be a retread of Piccirilli's style. How wrong I was! Stick with &quot;In Silent Graves&quot; even if you feel as though you will never understand what is going on. By the time the book wraps up, not only will you completely comprehend every aspect of the narrative, you'll realize this book is one of the best novels you've read in ages. I can't believe I haven't heard of this guy before now.<br />&quot;In Silent Graves&quot; tells the unique story of one Robert Londrigan, a local television news reporter in a town called Cedar Hill. Robert and his wife Denise are happily expecting the birth of their first child, a birth that, if everything goes well, will be their first after several disappointing attempts. Unfortunately, the Londrigans get into a nasty fray on Halloween night that results in Robert storming out of the house in a huff. Too mad to return home right away, Londrigan strolls down to the local park where he soon undergoes a most curious experience. He runs into an enigmatic figure, a quite horrific one actually, and one that changes forever his conceptions of reality and humanity as he knows it. When he finally returns home, Denise is collapsed on the bedroom floor, an ambulance arrives, and Robert soon learns that he must face the prospect of a bitter and lonely life. Or will he? It turns out that Londrigan must experience the deepest depths of despair and tragedy before hope and redemption will allow him to bask in the light of eternal love. For once, and this is a big deal considering how I love to write lengthy, in depth reviews, I refuse to give away further plot details. The story is simply too good to risk ruining it for others.<br />I will say that Braunbeck takes a fairy tale story everyone has heard about at some point in their childhood yet reworks it in a way you could never imagine. &quot;In Silent Graves&quot; toys with the idea of reality, time, and space in exciting ways; it calls into question memory and indicts the human race for its treatment of children. The children especially form a central part of the story of Robert Londrigan, who must learn to understand the true meaning of despair if he is to ever escape the torment his life has become since the demise of his wife. If Robert can do this, if he can succeed in attaining a higher level of understanding, what is ugly and tragic will become beautiful and sublime. It's a big task for one man, but fortunately he has some powerful allies on his side pulling for him to make it. The fate of tens of thousands rests on him doing so.<br />Braunbeck's realizes his vision largely due to his fetching prose style, which eschews verbosity in favor of concisely language imbued with heartfelt emotion. I can't remember the last time I read a book categorized as a horror novel that brought tears to my eyes. Yes, &quot;In Silent Graves&quot; brought a mist to my eyes not once, not twice, but on three separate occasions. It's not the gore or violence that caused me to choke up, but rather the lengthy passages on how humanity abandons its children to the mindless cruelty of this mortal coil. Of course, if all Braunbeck could do is write emotionally charged paragraphs, he wouldn't be all that different from many other writers. Thankfully, the author's imagination is as good as his writing abilities. I had no idea what I was getting myself into when I started this book, but am I glad I decided to read it. I don't know how the mechanics involved in awarding the Bram Stoker prize for best novel in the horror genre works, but Gary Braunbeck should certainly win one for this novel if there is any justice in the world.<br />Horror author Michael Marano wrote a most enlightening introduction for &quot;In Silent Graves&quot; that in and of itself is worth reading. He laments the decline of publishing houses willing to take a chance on books that set up camp outside the paint by number formulas so readily accepted by the masses today. It's a quite amusing introduction-he calls one mystery book he read &quot;retina-scrapingly bad&quot;-that paints an ugly picture of what passes for literature today. Gary Braunbeck's book stands in stark opposition to these formulaic atrocities; his is a work that will stay with me long after I return the book to the library. Speaking of which, I'm angry I checked this out instead of buying a copy because I should have supported the author with my dollars. I've rambled long enough. What you need to do is get out there and pick this one up immediately. You won't be disappointed.. Of course, if all Braunbeck could do is write emotionally charged paragraphs, he wouldn't be all that different from many other writers. Thankfully, the author's imagination is as good as his writing abilities. I had no idea what I was getting myself into when I started this book, but am I glad I decided to read it. I don't know how the mechanics involved in awarding the Bram Stoker prize for best novel in the horror genre works, but Gary Braunbeck should certainly win one for this novel if there is any justice in the world.<br />Horror author Michael Marano wrote a most enlightening introduction for &quot;In Silent Graves&quot; that in and of itself is worth reading. He laments the decline of publishing houses willing to take a chance on books that set up camp outside the paint by number formulas so readily accepted by the masses today. It's a quite amusing introduction-he calls one mystery book he read &quot;retina-scrapingly bad&quot;-that paints an ugly picture of what passes for literature today. Gary Braunbeck's book stands in stark opposition to these formulaic atrocities; his is a work that will stay with me long after I return the book to the library. Speaking of which, I'm angry I checked this out instead of buying a copy because I should have supported the author with my dollars. I've rambled long enough. What you need to do is get out there and pick this one up immediately. You won't be disappointed.	2004-07-15
590463:US	52012289	R6ZY66HG52XRZ	0803279477	445324470	Ann Vickers (Bison Book)	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Missing pages, uneven story=lesser Lewis novel	It's sort of amusing that I decided to read Sinclair Lewis's &quot;Ann Vickers&quot; considering the only other novel I have read from America's winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature was &quot;Babbitt,&quot; and that one a few years ago. I couldn't tell you why I chose to read this 1933 novel rather than &quot;Main Street,&quot; &quot;Arrowsmith,&quot; &quot;Elmer Gantry,&quot; or even &quot;Kingsblood Royal.&quot; Any one of these four books would be the logical choice after reading &quot;Babbitt.&quot; I'm nothing if I'm not contrary to people's expectations, so when I saw this book on the shelf at the library I snatched it up without a second thought and headed home to read it. The book, even at 560 pages, doesn't take that long to read as the font is large and the pages small. Nonetheless, it took me four days to get through the novel largely due to the outdated lingo and the uneven quality of the book. There are several reasons why you haven't heard of &quot;Ann Vickers&quot; before now, one of them being that moving through certain sections of the book feels like serving a ten-year sentence of hard labor at the local penitentiary. Overall, though, Lewis's scathing treatise on radical politics and feminism in the first third of the twentieth century is worth the effort.<br />Lewis follows the titular character from her earliest years as a resident of Waubanakee, Illinois to her emergence as a major reformer on the East Coast. Right from the start, we get the idea that Ann is different from the other little boys and girls. The only child of a college professor, Ann's social position is one of high standing and moderate wealth. Nonetheless, she soon falls under the spell of a fiery socialist German immigrant named Klebs. By the time Ann goes to college, she's well on the way to becoming a true extremist. She drops out of the Y.W.C.A. after learning to reject Christianity with the help of a radical professor. Vickers forms a socialist organization on campus, embarks on a forbidden relationship with a faculty member, and earns a decidedly unsavory reputation amongst her fellow students. After graduating, she joins the suffrage movement, an activity that requires her to deliver oratories on street corners, go to jail for organizing protests, and hobnob with prominent personalities. Vickers, like most leftist radicals, never stays with a single cause for long. After several stints as assistant superintendents at homes that teach the urban poor and new immigrants life skills, she sets out to work as a prison reformer. The best part of the book details Ann's struggles in a southern prison, where she battles unsanitary conditions, lackadaisical treatment of prisoners, capital punishment, and corruption.<br />Lewis is very careful to examine all aspects of his character's life. &quot;Ann Vickers&quot; constantly looks behind the rhetoric and politics in an effort to capture the emotional aspects of womanhood. Just because Ann is a radical doesn't mean she's cold to the idea of men. In fact, she has several relationships throughout her life, from a soldier during the First World War named Lafe Resnick to fellow radical Russell Spaulding to a corrupt New York judge named Barney Dolphin. Vickers's experiences with abortion, infidelity, and promiscuity fuel much of the narrative drive of the novel. Her experiences also cool her radical fire so that by the end of the book she's a determined liberal living out of wedlock with a disgraced member of the system. There's a great line at the end of the book where Lewis describes Ann as the &quot;Captive Woman, the Free Woman, the Great Woman, the Feminist Woman, the Domestic Woman, the Passionate Woman, the Cosmopolitan Woman, the Village Woman-the Woman.&quot; In short, although he often disagrees with the hypocrisy of Ann and her methods, he does believe that conditions in America were changing enough that a female could now realize all aspects of her personality in both the private and public spheres.<br />The problems of the book are many. First, I've always believed I should support my state university's publishing house, but this University of Nebraska Press edition is an embarrassment. From pages 371 to 394, half of the pages are blank. Yep, someone let a Sinclair Lewis novel go to bookstore shelves without correcting this completely unacceptable blunder. Even worse, the missing pages start up during the best part of the story, when Ann Vickers works in the southern prison. A primal scream is in order here, but I'm hoping this mistake is specific to one copy and not to the entire run. Second, and more in tune to the actual novel, the first 100 pages of the story aren't very interesting. Vickers's childhood and college days reek of boredom. Only when the character heads out into the larger world and starts mixing it up does the book start to soar. Third, I often thought Ann an unpleasant character, especially when her marital machinations emerge towards the end of the story.<br />I think this last point, Ann's adultery, upsets me because I'm male. It's an unfair accusation for me to make, though, because men routinely leave their girlfriends and wives for other women in exactly the same way Vickers does. In any event, it's another example of what Lewis tries to say with the novel, that women now have the freedom to live their lives as they see fit. Ultimately, would I recommend &quot;Ann Vickers&quot;? I don't know. I think &quot;Babbitt&quot; light years ahead of this effort. I do believe &quot;Ann Vickers&quot; doesn't receive attention from today's leftist literati because Lewis viciously skewers the far left on nearly every page. Give it a shot if you're a Lewis fan or a moderate conservative who likes to see the leftist fringe occasionally take it on the chin.ublic spheres.<br />The problems of the book are many. First, I've always believed I should support my state university's publishing house, but this University of Nebraska Press edition is an embarrassment. From pages 371 to 394, half of the pages are blank. Yep, someone let a Sinclair Lewis novel go to bookstore shelves without correcting this completely unacceptable blunder. Even worse, the missing pages start up during the best part of the story, when Ann Vickers works in the southern prison. A primal scream is in order here, but I'm hoping this mistake is specific to one copy and not to the entire run. Second, and more in tune to the actual novel, the first 100 pages of the story aren't very interesting. Vickers's childhood and college days reek of boredom. Only when the character heads out into the larger world and starts mixing it up does the book start to soar. Third, I often thought Ann an unpleasant character, especially when her marital machinations emerge towards the end of the story. <br />I think this last point, Ann's adultery, upsets me because I'm male. It's an unfair accusation for me to make, though, because men routinely leave their girlfriends and wives for other women in exactly the same way Vickers does. In any event, it's another example of what Lewis tries to say with the novel, that women now have the freedom to live their lives as they see fit. Ultimately, would I recommend &quot;Ann Vickers&quot;? I don't know. I think &quot;Babbitt&quot; light years ahead of this effort. I do believe &quot;Ann Vickers&quot; doesn't receive attention from today's leftist literati because Lewis viciously skewers the far left on nearly every page. Give it a shot if you're a Lewis fan or a moderate conservative who likes to see the leftist fringe occasionally take it on the chin.	2004-07-14
597407:US	52012289	RM7F1ZJ02AD38	0843951826	804034535	Body Rides	Books	2	7	14	N	N	Pure schmaltz	Richard Laymon spent thirty plus years churning out horror novels and short stories. More popular in England than in the United States, he nonetheless has millions of fans on both sides of the pond, fans that rabidly search out everything he ever wrote. His sudden death in 2001, from a heart attack, permanently robbed his readers of new Richard Laymon novels and stories. Leisure, an imprint of Dorchester Publishing, recognized a few years ago that they could make a bundle of money if they reprinted Laymon's novels and released them in the States. Thus we see a \\"new\\" Laymon novel arrive every six months or so. I've talked to fans of this author who adamantly insist that Richard Laymon deserves to sit beside none other than Stephen King or Dean Koontz as one of the most influential horror authors of the twentieth century. Being a serious fan of horror I decided a couple of years ago to check out this phenom of the genre. I read \\"In the Dark,\\" a lengthy novel about a mild mannered librarian who takes part in a sinister game created by a mysterious entity. The fact that I waited two full years before reading another Laymon novel, in this case \\"Body Rides,\\" should tell you what I think about his work. In my opinion (based on two novels and one short story), Richard Laymon is the most overrated author of recent times.<br />\\"Body Rides\\" is the story of one Neal Darden, a part time substitute teacher and part time screenwriter living in Los Angeles, California in the mid 1990's. One night on the way to drop off some tapes at the local video store, Darden hears a woman's cries for help emanating from a densely wooded back lot. Leery of interfering in a dangerous situation, Neal nevertheless decides to pull out his illegal handgun and act the part of the hero. After our newfound savior pumps a few pills in a very bad man, he rescues one Elise Waters, a former Olympic diving champion and the wife of Hollywood B movie actor Vince Conrad. Waters, extremely grateful for Darden's heroics, gives the man a very special gift as payment for saving her life. It's a bracelet, a gold bracelet imbued with magical properties that allow the wearer to \\"body ride\\" in another living person. The user of this trinket can actually enter another body and see, feel, taste, touch, and hear the thoughts of that particular person, all without that individual knowing anything about it. Sounds great, huh? Well, it is a great idea. The first 100 pages crackle with suspense as Neal saves Elise only to lose her to the very man he thought he killed. Too bad Laymon spends the next 400 pages botching such a wonderful concept.<br />I'll give Laymon some credit; he's a great writer in the technical sense. His sentences flow together gracefully, he knows how to write scenery, and he has a dark sense of humor that occasionally leaps off the page. The problems, and there are a ton of them in \\"Body Rides,\\" sadly overwhelm the positives. I laughed out loud when Laymon writes that the two movies Darden returns to the video store, \\"Straw Dogs\\" and \\"I Spit on Your Grave,\\" are his protagonist's favorite films, films that he wanted to show his girlfriend Marta. Now, if you have seen these films you know that both contain brutal scenes of rape. I don't know about you, but I wouldn't show my girlfriend these movies let alone tell her they sit at the top of my cinematic favorites list. An instance of that famed Laymon sense of humor, perhaps? Maybe. Or maybe the author has no sense of how weird this sounds. I could probably forgive this eyebrow-raising incident if the book wasn't plagued from top to bottom with completely unbelievable situations and continuity errors. If you think for a second that Marta's reaction and subsequent actions in response to Sue's and Neal's sudden relationship is a valid one, you need to seek help immediately. Only a guy who knows absolutely nothing about women would think this completely idiotic scenario would fly.<br />The worst, and I do mean worst, part of the book is Neal Darden. For lack of a better term, Neal Darden is a wimp; a knock kneed, simpering, yellow-bellied wimp. I don't buy for a minute that Darden would jump out of his car and plunge into a dangerous situation, not after reading several pages describing his abject fear about wandering the streets of L.A. at night. Even worse, he cries at the drop of a hat. Laymon is forever telling us how Neal's eyes are welling up, or hot with tears, or some such touchy feely nonsense. This guy's a veritable bawl box. What woman would ever want to associate with a man who cries constantly? He's not sensitive; he's over sensitive and it is annoying as all get out. I could go on and on with the problems I had with this book: the schmaltzy ending so drenched in feel good, saccharine sweet aw shucks sentimentality that it made we want to retch, the nearly 300 pages of filler in the middle of the book that served no purpose to the overall story, and the superficial execution of the plot.<br />As odd as it sounds, I probably would read another Laymon novel. \\"In the Dark,\\" for all its myriad flaws (mainly a banal conclusion), was a better read than \\"Body Rides.\\" I do think a few good Richard Laymon novels exist out there; I just haven't found one yet. In the meantime, I strongly recommend you give this one a pass. It's too long, too full of unrealistic situations, and not nearly horrific enough to rate as a real horror novel.t of the book is Neal Darden. For lack of a better term, Neal Darden is a wimp; a knock kneed, simpering, yellow-bellied wimp. I don't buy for a minute that Darden would jump out of his car and plunge into a dangerous situation, not after reading several pages describing his abject fear about wandering the streets of L.A. at night. Even worse, he cries at the drop of a hat. Laymon is forever telling us how Neal's eyes are welling up, or hot with tears, or some such touchy feely nonsense. This guy's a veritable bawl box. What woman would ever want to associate with a man who cries constantly? He's not sensitive; he's over sensitive and it is annoying as all get out. I could go on and on with the problems I had with this book: the schmaltzy ending so drenched in feel good, saccharine sweet aw shucks sentimentality that it made we want to retch, the nearly 300 pages of filler in the middle of the book that served no purpose to the overall story, and the superficial execution of the plot.<br />As odd as it sounds, I probably would read another Laymon novel. \\"In the Dark,\\" for all its myriad flaws (mainly a banal conclusion), was a better read than \\"Body Rides.\\" I do think a few good Richard Laymon novels exist out there; I just haven't found one yet. In the meantime, I strongly recommend you give this one a pass. It's too long, too full of unrealistic situations, and not nearly horrific enough to rate as a real horror novel.	2004-07-09
599064:US	52012289	R3PIPI78366DOQ	059530205X	109707114	One Lord, One Truth, One Faith: The Only Legacy Worth Leaving	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A heartfelt, complex Christian commentary	Maurie Daigneau tells us at the beginning of &quot;One Lord, One Truth, One Faith&quot; that he wrote this short treatise on Christian faith for his children. When his eldest daughter went away to college, shortly followed by his other children, Daigneau felt that he should put down in words the spiritual tenets that served to guide him in his life, and that these words would hopefully continue to guide his children. Maurie Daigneau was a quarterback for Northwestern University when he attended a Christian Athletes conference. His experiences there led him to become a born again Christian. For the next sixteen years, he obediently followed the directives of his church while he raised a family and acquired the usual assortment of material goods all Americans feel they should never go without: a big house, cars, clothes, etcetera. Something happened one day, never elaborated upon in the book, which called into question everything he thought he knew about his relationship with God. His resulting quest to discover what the scriptures really mean led to a break with his church. It also led him to question the direction all Christian denominations seem to be taking in America.<br />After reading the book, I began to believe all the stuff I heard about Northwestern focusing on academics over athletics. Daigneau is a smart guy if the complexity of his reflections on the Old and New Testaments are any indication. Rather than jot down a laundry list of beefs against mainstream Christianity, the author digs deep into the Bible to write what is essentially a biblical commentary about man's relationship with the Lord. You won't find any pithy, feel good aphorisms here. Nor will you find strident assaults against other religions, something too often prevalent in many books written from a Christian perspective. Daigneau warns the reader at the outset that multiple readings of his book may be necessary to understand everything he is trying to say, largely because modern Christianity tends to use the pulpit to spoon feed a specific set of simplistic, warm and fuzzy dogmas to the masses. And he's probably right; even the most ardent churchgoer will probably melt under the reams of biblical citations, quotations, and philosophical ponderings found on every page of the book. If your idea of religion is listening to someone tell you how to interpret the Bible without any questioning on your part, this book will present you with serious difficulties.<br />Daigneau's pursuit of the true meaning of mankind's relationship with God leads him to question specific translations of certain words in the Bible. Knowledge, for example, and what it means in the context of God forms the beginning chapters of &quot;One Lord, One Truth, One Faith.&quot; Obviously, one must know the Lord before one can partake of his divine wisdom and eternal truths, but how to do this? Daigneau pored over the Scriptures to discover that to really know God one must revere and become his eternal student. Clearing away the earthly materialisms and simply paying attention to what God says is the first step. The second step is arriving at &quot;epignosis,&quot; or a fuller and more exact form of knowledge that will truly open up the mind to God's truth. A later chapter looks at how &quot;saved&quot; or &quot;salvation&quot; is often misinterpreted. The author's emphasis on translation problems isn't a new one; writing commentaries always involves looking at the original Greek (for the New Testament) in order to tease out subtle nuances. The problem with this technique is that we don't have the original biblical documents, only corrupted copies.<br />I saw Daigneau's extensive examination of Paul's Letter to the Romans as the central part of this book. No surprise here as theologians consider Romans a central doctrinal component of Christianity. The letter, written to Christians living in the heart of the Roman Empire, expounds on the centrality of faith in the Son of God's actions asa new way of living. This commentary uses Romans to discuss in length the old Mosaic Law versus the Christian faith. I shudder to even attempt a summary of what is an amazingly complex argument, but here goes. The old Law only allowed men to recognize what was sinful, i.e. before the Law men didn't know what was right and what was wrong. But that is all the Mosaic Law did; it never offered anything beyond recognizing that sin existed and that it existed in the flesh of mankind. Christ's sacrifice on the cross offered humanity a way to transcend the sin that exists in the flesh of earthly existence. Confused yet? Don't worry. It's similar to the belief that the Old Testament pointed to the arrival of the Messiah and that the New Testament documented that arrival. Think of Law and Christian faith as connected and not as mutually exclusive ideas and you'll have an easier time with what Daigneau says.<br />I'm leaving out a ton of stuff in this review, but I did have a few problems with &quot;One Lord, One Truth. One Faith.&quot; First, the title tends to alienate potential readers. One Truth? One Lord? Who says? I hate to look like a relativist, but there are about as many &quot;truths&quot; concerning the Bible as there are grains of sand at the local beach. And there will be thousands more in the future. Second, I would have liked to know more about the incident that drove Daigneau to reexamine his faith because I think the book would benefit from a more personalized touch. I liked the book as much as a non-Christian could (I'm an agnostic), and was impressed with the author's intelligence and commitment. Give it a go if you're tired of the empty platitudes tossed out from the pulpit every Sunday.a new way of living. This commentary uses Romans to discuss in length the old Mosaic Law versus the Christian faith. I shudder to even attempt a summary of what is an amazingly complex argument, but here goes. The old Law only allowed men to recognize what was sinful, i.e. before the Law men didn't know what was right and what was wrong. But that is all the Mosaic Law did; it never offered anything beyond recognizing that sin existed and that it existed in the flesh of mankind. Christ's sacrifice on the cross offered humanity a way to transcend the sin that exists in the flesh of earthly existence. Confused yet? Don't worry. It's similar to the belief that the Old Testament pointed to the arrival of the Messiah and that the New Testament documented that arrival. Think of Law and Christian faith as connected and not as mutually exclusive ideas and you'll have an easier time with what Daigneau says.<br />I'm leaving out a ton of stuff in this review, but I did have a few problems with &quot;One Lord, One Truth. One Faith.&quot; First, the title tends to alienate potential readers. One Truth? One Lord? Who says? I hate to look like a relativist, but there are about as many &quot;truths&quot; concerning the Bible as there are grains of sand at the local beach. And there will be thousands more in the future. Second, I would have liked to know more about the incident that drove Daigneau to reexamine his faith because I think the book would benefit from a more personalized touch. I liked the book as much as a non-Christian could (I'm an agnostic), and was impressed with the author's intelligence and commitment. Give it a go if you're tired of the empty platitudes tossed out from the pulpit every Sunday.	2004-07-08
599460:US	52012289	R3JN8430XT5MOB	0375414533	11218727	Sunset and Sawdust	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A cracking good read	I recently developed an interest in Joe Lansdale after hearing all the hype about &quot;Bubba Ho-Tep,&quot; a film version of one of this author's short stories directed by Don Coscarelli of &quot;Phantasm&quot; fame and starring Bruce Campbell and Ossie Davis. I knew about Lansdale before the hoopla surrounding the film reached a fever pitch, of course, but he is one of those writers I unfortunately kept putting on the back burner in lieu of other &quot;must read&quot; stuff. On an excursion to the library recently I decided to finally check out something-anything, really-from this author. Since I couldn't find the short story collection containing &quot;Bubba Ho-Tep,&quot; I settled on &quot;Sunset and Sawdust&quot; largely because it looked like it is his newest book and because it was the first one to catch my eye. I am happy to announce that I enjoyed this book despite a few minor reservations. I ended up enjoying &quot;Sunset and Sawdust&quot; so much that upon finishing it I immediately went back to the library to pick up another one of his books.<br />Set in the heat parched environs of Camp Rapture (known to the local employees as &quot;Camp Rupture&quot;), East Texas during the Great Depression, &quot;Sunset and Sawdust&quot; tells us everything we would want to know about a spirited firecracker named Sunset Jones. The adventure begins when Sunset (so named because of her mane of bright red hair) murders her abusive husband during a tornado strike. Regrettably for Sunset, her husband Pete was the town constable and the son of the primary owners of the local saw mill. It takes a lot of guts to stroll into the mill and tell Pete's parents what she did, but Sunset is the type of gal who always lives up to her responsibilities. Predictably, the men in the area despise the fact that this uppity woman dispatched her spouse. After all, everyone expects a woman in 1930's Texas to keep her mouth shut and fulfill her marital obligations. Oddly enough, Sunset's actions lead her mother-in-law Marilyn Jones to take a stand against her own husband's abusive practices. Moreover, Marilyn goes so far as to pull strings to get Sunset appointed town constable. Backed up by Clyde, a rough and tumble mill worker, and a roving hobo named Hillbilly, Sunset puts on a badge and pistol to assume her post as law officer for the mill town.<br />A series of events soon leads to impending troubles for Sunset Jones. In her husband's files, she discovers a document recording a strange event that took place on a nearby farm owned by a black man named Zendo. According to Pete's written recollections, the farmer discovered the body of an unborn infant, encased in an earthen jar and covered in oil, buried on his property. Constable Pete Jones took the body and buried it in an unmarked grave with little public fanfare, which makes Sunset suspicious enough to reopen the case. Soon, Zendo's plow turns up the corpse of a woman, also covered in oil, on another piece of his property. The two shocking discoveries soon lead to a series of confrontations that threaten Sunset Jones, her bond with her daughter Karen, and her relationships with Clyde, Hillbilly, and Marilyn. It seems some bad people with an eye towards making a bundle off the new local commodity have been up to some very bad things, and the only person ultimately standing in their way is Sunset Jones's meddling. Several subplots, including Jones's reconciliation with her long lost father, the appearance of two goons from up North, and a local black moonshiner named Bull all help move the story to its violent conclusion.<br />&quot;Sunset and Sawdust&quot; doesn't stick to a single genre. Elements of humor, murder mystery, and action adventure wind their way through the book. At times, Lansdale goes straight for the funny bone with the slangy banter between Sunset, Clyde, and Hillbilly. Clyde's reasoning for burning down his house is quite amusing, as is our red headed heroine's methods of enforcing the law. So often does Lansdale slather on the hilarity that we often forget the novel is a mystery. Why are those bodies in the fields? Who put them there and why? Who are they? These questions, and Sunset's attempts to discover the answers, pop up with increasing frequency as the book heads to its shoot 'em up denouement. The inclusion of several fistfights, gun battles, and general mayhem spices up the novel as well. I think there is something for everyone in &quot;Sunset and Sawdust,&quot; even for horror fans. The character known as Two is one of the creepiest villains I've seen in a book for some time. Yep, all sorts of readers should have a rollicking good time with this entertaining read.<br />I did have a few problems with the book. The biggest difficulty is how anachronistic the whole thing is in reference to race relations. Imagine a 1990's mentality towards social relations implanted into Texas of the 1930s. I increasingly had doubts that Sunset and Clyde could have gotten away with the things they were doing in favor of the local black populace. Too, Sunset's appointment as town constable despite the murder charge hanging over her head was completely unconvincing. You can't tell me someone wouldn't have worked behind the scenes to bring her down. Lansdale tries to deflect problems in this area by having Marilyn use her clout as mill owner to help Sunset get the job, and also reveals a rather heavy handed overt plot to remove Sunset from power, but it's all rather shaky. Still, the novel overcomes these troubling quandaries easily by slathering on the humor and creating engaging and fully developed characters. I readily recommend &quot;Sunset and Sawdust&quot; despite these slight problems.g the law. So often does Lansdale slather on the hilarity that we often forget the novel is a mystery. Why are those bodies in the fields? Who put them there and why? Who are they? These questions, and Sunset's attempts to discover the answers, pop up with increasing frequency as the book heads to its shoot 'em up denouement. The inclusion of several fistfights, gun battles, and general mayhem spices up the novel as well. I think there is something for everyone in &quot;Sunset and Sawdust,&quot; even for horror fans. The character known as Two is one of the creepiest villains I've seen in a book for some time. Yep, all sorts of readers should have a rollicking good time with this entertaining read.<br />I did have a few problems with the book. The biggest difficulty is how anachronistic the whole thing is in reference to race relations. Imagine a 1990's mentality towards social relations implanted into Texas of the 1930s. I increasingly had doubts that Sunset and Clyde could have gotten away with the things they were doing in favor of the local black populace. Too, Sunset's appointment as town constable despite the murder charge hanging over her head was completely unconvincing. You can't tell me someone wouldn't have worked behind the scenes to bring her down. Lansdale tries to deflect problems in this area by having Marilyn use her clout as mill owner to help Sunset get the job, and also reveals a rather heavy handed overt plot to remove Sunset from power, but it's all rather shaky. Still, the novel overcomes these troubling quandaries easily by slathering on the humor and creating engaging and fully developed characters. I readily recommend &quot;Sunset and Sawdust&quot; despite these slight problems.	2004-07-07
602749:US	52012289	R34QGEAMRXC7MZ	0679723226	2859176	Double Indemnity	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Murder will out every time	James M. Cain's reputation as a master of the noir genre rests largely on his phenomenally grim 1934 story &quot;The Postman Always Rings Twice&quot; and this short tale, the 1935 classic &quot;Double Indemnity.&quot; No other noir writer's reputation-whether Raymond Chandler, Dashell Hammett, or Cornell Woolrich-rests on only two stories. Well, you could throw in &quot;Mildred Pierce&quot; as another Cain classic, but that still leaves only three bleak yarns worth mentioning. How is it possible to sustain a literary legacy based on two, maybe three, stories that you could read in three single sittings? Think movies. You can thank Billy Wilder and Raymond Chandler for Cain's enduring legacy. These two guys collaborated on the script for &quot;Double Indemnity&quot; the film, a film that has since become one of the classics of American cinema. And don't forget Joan Crawford won an Oscar for her work in the screen version of &quot;Mildred Pierce.&quot; Too, if memory serves correctly, there are two film versions of &quot;The Postman Always Rings Twice,&quot; one of them starring Jack Nicholson and Jessica Lange. If I were a writer, I wouldn't be too enthusiastic that my legacy rested on film versions of my stories. From what I've read of the noir masters, Cain isn't nearly as good of a storyteller as Chandler, Hammett, or Woolrich. He isn't as good as Jim Thompson or David Goodis either, for that matter.<br />&quot;Double Indemnity&quot; tells the disastrous story of one Walter Huff. An insurance salesman working a route in California in the 1930s, Huff spends his days trying to get clients to increase their insurance holdings. His life changes for the worse when he calls on a household where he falls under the poisonous charms of Phyllis Nirdlinger, the wife of a wealthy oil executive. When this woman inquires about procuring an accident policy for her husband in case he &quot;happens to have an accident&quot; while inspecting oil wells, Huff knows something is up. In his business, no one approaches an agent about buying accident insurance unless there's a nefarious murder plot in the works. At first repelled by Phyllis's roundabout suggestions to dispatch her husband, he soon falls in line with the plot by insuring her husband with a double indemnity accident policy that will pay tens of thousands of dollars in case the poor chap expires in a railway mishap. What follows is noir carried to the nth degree, as both Huff and his new girlfriend hatch the plot in minute detail. The insurance agent plans his alibi with the sort of meticulous attention one would associate with a master criminal. He coaches Phyllis on the finer points of speaking to the police, dealing with inquests, and interacting with the insurance agency. She'll need all the help she can get because Huff knows that the head of the claims department, Keyes, is one tough bulldog when it comes to investigating scams.<br />The actual crime, which involves Huff playing a central role in the murder, is a foul play masterpiece. No one should ever take a fall in this expertly carried out misdeed, but in James Cain's world murder will out every time. In no time at all, Keyes and the president of the insurance company balk at paying out a huge claim. After bandying around the idea that Nirdlinger took his own life, Keyes arrives at a suspicion of foul play. This conclusion sets in motion a whole host of maneuvers requiring Huff to take greater and greater measures to keep the whole thing under wraps. Complicating things are Lola, Phyllis's stepdaughter, and her boyfriend Nino Sachetti. Up until the explosive revelations preceding the conclusion, Huff still looks like he will get away with the wicked deed. The crime is brilliant with one huge exception: Walter Huff, insurance agent and murderer, forgot to investigate Phyllis Nirdlinger's background. If he had, Huff probably would never have jumped into this mess with both feet. Oops.<br />&quot;Double Indemnity&quot; the book isn't nearly as good as &quot;The Postman Always Rings Twice.&quot; I had several problems with the story, the biggest being Keyes's quick analysis of what really happened to Phyllis's husband. No one, neither the police nor an insurance claims investigator, could figure this crime out with the ease that Keyes does. Another difficulty with the story is the conclusion. Once everything shakes out, I simply didn't buy what happened to Phyllis and Huff. Too, it just isn't a satisfying conclusion for a noir story. I also had a problem with Walter's sudden change of heart after he removed Nirdlinger from the scene. Here's a guy who is cool and collected, a guy who delivers a lengthy speech about how to commit a coldhearted murder without getting caught and why he is willing to rip-off the insurance company, and then he turns into a nervous nelly after the crime. It is conceivable that this could happen, but it didn't work here.<br />Despite these problems, noir fans will want to spend a few hours with &quot;Double Indemnity.&quot; The book is exceedingly short, the story moves at a lightening fast clip, and the characters are interesting. After reading the book, make sure to check out the film versions of &quot;Double Indemnity,&quot; &quot;Mildred Pierce,&quot; and &quot;The Postman Always Rings Twice.&quot; Then spend even more of your time reading Chandler, Woolrich (especially Woolrich), and Hammett. As someone who has read a fair share of noir novels, I think you will like these other three authors more than you will like Cain. I shall give &quot;Double Indemnity&quot; four stars because most of the book works, but it's definitely a lesser entry in the noir canon.ok isn't nearly as good as &quot;The Postman Always Rings Twice.&quot; I had several problems with the story, the biggest being Keyes's quick analysis of what really happened to Phyllis's husband. No one, neither the police nor an insurance claims investigator, could figure this crime out with the ease that Keyes does. Another difficulty with the story is the conclusion. Once everything shakes out, I simply didn't buy what happened to Phyllis and Huff. Too, it just isn't a satisfying conclusion for a noir story. I also had a problem with Walter's sudden change of heart after he removed Nirdlinger from the scene. Here's a guy who is cool and collected, a guy who delivers a lengthy speech about how to commit a coldhearted murder without getting caught and why he is willing to rip-off the insurance company, and then he turns into a nervous nelly after the crime. It is conceivable that this could happen, but it didn't work here.<br />Despite these problems, noir fans will want to spend a few hours with &quot;Double Indemnity.&quot; The book is exceedingly short, the story moves at a lightening fast clip, and the characters are interesting. After reading the book, make sure to check out the film versions of &quot;Double Indemnity,&quot; &quot;Mildred Pierce,&quot; and &quot;The Postman Always Rings Twice.&quot; Then spend even more of your time reading Chandler, Woolrich (especially Woolrich), and Hammett. As someone who has read a fair share of noir novels, I think you will like these other three authors more than you will like Cain. I shall give &quot;Double Indemnity&quot; four stars because most of the book works, but it's definitely a lesser entry in the noir canon.	2004-07-05
605256:US	52012289	R348T2UUPEVSIM	0870541560	556582656	A Rendezvous in Averoigne: The Best Fantastic Tales of Clark Ashton Smith	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Reprint this!	If you made a list of the most influential science fiction/horror writers of the 1930s, Clark Ashton Smith would rank in the top three. Along with his prot&eacute;g&eacute;s H.P. Lovecraft and Robert E. Howard, Smith wrote bleak tales of mind bending horror set in weird, alien worlds. A man lacking an extensive education, he nonetheless made a name for himself writing poetry while living in a small cabin in California. In 1928, Smith contributed a short story to Weird Tales, that august publication that still influences writers of the macabre. Over the next decade, the author's stories gained legions of fans in love with Smith's opulent prose and lush atmospheres. After 1937 Smith, for reasons never adequately explained, suddenly dropped out of the limelight when he cut back on his dark fiction output. &quot;A Rendezvous in Averoigne&quot; gathers under one cover thirty of his Weird Tale stories, most from the 1930s but a few from the 1940s and 1950s as well, lumping them into five distinct categories: Averoigne, Atlantis, Hyperborea, Lost Worlds, and Zothique. No less a figure than Ray Bradbury wrote the introduction to the book, in which he credits Smith as a major influence in his decision to become a writer. Clark Ashton Smith passed away in 1961<br />The Averoigne, Atlantis, and Hyperborea stories could easily fit under one rubric as they are quite similar. Arguably the best Averoigne tale, &quot;The Colossus of Ylourgne, describes what happens when an evil sorcerer seeks revenge against the residents of Smith's fictional French province. Probably the worst story in the book is unfortunately the first one, &quot;The Holiness of Azedarac,&quot; where a monk in Averoigne travels back in time due to the plans of an evil officer of the church. The Atlantis stories, three in number, deal with activities taking place on the fabled lost continent. &quot;The Last Incantation&quot; and &quot;The Death of Malygris&quot; describe a powerful Atlantean sorcerer's quest to recapture his loved one and the men who wish to unseat him. &quot;A Voyage to Sfanomoe&quot; has as much to do with science fiction as it does with Atlantis. As the continent begins to sink beneath the seas, two super genius technicians build a spacecraft and fly to Venus. Finally, the Hyperborean tales explicate the unfortunate adventures of a greedy pawnbroker (&quot;The Weird of Avoosl Wuthoqquan&quot;), the horrific yet highly humorous circumstances of a hunting expedition gone horribly wrong (&quot;The Seven Geas&quot;), the inherent dangers of robbing a religious temple in a plague cursed city (&quot;The Tale of Satampra Zeiros&quot;), and the emergence of a Lovecraftian god on an icy rampage (&quot;The Coming of the White Worm&quot;).<br />The Lost World stories, nine in number, are a cut above the Averoigne, Atlantis, and Hyperborea stuff. You get a Lovecraftian tale about an author stepping into another dimension long enough to witness a singing flame that enchants anyone who hears it (&quot;The City of the Singing Flame&quot;), a doomed expedition on Mars (&quot;The Dweller in the Gulf&quot;), a reincarnation yarn with horrific consequences (&quot;The Chain of Aforgomon&quot;), and one of the best stories in the collection, &quot;Genus Loci,&quot; about a possessed pond's sinister machinations and the painter who discovers them. The second Mars tale, the short &quot;The Vaults of Yoh-Vombis,&quot; reveals the inherent dangers of mucking around in a deserted alien city. &quot;The Maze of Maal Dweb&quot; is another evil sorcerer tale, this time involving the abduction of a young woman and the man who attempts to free her. &quot;The Uncharted Isle&quot; involves a shipwrecked sailor and the discovery of a civilization lost in time and space. The Lost World stories conclude with &quot;The Planet of the Dead&quot; and &quot;Master of the Asteroid,&quot; about a futuristic civilization on the verge of destruction and a marooned spacecraft respectively.<br />Fansremember Smith most fondly for the Zothique cycle. All of these tales take place in the far future when the sun has changed into a red giant and the earth is about ready to take a permanent vacation. You get stories about sorcerers raising people from the grave, evil wizards taking terrible revenge on old enemies, an island full of torturers, and gardens full of human/plant hybrids. The best story included here is &quot;The Dark Eidolon.&quot; In this magnificent yarn, we get a wizard whose revenge against those who wronged him as a child receive more than their just desserts. Imagine a magician so powerful that he calls forth demons powerful enough to level an entire metropolis. The story has an apocalyptic feel to it that doesn't appear in any of the other entries. With only ten stories in the Zothique section, you quickly wonder what the editors omitted. Sadly, &quot;A Rendezvous in Averoigne&quot; has been long out of print. I am not aware of any other collections of Smith stories available except for one in the United Kingdom. There is something fundamentally wrong about that.<br />The first thing you will notice with these stories, if you are lucky enough to find a copy, is the ornate language. Clark Ashton Smith writes on a level that may at first dumbfound the casual reader. Not to worry, though, as persistence allows you to absorb his writings fully without constantly plumbing the depths of an Oxford English Dictionary. If you've read Lovecraft before, you already have an idea of what you'll find prose wise in &quot;A Rendezvous in Averoigne.&quot; Horror writers today simply don't write like this anymore, excepting someone like Charlee Jacob, perhaps. I just thank my lucky stars the local library had a copy of this book, in great condition, with which I could spend a few magical days. Fans of the masters of the 1930s already know about Clark Ashton Smith; new readers pondering Lovecraft for the first time would do well to check this author out as well.th most fondly for the Zothique cycle. All of these tales take place in the far future when the sun has changed into a red giant and the earth is about ready to take a permanent vacation. You get stories about sorcerers raising people from the grave, evil wizards taking terrible revenge on old enemies, an island full of torturers, and gardens full of human/plant hybrids. The best story included here is &quot;The Dark Eidolon.&quot; In this magnificent yarn, we get a wizard whose revenge against those who wronged him as a child receive more than their just desserts. Imagine a magician so powerful that he calls forth demons powerful enough to level an entire metropolis. The story has an apocalyptic feel to it that doesn't appear in any of the other entries. With only ten stories in the Zothique section, you quickly wonder what the editors omitted. Sadly, &quot;A Rendezvous in Averoigne&quot; has been long out of print. I am not aware of any other collections of Smith stories available except for one in the United Kingdom. There is something fundamentally wrong about that.<br />The first thing you will notice with these stories, if you are lucky enough to find a copy, is the ornate language. Clark Ashton Smith writes on a level that may at first dumbfound the casual reader. Not to worry, though, as persistence allows you to absorb his writings fully without constantly plumbing the depths of an Oxford English Dictionary. If you've read Lovecraft before, you already have an idea of what you'll find prose wise in &quot;A Rendezvous in Averoigne.&quot; Horror writers today simply don't write like this anymore, excepting someone like Charlee Jacob, perhaps. I just thank my lucky stars the local library had a copy of this book, in great condition, with which I could spend a few magical days. Fans of the masters of the 1930s already know about Clark Ashton Smith; new readers pondering Lovecraft for the first time would do well to check this author out as well.	2004-07-03
606771:US	52012289	R1O75WHDK4MDNT	0446394386	819073870	Joe	Books	5	50	52	N	N	A literary tour de force	I struggled for days to come up with a way to start a review for Larry Brown's &quot;Joe.&quot; Heck, I am still not sure how to do it. My difficulties have little to do with comprehending what the author tries to say with the story; &quot;Joe&quot; is hardly a difficult book to read in terms of structure or language. No Edward Gibbonesque prose here, no Proustian run on sentences or post-modern psychobabble to resolve either. Nope, you won't spend a whit of time banging your head against problematic prose with this book. Brown's writing style is simplicity itself, a smooth, cut to the bone technique that oddly reminded me of William Somerset Maugham, if you can imagine. Come to think of it, Maugham and Brown share a lot of similarities in subject matter too. If you thought the author of &quot;The Razor's Edge&quot; and &quot;Up at the Villa&quot; tossed around moral quandaries fast and furious, you haven't seen anything until you pick up Larry Brown's &quot;Joe.&quot; One of the cover flap blurbs said something to the effect that &quot;Joe&quot; deals with the big themes in life, like honor, redemption, good versus evil, and temptation. Yeah, for once a cover flap got it right. Brown's book does deal with the important stuff in life, and it does it in a way I won't soon forget.<br />The main character is Joe Ransom, a forty something ex-convict spending his time poisoning trees for a large lumber company. He's got a wife who left him after years of dealing with his gambling, drinking, and carousing. He's got a couple of kids he rarely sees. Joe's got a broken down truck, a pit bull guarding his house, a girlfriend roughly the age of his own daughter, and blood vendettas going on with several dangerous locals. He's also got a huge authority problem, a problem that landed him in the stir a few years back and threatens to do so once again if he doesn't keep his nose clean. For all of Joe's faults, and there are many, many faults, he's essentially the good guy of the story. His work ethic is exemplary; in fact, he seems to be about the only person in this region of Mississippi who actually holds down a decent job. Moreover, the guy actually has a sense of the wrong he's committed in his life against his family. Even as Ransom heads towards another confrontation with the men in blue, fate is about to plunk down in his lap the opportunity to redeem his past sins. This manna from heaven takes the form of one Gary Jones, a teenager with a bleak past and an even bleaker future.<br />Young Gary's family constitutes the second significant plot thread in &quot;Joe.&quot; Led by patriarch Wade, the Jones clan wonders the highways of the South from Oklahoma to Florida, always in search of food and a place to stay. This family suffers such excruciating depravation, such a horrific hand to mouth existence, that they make the Joads look like pleasure seekers taking a scenic trip to the seashore. The Jones find an abandoned cabin up in the woods in which to settle for a time, long enough for Wade to head out and perform his usual tricks. Papa Jones steals, connives, and even kills as he embarks on a perpetual quest for another jug of liquor and a pack of smokes. Abuses of the most horrible descriptions reign supreme in the Jones household, abuses so hideous that Fay, the eighteen year old daughter, decides to strike out on her own. Gary stays out of a sense of misguided loyalty-and out of sense of complete ignorance since he can neither read nor write. The boy does work, though, and a special bond forms between Ransom and Gary when the lad hires on to the older man's work crew. But in the background roams the monstrous Wade. The inevitable showdown between Gary's father and Joe Ransom is shattering in its implications.<br />A whole lot of stuff goes on in this book, always wrapped in the heat blasted landscapes of rural Mississippi and in language of such utterly simplistic beauty. What I liked most about &quot;Joe&quot; is the author's construction of the characters. Brown seems to believe that most individuals' personalities consist of shades of grey when it comes to good and bad behavior, especially someone like Ransom. Joe is hardly a paragon of saintly virtue, but he does possess a keen sense of what is abhorrent along with the ability to take action when confronted with evil. Wade, on the other hand, is simply a monster of epic proportions. There's no good in this man, only an endless hunger to satiate personal needs and desires no matter what the cost. Even worse, his malevolence is shockingly mundane; a soul crushing yet understated wickedness that evokes Hannah Arendt's &quot;banality of evil&quot; moniker. Wade Jones may well be one of the most repugnant characters to ever grace a novel, and he accomplishes this feat by merely turning his head at inopportune times or by remaining silent when he should speak.<br />It would be necessary to pen several reviews to cover the various themes running through the novel, but it's sufficient to say that Brown pulls the whole thing off with shining brilliance. &quot;Joe&quot; is must read material for anyone who enjoys magnificent literature. My rather shaky comparison of Brown to Maugham is probably not appropriate, but I can't compare this writer to that other great writer of the South, Faulkner, because I haven't gotten around to perusing any of that author's books. Maugham I know, and Brown reminds me of him in a way. No matter, however, since you don't need to know any of the &quot;big&quot; writers to enjoy this sublime experience. You owe it to yourself to check this one out.uction of the characters. Brown seems to believe that most individuals' personalities consist of shades of grey when it comes to good and bad behavior, especially someone like Ransom. Joe is hardly a paragon of saintly virtue, but he does possess a keen sense of what is abhorrent along with the ability to take action when confronted with evil. Wade, on the other hand, is simply a monster of epic proportions. There's no good in this man, only an endless hunger to satiate personal needs and desires no matter what the cost. Even worse, his malevolence is shockingly mundane; a soul crushing yet understated wickedness that evokes Hannah Arendt's &quot;banality of evil&quot; moniker. Wade Jones may well be one of the most repugnant characters to ever grace a novel, and he accomplishes this feat by merely turning his head at inopportune times or by remaining silent when he should speak. <br />It would be necessary to pen several reviews to cover the various themes running through the novel, but it's sufficient to say that Brown pulls the whole thing off with shining brilliance. &quot;Joe&quot; is must read material for anyone who enjoys magnificent literature. My rather shaky comparison of Brown to Maugham is probably not appropriate, but I can't compare this writer to that other great writer of the South, Faulkner, because I haven't gotten around to perusing any of that author's books. Maugham I know, and Brown reminds me of him in a way. No matter, however, since you don't need to know any of the &quot;big&quot; writers to enjoy this sublime experience. You owe it to yourself to check this one out.	2004-07-01
611355:US	52012289	R1NJ8HVGHZ7LBS	0786712910	831690285	Night and Fear: A Centenary Collection of Stories by Cornell Woolrich (Otto Penzler Book)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Pitch black noir	Aaahhh, Cornell Woolrich! How could anyone not love this guy? He ranks right up there with James M. Cain, Dashell Hammett, and Raymond Chandler as one of the godfathers of pitch black noir. Unfortunately, Woolrich's voluminous short stories and his many novels for the most part remain out of print. No excuse exists to merit such blatant disrespect. Happily, Woolrich biographer and all around noir fan Frances M. Nevins agrees, and that is why he assembled fourteen of the man's gems in \\"Night & Fear.\\" You won't find any Woolrich novellas, like \\"Rendezvous in Black\\" or \\"I Married a Dead Man\\" here, but you will discover stories that crackle with despondency, murder, crooked cops, and suspense drawn out to knuckle cracking heights. The book also contains one of the most enthusiastic, insightful introductions I have ever seen in a fiction collection, an introduction from Nevins that puts Woolrich's life into crystal clear focus from his earliest, schmaltzy novels to his later forays into the depths of the bleakest noir and pulp fiction. If this foreword is any indication, Cornell Woolrich lived his life veering from one dank depression to another. He worshipped his mother, drank incessantly, and kept his true sexuality repressed. It was an overriding fear of his own mortality, however, that fueled his desolate visions. Sad to say, but Woolrich's miseries have given generations of fans of the genre something to sing about ever since.<br />The first story in the collection, the appropriately entitled \\"Cigarette,\\" sets a tone that will continue to the final pages of the book. A dupe working for a crime boss must carry out a mission involving a poisoned cigarette. Predictably, the hapless hero of the story botches the job, requiring him to race around the city in a mad dash to find the tainted smoke before his malevolent boss discovers the mistake. I knew how the story would end a few pages in, but that's beside the point. What's important is seeing how Woolrich will get us there. Following closely on the heels of \\"Cigarette\\" is \\"The Heavy Sugar,\\" a frightening account of an out of work transient who finds a surprise in the sugar pot at a coffee house, and who must then figure out how to contact the cops before the men responsible close in for the kill. \\"Death in the Yoshiwara,\\" set in Japan, follows the exploits of a sailor turned detective as he attempts to help an American woman beat a murder rap. \\"The Case of the Killer-Diller,\\" \\"Through a Dead Man's Eye,\\" and \\"New York Blues\\" all deal to some extent with the most heinous of crimes and how \\"murder will out\\" every time. \\"Through a Dead Man's Eye\\" is the best story in the book as we follow the son of a cop pursuing a murderer. \\"New York Blues,\\" according to the date of publication, may well be Woolrich's final story. It's a whirlwind of sight and sound as a man awaits the authorities in a secluded hotel room.<br />The book contains several tales labeled \\"Noir Cop.\\" According to Nevins, Woolrich's police stories embody several central themes, namely that the police hold godlike powers over the rest of us. They protect each other when a fellow officer commits heinous crimes, and they never shy away from torturing a suspect or committing murder. \\"Blue is for Bravery\\" deals with a cop cracking heads after a crime lord kidnaps his family. \\"Endicott's Girl\\" is the shattering experience of a police captain who thinks his daughter committed murder, and the lengths his compatriots will go to protect their boss. In \\"Detective William Brown,\\" we follow the careers of two cops, one honest and one corrupt, as a series of suspicious solutions to high profile crimes leads to an explosive revelation-and a despicable cover-up. The beginning of \\"Three Kills for One\\" takes your breath away as we follow the final moments of a man about to take the fall for a crime he didn't commit. As the story progresses, and horrible truths emerge far too late to save the innocent, a cop pursues the real criminal witha single-minded vengeance.<br />With the exception of a few stories, all of Woolrich's efforts in the book attain a high level of suspense guaranteed to thrill. Who can read about the boy battling the killer in an abandoned house in \\"Through a Dead Man's Eye\\" and not get a rush? The tension filled tales in this book exploded onto my consciousness with the force of a howitzer. Simultaneously, the very suspense of the stories may constitute a central weakness in the author's writings. Too many times, Woolrich turns every element of the short story into a conduit for raising suspense. Character development consequently suffers as a result. Too, the author often comes up with a central idea so brilliant, so full of potential, that the conclusion invariably acts as a let down. \\"Endicott's Girl,\\" for instance, ends on a decidedly disappointing note for such a promising thesis. I can't complain too much, though. \\"Night & Fear\\" is a collection of classic noir and pulp fiction that fires on nearly every level.<br />\\"I was only trying to cheat death,\\" Woolrich once wrote, \\"I was only trying to surmount for a little while the darkness that all my life I surely knew was going to come rolling in on me some day and obliterate me. I was only trying to stay alive a little brief while longer, after I was already gone.\\" Fortunate for us that the author chose pen and paper to keep his demons at bay, isn't it? If you haven't given Cornell Woolrich a whirl, you cannot possibly know what you are missing. Hopefully, \\"Night & Fear\\" will come out in paperback soon. With any luck, more Woolrich novels and anthologies will find their way back into print in the future.a single-minded vengeance.<br />With the exception of a few stories, all of Woolrich's efforts in the book attain a high level of suspense guaranteed to thrill. Who can read about the boy battling the killer in an abandoned house in \\"Through a Dead Man's Eye\\" and not get a rush? The tension filled tales in this book exploded onto my consciousness with the force of a howitzer. Simultaneously, the very suspense of the stories may constitute a central weakness in the author's writings. Too many times, Woolrich turns every element of the short story into a conduit for raising suspense. Character development consequently suffers as a result. Too, the author often comes up with a central idea so brilliant, so full of potential, that the conclusion invariably acts as a let down. \\"Endicott's Girl,\\" for instance, ends on a decidedly disappointing note for such a promising thesis. I can't complain too much, though. \\"Night & Fear\\" is a collection of classic noir and pulp fiction that fires on nearly every level.<br />\\"I was only trying to cheat death,\\" Woolrich once wrote, \\"I was only trying to surmount for a little while the darkness that all my life I surely knew was going to come rolling in on me some day and obliterate me. I was only trying to stay alive a little brief while longer, after I was already gone.\\" Fortunate for us that the author chose pen and paper to keep his demons at bay, isn't it? If you haven't given Cornell Woolrich a whirl, you cannot possibly know what you are missing. Hopefully, \\"Night & Fear\\" will come out in paperback soon. With any luck, more Woolrich novels and anthologies will find their way back into print in the future.	2004-06-28
611400:US	52012289	R2SF9OORYSU77K	0345461517	764534415	The Coming of Conan the Cimmerian: The Original Adventures of the Greatest Sword and Sorcery Hero of All Time!	Books	5	82	86	N	N	A magnificent tribute to Robert Howard	If a teacher assigned a project requiring you to draw up a list of the most influential authors in the fantasy/science fiction genre, Robert E. Howard would sit safely in the top five. Along with H.P. Lovecraft and Clark Ashton Smith, Howard was one of the groundbreaking influences in popular fiction of the 1930s. His influence is still felt today as evidenced by the large number of books containing stories based on his most popular creation, Conan the Cimmerian. Sadly, most of these newer tales, spun from unfinished fragments found in Howard's possession after his untimely demise in 1936, barely manage to attain a shadow of the glory found in the original tales. I think of Lin Carter's &quot;Conan the Liberator,&quot; a truly awful piece of junk based on one of these fragments, and I shudder at the damage done to Robert Howard's reputation. That's why we should all give a warm round of applause to Del Rey for releasing this comprehensive collection of the earliest Conan stories. It's great to see a collection of the original tales available for sale at a reasonable price. Moreover, the book contains a foreword from the illustrator chosen to draw for this collection, a fascinating piece of criticism examining Howard's influences, and a few other goodies shedding even more light on how Conan came about. The order of the stories, too, mirrors exactly the sequence in which the author wrote them.<br />&quot;The Coming of Conan the Cimmerian&quot; is, I am embarrassed to say, my first foray into the original Conan tales. I looked around for these things for years, but always found the prices in the secondary market-usually for moth eaten copies of decades old versions-to much weight to place on my wallet. I did get a chance to read a few of Howard's Bran Mak Morn stories, several of his Cthulhu tales, and a couple of other great stories completely unrelated to Conan. Still, it's not the same. To know Howard is to read the Conan sagas. Included here are thirteen original stories, beginning with &quot;The Phoenix on the Sword&quot; and including such epics as &quot;The Tower of the Elephant,&quot; &quot;The Scarlet Citadel,&quot; &quot;Queen of the Black Coast,&quot; and &quot;Black Colossus.&quot; Lesser, but by no means uninteresting stories, include &quot;The Frost-Giant's Daughter,&quot; &quot;The God in the Bowl,&quot; &quot;Iron Shadows in the Moon,&quot; &quot;Rogues in the House,&quot; and &quot;Xuthal of the Dusk.&quot; Included also is Howard's history of his Hyborian Age, a lengthy discussion of the various nations and peoples that form the backdrop of the Conan adventures. The author's love for setting stories in the historical past led him to create an alternate version of world history, one that resembled in many ways our own ancient times but allowed him to make up things as he went along. The history of the Hyborian Age alone is worth the price of the book.<br />It's impossible to adequately summarize every story, or even most of the stories, contained in the collection. A few worth noting include &quot;The Phoenix on the Sword,&quot; where King Conan of Aquilonia thwarts a coup attempt with the help of a long dead sorcerer. Another winner is &quot;The Tower of the Elephant,&quot; which finds Conan as a thief attempting to steal the wealth locked up in a malefic temple. &quot;The Scarlet Citadel&quot; and &quot;Black Colossus&quot; work so well because the two stories give Howard the opportunity to write extremely involved descriptions of huge battles against a background of magnificently executed scenes of phantasmagoric weirdness. Even the lesser tales contain enough flashes of brilliance and imagination to keep the reader riveted to the page. Conan battles giant apes, evil alien beings that turn humans into shrunken dolls in a magical pond, a vicious god preying on decadent citizens of an ancient city, and slays frost giants in pursuit of a goddess, all without batting an eye. Swords flash, armies clash, women fawn, sorcerers cast spells, and Conan wins the day in his inimitable taciturn style. All of the stories move at a lightening quick pace.<br />Sure, a few of the stories here follow a rather formulaic structure, but that doesn't make them any less entertaining. I think there's a tendency by some people to sneer at fantasy books and stories; they argue that the simplistic writing style and predictable plots do not inspire readers to peruse REAL literature, and to some extent that claim may contain grains of truth. But as Patrice Louinet makes clear in her introduction and analysis of Howard's Conan stories, this author was an extremely intelligent, well read individual who infused his stories with elements borrowed from Bulfinch's works on ancient and medieval history. As for simplistic writing style, you won't find much of that here. Howard routinely uses elevated prose in the construction of his stories, and while he's no Clark Ashton Smith or H.P. Lovecraft in terms of OED inspired vocabulary, his language still rises much higher than you would think.<br />The only problem I had with the book concerned Louinet's assessment of Howard's Conan canon. I haven't read much about the underpinnings of writers like Lovecraft, Howard, and the other fantasy writers in the 1930s, but I always suspected the success of these authors rested heavily on the Great Depression. Howard wrote about a warrior of great physical, mental, and moral strength, perhaps, because a man with such traits was necessary in a time of great social turmoil. American audiences yearned for stories that created worlds where bread lines, bank closings, and starvation didn't exist. Moreover, they longed for characters that could triumph over seemingly insurmountable obstacles with nothing more than their native abilities to fall back upon. Anyway, read these stories. All fans of fantasy/horror/science fiction should pick up a copy of this book immediately. I can't wait for the next volume.n, sorcerers cast spells, and Conan wins the day in his inimitable taciturn style. All of the stories move at a lightening quick pace.<br />Sure, a few of the stories here follow a rather formulaic structure, but that doesn't make them any less entertaining. I think there's a tendency by some people to sneer at fantasy books and stories; they argue that the simplistic writing style and predictable plots do not inspire readers to peruse REAL literature, and to some extent that claim may contain grains of truth. But as Patrice Louinet makes clear in her introduction and analysis of Howard's Conan stories, this author was an extremely intelligent, well read individual who infused his stories with elements borrowed from Bulfinch's works on ancient and medieval history. As for simplistic writing style, you won't find much of that here. Howard routinely uses elevated prose in the construction of his stories, and while he's no Clark Ashton Smith or H.P. Lovecraft in terms of OED inspired vocabulary, his language still rises much higher than you would think.<br />The only problem I had with the book concerned Louinet's assessment of Howard's Conan canon. I haven't read much about the underpinnings of writers like Lovecraft, Howard, and the other fantasy writers in the 1930s, but I always suspected the success of these authors rested heavily on the Great Depression. Howard wrote about a warrior of great physical, mental, and moral strength, perhaps, because a man with such traits was necessary in a time of great social turmoil. American audiences yearned for stories that created worlds where bread lines, bank closings, and starvation didn't exist. Moreover, they longed for characters that could triumph over seemingly insurmountable obstacles with nothing more than their native abilities to fall back upon. Anyway, read these stories. All fans of fantasy/horror/science fiction should pick up a copy of this book immediately. I can't wait for the next volume.	2004-06-28
613219:US	52012289	R3QW8ICWF27RHL	0595305873	573189610	Park Avenue Rich	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Entertaining look at the idle rich	Wallowing in wealth, as &quot;Park Avenue Rich&quot; reveals in intimate detail, can cause all sorts of problems. When you are an heiress to a billion dollar fortune, people around you expect certain things. For example, one does not deign to work as normal people do. Rather, boring old charity fundraising parties fill the days and nights of your life. Occasionally, you can shake things up by hopping around the globe in your own private jet, dating the latest movie star, or head out to the trendy nightspots for a few drinks and some rambunctious fun, but this type of behavior is generally frowned upon. You probably come from a family that is slightly odd, a family wracked by divorce, illicit behaviors, and frequent mentions in the high society columns of the New York City tabloids. The worst, absolute worst part of sitting on a boatload of bucks is dealing with shady characters on the outside that constantly attempt to intrude on your sheltered existence. These people, of whom there are many, usually try to steal your money by ingratiating themselves into your fancy set. Oftentimes, they take more than a few million dollars; they may take your life. R. J. Revaitis's book exposes the idle wealthy and a man who preys on them in this entertaining tale of money, murder, and debauchery.<br />Frederica &quot;Freddie&quot; von Eckhardt is the star of the show, an archetypical billionaire heiress in the vein of the ubiquitous Paris Hilton. A beautiful young lady without a care in the world, Freddie spends her days and nights meeting famous men for flings, drinking, and generally raising a ruckus. She could care less about her divorced parents, a mother who inherited billions and an aristocratic investment banker father. All this girl wants to do is waste her life in the most hedonistic manner possible. Her only true friend seems to be Alexandra, another wealthy gal who once matched Freddie's exuberant lifestyle but has since married a Wall Street go getter and settled into the mundane existence of married life. Still, the two occasionally meet up to attend charity functions, which Freddie increasingly finds immensely boring. At the latest soiree, a fundraiser for lung cancer research, Frederica meets a dashing young chap by the name of Jimmy Cavanaugh while she sneaks a smoke in the foyer (!). This guy reeks of money, success, and good looks, three attributes guaranteed to send Freddie's type into a tizzy. Fortunately for our clueless bubblehead, Jimmy expresses interest in von Eckhardt and the two hit it off immediately.<br />Unfortunately for our clueless bubblehead, Cavanaugh isn't even close to what he seems. Turns out he's got a rap sheet longer than your arm, and he's fresh off the plane in New York after a sordid incident over in England put Scotland Yard investigator Ian Chesterman on his case. It seems Jimmy-or whatever his real name is-likes to infiltrate the upper class, woo a wealthy woman regardless of her age, and then siphon off as much money as he can before hitting the bricks. His plans work well for the most part, but several recent problems have led Cavanaugh to cover up his tracks in particularly loathsome ways. Unbeknownst to our precious Freddie, she's merely this slick con artist's latest catch. With a song and dance about opening up a club in Miami, Jimmy hopes to rip-off Freddie and a few of her friends. Not only does he convince von Eckhardt to pony up some funds, he also dupes her pal Alexandra, a famous patron of the arts named Stuart Duncan, and narcotized actor/stand up comic Jeff Strange. Before he knows it, the money pours into his bank account. Jimmy Cavanaugh stands to take away a million dollars if everything goes his way. But will it? And who will stand and who will fall in the process?<br />For a self-published effort, Revaitis's book is a good effort. Not everything works well, though. There's a subplot involving an adult film star turned professional gold digger named Asia Jerome that never really goes anywhere. Too, the Jeff Strange character seems tacked on and secondary to the overall plot. The same goes for Ian Chesterman's efforts to bring Cavanaugh to justice. These problems are minor, however, since what works easily outweighs the negatives. Revaitis is at his best when writing background information on the characters. Stuart Duncan, the art patron with several lascivious secrets, practically leaps off the page. The chapter outlining this man's life grabbed me and wouldn't let go. I realized after reading about his troubled life that I hadn't lifted my eyes from the book for half an hour. The author provides similar detailed backdrops for Cavanaugh and Asia, but neither is as interesting as Stuart Duncan. Perhaps the most noticeable aspect of the book is its structure; I have read several self-published novels in my day and this one looks the best in terms of editing. Very few errors pop up through the course of the novel, which is quite rare for these types of books.<br />The biggest problem I had with the book concerns Freddie and her rich friends. These people are so obnoxious, so oblivious to their surroundings and so sure of themselves that you end up rooting for Cavanaugh to take them down. I felt zero sympathy for what happened to von Eckhardt or her friends when she finally put two and two together, and I'm still not sure the author intended that I should feel this way. Anyway, I think I can recommend &quot;Park Avenue Rich.&quot; Beware, however, that adult themes loom large in these pages. The book is definitely not appropriate for a young audience. If you can handle liberal doses of racy relationships, a quick pace, and interesting characters, you'll like Revaitis's book.ly goes anywhere. Too, the Jeff Strange character seems tacked on and secondary to the overall plot. The same goes for Ian Chesterman's efforts to bring Cavanaugh to justice. These problems are minor, however, since what works easily outweighs the negatives. Revaitis is at his best when writing background information on the characters. Stuart Duncan, the art patron with several lascivious secrets, practically leaps off the page. The chapter outlining this man's life grabbed me and wouldn't let go. I realized after reading about his troubled life that I hadn't lifted my eyes from the book for half an hour. The author provides similar detailed backdrops for Cavanaugh and Asia, but neither is as interesting as Stuart Duncan. Perhaps the most noticeable aspect of the book is its structure; I have read several self-published novels in my day and this one looks the best in terms of editing. Very few errors pop up through the course of the novel, which is quite rare for these types of books.<br />The biggest problem I had with the book concerns Freddie and her rich friends. These people are so obnoxious, so oblivious to their surroundings and so sure of themselves that you end up rooting for Cavanaugh to take them down. I felt zero sympathy for what happened to von Eckhardt or her friends when she finally put two and two together, and I'm still not sure the author intended that I should feel this way. Anyway, I think I can recommend &quot;Park Avenue Rich.&quot; Beware, however, that adult themes loom large in these pages. The book is definitely not appropriate for a young audience. If you can handle liberal doses of racy relationships, a quick pace, and interesting characters, you'll like Revaitis's book.	2004-06-27
615295:US	52012289	RTSV4YT551SML	0843952032	656018471	Infernal Angel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Return to the infernal pits	I am an unabashed Edward Lee fan. Although I have only read a few of his novels, the smorgasbord of unsettling violence, intense erotica, and whiplash prose make his writings enormous fun for a dedicated horror fan. The biggest problem facing a potential reader is how to acquire many of his books and short stories. Nearly all of his old mass-market efforts are out of print, many other novels and collections are available only through wallet crushing small press editions, and the subject matter of a majority of his tales virtually insures much of his work will remain in obscurity. In other words, I am an Ed Lee fan insofar as my meager funds allow. It does appear a ray of hope is about to break on the horizon: Lee now writes novels for mass market Leisure press, and a few of his earlier works are starting to reappear in slightly more affordable trade paperbacks. &quot;Infernal Angel&quot; falls into the mass-market cheapie paperback category. The novel is a sequel to Lee's 2001 effort &quot;City Infernal,&quot; a book that, just like this one, tones down the usual over the top gore and stomach churning seediness in an effort to pander to a general audience. No problem, though, since I will still take a watered down Ed Lee any day.<br />Don't worry if you haven't read &quot;City Infernal.&quot; Lee fills in the details about the first novel at the beginning of this one. You'll discover how Cassie and her twin sister Lissa separated, how Cassie learned she's an Etheress with special powers and abilities, and how she spends her time seeking out her deceased sister for forgiveness. &quot;Infernal Angel&quot; picks up about a month after the first novel ended, with Cassie now locked away in an asylum facing a murder charge over her father's untimely demise. She can still travel to Hell anytime she wishes, but in the meantime she spends her days trying to explain her unusual powers to shrinks. Unfortunately, Lucifer and his minions haven't forgotten about Cassie's wondrous powers. The Dark Prince, always plotting the downfall of God's little creatures, hatches a nefarious plot that could very well install him as supreme overlord of the human race. The plan, involving a place called the Atrocidome, time travel, and Cassie's special powers, might just work. Of course, our heroine knows nothing about any of this until she runs through the requisite number of trials and tribulations in Hell with Angelese, her Caliginaut angel guide from heaven. For Cassie, the importance of returning to Satan's domain revolves around her wish to reunite with Lissa and expunge her guilt over her hapless sister's untimely demise.<br />In case his plans for Cassie turn sour, as all good plans hatched in the bowels of Hades usually do, Lucifer has a backup plan in the form of Walter. This geeky guy is a genius college student who thinks he cannot make any friends until he runs into the gorgeous Candice. Unfamiliar with how to handle women (do any of us ever figure out how to do this?), Walter falls for the oldest trick in the book, namely doing Candice's homework while the young lady &quot;acts&quot; like she's his girlfriend. Walter's wealthy brother Owen tries to tell his clueless brother what's really going on, but the kid won't listen to reason. He contemplates taking his life when he finally discovers the truth, but a series of increasingly disturbing events and a heck of a revelation from brother Owen convince Walter he has a higher-or lower, as the case may be-purpose in life. Lee throws in the usual inventive cast of characters and ghastly experiences in Lucifer's city to entertain the reader. This time around, we get something called an Intestisaur, umbra-specters, Alexander the Great's main squeeze, and the usual wacky spells and incantations that make the underworld such a wonderful place to spend a few days.<br />&quot;Infernal Angel&quot; has taken a lot of criticism from readers, and to some extent the book merits it. Lee's outing this time isn't as interesting as his first foray into the pits of darkness largely because the story doesn't spend as much time roaming the black alleyways and malefic pits of Satan's city. Most of the action takes place with Cassie in the asylum and Walter at school. There are lengthy segments of explanatory dialogue between Angelese and Cassie and between Walter and his own guide where nothing much happens. Moreover, complaints about the banal dialogue and paper-thin character development hold a lot of water. I particularly found Walter's character a source of great annoyance. Here's a guy who's supposed to be so smart and he can't figure out anything on his own. Too, we don't spend as much time in Hades as we would like. Actually, many of the problems I expressed about &quot;City Infernal&quot; pop up in spades here. Nonetheless, &quot;Infernal Angel&quot; is still an entertaining, imaginative read.<br />I'm just happy for the chance to read another Edward Lee novel that only cost a few bucks. Personally, I prefer Lee's darker books, like &quot;The Teratologist,&quot; &quot;Bighead,&quot; and &quot;Portrait of the Psychopath as a Young Woman&quot; to these toned down works aimed at mass audiences, but I understand that an author like Lee must write books that will pay the bills. I'm hearing rumors that another book will soon emerge concerning the further exploits of Cassie and Lissa, but I'm not sure how that will be possible after reading the conclusion of &quot;Infernal Angel.&quot; I heartily recommend Ed Lee's &quot;Infernal Angel&quot; if for no other reason than the book might inspire an intrepid few to seek out his harder to find grotesqueries. If you're ready to move past Stephen King, this novel could well serve as a bridge that will lead you to the nightmarish realms of extreme horror.'t as interesting as his first foray into the pits of darkness largely because the story doesn't spend as much time roaming the black alleyways and malefic pits of Satan's city. Most of the action takes place with Cassie in the asylum and Walter at school. There are lengthy segments of explanatory dialogue between Angelese and Cassie and between Walter and his own guide where nothing much happens. Moreover, complaints about the banal dialogue and paper-thin character development hold a lot of water. I particularly found Walter's character a source of great annoyance. Here's a guy who's supposed to be so smart and he can't figure out anything on his own. Too, we don't spend as much time in Hades as we would like. Actually, many of the problems I expressed about &quot;City Infernal&quot; pop up in spades here. Nonetheless, &quot;Infernal Angel&quot; is still an entertaining, imaginative read. <br />I'm just happy for the chance to read another Edward Lee novel that only cost a few bucks. Personally, I prefer Lee's darker books, like &quot;The Teratologist,&quot; &quot;Bighead,&quot; and &quot;Portrait of the Psychopath as a Young Woman&quot; to these toned down works aimed at mass audiences, but I understand that an author like Lee must write books that will pay the bills. I'm hearing rumors that another book will soon emerge concerning the further exploits of Cassie and Lissa, but I'm not sure how that will be possible after reading the conclusion of &quot;Infernal Angel.&quot; I heartily recommend Ed Lee's &quot;Infernal Angel&quot; if for no other reason than the book might inspire an intrepid few to seek out his harder to find grotesqueries. If you're ready to move past Stephen King, this novel could well serve as a bridge that will lead you to the nightmarish realms of extreme horror.	2004-06-25
615591:US	52012289	R33QR6OHIHSA5M	1580082319	48495081	How Wal-Mart is Destroying America and The World and What You Can Do About It	Books	3	80	91	N	N	Capitalism run amuck	The last time I spent any time in a Wal-Mart, I think, was roughly ten years ago. Even then, something about the place felt fundamentally wrong. Maybe it had something to do with the overfriendly greeter at the front door, a guy who spent way too much time trying to get my attention. Perhaps the downright filthy appearance of the store set off my internal warning bells. After all, it's difficult to gain a decent impression of a place when merchandise spills onto the floor, products teeter precariously on top of shelving units, and the employees look like they just got out of jail. I left without buying a single item, vowing never to return. And I haven't gone back after all these years. Neither has Bill Quinn, the eighty eight year old author of this slim indictment of America's biggest retailer. The writer, a former journalist and magazine editor, presents a startling array of facts against the House that Sam Walton built in \\"How Wal-Mart is Destroying America.\\" After reading this book, you will think twice about returning to shop at \\"The Box,\\" one of the terms Quinn and his sympathizers use in referring to Wal-Mart.<br />The list of egregious behaviors occurring under the aegis of Wal-Mart, based out of Bentonville, Arkansas, simply boggles the mind. Quinn's key complaint centers on the retailer's anti-competitive outlook, known as \\"Stomp the Comp,\\" when the company moves into a small town and proceeds to demolish every mom and pop business in the area. Through cutthroat pricing and luring away employees from smaller stores, Wal-Mart takes business right out from under the noses of modest retail outlets. As all other stores in the area shut down, the Box from Bentonville becomes the only significant force in the region. This allows them to lower wages, raise prices, reduce advertising in local papers, and lets them get away with claiming twenty eight hours a week counts as a full-time job. Even worse, Wal-Mart oftentimes closes smaller stores in order to open a regional \\"superstore,\\" which forces residents of small towns to drive thirty or forty miles to do their shopping. How does this behemoth get away with such activities? Because politicians in many areas fall for the old \\"jobs, opportunity, tax revenue\\" mantra chanted by Wal-Mart's bevy of attorneys, engineers, and other assorted boosters. Once the company gains a foothold in your town, the game is over. The retailer takes advantage of tax loopholes, destroys the environment, and eliminates more jobs than it creates.<br />Quinn outlines many more atrocities. The number of lawsuits lodged against the Bentonville Beast has reached stunning numbers in recent years. According to the book, customers have sued Wal-Mart for injuries sustained from falling merchandise, slipping on objects on the floor, and heinous crimes committed in the stores' parking lots. Employees too have expressed their dismay with the irresponsible employer. One woman filed a claim when the managers at her store dismissed her for dating a black man. Other workers sued over the company's unofficial policy of intimidating employees into working off the clock. Quinn unearthed many vendors whose experiences with the retailer have since led to court actions. Wal-Mart always pushes its wholesalers for deep discounts, and then often returns damaged merchandise in bulk for refunds at full cost. A few smaller companies went out of business after the retailer made a big order and then reneged on the deal a month or so later. It's gotten so bad that many big vendors refuse to sell to Wal-Mart anymore. Quinn goes on and on, listing outrageous behavior after outrageous behavior. Frighteningly, the company is now expanding into other markets overseas using the same shady business models that turned our rural areas into places tumbleweeds wouldn't be caught dead rolling through.<br />\\"How Wal-Mart is Destroying America\\" does have a few problems. Quinn's sense of humor, a fiery rhetoric fused with crotchety old guy attitude, gets old rather fast. I started noticing a troubling tendency to describe Wal-Mart in biblical terms of good and evil. Nothing is more indicative of this fact than a couple of drawings depicting a Bentonville goon sporting horns. Yeah, it's funny, but is this how you really want to make a serious argument? Moreover, the writer's obvious disdain for the retailer clouds his judgment. Is Wal-Mart at fault when a customer slipped on a cough drop? Should we take an ambulance chaser seriously when he claims Wal-Mart stonewalls every lawsuit? C'mon! Of course a lawyer is going to say something like that. I'm not defending the retailer's oily policy of spending mountains of money defending itself against legitimate court claims, but I understand why they do it. Big companies become targets for sue happy citizens very quickly. Should we expect Wal-Mart to roll out the red carpet for every lawyer with dollar signs in his or her eyes? I don't think so.<br />Still, Quinn's book is a revelation about a company obviously out of control. I suspect the primary reason Wal-Mart gets away with all this stuff is because it goes on in rural areas. If this sort of behavior occurred in New York City, Chicago, Miami, or a few other huge metropolitan areas you can bet we would all get an earful about it. Well, if this book is accurate city slickers may well discover exactly what Wal-Mart is all about before too long. By racking up billions in sales in Rural America and overseas, the Bentonville retailer will soon possess the ability to strong-arm even the biggest cities into submission. Quinn concludes his book with several tips to either cut down Wal-Mart's power or to keep them out of your area. Personally, not shopping at this store seems to be the most prudent course of action. I know I won't ever return.titude, gets old rather fast. I started noticing a troubling tendency to describe Wal-Mart in biblical terms of good and evil. Nothing is more indicative of this fact than a couple of drawings depicting a Bentonville goon sporting horns. Yeah, it's funny, but is this how you really want to make a serious argument? Moreover, the writer's obvious disdain for the retailer clouds his judgment. Is Wal-Mart at fault when a customer slipped on a cough drop? Should we take an ambulance chaser seriously when he claims Wal-Mart stonewalls every lawsuit? C'mon! Of course a lawyer is going to say something like that. I'm not defending the retailer's oily policy of spending mountains of money defending itself against legitimate court claims, but I understand why they do it. Big companies become targets for sue happy citizens very quickly. Should we expect Wal-Mart to roll out the red carpet for every lawyer with dollar signs in his or her eyes? I don't think so.<br />Still, Quinn's book is a revelation about a company obviously out of control. I suspect the primary reason Wal-Mart gets away with all this stuff is because it goes on in rural areas. If this sort of behavior occurred in New York City, Chicago, Miami, or a few other huge metropolitan areas you can bet we would all get an earful about it. Well, if this book is accurate city slickers may well discover exactly what Wal-Mart is all about before too long. By racking up billions in sales in Rural America and overseas, the Bentonville retailer will soon possess the ability to strong-arm even the biggest cities into submission. Quinn concludes his book with several tips to either cut down Wal-Mart's power or to keep them out of your area. Personally, not shopping at this store seems to be the most prudent course of action. I know I won't ever return.	2004-06-25
629932:US	52012289	R3RG04VT7YWANI	0972948503	216336951	Gifted Trust	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Soul blasting	I first heard about John Paul Allen's &quot;Gifted Trust&quot; in the pages of Cemetery Dance, an excellent bi-monthly magazine devoted to all things horror. The reviewer of the book gave the story a thumbs up and the plot synopsis seemed intriguing, so I went out and dug up a copy. The first thing that grabs your attention is the rather disturbing art work on the cover, a picture showing a man running in front of a train while a ghostly apparition appears to flee from his body. While that scene does take place in the story, the old adage that you cannot tell a book from its cover applies here. Before you start this book, you have no conception of the horrors contained in its pages. &quot;Gifted Trust&quot; may well be one of the most decadent works I have read in a long, long time. A blurb on the back cover unfortunately throws potential readers off the trail by invoking the names of Dean Koontz and Stephen King, claiming that Allen's book evokes those authors' earliest efforts. This claim is wildly exaggerated. &quot;Gifted Trust&quot; does not resemble anything Koontz and King published in the 1970s or early 1980s. Instead, Allen forges his own nightmares wrapped around a clever idea. I wish blurbs would quit comparing up and coming writers to Stephen King. If I wrote a book, such a comparison is the last thing I would seek. Let new writers earn their own glory.<br />&quot;Gifted Trust&quot; introduces us to Max Belote, a somewhat successful agent working at a publishing company during the 1930s. Belote's job and his loving marriage to wife Vivian is the last thing on his mind as the story fades in, however. What this guy is worried about concerns the monstrous voice he hears in his head urging him to commit awful crimes. Max is so exhausted from fighting back the sick desires this beast plants in his mind that he is considering a drastic measure to stop the madness. Belote carefully plans his own demise right down to the smallest details; he increases his insurance policy so his wife will benefit if something happens to him and befriends a few of the Depression era homeless who live down at Potter's Camp by the rail yards so he'll have witnesses. If Max can pull it off the right way, the insurance company will never question his actions and thus pay on his policy. Allen makes sure we understand the problems Belote faces, and they are horrific. Most people in an age before advanced psychiatry would probably follow Max's lead. Regrettably, evil is a wily, timeless, and often formless force impossible to eradicate forever.<br />The rest of the book fully describes the entity that drove Max Belote to madness as it passes through body after body. Named Virago, this spirit attached itself to a soul and thus constantly reappears in human form to wreak havoc. Virago drives the bodies it inhabits to commit soul shattering crimes against the weakest members of society-young children. The book introduces us to Jeffrey Michael Roberts, a serial killer active in the 1970s eventually captured by the police and sentenced to the electric chair. Before he takes that last long walk, Roberts tells a grim story about a voice in his head that erased his human morality and replaced it with a predator's will. Over thirty years later, teacher Edward Paine experiences the same whispered hauntings emanating from the dark recesses of his mind, urging him to prey on his students. Max Belote, Jeffrey Michael Roberts, and Edward Paine all share an attribute that will cause misery and destruction if it is not arrested. Moreover, pivotal people in the lives of each of these three men also reappear in subsequent lives, all drawn together by a malevolent force that gives no quarter.<br />The only reason to read &quot;Gifted Trust&quot; is the section on Jeffrey Michael Roberts. It's not that the rest of the story is bad, far from it, but fans of horror will cringe as Allen's chapters on Roberts's activities unfold. This is soul shredding stuff, difficult to read and even harder to think about. The rest of the book is unfortunately sometimes confusing as the story flies from body to body and from time to time. Too, I found the conclusion a tad hazy and generally unsatisfying. What really tends to distract from the story, however, is the poor editing. Tons of misspelled words, shifting typeface, and other errors appear on nearly every page of the book. Biting Dog Press, the company that released &quot;Gifted Trust,&quot; needs to realize there is more to publishing a book than building a website, hanging up a sign in the door, and running a manuscript over to the print shop. I do not blame the author for the errors in the book. A company willing to publish a work should also edit it. Grammatical errors consistently break the narrative flow, forcing the reader to constantly refocus before moving on with the story.<br />How disturbing is this book? The author actually wrote a sort of disclaimer about the subject matter in his introduction. Take heed of this warning. &quot;Gifted Trust&quot; is not a book for non-horror fans. If you have never read a graphic novel, you should probably avoid this story. Heck, I have been reading horror for years and all of that experience did little to prepare me for the shocking material in this book. I cannot believe I found Allen's book on the shelf at my local library. &quot;Gifted Trust&quot; is a gruesome, morally repellent tome sure to shake the soul of even the most jaded of readers. You have been warned.to read and even harder to think about. The rest of the book is unfortunately sometimes confusing as the story flies from body to body and from time to time. Too, I found the conclusion a tad hazy and generally unsatisfying. What really tends to distract from the story, however, is the poor editing. Tons of misspelled words, shifting typeface, and other errors appear on nearly every page of the book. Biting Dog Press, the company that released &quot;Gifted Trust,&quot; needs to realize there is more to publishing a book than building a website, hanging up a sign in the door, and running a manuscript over to the print shop. I do not blame the author for the errors in the book. A company willing to publish a work should also edit it. Grammatical errors consistently break the narrative flow, forcing the reader to constantly refocus before moving on with the story.<br />How disturbing is this book? The author actually wrote a sort of disclaimer about the subject matter in his introduction. Take heed of this warning. &quot;Gifted Trust&quot; is not a book for non-horror fans. If you have never read a graphic novel, you should probably avoid this story. Heck, I have been reading horror for years and all of that experience did little to prepare me for the shocking material in this book. I cannot believe I found Allen's book on the shelf at my local library. &quot;Gifted Trust&quot; is a gruesome, morally repellent tome sure to shake the soul of even the most jaded of readers. You have been warned.	2004-06-14
631068:US	52012289	R12LJG3E21XFD6	0595276822	777279275	JUNK	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A bit more polish and this guy could go places	While I usually try to avoid self-published books, I accepted the opportunity to read Michael Goodwin's &quot;Junk.&quot; We all know that print on demand publishing potentially hides a host of horrors. Occasionally you do find a gem in the rough, but more often a trip through the pages of one of these books reveals shoddy editing, mismatched typeface, and just plain bad writing. If you can't get a book published through traditional channels, is the book really worth putting out in the public sphere? Hundreds of would be authors answer that question with an enthusiastic yes. Heck, I would probably do it too just to see my name on the cover of a glossy, professional looking tome. Besides, who knows what could happen if your book garners enough attention. You just might end up with a real publishing deal. From what I read in &quot;Junk,&quot; Goodwin isn't ready for the big leagues just yet. He is, however, batting solid numbers in the minors. One or two more good games and he may get a wink and a nod from the higher ups soon.<br />Goodwin's book focuses on Martin Stallworth, a young black bond salesman with a good education, a job on Wall Street, and a salary in the six figures. As the story opens, Goodwin introduces us to a typical day at the firm of Worman Skeller &amp; Company. He also wins points for dropping a reference to the song &quot;I Don't Like Mondays&quot; from the Boomtown Rats on the first page. Anyway, the protagonist feels the pressures of his job as soon as he walks through the door on a Monday morning. We meet several of Stallworth's co-workers, almost all of them hard charging personalities in desperate need of a straight jacket and a three-month stay at the funny farm. We also learn that Martin and his cronies need to sell a half billion dollars of Lodestar satellite bonds or they'll all be out of a job. Stallworth scores a coup when he unloads twenty five million in Lodestar to a decidedly unfriendly chap in New Jersey not known as a big spender. The book then follows Martin's co-workers as they lie, cheat, and steal in an effort to get anyone they know to buy the bonds. These early chapters essentially develop the characters and describe the setting of the story.<br />The book veers off on a tangent when one of Stallworth's fellow salesmen, Hap, decides to approach the Chinese consulate in the hopes that they will buy some bonds. Is this an unintelligent thing to do? You bet, but Hap's desperate to sell anything so he can keep his job. Besides, his immediate boss just got the axe in a scene illustrating how humiliating a firing at the company can be. Hap gamely gives the hard sell to the Chinese government and is delighted when the officials there put him in touch with a high roller named Jo Hu. Hu offers to buy the outstanding number of bonds, roughly three hundred million dollars worth, which turns Hap into the hero at Worman Skeller &amp; Company. As often happens when something to good to be true occurs, Hap finds himself in hot water when Hu threatens to back out of the deal. Why? You'll have to read the book to find out, but it is safe to say that the unfolding tragedies soon ensnare Martin Stallworth, who must reconnect with his alienated brother to come up with a plan to save his life. The book concludes with a series of situations so far from how the story starts that it's amazing to think it all happened in a mere 180 pages.<br />While I liked certain segments of &quot;Junk,&quot; I found many of the situations difficult to swallow. What's good is worth mentioning. The characters, for instance, are largely likeable in a strange sort of way. Even the head honcho at Worman Skeller, a scoundrel named Moore, is fun to follow because he reminded me of the guy Alec Baldwin played in &quot;Glengarry Glen Ross.&quot; Martin Stallworth is an intriguing character as well, and Goodwin adequately expresses the dual personality of his protagonist as he struggles to reconcile his feelings about being the onlyblack man at his firm with his love for literature and his brother's links to gang life. Martin, in the midst of serious troubles, soon learns that his skills as a big shot salesman do translate into fulfilling other goals and desires.<br />What doesn't work as well is worth mentioning, too. Despite the extensive character development of the early chapters, important figures remain elusive. Mihra, for example, is a Pakistani woman who catches Martin's eye early in the story. She plays an important part later on but receives only superficial attention. Moreover, the story veers too wildly into strange worlds. I kept thinking as I read the book that Goodwin should have fleshed the story out a bit more. While I was amazed at how far the story went in the short number of pages, I thought the book would have been better with a few more chapters. Finally, &quot;Junk&quot; really, really needed a good proofreading. Errors abound on nearly every page of the story. I'm not comfortable criticizing someone for this problem since I am a lazy editor myself, but you need to either do it yourself or find someone to do it for you if you're going to publish a book. Lots of mistakes tend to distract a reader, drawing his or her attention away from the story by disrupting the flow of the narrative. Despite these issues, I'm still happy to have read the book. &quot;Junk&quot; is an unusual story that entertains, amuses, and makes you think all at the same time.y black man at his firm with his love for literature and his brother's links to gang life. Martin, in the midst of serious troubles, soon learns that his skills as a big shot salesman do translate into fulfilling other goals and desires.<br />What doesn't work as well is worth mentioning, too. Despite the extensive character development of the early chapters, important figures remain elusive. Mihra, for example, is a Pakistani woman who catches Martin's eye early in the story. She plays an important part later on but receives only superficial attention. Moreover, the story veers too wildly into strange worlds. I kept thinking as I read the book that Goodwin should have fleshed the story out a bit more. While I was amazed at how far the story went in the short number of pages, I thought the book would have been better with a few more chapters. Finally, &quot;Junk&quot; really, really needed a good proofreading. Errors abound on nearly every page of the story. I'm not comfortable criticizing someone for this problem since I am a lazy editor myself, but you need to either do it yourself or find someone to do it for you if you're going to publish a book. Lots of mistakes tend to distract a reader, drawing his or her attention away from the story by disrupting the flow of the narrative. Despite these issues, I'm still happy to have read the book. &quot;Junk&quot; is an unusual story that entertains, amuses, and makes you think all at the same time.	2004-06-13
631542:US	52012289	RGSA86FZJ74PW	0786015632	705750730	Blood Road	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Intriguing idea, but not executed well	I usually avoid books and movies about vampires. I plan on reading Bram Stoker's &quot;Dracula&quot; some day, and I might peruse a few other notable titles in this huge genre at some point, but I am not particularly a fan of the vampires. I blame writers and filmmakers for my lethargy about this topic. Far too often, unoriginality rules the roost when it comes to vampires. I am weary of hearing about or seeing yet another dapper duffer lounging around a castle luring in the virginal girls from the village for another night of seductive bloodletting. I recently saw a couple of good movies about vampires, Jean Rollin's &quot;Fascination&quot; and Mark Pirro's &quot;A Polish Vampire in Burbank,&quot; but those two films took a different approach to the topic. So did Edo Van Belkom's &quot;Blood Road,&quot; a mass-market paperback about a Dracula type roaming the highways in a sixteen wheeler. Still, I ended up reading the book more due to its setting (Canada) and the idea of trucking serving as a central plot point. I like reading anything about our neighbor to the north, and I always thought a horror story set in a trucking environment would make a good story, so off I went for a few hours with Van Belkom's book tucked securely under my arm. I also gave the author a chance since I enjoyed a short story of his included in a horror anthology called &quot;The Darker Side.&quot;<br />Amanda Peck dreams of one day leaving her pedestrian existence in Parry Sound, Ontario for life in the big city. Her wearisome job as a waitress at a truck stop, slinging hash while chatting with guys named Cookie, just isn't doing it for her anymore. Too, her live in boyfriend Ron Stinson, a one time up and coming hockey star who has since fallen into a pit of alcoholism and gambling, is wearing a little thin. When Amanda returns from work one day to find Ron again gambling away all of their money, she decides to strike out on her own. Leaving her trailer far behind, Peck hitchhikes out to the highway with only the haziest idea of where she is going. After accepting rides from a couple of truckers, Amanda decides that what she is doing is downright ridiculous and starts the trek back to the trailer. Big mistake. On the way home, Peck accepts a ride from Konrad Valeska, a repulsive yet somehow magnetic figure who drives a fancy black truck for a company called Tucana Northern. Amanda isn't in the truck for long at all before she realizes the folly of her situation. Valeska is a vampire who cruises the highways of Canada picking up hitchhikers so he can feed. He straps his latest recruit to a special table kept in his cab, feeding on her blood at his leisure through a needle and tube device. Valeska foregoes the usual bite method because he is old and his fangs are rotting (!).<br />Vampire Valeska possesses a few of the traits we usually associate with Dracula. He can hypnotize his victims, responds negatively to holy water and crosses, avoids the sunlight, and must feed on human blood to survive. That last item is where the whole trucking scheme fits into the picture. By constantly staying on the move, Valeska can abduct and dispose of bodies over a wide area, thus eluding the authorities in an age of instantaneous computer communications and wanted posters. The police are on to the vampire, though, as five bodies found on the side of the road bring in the local cops. The corpses, mysteriously drained of their life giving fluids and ravaged by wolves, present an ongoing threat. Constable Sharpe, the cop on the case who loves his coffee as much as he thrives on bringing in the bad guys, knows Canada has a serial killer on its hands. At least he thinks it's a serial killer until Amanda Peck escapes from her captor and tells her weird story to the disbelieving police and her doubtful boyfriend Ron. What follows could well give the young lady the title &quot;Amanda Peck, Vampire Killer.&quot;<br />The best element of &quot;Blood Road&quot; is the whipsawfast pacing. This book movies so fast for its 300+ pages that I felt like I read it in a couple of hours. You won't wait around for anything important to happen with this story. I liked the Canadian environment too although the tale could have just as easily unfolded in the United States. Regrettably, the good is too often marred by the bad. Plot holes so huge you could drive a truck through them (no pun intended) spring up throughout the book like noxious weeds. Perhaps the most noticeable moment when I went &quot;huh?&quot; occurred when Sharpe investigates the trucking company where Valeska works. The cop goes there, asks a bunch of questions, and learns Valeska will probably show up to load his truck at some point in the near future. Away goes Sharp, off to investigate another angle of the case, AND HE DOESN'T ASSIGN ANY POLICE OFFICERS TO WATCH THE TRUCKING COMPANY! And this is after he suspects Konrad's involvement in the unsolved murders. Sure enough, Valeska stops by the yard, commits a crime, and continues cruising on down the highway without a care in the world.<br />Still, I couldn't help but like the book despite this problem and a few others-like inadequate character development, the obsession with coffee, and the rather tame conclusion. I wouldn't pass up the opportunity to read another one of Edo Van Belkom's books in the future, but I fervently hope his other works avoid the problems found in this one.fast pacing. This book movies so fast for its 300+ pages that I felt like I read it in a couple of hours. You won't wait around for anything important to happen with this story. I liked the Canadian environment too although the tale could have just as easily unfolded in the United States. Regrettably, the good is too often marred by the bad. Plot holes so huge you could drive a truck through them (no pun intended) spring up throughout the book like noxious weeds. Perhaps the most noticeable moment when I went &quot;huh?&quot; occurred when Sharpe investigates the trucking company where Valeska works. The cop goes there, asks a bunch of questions, and learns Valeska will probably show up to load his truck at some point in the near future. Away goes Sharp, off to investigate another angle of the case, AND HE DOESN'T ASSIGN ANY POLICE OFFICERS TO WATCH THE TRUCKING COMPANY! And this is after he suspects Konrad's involvement in the unsolved murders. Sure enough, Valeska stops by the yard, commits a crime, and continues cruising on down the highway without a care in the world. <br />Still, I couldn't help but like the book despite this problem and a few others-like inadequate character development, the obsession with coffee, and the rather tame conclusion. I wouldn't pass up the opportunity to read another one of Edo Van Belkom's books in the future, but I fervently hope his other works avoid the problems found in this one.	2004-06-13
646369:US	52012289	R3RV4QH8VY4N2J	0684825031	504220033	NEXT AMERICAN NATION: The New Nationalism and the Fourth American Revolution	Books	5	32	36	N	N	Exploding myths, offering solutions	Every so often, I come across one of those books that really makes me think. Michael Lind's penetrating look at modern America, \\"The Next American Nation: The New Nationalism and the Fourth American Revolution,\\" is one of those books. I should elaborate a bit on that statement: books that REALLY make me think are ones that I will ponder at odd times during the day, or think about as I am falling asleep at night. I usually don't do that with a mass-market paperback or the latest popular novel. No, certain books on history, society, or philosophy sometimes find me puzzling out their theses while I engage in the mundane activities of daily life. Not every book has such an effect on me, but Lind's effort did. Written nearly ten years ago, \\"The Next American Nation\\" asks questions and puts forth conclusions imbued with intelligent insight and forceful conviction. It's iconoclastic, attacking the dogmas that presently govern every facet of our society. Despite the book's age, the issues Lind addresses continue to have relevance in the here and now. The author was once an editor at Harper's and The New Republic, as well as a contributor to The New York Times and The Washington Post.<br />\\"The Next American Nation\\" probably falls under the category of American Studies, a once vaunted field of scholarship that fell on hard times once the multiculturalists took over academia. Lind's explorations borrow liberally from history, politics, sociology, and philosophy in a quest to put forth an overarching argument about where America should go in the future. According to the author, the United States has experienced three revolutions during its history, and it must experience a fourth one if it is to survive. Lind claims these revolutions birthed three distinct republics: Anglo-America (1789-1861), Euro-America (1875-1957), and Multicultural America (1972-present). Each republic put forth a national formula unique to its time. Anglo-America associated itself with Protestant Christianity flowing from a dominant Anglo-Saxon population. Euro-America embraced all white Europeans as authentic citizens while supporting a broader Judeo-Christian ethic. Multicultural America, which Lind despises for reasons he explains in minute detail, rejects the emphasis on Americans of European descent by elevating minorities to the status of autonomous nations within the larger society. Multiculturalists reject Christianity, replacing it with secular humanism as the new civic religion. Wars and other social turmoil led to the rise of these republics.<br />Each republic survived due to grand compromises, extraconstitutional bargains that allowed the upper classes to thrive. Anglo-America's implicit agreement between the northern upper class and the southern planters allowed slavery to thrive until the Civil War. In Euro-America, the agreement was between white industrialists and poor white laborers to keep non-whites out of the work force. Multicultural America thrives on the repudiation of white supremacy while elevating five socially constructed race categories, which then compete for special favors from the government. Social classes, whether real or artificial, play a central role in Lind's analysis of American society. The author argues that a white overclass exists today, a class that thrives through credentials earned from top schools and nepotism at the highest levels of business and government. This overclass has taken control of both political parties, and uses multiculturalism to defuse resistance from minorities. Lind claims a black overclass, created through race-based handouts like affirmative action, relies on the white elites for power even as they condemn the white power structure. Meanwhile, the majority of the minority population languishes in slums across the country. In other words, multiculturalism is a tool of the elite designed to pit racial groups against one another while the upper classes rob the country blind.<br />Michael Lind offersa solution to our problems. Scrap multiculturalism, the author avers, or else America will end up looking like a third world country (high crime rates and slums with the upper classes living in gated, privately protected communities). Liberal nationalism should become the Fourth American republic, nationalism based on a common language and shared social and psychological traits called Trans-America. Intermarriage will play a large role in this new nation, with the melting pot once again reasserting itself. Trans-America will abolish the nearly unchecked immigration of low skilled immigrants (they drive down wages for poor citizens), replace the current plurality election process with one of proportional representation, and ban political fundraising. Lind even offers a canon of Trans-American heroes from the past, from Alexander Hamilton to Frederick Douglass.<br />Whew, is that a lot of material! I'm not even touching on key parts of his argument, but you get the idea. His solutions, however, do have many problems. Replacing the current way we elect officials, for instance, sounds like a solid plan. I would love to get rid of big money in politics. Proportional representation may not be the way to go since this form of government must rely on forming coalitions to elect leaders. Look at the difficulties in Israel and India, where the government is always collapsing as multiple parties duke it out for control. That's not the biggest problem in this book, though. Lind's ideas about class in America are solid, but how will he get people to think about class in a non-Marxist way? Class and Marxism go together like shoes and socks. Most people cannot even envision one without the other. Any effort to overcome the divides between social classes will have an uphill battle in a country that spent fifty years battling Marxism, to say the least. Still, Michael Lind's book is an effort to come up with some solutions to our current problems, one that goes outside the current dogmas in the process. The author is intelligent, a good writer, and truly seems to care about his country. A stellar read.a solution to our problems. Scrap multiculturalism, the author avers, or else America will end up looking like a third world country (high crime rates and slums with the upper classes living in gated, privately protected communities). Liberal nationalism should become the Fourth American republic, nationalism based on a common language and shared social and psychological traits called Trans-America. Intermarriage will play a large role in this new nation, with the melting pot once again reasserting itself. Trans-America will abolish the nearly unchecked immigration of low skilled immigrants (they drive down wages for poor citizens), replace the current plurality election process with one of proportional representation, and ban political fundraising. Lind even offers a canon of Trans-American heroes from the past, from Alexander Hamilton to Frederick Douglass.<br />Whew, is that a lot of material! I'm not even touching on key parts of his argument, but you get the idea. His solutions, however, do have many problems. Replacing the current way we elect officials, for instance, sounds like a solid plan. I would love to get rid of big money in politics. Proportional representation may not be the way to go since this form of government must rely on forming coalitions to elect leaders. Look at the difficulties in Israel and India, where the government is always collapsing as multiple parties duke it out for control. That's not the biggest problem in this book, though. Lind's ideas about class in America are solid, but how will he get people to think about class in a non-Marxist way? Class and Marxism go together like shoes and socks. Most people cannot even envision one without the other. Any effort to overcome the divides between social classes will have an uphill battle in a country that spent fifty years battling Marxism, to say the least. Still, Michael Lind's book is an effort to come up with some solutions to our current problems, one that goes outside the current dogmas in the process. The author is intelligent, a good writer, and truly seems to care about his country. A stellar read.	2004-06-01
646863:US	52012289	R2OKV7C4W0UQTB	0345446526	981589588	Crawlers	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A good, not great, read	When I saw John Shirley released &quot;Crawlers,&quot; a new horror novel, I rushed out to get a copy. I had the wonderful experience of reading &quot;Wetbones&quot; and &quot;Black Butterflies&quot; a couple of years ago, so I figured I couldn't go wrong with this book. Remember the themes of addiction in &quot;Wetbones&quot;? Remember the over the top gore in that book? Remember the Lovecraftian menace that haunted the pages of that immensely scary and enjoyable novel? It's sad to say, but &quot;Crawlers&quot; is not Lovecraftian. It doesn't deal with a personal theme like addiction. It is not scary. And it doesn't have anywhere near the levels of imaginative gore Shirley lovingly sprinkled across the pages of &quot;Wetbones.&quot; Still, that's perfectly acceptable. Not all authors wish to stick to tried and true formulas. I don't think I would if I ever decided to write books and short stories. While &quot;Crawlers&quot; doesn't employ the awesome components that made up &quot;Wetbones,&quot; it is still an entertaining novel in its own right.<br />Quiebra, California is a small town situated in the San Francisco Bay Area, a town with low rents and a diverse population that enjoys living near a large metropolis but without the noise and high crime rates. That's not to say there aren't problems in the town, that there aren't kids giving their parents and the local police fits by raising trouble on the weekends. Still, most of the people in town are well behaved, with the only problems occurring when the local teens race cars and party on occasion. What no one knows is that the peaceful atmosphere of Quiebra is about to change forever after a mysterious satellite crashes on the outskirts of town. A local salvage diver by the name of Nick Leverton, figuring on getting a big paycheck from the government, turns up at the site and tricks the soldiers there into letting him bring up the wreckage. With his son Cal helping him, Nick indeed finds a satellite in the water. What happens next, as he attempts to drag it up, guarantees that the town of Quiebra will never, ever, be the same again. The problems start in the Leverton household, with Nick, his wife, his daughter Adair, and his son Cal. Soon, Adair's boyfriend Waylon, a conspiracy nut with a knack for electronics, enters the picture, as does Adair's Aunt Lacey, a local college professor, a federal agent named Stanner, and about a dozen other characters both major and minor. A nightmare is coming, one that involves a lot more than a harmless satellite sitting on the bottom of a bay.<br />It turns out that the government, specifically an ultra-secret Pentagon research lab called The Facility, has been mucking around with a dangerous new high tech weapon system. After the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the federal government wants to insure that they have a leg up on any potential foes. It's a noble goal, and probably a necessary one, but new weapon systems sometimes have the irritating tendency to not do what the creators want. That's exactly what happened in this instance, as evidenced in the first chapter when the experiment got out of control at an isolated lab, requiring a rather violent response from the military to keep the whole thing from spreading into the larger population. Then someone high up got a bright idea: why not launch the whole mess into space, where the experiment can continue away from human population centers? Just get NASA to build a big enough box, reason the military brass, and the United States can still have their new weapon floating around the heavens. Predictably, what goes up must inevitably come down, and when it does the whole world faces annihilation. Why? Because this weapon system is highly intelligent, works diligently on its own with little supervision from humans, and can replicate itself in a short period of time. I won't spoil the book by chattering about specifics, but it's called nanotechnology and it's a nasty bugger that won't take no for an answer. Suffice it say that the whole town rapidly turns into a population of human machines that cause endless mayhem.<br />&quot;Crawlers&quot; works despite its derivative qualities. The book's strongest elements are the characters. Shirley spends an enormous amount of time fleshing these figures out, placing special emphasis on the teenage residents of Quiebra. It seems the author spent some time researching the lingo used by today's muddled youth, which he then put to good effect in the novel. At first, the constant uses of &quot;like&quot; and &quot;tight,&quot; along with other slang terms particular to America's youth, grated on my nerves. It grows on you after awhile, as do the young characters. Even Waylon, a morose kid with blue hair and an attitude problem, assumes a likeable dimension as the story progresses. The adults receive less attention from Shirley with the exception of Stanner, the Air Force operative who undergoes a crisis of conscience about the unfolding horrors in Quiebra.<br />A central problem with &quot;Crawlers,&quot; aside from a lack of over the top gore I expected from this author, was the conclusion. Readers of horror novels, or at least this reader, sort of anticipate an ending charged with frenetic activity. In short, we look for something over the top to wrap up a long story. Regrettably, Shirley cops out with an ending that is pat and over too quickly. The denouement of &quot;Crawlers&quot; doesn't approach the banality of a Bentley Little finale, but it does leave a lot to be desired. If I had to recommend a John Shirley book at this point, I would probably point a reader to &quot;Wetbones&quot; rather than &quot;Crawlers.&quot; The novel isn't an original work, but it is an entertaining one nonetheless. Give it a shot.n't take no for an answer. Suffice it say that the whole town rapidly turns into a population of human machines that cause endless mayhem.<br />&quot;Crawlers&quot; works despite its derivative qualities. The book's strongest elements are the characters. Shirley spends an enormous amount of time fleshing these figures out, placing special emphasis on the teenage residents of Quiebra. It seems the author spent some time researching the lingo used by today's muddled youth, which he then put to good effect in the novel. At first, the constant uses of &quot;like&quot; and &quot;tight,&quot; along with other slang terms particular to America's youth, grated on my nerves. It grows on you after awhile, as do the young characters. Even Waylon, a morose kid with blue hair and an attitude problem, assumes a likeable dimension as the story progresses. The adults receive less attention from Shirley with the exception of Stanner, the Air Force operative who undergoes a crisis of conscience about the unfolding horrors in Quiebra.<br />A central problem with &quot;Crawlers,&quot; aside from a lack of over the top gore I expected from this author, was the conclusion. Readers of horror novels, or at least this reader, sort of anticipate an ending charged with frenetic activity. In short, we look for something over the top to wrap up a long story. Regrettably, Shirley cops out with an ending that is pat and over too quickly. The denouement of &quot;Crawlers&quot; doesn't approach the banality of a Bentley Little finale, but it does leave a lot to be desired. If I had to recommend a John Shirley book at this point, I would probably point a reader to &quot;Wetbones&quot; rather than &quot;Crawlers.&quot; The novel isn't an original work, but it is an entertaining one nonetheless. Give it a shot.	2004-06-01
648390:US	52012289	R1483XB0B0LJIR	0670032999	510215142	Rise of the Vulcans: The History of Bush's War Cabinet	Books	4	36	38	N	N	Impressive	Every so often as I read this book, I would stop and gaze thoughtfully at the cover. You can see what it looks like here, with the six principal characters of the book drawn in a political cartoon style. That's not what I was looking at after awhile, though. I kept fixing my gaze on the picture hanging on the wall behind Paul Wolfowitz, Richard Armitage, Donald Rumsfeld, Richard Cheney, Colin Powell, and Condoleeza Rice. Since the six are sitting in some official looking Washington, D.C. type conference room, I assume the portrait on the wall must be a depiction of the American president. But which one? If you look closely, you will see the man in the picture has no face. Is it George W. Bush, the current chief executive? Or is it one of the other presidents-Nixon, Ford, or Bush the Elder-which several of these people worked for at various times in their lengthy public service careers? Perhaps the leader without a face is a subtle jab on the part of the author, a jab directed squarely at the men who sit in the Oval Office. After all, the six people examined in this book wield enormous power over American foreign policy, and have for nearly thirty years. Perhaps the president is merely a faceless, transient apparition when compared to such powerful personalities.<br />\\"Rise of the Vulcans: The History of Bush's War Cabinet\\" is a history of America's new foreign policy as formulated by the above named individuals. James Mann emphasizes from the start that presidents play a small role in his book. Presidents come and go, but the six individuals in the book have played roles both major and minor in nearly every administration dating back to Nixon. Donald Rumsfeld worked for the Nixon White House as a staff advisor and in the Ford administration as Secretary of Defense. Paul Wolfowitz was a major policy wonk in Middle East and Asian affairs at the Pentagon. Richard Armitage and Colin Powell served their country in the Vietnam conflict before assuming greater and greater responsibilities in America's defense bureaucracies. Richard Cheney, the current vice-president, worked closely with Rumsfeld before his own stint as Bush the Elder's Defense Secretary. Condoleeza Rice became the current president's National Security Advisor after a career that carried her from Stanford University through several Pentagon assignments. If there's a recognizable theme in these short descriptions, it's no mistake. As Mann points out, all of these people rose to prominence through the Pentagon.<br />The Vulcans (as these figures came to be known when Bush the Younger ran for president) worked together for years-though often at odds with one another on certain issues-to reformulate American foreign policy. In the 1960s and 1970s, Mann argues, the United States subscribed to Henry Kissinger's realpolitik as a means of dealing with the Soviet Union and other enemies. The foreign policy wonks believed that power, and the exercise of power, defined relationships between countries. America's disastrous experience in Vietnam convinced Kissinger and men like him that the United States had lost power and thus could not deal with enemies on an equal footing. The result was d&eacute;tente, or the idea that negotiation and compromise with America's foes was the prudent path in dealing with foreign powers. The Vulcans, first through Wolfowitz and eventually through others, rejected these ideas. They believed that America was a great country, a strong nation of boundless energy that could use its military power to cow any opposition. If the United States developed new weapons systems and spent vast sums on defense, no other country could ever hope to defeat-let alone match-our supremacy. The collapse of the Soviet Union only served to underscore this mode of thought.<br />American might isn't the whole story, according to Mann. Cheney, Rumsfeld, Wolfowitz, and the rest believed that the United States should, and could, use its military might to bring about democraticchange in the world. The belief that an invasion of Iraq could not only overthrow a dictator and install a democratic government, but also serve as a means of changing the entire Middle East, was a belief articulated by the Vulcans long ago. Moreover, the Vulcans believe that we should conduct these types of operations unilaterally, as alliances tend to weaken American resolve. Not all of the six necessarily support these views. Colin Powell, for example, shares many of the core values of the other five figures, but believes that following these ideas to their logical conclusion will result in quagmires similar to Vietnam because such beliefs lead to open-ended conflicts with no exit strategies. Mann says that Powell's opposition to many of the Vulcan policies have led to significant discord within the Bush White House.<br />The problems with such an aggressive foreign policy should be clear. Only an out of touch bureaucrat would think that a top down democracy, installed at the point of a bayonet, could succeed anywhere in the world. What happens if the Iraqis vote a tyrant into office in the forthcoming elections? Hey, that's democracy in action, isn't it? Something tells me that wouldn't satisfy the American government. I guess it is democracy as long as it is a certain type of democracy rubber stamped by Washington. At the same time, the left offers no adequate solutions to foreign policy, either. Turn over all our power to the United Nations and coalitions? No way. Taking that path will only lead to further quagmires. Mann's book offers no significant alternatives to the Vulcan worldview, but it does offer a fascinating read on a topic more relevant as the election nears. \\"Rise of the Vulcans\\" is an immensely readable book that's hard to put down, a mix of history, biography, and journalism that will entertain even as it informs.e in the world. The belief that an invasion of Iraq could not only overthrow a dictator and install a democratic government, but also serve as a means of changing the entire Middle East, was a belief articulated by the Vulcans long ago. Moreover, the Vulcans believe that we should conduct these types of operations unilaterally, as alliances tend to weaken American resolve. Not all of the six necessarily support these views. Colin Powell, for example, shares many of the core values of the other five figures, but believes that following these ideas to their logical conclusion will result in quagmires similar to Vietnam because such beliefs lead to open-ended conflicts with no exit strategies. Mann says that Powell's opposition to many of the Vulcan policies have led to significant discord within the Bush White House.<br />The problems with such an aggressive foreign policy should be clear. Only an out of touch bureaucrat would think that a top down democracy, installed at the point of a bayonet, could succeed anywhere in the world. What happens if the Iraqis vote a tyrant into office in the forthcoming elections? Hey, that's democracy in action, isn't it? Something tells me that wouldn't satisfy the American government. I guess it is democracy as long as it is a certain type of democracy rubber stamped by Washington. At the same time, the left offers no adequate solutions to foreign policy, either. Turn over all our power to the United Nations and coalitions? No way. Taking that path will only lead to further quagmires. Mann's book offers no significant alternatives to the Vulcan worldview, but it does offer a fascinating read on a topic more relevant as the election nears. \\"Rise of the Vulcans\\" is an immensely readable book that's hard to put down, a mix of history, biography, and journalism that will entertain even as it informs.	2004-05-31
649652:US	52012289	R1ZEM5859284J6	0060520515	836724652	The Other Side of the Story: A Novel	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Who knew chick lit could be so good?	Gemma Hogan's life was cruising along nicely until her father suddenly up and left her mother after decades of marriage. Hogan, who works a high-pressure job as a party planner in Dublin, Ireland, now has to move into her mom's house to console the hysterical woman. Gemma's furious at her father, especially considering he left for a younger woman who works with him at the candy factory. It's not as though Hogan doesn't have enough to worry about already; her old boyfriend Anton ditched her for her best friend Lily a few years ago, and promptly fathered a child with the woman. As the months slip by and her father fails to return, Gemma wonders if her life will ever assume a semblance of normality again. When she isn't popping in at the local chemist's shop to fill a prescription for her mom, she fires off hilarious e-mails to a friend in the United States, railing about her miserable existence. Eventually, this pal, impressed by the e-mails, forwards them to a literary agent named JoJo Harvey, an American working at the Lipman Haigh Agency in London.<br />JoJo Harvey is a piece of work in her own right, a woman with even more moral dilemmas than Gemma Hogan. A former New York City cop turned literary agent in England, Harvey looks like Jessica Rabbit with a dog eat dog attitude. She wants a partnership in the firm so bad she's willing to do almost anything to get it, including engaging in an intimate relationship with her boss. This firecracker spends most of her time battling fellow up and comer Ritchie Gant for the position when she isn't trying to scrape up best-selling manuscripts. Harvey's raking in the bread for the company, but still worries she won't get the job. She often heads over to her cousin's place to whine about her myriad problems. JoJo will have to really hustle if she wishes to realize her career goals because in a man's world a woman can't be too careful. Fortunately for Harvey, one of her client's books, written by Gemma Hogan's ex-friend Lily Wright, just hit the bestseller list.<br />Lily Wright is the polar opposite of the whimsical Gemma and the hard driving JoJo. Here's a woman weighted down with insecurities. She worries incessantly about writing a follow-up to her popular book. Her husband Anton and daughter Ema worry her, too. Wright thinks Anton might leave her at the drop of a hat. And the guilt over taking Anton away from Gemma burns a hole in Lily's stomach even now, years after it happened. Life is about to get a whole lot worse, though, when her husband convinces Lily to buy an expensive but run down house for the family. The money to pay for their new abode, argues Anton, will come in when Lily writes her next bestseller. Predictably, a bad case of writer's block, exacerbated by the nightmarish (and amazingly expensive) experience of restoring an old home, dooms Wright's chances of attaining her dream life. In a desperate bid to meet the deadline for her next novel, Lily gives JoJo a novel she wrote before she became famous. The book tanks, and Wright's personal life tanks along with it. Bad reviews for a writer, apparently, translate into a serious case of depression.<br />&quot;The Other Side of the Story&quot; is a wonderful novel, one of the best I have read in the last few years. This admission is a rather painful one to make for a reader who usually spends his time perusing graphic horror novels. Chick lit simply isn't in my vocabulary. In fact, Marian Keyes's novel is the first book I have ever read from this genre. Surprisingly, nearly everything about this story is divine, from the razor sharp characterization to the broad humor to the atmosphere. I can't remember the last time I read a book where, when I finished it, I could actually see the characters as if they stood before my eyes as fully realized individuals. Did I mention that the narrative shifts between Gemma, JoJo, and Lily until the end, when Keyes brings the three characters' separate plotlines together through a series of intriguing twists and turns? The author carries it all off with ease. There are writers and then there are WRITERS, and Marian Keyes is a talent not to be missed by those who appreciate a great read.<br />The problems I had with &quot;The Other Side of the Story&quot; were relatively minor. I was a little irked over JoJo Harvey at first. There's an exchange in the Harvey narrative where the agent strikes a huge deal for a new novelist, turning a seemingly dead project into a huge payoff. This part of the book felt forced, as though Keyes was trying to convince us how great JoJo was at her job when it was really an example of luck. I also thought Harvey was a little too over the top for my tastes, but she grew on me after awhile. I never tired of Gemma Hogan (my favorite character) or Lily Wright. After reading about half the book, I realized Keyes was actualizing three separate aspects of the ideal female personality: Gemma Hogan is the style maven with a great sense of humor. Lily Wright is the sensitive maternal figure. And JoJo Harvey is the new career woman who uses her good looks and intelligence to conquer the business world. For all I know, these three women represent aspects of Keyes's own personality. They simply must-no one could write so convincingly unless they personally possessed these traits. No matter whether you are a man or a woman, you will love this book if you like well written novels.f intriguing twists and turns? The author carries it all off with ease. There are writers and then there are WRITERS, and Marian Keyes is a talent not to be missed by those who appreciate a great read.<br />The problems I had with &quot;The Other Side of the Story&quot; were relatively minor. I was a little irked over JoJo Harvey at first. There's an exchange in the Harvey narrative where the agent strikes a huge deal for a new novelist, turning a seemingly dead project into a huge payoff. This part of the book felt forced, as though Keyes was trying to convince us how great JoJo was at her job when it was really an example of luck. I also thought Harvey was a little too over the top for my tastes, but she grew on me after awhile. I never tired of Gemma Hogan (my favorite character) or Lily Wright. After reading about half the book, I realized Keyes was actualizing three separate aspects of the ideal female personality: Gemma Hogan is the style maven with a great sense of humor. Lily Wright is the sensitive maternal figure. And JoJo Harvey is the new career woman who uses her good looks and intelligence to conquer the business world. For all I know, these three women represent aspects of Keyes's own personality. They simply must-no one could write so convincingly unless they personally possessed these traits. No matter whether you are a man or a woman, you will love this book if you like well written novels.	2004-05-30
650314:US	52012289	R2X1KBXGOAPKLB	0929701712	779768316	Beneath a Marble Sky: A Novel of the Taj Mahal	Books	5	123	134	N	N	Wonderful historical fiction	Writing historical fiction is a challenging endeavor. Not only does the author need to know how to do historical research-and actually do it-they must then construct an engaging story that will grab a reader who knows little about the era the story is set in. I once knew a fellow student who took an undergraduate historical research seminar with me just because she wanted to write historical fiction. She simultaneously was working on a master's degree in English. I couldn't understand why someone would think they needed so many classes just to write novels. Fortunately, writer John Shors seems to have conquered the techniques of this genre, as evidenced by his fascinating book &quot;Beneath a Marble Sky: A Novel of the Taj Mahal.&quot; I cannot say I am an expert on Mughal India, having only covered it superficially in a couple of World Civilizations courses during my undergraduate career, but the story does jibe with what I remember about sixteenth and seventeenth century India. Obviously, Shors took substantial liberties with the finer points of his story, inventing many incidents and moving some of the places around, but the background information seems solid.<br />&quot;Beneath a Marble Sky&quot; is a story told in flashback by Jahanara, the favorite daughter of the Mughal leader Shah Jahan (ruled 1628-1658) and his wife Mumtaz Mahal. Her early life is one of luxury and play tempered by a burgeoning sense of responsibility about her future role as a representative of a Muslim emperor ruling over a majority Hindu state. Even as she swims in the river with her brothers Dara and Aurangzeb, or gossips with her Hindu friend Ladli, Jahanara knows that one day she will marry someone of importance to the empire. In the meantime she spends a large amount of time with her beautiful mother, learning how to overcome the obstacles placed in the way of women in a Muslim dominated court. She also begins to see the strains between her brother Aurangzeb and the rest of the family, strains that will one day explode into a series of disasters for the Mughal Empire. Still, Jahanara is content in her youth, enjoying the world around her through the innocent eyes of a child.<br />As Jahanara grows into a beautiful young woman resembling in no small way her mother, storm clouds appear on the horizon. Her parents marry her off to the sleazy Khondamir, a wealthy silver merchant who only wants Jahanara as a wife to increase his power with the court. This marriage removes the young princess from the day-to-day activities of the court, where the power struggles to succeed Shah Jahan begin in earnest. Aurangzeb, his hatred for the family growing by leaps and bounds, has been spending an enormous amount of time leading the military in campaigns against the Persians in the North and the Deccans in the South. His brother Dara, on the other hand, remains at home studying philosophy and religion. Jahanara worries about Dara's indifference to all things relating to the throne, and tries to warn her brother about the risks posed by Aurangzeb. Meanwhile, Mumtaz Mahal dies while giving birth to a child, thus leading Shah Jahan to build a mausoleum to memorialize his beloved wife. The emperor employs Isa, a talented architect, to build what will become the Taj Mahal. Jahanara helps Isa in this arduous task, which allows her to escape the wily Khondamir for a time. The chore allows Jahanara to show off her intelligence, as well as letting her reenter the political intrigues in the court. On numerous occasions, the princess saves members of her family from Aurangzeb's wrath using only the wits she inherited from her savvy mother. I won't spoil the rest of the story, but twists and turns aplenty abound right up to the last page.<br />Maybe it's just me, but I thought Shors's writing style resembled in no small way those wonderful translations of &quot;1001 Nights&quot; and similar tales of the Orient. You get an amazing sense of what it must have felt like to stroll through a bazaar, with its exotic sights, smells, and sounds. You also get a strong feel for power politics in an eastern imperial family, which, to no surprise, is about the same as it would be in a European monarchy. The best part of the book in my opinion is Aurangzeb's religious orthodoxy. Here's a guy whose strict Muslim beliefs lead him to brand members of his own family as heretics worthy of execution. Regrettably for the Mughal Empire, the Muslims were a minority in a Hindu country. Aurangzeb hated this majority and punished them accordingly when he assumed the throne. The resulting chaos eventually set the stage for the British conquest of India. In the book, the reader cannot help but see shades of Osama Bin Laden lurking behind the actions and words of Aurangzeb. At first I thought attributing these traits to Jahan's son was anachronistic, but it's not. Aurangzeb really was an Islamic fanatic. As the empire teeters on the brink of annihilation, the Taj Mahal towers in the background, a monument to love surrounded by so much hate and suffering.<br />Give John Shors's book a go if you love historical fiction. It's a great read about a period of history most westerners know nothing about. The quick pace, wonderful atmosphere, and the major and minor themes in the book will resonate with readers. I have only seen pictures of the Taj Mahal, and will probably never get over to India to see it in person, so reading this book was sort of a substitute for a lengthy trip. I have already recommended the book to a few people I know, and I think you will do the same after you read it.ll through a bazaar, with its exotic sights, smells, and sounds. You also get a strong feel for power politics in an eastern imperial family, which, to no surprise, is about the same as it would be in a European monarchy. The best part of the book in my opinion is Aurangzeb's religious orthodoxy. Here's a guy whose strict Muslim beliefs lead him to brand members of his own family as heretics worthy of execution. Regrettably for the Mughal Empire, the Muslims were a minority in a Hindu country. Aurangzeb hated this majority and punished them accordingly when he assumed the throne. The resulting chaos eventually set the stage for the British conquest of India. In the book, the reader cannot help but see shades of Osama Bin Laden lurking behind the actions and words of Aurangzeb. At first I thought attributing these traits to Jahan's son was anachronistic, but it's not. Aurangzeb really was an Islamic fanatic. As the empire teeters on the brink of annihilation, the Taj Mahal towers in the background, a monument to love surrounded by so much hate and suffering. <br />Give John Shors's book a go if you love historical fiction. It's a great read about a period of history most westerners know nothing about. The quick pace, wonderful atmosphere, and the major and minor themes in the book will resonate with readers. I have only seen pictures of the Taj Mahal, and will probably never get over to India to see it in person, so reading this book was sort of a substitute for a lengthy trip. I have already recommended the book to a few people I know, and I think you will do the same after you read it.	2004-05-29
660449:US	52012289	R2KMFVQ8XCFJCM	0684824035	250686735	Radio Priest: Charles Coughlin, The Father of Hate Radio	Books	2	12	18	N	N	The thesis is weak	The horrors of the Great Depression-the bank closings, the starvation, the joblessness, and the loss of faith in the government-drove millions to question fundamental assumptions about themselves and their country. Similar economic difficulties in Italy and Germany led to the rise of fascistic governments preaching nationalistic hatred. In the United States, however, figures arose touting the same solutions but ultimately failed to bring about a revolution. It was easy for men like Father Charles Coughlin to exploit the desperation welling up in every corner of the nation. Often this exploitation took the form of scapegoating minorities or &quot;international bankers.&quot; As the Second World War began, the radio priest and many others on the far right began their long fade into obscurity, but their messages of hate lived on to inspire new generations of far right figures. Donald Warren's biography of Father Coughlin examines his rise and fall as well as the links between this controversial figure and present day radio talk shows.<br />The author argues that conservative talk radio pundits owe an enormous debt of gratitude to Father Charles E. Coughlin. It was this priest, broadcasting out of his Shrine of the Little Flower in Royal Oak, Michigan during the 1920s and 1930s, who perfected the techniques used today to spread vitriol via the airwaves. Coughlin was the first to create &quot;infotainment,&quot; the melding of news events with a bombastic delivery style aimed at capturing a large audience. He was wildly successful in this endeavor, attracting through his radio speeches and his magazine &quot;Social Justice&quot; an audience that numbered in the millions. The subject of Warren's book was the first public figure to obliterate the distinction between politics, religion, and mass media entertainment.<br />Coughlin's life reads like a fantastic fable of the self-made man. Born in Canada to devoutly Catholic parents, his life was unremarkable until he decided to become a priest and entered the Basilian Order after college. This Catholic sect opposed banking, usury, and other supposed ills of an industrialized society. Coughlin's later positions on the economic woes caused by the Great Depression stemmed largely from the views he learned from the Basilians. In the meantime, he moved to the United States to become a diocesan priest in Michigan. Placed in charge of a small Catholic church in Royal Oak, the young priest eventually took to the airwaves as a way to raise funds for the construction of a new church building that would carry the name the Shrine of the Little Flower. The first broadcasts, intended for children, consisted of simple Christian teachings. Eventually, Coughlin's vocal abilities and an increasing willingness to criticize public figures led to a huge response from the public. From his first lecture attacking Norman Thomas, he soon moved on to excoriating President Herbert Hoover for the government's failure to alleviate the worst aspects of the depression. Money poured in from adoring listeners, and Charles Coughlin was on his way to fame and fortune.<br />The priest originally endorsed Franklin Roosevelt as the panacea America needed to cure its misfortunes. After the New York politician captured the White House, Coughlin often went to Washington to advise the new president on economic matters. New Deal officials, however, were suspicious of the radio priest and his ideas. The eventual falling out with Roosevelt led to the formation of the Union party in 1936. Led by Coughlin, Gerald L.K. Smith, and Francis Townsend, this political attempt to unseat the president by running William Lemke of North Dakota as a presidential candidate failed miserably. The priest, embittered by his loss, began to move to the far right by advocating decidedly pro-Axis viewpoints. The entry of America into the Second World War caused further difficulties: the government banned the &quot;Social Justice&quot; newsletter from the mails as seditious materials, threatened to file charges against the priest, and put pressure on the Catholic Church to force his retirement from the airwaves. Barred from his former avenues of influence and power, Charles Coughlin drifted into obscurity. He died in 1979.<br />Warren's attempt to tie Coughlin to modern day conservative radio talk shows is amazingly forced. It's true that there are some shared aspects here, but there are more differences. The book fails to take into account how much America has changed between the 1920s and 1930s and the 1990s. The Great Depression was an event unparalleled in the history of the country, a time when unemployment rising to unheard of levels led to the emergence of demagogues who promised simple solutions for the nation's ills. No similar comparison can be made for the 1990s; a time of unparalleled prosperity thanks to the Internet boom saw unemployment sink to record lows. The only thing remotely the same during these two disparate periods was a controversial democratic president in the White House.<br />Moreover, the conservative talk show hosts of today never engage in the blatant blather Father Coughlin indulged in; it's simply unacceptable to the American public of today to blame minorities for controlling the banking system or being the guiding hand behind world communism. Warren seems to think there is a comparison, citing a talk radio listener's on-air comment in the 1990s about blacks. But that is a listener airing a viewpoint not shared by the host of the program, very different from Coughlin in the late 1930s. Donald Warren's &quot;Radio Priest: Charles Coughlin, The Father of Hate Radio,&quot; is a capable book when it describes the biographical details of an influential figure in American social and political events of the 1920s and 1930s. Unfortunately, it neither proves its central thesis nor sheds new light on one of America's premier demagogues.e mails as seditious materials, threatened to file charges against the priest, and put pressure on the Catholic Church to force his retirement from the airwaves. Barred from his former avenues of influence and power, Charles Coughlin drifted into obscurity. He died in 1979.<br />Warren's attempt to tie Coughlin to modern day conservative radio talk shows is amazingly forced. It's true that there are some shared aspects here, but there are more differences. The book fails to take into account how much America has changed between the 1920s and 1930s and the 1990s. The Great Depression was an event unparalleled in the history of the country, a time when unemployment rising to unheard of levels led to the emergence of demagogues who promised simple solutions for the nation's ills. No similar comparison can be made for the 1990s; a time of unparalleled prosperity thanks to the Internet boom saw unemployment sink to record lows. The only thing remotely the same during these two disparate periods was a controversial democratic president in the White House. <br />Moreover, the conservative talk show hosts of today never engage in the blatant blather Father Coughlin indulged in; it's simply unacceptable to the American public of today to blame minorities for controlling the banking system or being the guiding hand behind world communism. Warren seems to think there is a comparison, citing a talk radio listener's on-air comment in the 1990s about blacks. But that is a listener airing a viewpoint not shared by the host of the program, very different from Coughlin in the late 1930s. Donald Warren's &quot;Radio Priest: Charles Coughlin, The Father of Hate Radio,&quot; is a capable book when it describes the biographical details of an influential figure in American social and political events of the 1920s and 1930s. Unfortunately, it neither proves its central thesis nor sheds new light on one of America's premier demagogues.	2004-05-20
660939:US	52012289	RTF6THWVMYYRJ	1892389347	856384491	White and Other Tales of Ruin	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good, not great, collection	My first experience with British author Tim Lebbon was a mixed one. My voracious appetite for apocalyptic tales virtually insured I would visit his writings one day. It seems that every book this author has written involves the collapse of civilization followed by horrific incidents, or at least that is what I have gathered from reading plot synopses of his various novels and short stories. When I finally decided to shell out some bucks for one of his books, I decided to pick up &quot;White and Other Tales of Ruin,&quot; figuring that a collection of six short stories about the end of the world would give me a rather comprehensive view of what this guy is all about. The experience started on a positive note: none other than Jack Ketchum, of &quot;The Girl Next Door&quot; and &quot;Red&quot; fame, wrote an enthusiastic introduction for this compilation. Ketchum claims that Lebbon represents the cream of the crop of new young writers, a man who has &quot;done his homework&quot; and has a lot to offer fans of the horror genre. Since I am a fan of Ketchum's work, I took this as the best sort of endorsement, and eagerly dove into the first story. By the time I reached the end of the book, I was less enamored with the introduction's effusive praise. There are good stories here, but a few are rather pedestrian.<br />&quot;White&quot; introduces the reader to Lebbon's concept of &quot;The Ruin,&quot; a series of catastrophic global events leading to the gradual extermination of humanity. Details are vague, but we do get a sense that limited nuclear exchanges matched with several devastating viruses have claimed, and continue to claim, the lives of several billion people. Even worse, nature itself is changing in dangerous ways. The Ruin will reemerge in other Lebbon stories, but &quot;White&quot; focuses on the terrible effects of the calamity on a small group of people trapped in a decaying manor along the English seacoast. Heavy snows and an ominous new life form roaming the countryside insure the characters will have their hands full just trying to stay alive. Told through the eyes of one of the trapped souls, a man who lost his beloved wife to one of the viruses some time before, &quot;White&quot; is Lebbon's attempt at writing a siege story. It's a keeper, full of cloying atmosphere, suspense, and occasional touches of gore.<br />&quot;From Bad Flesh&quot; is another Ruin tale, this time about an English man suffering from a grotesque plague seeking a cure on a remote Greek island. In his quest to find a witch doctor named String, this poor chap runs into a beautiful young woman with several secrets, witnesses many atrocities on the island, and learns how a cure can sometimes come with a terrible price. &quot;From Bad Flesh&quot; is a by the numbers story, one where I saw the ending coming long before it knocked on the door. If you cannot see the conclusion to this one in advance, you haven't been keeping up on your horror reading. Not a bad tale, considering several scenes of unpleasantness thrown into the mix, but far from spectacular.<br />&quot;Hell&quot; was the weakest contribution to the book. A man whose daughter mysteriously leaves one day literally visits the underworld in an attempt to feel better about his loss. It's one of those &quot;you think you got it bad? Check out these poor blokes&quot; stories. The guy witnesses staged genocides and mass sufferings through the windows of his Hell tour bus (!), all a part of a carefully orchestrated therapy program. When he sees his daughter in one of the landscapes, he escapes from the bus and makes his own personal journey through the nightmares. Will he rescue his offspring? Will they escape from Hell before demons turn them into hamburger? Maybe, but getting to the end of this story was quite tedious. I never knew where Lebbon was going with this unsatisfying tale.<br />&quot;The First Law&quot; and &quot;The Origin of Truth&quot; are somewhat better. The former is a storyabout some sailors stranded on a terrible island after a submarine sinks their boat. They find out that their newfound land harbors a nature so pure that it cannot tolerate the presence of human interlopers. I liked the story solely because it turns the conventional idea of shipwrecked people finding sanctuary on a deserted island on its head. The latter story relates the horrors of nanotechnology run amok through the eyes of a young family. As the world collapses into its component molecules under the relentless march of replicating miniature robots, the family flees north in an effort to stave off the inevitable. Lebbon plays with your head as he has the young girl, Gemma, begin channeling advanced scientific theories from seemingly out of nowhere. Perhaps this girl can save humanity? Or perhaps not. Whatever the case, you'll feel for these characters by the end of the story.<br />The last story deals with a depressing future where humans interact with artificial androids. It's a technological and polluted world filled with bored souls looking for a good time through &quot;chopping.&quot; Think body modification and piercing carried to insane levels (adding extra legs, arms, and other body parts), and you'll get the idea. The story can be nasty at times, but it is really about the restorative powers of love. Sounds weird, huh? Well, it is. It is also arguably the best story in the book. According to the endnotes, Lebbon wrote it just for this collection. &quot;White and Other Tales of Ruin&quot; is a good way to spend a day or two, a good read for those interested in new horror, but nothing here trumps &quot;Swan Song&quot; or &quot;The Stand,&quot; the two books that are the best apocalyptic horror has to offer.about some sailors stranded on a terrible island after a submarine sinks their boat. They find out that their newfound land harbors a nature so pure that it cannot tolerate the presence of human interlopers. I liked the story solely because it turns the conventional idea of shipwrecked people finding sanctuary on a deserted island on its head. The latter story relates the horrors of nanotechnology run amok through the eyes of a young family. As the world collapses into its component molecules under the relentless march of replicating miniature robots, the family flees north in an effort to stave off the inevitable. Lebbon plays with your head as he has the young girl, Gemma, begin channeling advanced scientific theories from seemingly out of nowhere. Perhaps this girl can save humanity? Or perhaps not. Whatever the case, you'll feel for these characters by the end of the story.<br />The last story deals with a depressing future where humans interact with artificial androids. It's a technological and polluted world filled with bored souls looking for a good time through &quot;chopping.&quot; Think body modification and piercing carried to insane levels (adding extra legs, arms, and other body parts), and you'll get the idea. The story can be nasty at times, but it is really about the restorative powers of love. Sounds weird, huh? Well, it is. It is also arguably the best story in the book. According to the endnotes, Lebbon wrote it just for this collection. &quot;White and Other Tales of Ruin&quot; is a good way to spend a day or two, a good read for those interested in new horror, but nothing here trumps &quot;Swan Song&quot; or &quot;The Stand,&quot; the two books that are the best apocalyptic horror has to offer.	2004-05-20
672754:US	52012289	R2PW2JBBW7H8LZ	087580294X	142605730	Days of Discontent: American Women and Right-Wing Politics, 1933-1945	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Female fascists redux	Agnes Waters, a prominent far right wing agitator of the 1930s and 1940s, had a specific plan of action in mind when she told her supporters that America needed a revolution of mothers to overthrow the Roosevelt regime and his New Deal. \\"Let's keep a clothesline handy in every little back yard to hang the traitors, or a gun. And let's all of us be known as pistol-packin' mamas.\\" Historian June Melby Benowitz documents the activities of Agnes Waters and other female extremists in \\"Days of Discontent: American Women and Right-Wing Politics, 1933-1945.\\" The book presents two case studies of far right women, Elizabeth Dilling and the lesser known Grace Wick, before moving on to examine the underlying issues concerning far right females in the 1930s and 1940s. Subsequent chapters trace the development of the mothers' movements, other women leaders, and the activities of these groups and protesters after the Second World War.<br />Far right women emerged from a tradition of political and social activity stretching back into the early nineteenth century. Women had always been involved in the abolitionist, temperance, and purity crusades of earlier eras. Once they earned the right to vote, disaffection about the process along with the realization that a ballot oftentimes failed to achieve desired results presented women with a quandary, one they resolved by once again falling back on their traditional roles as mothers and as keepers of the country's moral strength. And they continued to form groups in the 1920s, groups that responded to the burning issues of the day. Prohibition, immigration, voting, and declining public morals infuriated millions of traditional women who thought that America was sinking into a cesspool of immorality. It was from this tradition, and from some of the specific groups of the 1920s, that the far right females emerged to rail against blacks, Jews, Roosevelt, and the war.<br />Women moved to the far right for different reasons. Professional agitator Elizabeth Dilling began her crusade against communism because of a trip she took to the Soviet Union in the 1930s. She saw neglected churches, starving children, and heard sinister plans of a communist invasion of the United States during this visit. Eventually, Dilling linked her anti-communist struggle to a hatred of Jews. Grace Wick, on the other hand, moved into the ranks of the right wing extremists after she lost her job during the Great Depression. Always a political activist, Wick initially welcomed the arrival of Roosevelt in the White House. When the New Deal failed to work for her personally, she turned on the president with a venom instantly recognizable to students of the far right. Wick blamed \\"Jewish communists\\" for her misfortune and began corresponding with other extremist leaders. By using Dilling and Wick as case studies, Benowitz shows how different personalities subscribing to different issues could arrive at the same political views.<br />The issues that drove thousands of women into the arms of the far right were numerous and far ranging. The author employs several sources, including women's magazines and letters written to First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt, to distill female concerns of the period. One magazine ran a piece about women's lives in Nazi Germany, possibly leading some readers to conclude that life in a totalitarian society offered certain benefits for traditional mothers. Other articles raised debate about the New Deal, the internal threat of communism, anti-Semitism, Christian evangelicalism, immigration, racial integration, and birth control. The public forums these magazines provided forced many women to take positions on these issues or to redefine their previous attitudes. Those women who held extremist positions built associations outside of the mainstream to air their views.<br />Women like Dilling, Agnes Waters, Lyrl Clark Van Hyning, and Catharine Curtis formed numerous organizations to promote their personal opinions. Benowitz defines at least some of these figures as feminists, as women who sought to expand the economic, social, and political spheres of women beyond the home. The author, while cognizant of the extreme anti-Semitic and racist propositions of these individuals, looks beyond the heated rhetoric to argue that these women served an important function. Just as mainstream and progressive women expanded the roles of their sex, so did far right women. Benowitz goes so far as to propose that Dilling, Clark Van Hyning, and Waters laid the groundwork that future female conservatives would use to air their grievances. Most of the conservatives to come completely rejected the extreme views of their predecessors. Phyllis Schlafly, for example, rejected these mothers' anti-Jewish attitudes while organizing her movements using similar techniques.<br />A central problem of Benowitz's book concerns feminism, specifically what does or does not constitute feminism and how said term applies to these extremist activists. While almost all of these figures worked closely with like-minded men, they often refused to form concrete ties with male dominated organizations. Keeping Gerald L.K. Smith, Father Coughlin, and other prominent far right men separate from female movements does resemble in more than one way a decidedly feminist mindset. So does the mothers' belief that their groups gave women an outlet for protecting distinctly female prerogatives such as motherhood and homemaking. Benowitz believes that far right women ultimately presented an exception to feminism because they only accepted white, Christian followers who were willing to accept without question the viewpoints of their leaders. Historian Glen Jeansonne in his treatment of female extremists presents a more compelling argument in favor of defining these women as feminists. He questions the very meaning of feminism and calls for a reassessment of the term that will embrace these women.  Ultimately, June Melby Benowitz's book is a welcome addition to what was once a little understood facet of 1930s and 1940s protest. Certainly, other books on this fascinating topic will soon follow.witz defines at least some of these figures as feminists, as women who sought to expand the economic, social, and political spheres of women beyond the home. The author, while cognizant of the extreme anti-Semitic and racist propositions of these individuals, looks beyond the heated rhetoric to argue that these women served an important function. Just as mainstream and progressive women expanded the roles of their sex, so did far right women. Benowitz goes so far as to propose that Dilling, Clark Van Hyning, and Waters laid the groundwork that future female conservatives would use to air their grievances. Most of the conservatives to come completely rejected the extreme views of their predecessors. Phyllis Schlafly, for example, rejected these mothers' anti-Jewish attitudes while organizing her movements using similar techniques.<br />A central problem of Benowitz's book concerns feminism, specifically what does or does not constitute feminism and how said term applies to these extremist activists. While almost all of these figures worked closely with like-minded men, they often refused to form concrete ties with male dominated organizations. Keeping Gerald L.K. Smith, Father Coughlin, and other prominent far right men separate from female movements does resemble in more than one way a decidedly feminist mindset. So does the mothers' belief that their groups gave women an outlet for protecting distinctly female prerogatives such as motherhood and homemaking. Benowitz believes that far right women ultimately presented an exception to feminism because they only accepted white, Christian followers who were willing to accept without question the viewpoints of their leaders. Historian Glen Jeansonne in his treatment of female extremists presents a more compelling argument in favor of defining these women as feminists. He questions the very meaning of feminism and calls for a reassessment of the term that will embrace these women.  Ultimately, June Melby Benowitz's book is a welcome addition to what was once a little understood facet of 1930s and 1940s protest. Certainly, other books on this fascinating topic will soon follow.	2004-05-11
681086:US	52012289	R2JLKEMOM01BQ1	082405671X	68675372	NATIVE AMER FACISM DURING 1930 (Modern American History)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Looney tunes	Morris Schonbach wrote his doctoral dissertation, entitled \\"Native Fascism during the 1930s and 1940s: A Study of Its Roots, Growth, and Its Decline,\\" in the 1950s. When he researched and wrote this record of American far right wing movements, the author covered ground largely untouched by historians at that time. Many of Schonbach's colleagues questioned the wisdom of writing about unbalanced, dangerous, and politically marginal groups and figures. The author thought differently, recognizing that organizations espousing pro-fascist sentiments at one time represented a major threat to the democratic system. Schonbach published his dissertation in 1985 without revision, mostly in an effort to show where the nature of research on the far right stood in the 1950s as well as in response to a surge of books and articles on the topic that began appearing in the 1980s. His study stands up remarkably well in light of the immense amount of research done on the topic since the 1950s. Covered in the dissertation are definitions of fascism, historical antecedents of American fascism, examinations of various native forms of the phenomena, anti-Semitism as a major component of far right wing ideology, and the government response to the extreme right.<br />A central problem in studying the far right during this period centers on the definitional difficulties of fascism. Studies of the political ideology in the 1920s and 1930s tended to refer to it in economic and class terms. Schonbach finds these rubrics too narrow to encompass all the strands of fascistic thought, especially in reference to the American variety. He sees fascists as sharing a worldview loaded with nihilism and race obsessive overtones. It was also, however, necessarily flexible, able to fit almost any daily situation that arose in nearly every field of human endeavor. Fascism was anti-intellectual, unable to \\"develop a consistent, intellectually-respectable program,\\" indulging instead in psychological sensations of loss and a need to overcome imminent national crises. Proponents regularly share a love of intensive pageantry and an overriding \\"sense of mission\\" in their aims. A problem in studying this political system, at least for the historian, is that one must examine both external and internal facets of the ideology. This last point will lead Schonbach down the dangerous road of psychohistorical analysis, but he concludes in the interim that this mind frame provides the critical link between European Fascism and its American strain.<br />After a chapter studying the historical antecedents of fascism in America, where the author examines such movements as the Know-Nothings, the American Protective Associations, and the Ku Klux Klan, he moves on to the various forms of overt fascism at work in the United States of the 1930s and 1940s. Analyzed first are foreign efforts to affect a fascist revolution in America followed by a look at the various homegrown pro-Axis groups. More a catalog of the myriad organizations and personalities involved in the far right of the time, there is little here that has not been covered in better by later historians. The author scores points for a soundly researched account of the European efforts to import their ideology to American shores. Germany led the pack, followed by Italian and then Japanese attempts to increase their bases of supporters here. None of the three succeeded in attracting a huge quantity of followers. The American fascist groups, despite a lot of noisy propaganda, also failed to attract large numbers of adherents.<br /><br />Citizens, however, became incredibly concerned about the threat of fascism. This fear manifested itself in demands for government action against the movements espousing pro-Axis beliefs. Reaction culminated in the mass sedition trial of 1944, when thirty far right figures went to trial on charges of being part of a worldwide Nazi conspiracy to overthrow the federal government. The author points out that a slew of laws on both the local and federal level attempted to rein in the influence of fascist organizations. There was the Foreign Agents Registration Act, which demanded that agents of foreign governments register with the State Department. The Hatch Act of 1939 allowed for the dismissal of federal employees who were members of dissident groups. The most important law aimed at combating fascist groups was the Smith Act of 1940, a decree meant to squelch seditious activities. The mass sedition trial of 1944 was based largely on violations of the latter act.<br />The use of psychohistorical techniques mars an otherwise noteworthy history. Schonbach thinks examining the internal mental states of far right wing figures will result in a \\"fuller, better history.\\" That claim may well be true, but does the author possess the necessary tools to probe the psyches of these individuals? Schonbach apparently thinks citing psychoanalysts provides all the evidence he needs. The epilogue abounds in statements about authoritarian personalities, power relationships, and feelings of isolation as driving forces of the fascist mindset. Regrettably, the author fails to back up any of these citations from psychiatric authorities with evidence from his research. He is on firmer ground when he analyzes the respective merits of the Dies Committee and government legislation used to combat far right wing activists.<br />His definition of fascism is problematic, too. Every political system has engaged in \\"intensive pageantry\\" and a \\"sense of mission.\\" The USSR routinely paraded its military might in May Day festivities. Alexander Solzhenitsyn, in his monumental work \\"The Gulag Archipelago,\\" often remarked on Stalin's penchant for mobilizing the population to fulfill his latest whims. Might not television, with its endless processions of shiny baubles and gimcracks, constitute \\"intensive pageantry\\" in support of the capitalist system? Schonbach too often sees fascism under every rock he turns over, but he is not alone in this respect. Scholars still debate what elements compose the political ideology that fueled the Hitler and Mussolini regimes. A worthwhile read, if you can find a copy, Schonbach's study is a good basis for the study of 1930s and 1940s extremist politics.slew of laws on both the local and federal level attempted to rein in the influence of fascist organizations. There was the Foreign Agents Registration Act, which demanded that agents of foreign governments register with the State Department. The Hatch Act of 1939 allowed for the dismissal of federal employees who were members of dissident groups. The most important law aimed at combating fascist groups was the Smith Act of 1940, a decree meant to squelch seditious activities. The mass sedition trial of 1944 was based largely on violations of the latter act. <br />The use of psychohistorical techniques mars an otherwise noteworthy history. Schonbach thinks examining the internal mental states of far right wing figures will result in a \\"fuller, better history.\\" That claim may well be true, but does the author possess the necessary tools to probe the psyches of these individuals? Schonbach apparently thinks citing psychoanalysts provides all the evidence he needs. The epilogue abounds in statements about authoritarian personalities, power relationships, and feelings of isolation as driving forces of the fascist mindset. Regrettably, the author fails to back up any of these citations from psychiatric authorities with evidence from his research. He is on firmer ground when he analyzes the respective merits of the Dies Committee and government legislation used to combat far right wing activists.<br />His definition of fascism is problematic, too. Every political system has engaged in \\"intensive pageantry\\" and a \\"sense of mission.\\" The USSR routinely paraded its military might in May Day festivities. Alexander Solzhenitsyn, in his monumental work \\"The Gulag Archipelago,\\" often remarked on Stalin's penchant for mobilizing the population to fulfill his latest whims. Might not television, with its endless processions of shiny baubles and gimcracks, constitute \\"intensive pageantry\\" in support of the capitalist system? Schonbach too often sees fascism under every rock he turns over, but he is not alone in this respect. Scholars still debate what elements compose the political ideology that fueled the Hitler and Mussolini regimes. A worthwhile read, if you can find a copy, Schonbach's study is a good basis for the study of 1930s and 1940s extremist politics.	2004-05-04
683484:US	52012289	R1KO91IT0DZ2NX	0226484572	512527494	The Politics of Unreason: Right-Wing Extremism in America, 1790-1977 (Phoenix Book; P75)	Books	3	17	21	N	N	More sociology than history	Seymour Lipset's and Earl Raab's \\"The Politics of Unreason: Right Wing Extremism in America, 1790-1970\\" is an attempt to explain the history of far right movements through a sociological methodology. The result is a dense book running 500 pages that uses many charts and statistical breakdowns but offers little in the way of historical analysis. Perhaps the lack of history in the book should come as little surprise as neither of the authors possesses training in the techniques of historical investigation. Lipset's sociology credentials are well known. Earl Raab worked on the staff of the Jewish Community Relations Council in San Francisco along with other civil rights organizations. The authors point out that the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith underwrote the costs of \\"The Politics of Unreason,\\" a fact that probably helped the authors conduct research but one that should give serious students of right wing political movements some pause. Fortunately, both writers readily reveal their potential biases at the beginning of the book in an effort to offset potential criticisms.<br /><br />The two writers easily escape censure concerning their central thesis, which is logical, well stated, and maddeningly long-winded. Far right wing movements, Lipset and Raab contend, share several recurring themes. First, they are almost always \\"preservationist,\\" meaning groups like the anti-Masonic party of the 1820s, the Know-Nothings of the 1850s, and the American Protective Associations of the 1890s arose in an effort to guard their members' social status from encroachment by others. Second, organizations of the radical right were monistic-meaning they perceived the world as a place of \\"uniform and fixed standards\\"-as opposed to pluralistic. Third, a type of \\"simplism\\" infected the tracts and speeches of proponents of extreme right wing ideologies, a simplism that led to \\"the unambiguous ascription of single causes and remedies for multifactored phenomena.\\" Closely allied with this uncomplicated view of \\"multifactored phenomena\\" is a historical moralism that only allows \\"the tendency to believe that human events are totally shaped by the supremacy of good intentions over bad at any given moment, or vice versa.\\" Fourth, all movements worth their salt must have a conspiracy theory around which the forces can rally. The conspiracy must move from the abstract into reality by explaining a particular social dilemma and identifying a physical foe. Fifth, \\"Such a movement requires a coalition between some elite groups and some plebian groups, both of which are in some state of preservatist backlash against different forms of displacement or status deprivation in a period of sharp change.\\" Neat, huh?<br /><br />The emergence of the anti-Illuminist movement in the 1790s serves as a good example of the authors' theory. Federalist New Englanders, challenged by threats to their Congregationalist faith and by the growing power of farmers, formulated a conspiracy theory to explain their loss of status and to preserve their political power. By attaching sinister motivations to Illuminism, these Federalists developed a simple, historically moralistic conspiracy theory explaining why they were losing status. Moreover, the movement united elites and lower class elements of society. The anti-Illuminism movement ultimately failed, explain the authors, because it could not identify an easily recognizable physical enemy against which the movement could fight. Only when the Federalists substituted the Society of United Irishmen in place of the Illuminati around 1797 did they attain some success in their goals. Subsequent resurrections of the movement in the 1820s achieved greater triumphs because they linked Illuminism with the very real Freemasons. The authors repeatedly find this pattern played out through American history. Even after the 1930s, when Catholics such as Father Coughlin and Joseph McCarthy became the persecutors and not the victims, the same theory holds true.<br /><br />Historian David Bennett revisited the ground covered in \\"The Politics of Unreason\\" in his book \\"The Party of Fear,\\" but did a much better job of placing far right movements into a historical context. For example, the anti-Catholic movements of the eighteenth century arose in large part against the massive waves of Irish immigration in the 1840s and 1850s. The chapter on the 1930s examines in some depth the usual suspects-Coughlin, Gerald Winrod, William Dudley Pelley, Huey Long, and Gerald L.K. Smith, but fails to look at other large pro-isolationist, anti-Semitic, pro-fascist groups of the era. Even the reference to Smith is incomplete because his influence on the far right became more important after the fall of the Union Party in 1936 drove this former Long lieutenant farther right.  Bennett took the time to document in thorough detail the arrival of these immigrants and the host of attendant social, political, and economic strains their influx imposed on the American system. He also described more of the personalities and groups involved in far right politics in the 1930s and beyond. While violence against any group or individual is abhorrent in a supposedly \\"pluralistic\\" society, \\"The Politics of Unreason\\" does not adequately explain why these groups arose and why they thought such extreme actions were necessary.<br />An important reason for the lack of historical background in this book may stem from the sources used to construct the study.  Statistical sources occupy a primary position although the information is often incomplete or measured on a few variables. For example, the authors concede that a correlation table on Klan membership is probably inaccurate because figures on the group are notoriously unreliable, but they include the table anyway. Additionally, a list of theses and dissertations listed in the preface as being invaluable to the book's construction are either from sociology or political science departments. While the authors do use history books and articles, the emphasis here is definitely on sociology, on social bases and statistical analyses rather than one of historical research. The theory is ultimately a good one, but historians will want to seek out a copy of David Bennett's \\"The Party of Fear\\" for a better treatment of the far right in American history.ry holds true.<br /><br />Historian David Bennett revisited the ground covered in \\"The Politics of Unreason\\" in his book \\"The Party of Fear,\\" but did a much better job of placing far right movements into a historical context. For example, the anti-Catholic movements of the eighteenth century arose in large part against the massive waves of Irish immigration in the 1840s and 1850s. The chapter on the 1930s examines in some depth the usual suspects-Coughlin, Gerald Winrod, William Dudley Pelley, Huey Long, and Gerald L.K. Smith, but fails to look at other large pro-isolationist, anti-Semitic, pro-fascist groups of the era. Even the reference to Smith is incomplete because his influence on the far right became more important after the fall of the Union Party in 1936 drove this former Long lieutenant farther right.  Bennett took the time to document in thorough detail the arrival of these immigrants and the host of attendant social, political, and economic strains their influx imposed on the American system. He also described more of the personalities and groups involved in far right politics in the 1930s and beyond. While violence against any group or individual is abhorrent in a supposedly \\"pluralistic\\" society, \\"The Politics of Unreason\\" does not adequately explain why these groups arose and why they thought such extreme actions were necessary.<br />An important reason for the lack of historical background in this book may stem from the sources used to construct the study.  Statistical sources occupy a primary position although the information is often incomplete or measured on a few variables. For example, the authors concede that a correlation table on Klan membership is probably inaccurate because figures on the group are notoriously unreliable, but they include the table anyway. Additionally, a list of theses and dissertations listed in the preface as being invaluable to the book's construction are either from sociology or political science departments. While theauthors do use history books and articles, the emphasis here is definitely on sociology, on social bases and statistical analyses rather than one of historical research. The theory is ultimately a good one, but historians will want to seek out a copy of David Bennett's \\"The Party of Fear\\" for a better treatment of the far right in American history.	2004-05-02
685498:US	52012289	R2TD2FQA6CPGFM	0838719406	505066873	Not to the Swift: The Old Isolationists in the Cold War Era	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Cold War isolationism	Representative Roy O. Woodruff of Michigan, while debating the finer points of a multibillion dollar loan to Britain in 1946, asked how &quot;Europe ever passed through over 2,000 years of recorded history without the help of the United States.&quot; Congressman Harold Knutson during the same debate quipped, &quot;Uncle Sam has become a glorified Santa Claus. I think it is high time we take the old gentlemen into a barber shop and give him a shave.&quot; These comments were only two of the salvos fired by isolationist congressmen in the myriad foreign policy debates during the post-World War II period. Justus Doenecke's &quot;Not to the Swift: The Old Isolationists in the Cold War Era&quot; is a catalog of virtually every important noninterventionist position argued in Congress from 1943 to 1954. Through an impressive use of sources, including newspapers, congressional records, innumerable secondary sources, and personal papers, the author fashions a readable work that shines a spotlight on those individuals who opposed America's increasing presence in international affairs.<br />This opposition-the author examines the statements and written works of a dozen Senators, nearly ninety Congressmen, and numerous businessmen who all subscribed to noninterventionist ideas-resisted American involvement in affairs springing up in Europe and in Asia. Many of these figures were prominent in the pre-World War II campaigns against American intervention. &quot;By concentrating upon the response of the same group to entirely different events,&quot; argues Doenecke, &quot;one can better understand the nature of isolationism itself, as well as the specific issues surrounding both [European and Asian] global controversies.&quot; The author rejects in part previous studies on the topic that emphasized ethnic, geographic, economic, and party ties. Instead, the book seeks &quot;to place the ideology of the old isolationists within the context of their own time, and thereby to reveal both their dreams and their fears.&quot;<br />Doenecke's research leads him to the conclusion that the guiding principle of the noninterventionists had little to do with social status or to geographical location, as other scholars have argued, but was an ideology intimately linked to the nation's past. Specifically, isolationists subscribed to the old Jeffersonian ideas of the yeoman farmer. They thought that America's virtues came from the soil, that ruralism could curb the excesses of industry and other forms of technological expansion. Foreign entanglements were inherently bad because they would deteriorate these virtues. Moreover, propping up Britain or Russia would allow for the survival and possible growth of hated European ideals like imperialism and communism. Isolationists, whether from the city or the countryside, &quot;engaged in a rear-guard effort to preserve a rural arcadia from the inevitable onslaughts of modernity.&quot;<br />Cold War noninterventionists jumped into the fray over a number of issues. The United Nations, foreign aid, the Truman Doctrine, the fall of China, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), and the Korean conflict presented the foes of internationalism with innumerable headaches. The arguments against America's role in these events were many, but they all shared specific themes. According to Doenecke, isolationists feared alliance systems, lamented the loss of Congress' war making powers, and questioned whether the Soviet Union presented a legitimate threat to Europe. Additionally, they worried about America turning into an imperial power, excoriated the Truman administration for using the communist bogey to scare the public into supporting massive aid packages to other countries, and claimed that foreign aid infusions weakened the economy here while fostering corruption in the recipient countries.<br />Members of Congress were not alone in promoting isolation during the Cold War. Doenecke devotes one chapter in his book to the study of revisionist historians. Conspiratorial reassessments of the First World War helped noninterventionists battle Roosevelt before Pearl Harbor. During the 1940s, a new-and in some instances, not so new-generation of scholars and isolationist publicists began writing tracts about the real causes of American involvement in the Second World War. The old America Firster John T. Flynn reemerged with his &quot;The Truth About Pearl Harbor,&quot; a booklet claiming the Japanese attacked America because Roosevelt demanded the Imperial Army withdraw from China. George Morgenstern wrote &quot;Pearl Harbor: The Story of the Secret War&quot; to explain that the war was an attempt to draw attention away from New Deal failures. Eventually, Charles Beard, Harry Elmer Barnes, and Charles Tansill weighed in on the &quot;secret&quot; reasons why the United States went to war. Doenecke convincingly argues that these works, although unable to ultimately prove their accusations, provided congressional isolationists with additional arguments in the fight against internationalist goals.<br />It is easy to come away from Doenecke's book with a sense that the isolationist politicians had great influence. They did not. After failing utterly to keep the United States out of war in 1941, their power to influence policy waned considerably. America eventually joined the United Nations and NATO, endorsed the tenets of the Truman Doctrine, and greatly expanded foreign aid to nations across the world despite noninterventionist opposition on the Senate and House floors. The revisionist historians' untenable diatribes against Roosevelt's and Truman's foreign policy machinations eventually faded from view, resurrected only briefly by the New Left during the late 1960s in that movement's desperate attempts to end the Vietnam War. This complaint is a small one, one that does not lessen the book in a significant way. The thoroughness of the research and the magnificent organization of the material are the two elements that make this text such an exemplary contribution to the study of American isolationism. Doenecke has identified yet another strand that, woven together with the other themes historians of the topic have identified, construct a better picture of what American isolation was in the middle of the twentieth century.the study of revisionist historians. Conspiratorial reassessments of the First World War helped noninterventionists battle Roosevelt before Pearl Harbor. During the 1940s, a new-and in some instances, not so new-generation of scholars and isolationist publicists began writing tracts about the real causes of American involvement in the Second World War. The old America Firster John T. Flynn reemerged with his &quot;The Truth About Pearl Harbor,&quot; a booklet claiming the Japanese attacked America because Roosevelt demanded the Imperial Army withdraw from China. George Morgenstern wrote &quot;Pearl Harbor: The Story of the Secret War&quot; to explain that the war was an attempt to draw attention away from New Deal failures. Eventually, Charles Beard, Harry Elmer Barnes, and Charles Tansill weighed in on the &quot;secret&quot; reasons why the United States went to war. Doenecke convincingly argues that these works, although unable to ultimately prove their accusations, provided congressional isolationists with additional arguments in the fight against internationalist goals.<br />It is easy to come away from Doenecke's book with a sense that the isolationist politicians had great influence. They did not. After failing utterly to keep the United States out of war in 1941, their power to influence policy waned considerably. America eventually joined the United Nations and NATO, endorsed the tenets of the Truman Doctrine, and greatly expanded foreign aid to nations across the world despite noninterventionist opposition on the Senate and House floors. The revisionist historians' untenable diatribes against Roosevelt's and Truman's foreign policy machinations eventually faded from view, resurrected only briefly by the New Left during the late 1960s in that movement's desperate attempts to end the Vietnam War. This complaint is a small one, one that does not lessen the book in a significant way. The thoroughness of the research and the magnificent organization of the material are the two elements that make this text such an exemplary contribution to the study of American isolationism. Doenecke has identified yet another strand that, woven together with the other themes historians of the topic have identified, construct a better picture of what American isolation was in the middle of the twentieth century.	2004-04-30
688288:US	52012289	R2W9ZCHC3V3H3Z	0374918007	887799434	America first;: The battle against intervention, 1940-1941,	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Nuts and bolts isolationist history	\\"The three most important groups who have been pressing this country toward war are the British, the Jewish and the Roosevelt administration,\\" claimed America First Committee orator Charles Lindbergh at a rally held in Des Moines, Iowa on September 11, 1941. By naming the Jews as one of the leading proponents of the move to bring the United States into the European conflict, Lindbergh set off a firestorm of protest from the nation's newspapers, politicians, and even his fellow isolationists. The backlash served only to accelerate the downward spiral in which the America First Committee found itself by the end of 1941. A little less than two months later, the country went to war with Japan and the isolationist group disbanded. Wayne S. Cole's \\"America First: The Battle Against Intervention, 1940-1941\\" documents the rise and eventual collapse of the most prominent organized noninterventionist movement in pre-war America.<br />A young Yale law student named R. Douglas Stewart founded America First in June 1940 in conjunction with other students concerned about the war in Europe. The initial platform of the group called for the United States to avoid sending war materials to England except under \\"cash and carry,\\" to stay out of the conflict even if Great Britain is on \\"the verge of defeat,\\" and a hope that America would build up its defenses only to protect \\"this hemisphere.\\" The group also believed hostilities threatened American democracy. After Stewart and a friend told Senator Robert Taft about their plans at the Republican National Convention, General Robert Wood of Sears and Roebuck got involved. A national committee decided to rename the group the America First Committee on August 29, 1940. Dozens of other prominent individuals soon flocked to the newly unfurled isolationist banner, including Alice Roosevelt Longworth, John T. Flynn, Mrs. Burton K. Wheeler, and Oswald Garrison Villard. A new statement of purpose essentially confirmed the earlier Stewart document, but went a step further by stating \\"aid short of war weakens national defense at home and threatens to involve America in war abroad.\\" A national radio broadcast delivered on September 5, 1940 by General Hugh S. Johnson announced the arrival of the organization to millions of Americans.<br />America First had three organizational tiers. An executive committee of seven members, including Wood and Stewart, ran the group. The fifty member national committee met sporadically to help the executive body set policy. Local chapters were run by either national committee members or by enthusiastic citizens who wrote into national headquarters volunteering for the positions. Public donations and sizeable sums contributed by wealthy members and supporters paid for publications and circulars.  Despite the hierarchical structure of America First, the organization was surprisingly loose and flexible. Locals could influence policy created at the highest levels, and the leaders frequently sought advice from outside isolationists. Unfortunately, Cole claims, this flexibility caused fundamental problems. It was difficult to find competent local leaders and even harder to control the chapters. These two problems would cause innumerable headaches when anti-Semites and pro-fascist elements began infiltrating America First.<br />The author argues that an Anglophobic taint shared by many members inspired campaigns against several Roosevelt administration initiatives. Lend Lease presented the isolationists with their first test, a test that they ultimately failed. Aiding Britain in such a way, argued the committee, propped up an imperialistic empire, gave away American armaments badly needed to maintain the defense of the homeland, and potentially placed the United States at loggerheads with the Axis powers. Moreover, they argued that the legislation gave the chief executive dictatorial powers, powers that could allow the president to send American merchant ships into danger. The organization urged its local chapters to bombard Congress with letters and telegrams expressing outrage over the bill, to no avail. Public support for the measure actually increased during the debate. Congress passed the bill, and Roosevelt signed Lend Lease into law on March 11, 1941. Subsequent campaigns to hold a national referendum on the issue of choosing war or peace and an effort to prevent repeal of the vital provisions of the Neutrality Act also failed. In its short history, the America First Committee never won a single issue in the political arena.<br />A major reason for the failure of the group, Cole explains, was the issue of political extremism. America First had the unfortunate luck \\"of having Nazis, Communists, and anti-Semites venting similar foreign policy views.\\" The high visibility of the committee tended to draw into the fold people who espoused decidedly un-American views, and it drew the wrath of interventionist groups suspicious of political radicalism. Even worse, a German radio broadcast in 1941 called America First \\"truly American and truly patriotic,\\" the sort of ringing endorsement the group could definitely do without. The upper echelons of the organization worked hard to keep anti-Jewish advocates out of the chapters, through purges and by monitoring the communications of local units, often with uneven success. Cole concludes that the committee did the best it could to bar extremists from the ranks, and was not an endorser of pro-Nazi or anti-Semitic views.<br />The author might have improved his work had he provided deeper biographical background on some of the movers and shakers in the isolationist camp. Cole claims he researched the topic partly due to the \\"Great Debate\\" on foreign policy in the early 1950s. An effort to link the America First Committee to the deliberations over the Korean conflict and the Truman Doctrine would have been intriguing, and may have given the book a richer context. These quibbles are small and in no way deflate the contribution this text makes to the study of American isolationism in the years before the Second World War.ion urged its local chapters to bombard Congress with letters and telegrams expressing outrage over the bill, to no avail. Public support for the measure actually increased during the debate. Congress passed the bill, and Roosevelt signed Lend Lease into law on March 11, 1941. Subsequent campaigns to hold a national referendum on the issue of choosing war or peace and an effort to prevent repeal of the vital provisions of the Neutrality Act also failed. In its short history, the America First Committee never won a single issue in the political arena.<br />A major reason for the failure of the group, Cole explains, was the issue of political extremism. America First had the unfortunate luck \\"of having Nazis, Communists, and anti-Semites venting similar foreign policy views.\\" The high visibility of the committee tended to draw into the fold people who espoused decidedly un-American views, and it drew the wrath of interventionist groups suspicious of political radicalism. Even worse, a German radio broadcast in 1941 called America First \\"truly American and truly patriotic,\\" the sort of ringing endorsement the group could definitely do without. The upper echelons of the organization worked hard to keep anti-Jewish advocates out of the chapters, through purges and by monitoring the communications of local units, often with uneven success. Cole concludes that the committee did the best it could to bar extremists from the ranks, and was not an endorser of pro-Nazi or anti-Semitic views.<br />The author might have improved his work had he provided deeper biographical background on some of the movers and shakers in the isolationist camp. Cole claims he researched the topic partly due to the \\"Great Debate\\" on foreign policy in the early 1950s. An effort to link the America First Committee to the deliberations over the Korean conflict and the Truman Doctrine would have been intriguing, and may have given the book a richer context. These quibbles are small and in no way deflatethe contribution this text makes to the study of American isolationism in the years before the Second World War.	2004-04-28
689036:US	52012289	RAORZM9GRCSYU	0679767215	599387402	The Party Of Fear: The American Far Right from Nativism to the Militia Movement	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Monumental	According to historian David Bennett, the parties of fear took many forms, from the anti-Masonic parties of the 1790s to the Know-Nothings of the 1850s. The American Protective Associations of the 1890s subscribed to nativist formulas, as did the acolytes of the Red Scares after World War I. The Ku Klux Klan became an archetype of anti-alienism during the raucous 1920s. A different sort of nativist ideology emerged after the fall of the Klan, in the form of McCarthyism, the John Birch Society, and the New Right of the 1970s and 1980s. Bennett finds common threads in all of these movements and organizations. Subscribers to the ideologies of hate believed in an America resembling a Garden of Eden, a perfect paradise that promised \\"freedom, opportunity, individualism, equality for all true Americans.\\" Aliens, outsiders who spoke strange languages, practiced inferior religions, and looked different represented a threat to this concept of an edenic America. Nativists abhorred the foreigners' presence, and they were willing to abandon the very principles they cherished in the fight to preserve their country. Moreover, rising to the endless challenges presented by waves of immigrants and foreign ideas allowed these super patriots to find shelter from status anxiety by banding together with like-minded people.<br />The history of nativism from the inception of the United States to the 1930s oscillated between anti-Masonic, anti-Catholic, and anti-communist sentiments. Concerns about Freemasonry welded with suspicions of Illuminism offered a hope for Federalists who wished to regain their waning influence in the 1790s. The early anti-communist attacks occurred shortly after the First World War with the Palmer Raids. By far the most important fuel for nativist fires during this period was the Catholics. Hatred of \\"Romanists\\" and \\"Papists\\" first surfaced during the colonial era when religious animosities between England and Spain traveled across the Atlantic to America. By the middle of the eighteenth century, anti-Catholic attacks by Protestants reached a fever pitch as Irish immigration into the country soared to undreamt of heights. The secret societies of the 1830s fought pitched battles with recently arrived men of Eire in the streets of eastern cities. These gangs eventually coalesced into the Know-Nothings of the 1850s, a third party that gained success in local and state elections on a platform filled with anti-Catholicism. The disintegration of this party due to divisions over slavery, and the subsequent Civil War, briefly quieted nativism. The American Protective Associations of the late eighteenth century and the Ku Klux Klan of the 1920s marked the high water of anti-Catholic attacks.<br />When the United States failed to fall prey to the Vatican, anti-alienists moved on to other lucrative ventures. They also, according to Bennett, shifted their fears from foreigners to foreign ideas. The old nativism declined due to a number of factors. Immigration slowed thanks to the national quota acts of 1924, cosmopolitanism triumphed, and the economic policies of the Roosevelt administration greatly alleviated the old fears traditionally transferred to immigrants. Additionally playing a part were the rise of corporate ethics, which placed an emphasis on performance over ethnicity, and academics such as Franz Boas who eroded the old concepts of Social Darwinism and racial superiority. From the 1930s on, those movements that still insisted on blaming foreigners for the ills of the country moved further and further to the fringes of the right. The \\"mainstream\\" parties of fear attacked communism with a zeal reminiscent of the old anti-Romanist fanatics, but it was an \\"inverted\\" nativism led by Catholics like Father Coughlin and Joseph McCarthy who launched salvos against a Protestant elite perceived as soft on Moscow.<br />Bennett's book resembles in no small way Seymour Lipset's and Earl Raab's \\"The Politics of Unreason.\\" Both studies recognized fear and anxiety over status as motivating factors of American nativism. Bennett does a better job in his book, however, because he examines the myriad factors that inspired anti-alienism. For example, chapters describing the rise of the secret societies and the Know-Nothings also describe the host of ills caused by a flood of Irish immigrants. Crime rates and public expenditures exploded in eastern cities unequipped to handle the huge influx of uneducated foreigners unfamiliar with the American system. Moreover, citizens worried about immigrants driving down wages, diseases, and the swelling size of the cities where the Irish stayed after arriving in the country. By showing the very real circumstances behind the rise of anti-Catholic, anti-Irish attitudes, the author allows nativist attitudes to assume context.<br />Factual errors are not as troubling as the author's occasional forays into psychohistorical speculation. For example, after a lengthy section detailing the popularity of anti-Catholic books describing the sexual debasement of women, Bennett begins using the words \\"might\\" and \\"could have\\" more times than is comfortable. To explain the lure of these degrading tracts, he cites \\"psychoanalytic literature\\" that \\"suggests an inextricable alliance between sadism and masochism. Both seem to represent means of defense against castration anxiety; by performing symbolic castration on others, the sadist gains assurance that he is the castrator and not the castrated.\\" This claim seems to be far outside the realm of the historian, to say the least. Students of the past must recognize they do not possess the necessary tools to perform psychological analysis. Even if the historian holds a degree in psychology, the subjects did not leave behind the type of evidence required to make such sweeping judgments. The author should have avoided making these conclusions. \\"The Party of Fear\\" is a monumental achievement, a learned, exceptionally researched, highly readable tome of great significance for students of extremist politics. Investigating the far right is never an easy task due to the enormous amount of primary source material churned out in reams by hundreds of its adherents. David Bennett did an excellent job successfully navigating his way through three hundred years of the lunatic fringe.ognized fear and anxiety over status as motivating factors of American nativism. Bennett does a better job in his book, however, because he examines the myriad factors that inspired anti-alienism. For example, chapters describing the rise of the secret societies and the Know-Nothings also describe the host of ills caused by a flood of Irish immigrants. Crime rates and public expenditures exploded in eastern cities unequipped to handle the huge influx of uneducated foreigners unfamiliar with the American system. Moreover, citizens worried about immigrants driving down wages, diseases, and the swelling size of the cities where the Irish stayed after arriving in the country. By showing the very real circumstances behind the rise of anti-Catholic, anti-Irish attitudes, the author allows nativist attitudes to assume context.<br />Factual errors are not as troubling as the author's occasional forays into psychohistorical speculation. For example, after a lengthy section detailing the popularity of anti-Catholic books describing the sexual debasement of women, Bennett begins using the words \\"might\\" and \\"could have\\" more times than is comfortable. To explain the lure of these degrading tracts, he cites \\"psychoanalytic literature\\" that \\"suggests an inextricable alliance between sadism and masochism. Both seem to represent means of defense against castration anxiety; by performing symbolic castration on others, the sadist gains assurance that he is the castrator and not the castrated.\\" This claim seems to be far outside the realm of the historian, to say the least. Students of the past must recognize they do not possess the necessary tools to perform psychological analysis. Even if the historian holds a degree in psychology, the subjects did not leave behind the type of evidence required to make such sweeping judgments. The author should have avoided making these conclusions. \\"The Party of Fear\\" is a monumental achievement, a learned, exceptionally researched, highly readabletome of great significance for students of extremist politics. Investigating the far right is never an easy task due to the enormous amount of primary source material churned out in reams by hundreds of its adherents. David Bennett did an excellent job successfully navigating his way through three hundred years of the lunatic fringe.	2004-04-28
690149:US	52012289	R2J3L6O58TLVJW	1879176017	7161384	Isolationism in America 1935-1941	Books	3	17	18	N	N	Dry as dust but informative	Historian Manfred Jonas, in &quot;Isolationism in America, 1935-1941,&quot; attempts to fill a critical gap in the historiography of twentieth century noninterventionism. Other scholars of the topic-including Wayne S. Cole, Selig Adler, and Robert Divine-crafted works focusing on specific organizations or about legislative battles whether the United States should join the war in Europe. Jonas's book takes a decidedly different tack by examining the thoughts and underlying assumptions of American isolationism.  The author rejects the obstructionist label so many applied to the individuals and groups that opposed United States entry into the war. Rather, the book argues that men such as William Borah, Gerald Nye, Norman Thomas, and Charles Beard regularly engaged in debates and issues with an international focus. None supported the sorts of extreme closed-door policies practiced in Japan and China during the nineteenth century. What they did support was an America that would and could control its own foreign policy by staying out of potentially damaging foreign entanglements.<br />Isolationism of the 1930s, argues Jonas, was the heir of two guiding principles first articulated in the earliest days of the American Republic: unilateralism in foreign affairs and the avoidance of war as a primary means of foreign policy. George Washington believed the country should choose whether to fight according to the nation's interests. Thomas Jefferson went further when he claimed there was a difference between involving the nation in international politics or temporary strategic alliances versus outright war in league with a foreign power. Even the history of the United States's conflicts with other nations, from clashing with Britain over Canada and Oregon to the Spanish-American war, supported rather than contradicted these two principles because America consistently acted alone. Unilateralism and avoidance of war would eventually present twentieth century isolationists with an insurmountable quandary, argues Jonas, because the two are ultimately incompatible when applied to specific situations.<br />Isolationism reemerged in the 1930s due to the Great Depression, the increasingly aggressive militarism of the Axis powers, and World War I revisionism. Several books reappraising the latter event raised noninterventionist sentiment to a fever pitch. Commentators believed that Britain tricked America into joining the fight, that Germany bore little responsibility for the war, and financial interests and weapons makers worked behind the scenes to involve the United States in Europe's battles. The 1930's noninterventionists would eventually reformulate this last theme into what Charles Beard called the devil theory of war. The &quot;devils&quot; of the twentieth century were the wealthy and powerful men who ran the munitions industries. These interests profited by hiding behind the altruistic reasons given to Americans about why the country entered the First World War. And once again, foes of entering another European conflict argued, the weapons makers sought to earn enormous profits from a global clash. The formation of the Nye Committee in 1934, which launched a lengthy investigation into the munitions industries, was an isolationist attempt to exorcise the devils plaguing the country.<br />Congressional committee members were not the only adherents of isolationism. Supporters came from all occupations, ethnicities, and political affiliations. Left leaning historian Charles Beard was an isolationist, as was Socialist Party chief Norman Thomas. The chairman of the board at Sears, Roebuck and Company, General Robert Wood, and media magnate William Randolph Hearst supported keeping America out of entangling foreign affairs. Moreover, while many devotees had ties to the Midwest, they came from all corners of the country. Hiram Johnson was a Senator from California, Hamilton Fish was a strident isolationist Congressman from New York, and Representative George Holden Tinker hailed from Massachusetts.<br />In an effort to impose order on a large number of occasionally contradictory viewpoints, the author separates isolationists into five categories. Foreign-oriented isolationists wanted America to stay out of the war because they sympathized with Germany or the Soviet Union. Belligerents defended American rights, supported international law, and strictly adhered to nineteenth century unilateral foreign policies. Timid isolationists would give up certain rights in an effort to avoid involvement with overseas belligerents. Radicals wanted to stay out of the war completely because they believed doing so would allow for the creation of an entirely new social order at home. Conservative isolationism thought war would destroy old institutions and traditions. These rubrics, writes the author, are necessarily flexible since considerable overlapping of ideas often occurred. For example, Jonas places Hamilton Fish squarely in the camp of belligerent isolationism even though the congressman often helped spread the proposals of pro-Axis and anti-Semitic noninterventionists. The author unfortunately devotes most of his energies to the activities of the timid and belligerent camps at the expense of foreign-oriented, radical, and conservative groupings.<br />A look at the sources used to research the book reveals several problems. First, Jonas made heavy use of the personal papers of William Borah, George Norris, Amos Pinchot, and Oswald Garrison Villard; he failed to peruse the Hamilton Fish, Gerald Nye, and Robert Wood collections. Such an omission could be forgiven if committed by a graduate student researching a seminar paper, but it is extremely problematic in a groundbreaking work written by a trained scholar. Jonas at no point mentions whether these papers were unavailable to him. Second, he relies heavily on speeches made in the 1930s and 1940s in lieu of personal interviews with principal figures, many of which were still alive when he researched and wrote this book. The author missed out on an excellent chance to discover what the old isolationists thought about their actions twenty years later. Manfred Jonas's book is a valuable contribution to the study of the isolationist phenomenon, but it could have been a much better work if the author had consulted a greater range of sources.ntative George Holden Tinker hailed from Massachusetts.<br />In an effort to impose order on a large number of occasionally contradictory viewpoints, the author separates isolationists into five categories. Foreign-oriented isolationists wanted America to stay out of the war because they sympathized with Germany or the Soviet Union. Belligerents defended American rights, supported international law, and strictly adhered to nineteenth century unilateral foreign policies. Timid isolationists would give up certain rights in an effort to avoid involvement with overseas belligerents. Radicals wanted to stay out of the war completely because they believed doing so would allow for the creation of an entirely new social order at home. Conservative isolationism thought war would destroy old institutions and traditions. These rubrics, writes the author, are necessarily flexible since considerable overlapping of ideas often occurred. For example, Jonas places Hamilton Fish squarely in the camp of belligerent isolationism even though the congressman often helped spread the proposals of pro-Axis and anti-Semitic noninterventionists. The author unfortunately devotes most of his energies to the activities of the timid and belligerent camps at the expense of foreign-oriented, radical, and conservative groupings. <br />A look at the sources used to research the book reveals several problems. First, Jonas made heavy use of the personal papers of William Borah, George Norris, Amos Pinchot, and Oswald Garrison Villard; he failed to peruse the Hamilton Fish, Gerald Nye, and Robert Wood collections. Such an omission could be forgiven if committed by a graduate student researching a seminar paper, but it is extremely problematic in a groundbreaking work written by a trained scholar. Jonas at no point mentions whether these papers were unavailable to him. Second, he relies heavily on speeches made in the 1930s and 1940s in lieu of personal interviews with principal figures, many of which were still alive when he researched and wrote this book. The author missed out on an excellent chance to discover what the old isolationists thought about their actions twenty years later. Manfred Jonas's book is a valuable contribution to the study of the isolationist phenomenon, but it could have been a much better work if the author had consulted a greater range of sources.	2004-04-27
692633:US	52012289	R1BSWLR2K7UZVO	0061330256	327710155	Franklin D Roosevelt And The New Deal	Books	5	42	44	N	N	The definitive work on the New Deal	Historian William Leuchtenburg, one of the most prominent American scholars writing about America in the 1930s, wrote \\"Franklin Roosevelt and the New Deal, 1932-1940\\" as a response to other researchers who \\"tended to minimize the significance of the changes wrought by the thirties.\\" According to the author, these historians \\"have stressed, quite properly, the continuity between the New Deal reforms and those of other periods, and especially the many debts the New Dealers owed the progressives.\\" Unfortunately, they \\"have too often obscured the extraordinary developments of the decade.\\" Leuchtenburg's book examines the savage effects of the depression and the wild experimentation in the arenas of politics and society that the Roosevelt administration undertook to alleviate America's economic woes. Far from indulging in panegyric, the author takes care to expose Roosevelt's weaknesses and failings alongside the president's triumphs. The book marshals an impressive array of manuscripts from Roosevelt intimates and political associates, congressional papers, and published works to construct an intricate examination of the New Deal years.<br /><br />The Great Depression was a horror that improved little after Roosevelt's election. The year 1932 was an unmitigated disaster for millions of Americans as the economy continued its downward spiral. The national income dropped to half of what it had been in 1929. Nine million savings accounts evaporated when banks closed. In New York City, a couple lived in a cave in Central Park for more than a year. Teachers in Chicago fainted in the classrooms from hunger. Farmers lost lands held by their families for generations because they could not earn enough money to pay their debts. Milo Reno's Farm Holiday Association refused to ship food, Wisconsin dairymen dumped milk on the side of the road, and farmers blocked the sales of foreclosed property. Coal miners in Pennsylvania bootlegged nearly $100,000 of coal a day from company owned fields. Every aspect of society faced seemingly insurmountable obstacles, and the country looked with weary eyes to President-elect Franklin Roosevelt for answers when he assumed office in March 1933. Leuchtenburg's book does as excellent a job summarizing the plight faced by every sector of American society as it does describing the president's initiatives to battle the innumerable difficulties.<br />While elections, political battles, and economic recovery programs fill most of the pages of the book, the author's greatest contribution to the study of 1930s American political life is his analysis of the forces driving President Roosevelt. For example, the book discerns two distinct public philosophies that drove the formation of New Deal policy. Leuchtenburg believes that Theodore Roosevelt's New Nationalism-carried on by men like Herbert Croly, Walter Lippmann, and Rexford Tugwell-was the most influential. So was Woodrow Wilson's New Freedom, supported by Louis Brandeis and Felix Frankfurter. Advocates of the former generally supported planned economies and were suspicious of free competition. The latter believed trust busting would return small businesses to prominence in America. The new nationalists largely presided over the early New Deal; the ideology of Brandeis and Frankfurter emerged later during the Second New Deal of 1935. Neither philosophy trumped the other, however, because Roosevelt never committed himself to either a planned economy or a return to small-scale business.<br />The president's assumption of the middle ground between the proponents of the New Nationalism and the New Freedom philosophies was, according to Leuchtenburg, typical Roosevelt. His personality played a large role in the direction the New Deal ultimately took. The chief executive often encouraged his subordinates to thrash out the details of a specific idea, allowed them to compete against each other, and then stepped in to shape the idea into final form. This aggressive competition led some to label the president a mediocre administrator who often procrastinated when faced with a serious challenge, a charge Leuchtenburg convincingly reputes. Rather, this \\"procrastination\\" was a way of \\"observing a trial by combat among rival theories\\" to see which idea was the best. For all of the dissension over economic proposals, Roosevelt's dynamic creativity and ability to attract scores of smart, talented men to Washington helped many New Deal ideas to succeed. While the president's personality led him to encourage a \\"combat of rival theories,\\" the American public felt they knew a different Roosevelt; a warm, fatherly figure who tried to help each individual and who made the federal government accessible to the public.<br />A troubling omission is the wartime sedition trial of American far right figures. United States v. McWilliams, as the case was known, is relevant here because it evolved directly out of the far right's loathing of the president's New Deal policies. The government, at the president's insistence, charged the defendants with involvement in a worldwide Nazi conspiracy. When Attorney General Francis Biddle told Roosevelt that any charges filed against these individuals would violate first amendment protections, the chief executive was blithely unconcerned. He hounded Biddle constantly about the issue, and even kept a stack of far right publications in his desk drawer that he would pull out as \\"evidence\\" of the need for action. Historians Leo Ribuffo and Glen Jeansonne have rightly labeled the indictments and subsequent trial a sham, with Ribuffo going so far as to conclude that Roosevelt's prosecution set a precedent subsequently used to great effect against far left figures in the 1950s.<br />James Thomas Flexner, in his one volume biography of George Washington, claimed that America's first chief executive succeeded because he acted as a balance between the competing interests of Alexander Hamilton's Federalism and Thomas Jefferson's Republicanism. Leuchtenburg's book makes a similar claim for Franklin Delano Roosevelt. In a time of great national stress a president arose who successfully put America on a path to stability by mediating between competing philosophies. Even though the book turned forty last year, Franklin Delano Roosevelt and the New Deal, 1932-1940 is an erudite, single volume history that continues to stand as a definitive statement of the Roosevelt era.led some to label the president a mediocre administrator who often procrastinated when faced with a serious challenge, a charge Leuchtenburg convincingly reputes. Rather, this \\"procrastination\\" was a way of \\"observing a trial by combat among rival theories\\" to see which idea was the best. For all of the dissension over economic proposals, Roosevelt's dynamic creativity and ability to attract scores of smart, talented men to Washington helped many New Deal ideas to succeed. While the president's personality led him to encourage a \\"combat of rival theories,\\" the American public felt they knew a different Roosevelt; a warm, fatherly figure who tried to help each individual and who made the federal government accessible to the public. <br />A troubling omission is the wartime sedition trial of American far right figures. United States v. McWilliams, as the case was known, is relevant here because it evolved directly out of the far right's loathing of the president's New Deal policies. The government, at the president's insistence, charged the defendants with involvement in a worldwide Nazi conspiracy. When Attorney General Francis Biddle told Roosevelt that any charges filed against these individuals would violate first amendment protections, the chief executive was blithely unconcerned. He hounded Biddle constantly about the issue, and even kept a stack of far right publications in his desk drawer that he would pull out as \\"evidence\\" of the need for action. Historians Leo Ribuffo and Glen Jeansonne have rightly labeled the indictments and subsequent trial a sham, with Ribuffo going so far as to conclude that Roosevelt's prosecution set a precedent subsequently used to great effect against far left figures in the 1950s.<br />James Thomas Flexner, in his one volume biography of George Washington, claimed that America's first chief executive succeeded because he acted as a balance between the competing interests of Alexander Hamilton's Federalism and Thomas Jefferson's Republicanism. Leuchtenburg's book makes a similar claim for Franklin Delano Roosevelt. In a time of great national stress a president arose who successfully put America on a path to stability by mediating between competing philosophies. Even though the book turned forty last year, Franklin Delano Roosevelt and the New Deal, 1932-1940 is an erudite, single volume history that continues to stand as a definitive statement of the Roosevelt era.	2004-04-25
705254:US	52012289	R31PVFSXV6UDHQ	0226395871	316570728	Women of the Far Right: The Mothers' Movement and World War II	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Female fascists	The Great Depression of the 1930s certainly ranks as an epochal moment in American history. The stock market crash of 1929 sent the country into an unprecedented period of economic woe. Millions lost their jobs, banks failed in the thousands, and starvation and death stalked every nook and cranny of the country. When President Herbert Hoover failed to alleviate the worst aspects of the Depression, the populace elevated a New Yorker named Franklin Delano Roosevelt to the presidency in the 1932 elections. The New Deal the president-elect offered the nation in an effort to solve the economic problems has since become well known to millions of Americans. What isn't as well known about the FDR era is the opposition the president faced from elements of society unenamored with his economic panaceas or his interest in foreign affairs. Millions of Americans, represented by figures like Father Charles Coughlin, Francis Townsend, Gerald L.K. Smith, and Huey Long, opposed at every turn the president's foreign and domestic initiatives. Unfortunately, many members of these groups-and many of the leaders-subscribed to vicious anti-Semitic and racist views. Historian Glen Jeansonne knows a little bit about some of these figures; he wrote a biography on Smith along with this book about the mothers' movements of the late 1930s and early 1940s.<br />&quot;Women of the Far Right: The Mothers' Movement and World War II&quot; takes a close look at the mothers' movements at the peak of their power, from roughly the late 1930s to the early 1940s. Many women of the time, horrified at the prospect of losing sons and husbands to yet another war in Europe, came together to oppose Roosevelt's increasing moves towards involving America in problems overseas. Boasting names like the National Legion of Mothers of America, We the Mothers Mobilize for America, and Women United, these groups hoped to bring about change in Washington through petitioning, marching on the nation's capital, and putting pressure on members of Congress. Many of the groups received financial support from big business, from wealthy individuals, and from a sympathetic public. The first and only truly national mothers' organization was led by novelist Kathleen Norris and supported good old fashioned isolationism. The group, sponsored by William Randolph Hearst, moved in the same circles as the isolationist America First Committee. According to Jeansonne, Norris's organization fractured after anti-Semites and racists infiltrated local chapters. The author focuses on the crackpots and loonies who took over the leadership positions of these local groups.<br />After presenting his thesis and a sketch of the far right during the 1930s, the book provides biographical portraits and a highlight of activities of most of the higher profile mothers. Elizabeth Dilling, for example, receives most of the attention in Jeansonne's treatment. Eventually tried for sedition by the federal government in 1944, Dilling spent most of the 1930s building up a strong resume of anti-Communist and anti-Semitic credentials. A religious woman who brooked little dissension from those around her, Dilling became the most prominent female far right figure of her time even though she never led a large organization. Just when you think things cannot get any wackier than Dilling, Jeansonne introduces chapters on women who did run mothers' groups. There's Cathrine Curtis, a former actress and financial wizard who dabbled in anti-Semitism during her days as head of the Women's National Committee to Keep the U.S. out of the War; Lyrl Clark Van Hyning, the outspoken leader of We the Mothers Mobilize for America based in Chicago; and the incredible Agnes Waters, a loose cannon even on the far right who railed against Jews, blacks, Communists, and anyone else who did not fit her conceptions of a perfect America.<br />Jeansonne's argument involves the mothers' movements' relationship to feminism, a sticky problem indeed when scholars and proponents of feminism define their belief system in terms of left-wing ideologies and the evils of patriarchy. According to the author, the mothers' movements embraced the traditional roles of women as mothers, as homemakers, and as subservient to men. Many of the mothers did not dispute the idea of men running the country; they simply wanted a different group of men in charge, men who took into consideration female viewpoints. The idea of a liberated woman like Eleanor Roosevelt, who embraced blacks, moral relativism, and female ambition, shocked many members of these reactionary groups (modern women, for the most part, have little difficulty seeing Eleanor as an admirable figure). In short, feminism as we understand it today has little to do with the mothers' movements of the 1930s. Jeansonne's arguments here are solid, and appropriately call for a reassessment of the parameters of feminist discourse.<br />The author stands on shakier ground when he delves into psychohistorical analysis. Historians placing historical figures on a metaphorical couch run grave risks. The primary problem is one of training: historians do not have the tools to conduct probing insights into the human mind. When Jeansonne attributes Agnes Waters's career as a competition with her successful mother, or analyzes Elizabeth Dilling's unique worldview in psychological terms, the reader vainly seeks for concrete proof of these assertions. Aside from the unfortunate digressions into psychohistory, and some choppiness with the text, &quot;Women of the Far Right&quot; is an amazing catalogue of memorable characters who, for a short time, possessed the potential to significantly alter the course of American history. The era of the Great Depression posed numerous dangers to the United States, and now historians have a better understanding of one more peril thanks to Glen Jeansonne.rs and proponents of feminism define their belief system in terms of left-wing ideologies and the evils of patriarchy. According to the author, the mothers' movements embraced the traditional roles of women as mothers, as homemakers, and as subservient to men. Many of the mothers did not dispute the idea of men running the country; they simply wanted a different group of men in charge, men who took into consideration female viewpoints. The idea of a liberated woman like Eleanor Roosevelt, who embraced blacks, moral relativism, and female ambition, shocked many members of these reactionary groups (modern women, for the most part, have little difficulty seeing Eleanor as an admirable figure). In short, feminism as we understand it today has little to do with the mothers' movements of the 1930s. Jeansonne's arguments here are solid, and appropriately call for a reassessment of the parameters of feminist discourse.<br />The author stands on shakier ground when he delves into psychohistorical analysis. Historians placing historical figures on a metaphorical couch run grave risks. The primary problem is one of training: historians do not have the tools to conduct probing insights into the human mind. When Jeansonne attributes Agnes Waters's career as a competition with her successful mother, or analyzes Elizabeth Dilling's unique worldview in psychological terms, the reader vainly seeks for concrete proof of these assertions. Aside from the unfortunate digressions into psychohistory, and some choppiness with the text, &quot;Women of the Far Right&quot; is an amazing catalogue of memorable characters who, for a short time, possessed the potential to significantly alter the course of American history. The era of the Great Depression posed numerous dangers to the United States, and now historians have a better understanding of one more peril thanks to Glen Jeansonne.	2004-04-15
708379:US	52012289	R2GZLGRA7MOHOH	0515136387	746709784	The Upright Man (Straw Men)	Books	4	30	34	N	N	The Straw Men return	Michael Marshall's novel &quot;The Straw Men&quot; was one of the best books I read in 2003. It told the story of a shadowy group of powerful figures that believed a disease called civilization infected the majority of the human race. These &quot;Straw Men&quot; maintained a tradition dating back to the earliest days of the human race, a time when human beings performed rituals to honor the ancient gods in exchange for power and health. A central tenet of these rituals involved, and continues to involve, human sacrifice. Using their positions of power and influence, the Straw Men employ various men and women around the world as procurers of victims. One of these men, sometimes known as the Upright Man, ran up against trouble in the form of a Los Angeles police detective named John Zandt, FBI agent Nina Baynam, and a smart mouthed former CIA operative named Ward Hopkins when he abducted a young girl. Zandt, Baynam, and Hopkins soon learned the Upright Man was involved in a series of bizarre incidents, including the abduction of John Zandt's own daughter and the disappearance of Hopkins's parents. A lengthy investigation of the Upright Man lead to startling revelations about Hopkins's childhood, and eventually led to a showdown between the three heroes and the Straw Men in a place called The Halls, Montana.<br />&quot;The Upright Man&quot; is Marshall's latest entry in what looks to be a multi-volume series about the Straw Men. Set roughly three months after the explosive confrontation at The Halls, the book reintroduces us to Nina, Ward, and to a lesser extent John as the trio continues to track down the Upright Man. Hopkins dropped out of sight for awhile after the incident in Montana before realizing he had to resume his search for the Straw Men. Zandt, after a brief dalliance with Nina, fled to Florida. Nina Baynam continues to work with her partner at the bureau. It isn't too long before more gruesome murders register on the radar. A slain LAPD cop leads to the discovery of a young woman's body in a nearby motel where suspicious evidence found on the scene leads Nina to suspect the Upright Man is once again on the prowl, a suspicion soon reinforced by two subsequent murders in Portland and Seattle. It seems the Straw Men took a little time to regroup from the fiasco in Montana, and now the ancient society is on the hunt for the three individuals who nearly brought them down.<br />Meanwhile, Ward Hopkins approaches the Upright Man from a different direction. Reassessing evidence discovered in his parents' house after their disappearance, Ward heads to San Francisco to search for the serial killer. He learns a lot about his own childhood in the process. He also learns that the Upright Man left a bloody swath through several foster families as a youth. The disparate facts Hopkins accumulates during his investigations in San Francisco start to gel after he reestablishes contact with Nina Baynam. The murders of the young woman in Los Angeles, a restaurant owner in Portland, and a hotel manager in Seattle couldn't seem further apart in terms of style and motive, but when taken together and fused with the evidence gleaned from the Upright Man's other crimes, everything eventually falls into place. Oddly enough, the crimes lead Zandt, Nina, and Hopkins to a small town called Sheffer, a place where a man named Tom Kozelek claimed to have encountered a Bigfoot during a botched suicide attempt in the deep woods. Confused? You will be during most of the book. Trust me when I say it all comes together in the end.<br />&quot;The Straw Men&quot; worked as well as it did because you could cut the creepy atmosphere with a knife. I read the novel nearly fourteen months ago and still remember the pervasive sense of weirdness when Ward Hopkins found a note from his deceased parents saying, &quot;We're not dead.&quot; And that was only one particular eerie scene in a book full of them. &quot;The Straw Men&quot; took the reader on a roller coaster ride through the horrific hidden recesses of the America. &quot;The Upright Man&quot; isn't nearly as chilling as &quot;The Straw Men,&quot; unfortunately, but it is required reading for anyone who read and enjoyed the first book. The introductory chapter does resemble in no small way many of the set pieces in the &quot;The Straw Men,&quot; but after that the novel settles down quite a bit. What the book does do is give the reader a little more background on the connection between Ward Hopkins and the Upright Man first established in &quot;The Straw Men,&quot; as well as explaining a few more details about the Straw Men and how they came into existence. Another difference between the two books is the relegation of John Zandt, the tormented cop with a personal vendetta against the serial killer who took his daughter away from him, to a minor role here.<br />I never gave a thought to the idea that &quot;The Straw Men&quot; would have a sequel even though the story left itself open for one. I was strolling through a brick and mortar the other day and just happened to catch a glimpse of the cover of &quot;The Upright Man&quot; on a rack of recently released paperback fiction. I immediately recognized the book for what it was and so beat a hasty path to the rack. I think I plowed over at least two toddlers and an old lady with a walker before laying my hands on a copy. I have rarely been so pumped to read a book. Well, &quot;The Upright Man&quot; isn't as good as its predecessor, but it's good enough to keep me reading if Marshall decides to release further tomes in the future.er ride through the horrific hidden recesses of the America. &quot;The Upright Man&quot; isn't nearly as chilling as &quot;The Straw Men,&quot; unfortunately, but it is required reading for anyone who read and enjoyed the first book. The introductory chapter does resemble in no small way many of the set pieces in the &quot;The Straw Men,&quot; but after that the novel settles down quite a bit. What the book does do is give the reader a little more background on the connection between Ward Hopkins and the Upright Man first established in &quot;The Straw Men,&quot; as well as explaining a few more details about the Straw Men and how they came into existence. Another difference between the two books is the relegation of John Zandt, the tormented cop with a personal vendetta against the serial killer who took his daughter away from him, to a minor role here.<br />I never gave a thought to the idea that &quot;The Straw Men&quot; would have a sequel even though the story left itself open for one. I was strolling through a brick and mortar the other day and just happened to catch a glimpse of the cover of &quot;The Upright Man&quot; on a rack of recently released paperback fiction. I immediately recognized the book for what it was and so beat a hasty path to the rack. I think I plowed over at least two toddlers and an old lady with a walker before laying my hands on a copy. I have rarely been so pumped to read a book. Well, &quot;The Upright Man&quot; isn't as good as its predecessor, but it's good enough to keep me reading if Marshall decides to release further tomes in the future.	2004-04-13
712598:US	52012289	RFWSDEWDZ8F5F	0060574534	855472227	Love Monkey: A Novel	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Spank this monkey	Kyle Smith's novel &quot;Love Monkey&quot; sure has been getting a lot of press recently. I saw several articles floating around the Internet about it, usually referring to it as a prime example of a new literary genre called &quot;guy lit,&quot; or some similar thing. What guy lit tries to do is marshal the forces of the testosterone militia to answer the salvos fired by chick lit. I had never read any chick lit until right before I read Smith's novel, so the whole genre was a big mystery to me. I often see chick lit books on the shelves during my jaunts to the brick and mortar bookshops. Those books are often the ones with covers so blindingly bright that they look like someone dunked them in radioactive material. Chick lit books also have drawings of women on the front cover, usually wearing some sort of flashy outfit, along with a title that looks like a third grader wrote it in cursive. The book jacket for Smith's book avoids such effeminate trappings; it has a snapshot of a woman with extremely nice legs-and wearing a very tight skirt-sitting on a barstool. O.K., now I'm interested. Interested enough to read the book, in fact, despite seeing a few extremely negative reviews for the novel. And read it I did.<br />&quot;Love Monkey&quot; is the story of a manboy, his love for cereal and Bob Dylan, his lousy job at a tabloid, and his painful love life in New York City. Tom Ferrell is a thirty something jerk with a saucy mouth and a cynical attitude who just wants to meet the right girl, sleep with her, and move on to the next conquest. Marriage is out of the question, at least on the surface. Ferrell would rather juggle a series of babes in his quest for...well, I don't now what he's seeking. His job as a rewriter for a New York rag promises him nothing but obscurity. He's got issues with his mother, but never resolves them. His love life is a series of expensive dates occasionally punctuated with all too brief physical encounters. What Ferrell spends most of his time doing, as far as I can tell from the book, involves thinking up ultra hip, smart alecky observations about the world as he sees it. After wading through pages and pages of pop culture tinged zingers, I began to despair. Is &quot;Love Monkey&quot; ever going to go anywhere? Then Tom Ferrell tells us about Julia, and the story takes off.<br />Julia is about ten years younger than Tom, very good looking, and expresses some interest in our hero. Ferrell lays it all out for us as he takes us back in time to his first awkward dates with his dream babe. A paragon of honesty and integrity, Tom's intentions with Julia are completely above board; he constantly attempts to ply her with alcohol in the long tried and true guy tradition of always getting a girl drunk so they'll put out. On one date, Ferrell sets into motion a plan where three of his friends show up and pick a fight with Tom so he can act like a hero in front of his girl. Tom tries everything to win Julia over, even going so far as to compete directly with her boyfriend Dwayne by showing up at one of her cheesy dance recitals, brown nosing her parents and weird brother, and continuing to shower her with expensive meals and gifts. Sometimes Tom's actions pay off, sometimes not. No matter how many points he scores with Julia, he just cannot seem to pry her away from her boyfriend. In a weird reversal of the typical male-female arrangement, Ferrell cannot seem to get a commitment from Julia.<br />Unfortunately for Tom, he has to juggle Julia with a cast of kooky friends and girlfriends. His primary male buddy is Shooter, a rich, handsome snob who always has a gorgeous babe hanging off his arm. Shooter likes to call Ferrell up at odd times and fire off &quot;helpful&quot; aphorisms about women and life. Then there is Bran Lowenstein, Tom's occasional consort. She's a mouthy gal always ready to put our man in his place. Along with Bran comes Liesl, a pretty lefty lawyer Ferrell is looking to mess around with, andKate, an aspiring lawyer who also shows some interest. We cannot forget Tom's obnoxious co-workers, fellow journalists even more insane than the protagonist. One of these guys, Tom tells us, has breath resembling a &quot;spritz of Mace.&quot; Nice. I always knew New Yorkers and bad hygiene went together. For someone who obviously isn't a people person, Tom Ferrell sure has a lot of friends and acquaintances. The story veers in a slightly different direction after the September 11th terrorist attacks (which Tom witnesses personally), and his relationships fundamentally change as well. The book ends on both a good and a bad note.<br />I liked &quot;Love Monkey&quot; in some respects. I chuckled at most of the characters, enjoyed the descriptions of the madhouse that is tabloid journalism in the Big Apple, and laughed aloud over some of his sarcastic comments. Unfortunately, the verbal acrobatics are funny to start with but soon drag as the story wears on. Even the wittiest bloke comes off as a bore if all you hear are pithy comments about world weariness. I'm also getting tired of hearing how New York is the center of the galaxy. If it is, the galaxy could do better. Tom Ferrell often reveals how shallow, narcissistic, and downright lame New Yorkers are. I don't take everything Smith writes to heart because I do know a few people from the Big Apple who are nothing like the characters in this book. Give &quot;Love Monkey&quot; a shot; it's not the best book I've read this year, but it's worth a look.Kate, an aspiring lawyer who also shows some interest. We cannot forget Tom's obnoxious co-workers, fellow journalists even more insane than the protagonist. One of these guys, Tom tells us, has breath resembling a &quot;spritz of Mace.&quot; Nice. I always knew New Yorkers and bad hygiene went together. For someone who obviously isn't a people person, Tom Ferrell sure has a lot of friends and acquaintances. The story veers in a slightly different direction after the September 11th terrorist attacks (which Tom witnesses personally), and his relationships fundamentally change as well. The book ends on both a good and a bad note.<br />I liked &quot;Love Monkey&quot; in some respects. I chuckled at most of the characters, enjoyed the descriptions of the madhouse that is tabloid journalism in the Big Apple, and laughed aloud over some of his sarcastic comments. Unfortunately, the verbal acrobatics are funny to start with but soon drag as the story wears on. Even the wittiest bloke comes off as a bore if all you hear are pithy comments about world weariness. I'm also getting tired of hearing how New York is the center of the galaxy. If it is, the galaxy could do better. Tom Ferrell often reveals how shallow, narcissistic, and downright lame New Yorkers are. I don't take everything Smith writes to heart because I do know a few people from the Big Apple who are nothing like the characters in this book. Give &quot;Love Monkey&quot; a shot; it's not the best book I've read this year, but it's worth a look.	2004-04-10
714114:US	52012289	R3W0Q5JW5K3E4I	0471450510	516326257	Hollywood, Interrupted: Insanity Chic in Babylon -- The Case Against Celebrity	Books	4	95	116	N	N	Send in the clowns!	Hollywood. The home of swimming pools and movie stars, of silicone and botox, of power lunches and big money deals. It's a warm, sunny place inhabited by the nicest people you would ever want to meet. Everybody is a friend in Tinseltown, always willing to lend a helping hand to his or her fellow man (or woman) with no expectation of a favor in return. I get the warm and fuzzies just thinking about how wonderful life must be in Southern California, how much better a place like Los Angeles is than boring old Nebraska, Wyoming, Minnesota, or virtually any other lame state in the country. Heck, the people who live in Hollywood, the people we see on television every day in movies and television shows, are obviously a cut above the rest of us. How can this not be so? All you need to do is spend a few hours a day with the television set and you rapidly learn these glamorous creatures are more beautiful, smarter, savvier, and more fashionable than the yucks who live in fly over country. Moreover, celebrities possess a greater capacity for truly caring about humanity than the rest of us do. Media stars care so much about the travails of life that they don't hesitate to use their money and influence to instruct us in the finer arts of raising children, waging war, and a host of other bread and butter issues the general populace knows nothing about. Every day when I wake up the first thing I do is thank my lucky stars I have such dedicated souls looking after my life.<br />Yeah right.<br />\\"Hollywood, Interrupted,\\" written La-La Land watchers Mark Ebner and Andrew Breitbart, attempts to reveal what often goes on in Hollyweird behind the megawatt smiles and popping flashbulbs. The picture painted in this sometimes gossipy, sometimes tabloidish, but usually serious book is not a pretty one. It is also not a picture anyone remotely familiar with the garbage culture of Tinseltown should be surprised to read about. The two authors cite the usual sick suspects in their compelling examination of why celebrity culture simply must go away for good. Chapters examine the weird behaviors of Michael Jackson, Eddie Murphy, Roman Polanski, Courtney Love (oh dear), Winona Ryder, River Phoenix, Nick Nolte, and dozens of other celebrities both major and minor. \\"Hollywood, Interrupted\\" delves deep into the guiding tenets of West Coast political philosophers like Martin Sheen, Susan Sarandon, Janeane Garofalo, Alec Baldwin, Barbra Streisand (oh dear again), Rob Reiner, Rosie O'Donnell, and Oprah Winfrey. What emerges are portraits of people completely out of control, people living in their own fantasy world totally cut off from reality but with no idea how far out of bounds they actually are.<br />The reader pays a visit to such celebrity institutions as Crossroads School, a fine, upstanding academy of learning packed to the rafters with the dope-addled offspring of the rich and famous. Just wait until you get a look at the curriculum in this madhouse! The book interviews nannies that worked for celebrities and other movers and shakers, describing the emotionally vacuous existence these people live every day. Not surprisingly, materialism is the god of Hollywood, a place where objects and whatever feels good take the place of anything the rest of us consider emotionally or spiritually healthy. Dr. Feelgoods sporting prescription pads, pseudo-religious cults, and sexual promiscuity are daily activities in the mental motel called Hollywood. Unfortunately, their own horrific behavior never stops some celebrities from standing up in front of a camera to tell us how to live our lives.<br />It's unnecessary to go into specifics about the scurrilous activities of our social betters. Chances are you have heard about most of the bad behavior before. What the book attempts to do is move beyond the catalog of atrocities in order to figure out a way for the average citizen to break through the façade which protects these celluloid cretins. For far too long, the authors argue, the media systems have protected celebrities from themselves and from the fallout over the latest episodes of drug abuse, murder, or other similar crimes. Ebner and Breitbart claim that the Internet--with its myriad chat rooms, web pages, and bulletin boards-- offers an alternate media through which the citizens of this country can clear away the fog of propaganda pumped out by Los Angeles and New York. Celebrities and their personnel rely on good press to make money, make more money, and make even more money. Dumb statements from stars (and there is no dearth of stupid statements from the rich and famous) tend to cause a lot of problems when contract signing time comes around. In the old days, the authors assert, citizens had little means of conveying opinions instantaneously and in great numbers. A bad movie or a dumb comment can now find immediate release on the web. The recent imbroglio over the Dixie Chicks and the rapid disintegration of \\"Gigli,\\" says the book, are examples of how the new media can checkmate Hollywood's nonsense.<br />Readers looking for yet another salacious tome on Courtney Love's latest meltdown or Michael Jackson's continuing troubles should probably renew their subscriptions to the tabloids. Some of that stuff makes its way into \\"Hollywood, Interrupted,\\" but not too much or too often. When the authors deign to throw in some seedy allegations, such as a discussion on Hugh Hefner's depravity or Michael Jackson's troubles with a pornographer, the book falters. Ebner and Breitbart are at their best when they take Hollywood to task on issues such as childcare, drugs, left wing propaganda, and political correctness. The only reason celebrities exist is because they live in a country that has so much wealth that it can weather their idiocy. Tough times in the future (more terrorist attacks, for example) could very well silence these clowns forever.rs argue, the media systems have protected celebrities from themselves and from the fallout over the latest episodes of drug abuse, murder, or other similar crimes. Ebner and Breitbart claim that the Internet--with its myriad chat rooms, web pages, and bulletin boards-- offers an alternate media through which the citizens of this country can clear away the fog of propaganda pumped out by Los Angeles and New York. Celebrities and their personnel rely on good press to make money, make more money, and make even more money. Dumb statements from stars (and there is no dearth of stupid statements from the rich and famous) tend to cause a lot of problems when contract signing time comes around. In the old days, the authors assert, citizens had little means of conveying opinions instantaneously and in great numbers. A bad movie or a dumb comment can now find immediate release on the web. The recent imbroglio over the Dixie Chicks and the rapid disintegration of \\"Gigli,\\" says the book, are examples of how the new media can checkmate Hollywood's nonsense.<br />Readers looking for yet another salacious tome on Courtney Love's latest meltdown or Michael Jackson's continuing troubles should probably renew their subscriptions to the tabloids. Some of that stuff makes its way into \\"Hollywood, Interrupted,\\" but not too much or too often. When the authors deign to throw in some seedy allegations, such as a discussion on Hugh Hefner's depravity or Michael Jackson's troubles with a pornographer, the book falters. Ebner and Breitbart are at their best when they take Hollywood to task on issues such as childcare, drugs, left wing propaganda, and political correctness. The only reason celebrities exist is because they live in a country that has so much wealth that it can weather their idiocy. Tough times in the future (more terrorist attacks, for example) could very well silence these clowns forever.	2004-04-08
735899:US	52012289	RS5ZXXONEWH4Z	0895260670	355836637	Madame Hillary: The Dark Road to the White House	Books	5	30	37	N	N	Dark indeed	I should start this review by saying I used to subscribe to the liberal agenda. I believed in state sponsored dole programs, government intervention in the affairs of everyday life, and the use of the judiciary to bring about change. Yes, my friends, I even voted for Bill Clinton in 1996. Then, about six or seven years ago, I experienced what I can only describe as an epiphanic experience, a Kuhnian paradigm shift in my political outlook. Several factors accounted for my sudden migration away from the liberal cosmology. Arguably the largest influence on my new sense of the world occurred from reading history. I quickly saw that the ideas of today's elites didn't jibe with reality, that these concepts had been tried before and had always failed. Even worse, not only did liberalism fail, it brought about the end of civilizations. The scandals emanating from the Clinton White House also did a lot to dampen my enthusiasm for the liberal &quot;truths.&quot; Anyone who could blindly support the Clintons despite the deluge of lies, smears, and outright crimes perpetrated by the dynamic duo are truly pathetic creatures in dire need of help. The idea of Hillary Clinton running for, let alone winning, the presidency of this great nation is a notion that sends chills down my spine.<br />&quot;Hillary for President&quot; also scares R. Emmett Tyrrell and Mark W. Davis, so much so that the two conservatives decided to write this slim novel outlining the ways Hillary will attempt to usher in an era of far left quackery the likes of which even Lenin, Stalin, and Mao could not have foreseen. According to Tyrrell and Davis, Hillary Clinton's background as a &quot;coat and tie radical&quot; in the 1960s and 1970s, along with her subsequent record as First Lady and her Senate career, should disqualify her from serving as President of the United States. The authors outline in ghastly detail the real Hillary Clinton, from her early work as a pro-Marxist ideologue following the tenets of radical troublemaker Saul Alinsky, to her article calling for the complete liberation of children from their parents, to her weird relationship with Willie. What emerges is a portrait of a woman so inebriated with power, so in love with herself and her pro-communist vision for America, that she will do almost anything to attain the Oval Office. Watching horror films and reading horror novels is one of my favorite hobbies, and let me tell you right here and now that &quot;Madame Hillary&quot; is one of the most horrific books I have ever read. Although the authors seem to think there is hope for stopping Hillary and her extremist agenda even if the public does put her into office in 2008, I have grave doubts whether the country could long survive another Clinton administration.<br />Could Hillary Clinton become president in 2008? According to &quot;Madame Hillary,&quot; anything is possible where the Clintons are involved. The attention seeking former first family never passes up an opportunity to grab the spotlight even at the expense of the current crop of presidential hopefuls. Hillary uses her position in the Senate to garner headlines, raises and dispenses millions through several PACs to other party apparatchiks, and carefully stakes out positions on pertinent issues of the day in an attempt to set herself up as a candidate in the next presidential election. Madame Hillary has her talons firmly planted around the throat of the Democratic Party, and she will use this position and influence to fulfill her &quot;destiny.&quot; If that &quot;destiny&quot; comes to fruition, disaster will follow. How so? Remember the universal health care debacle of the early 1990s where she attempted to socialize our medical system? A Hillary regime would be much worse. Senator Clinton will attempt to socialize all aspects of our society by increasing entitlements to undreamt of levels, increasing taxes to European heights, and further radicalize the judiciary. She could win the presidency, but I have to believe she won't. Hopefully, too many people will remember the scandals.<br />What drives Hillary Clinton to remake America? Saul Alinsky and her days as a radical at college inform our former First Lady's belief system. Tyrrell and Davis pored through Hillary's &quot;Living History&quot; and adroitly compared statements she made in the book with Alinsky's radical primer for overthrowing society. The comparisons are frightful. Senator Clinton's penchant for confrontation, her practice of emphasizing symbols over ethics, and the belief that discord instills meaning in one's life all mesh with the tripe found in Alinsky's book. Through these three tactics, Hillary Clinton will destroy all of our institutions and replace them with her own brand of leftist extremism. If you don't think the former First Lady is a leftist ideologue, look at what she says, at the groups that support her, and then visit the library to dig up Richard Hofstadter's &quot;The Paranoid Style in American Politics.&quot; This short essay was written to expose the psychological contours of the far right, but the same analysis applies to all extremists. I think you'll see what Hillary Clinton is all about after reading this informative article. Then read &quot;Madame Hillary.&quot;<br />I have two complaints about the book. One, it isn't as funny as &quot;Boy Clinton.&quot; You can tell Tyrrell didn't write the whole thing because the book is missing his trademark wit. Second, the heavy emphasis on power politics makes for a depressing read. Republicans and Democrats struggle not in an effort to accomplish anything but in order to grab power. I am already quite cynical about politics, and I know the book's descriptions of the shenanigans going on in Washington are true regardless of party, but I am always still surprised by the depths elites will go to attain power. Still, Hillary Clinton is the worst of the lot if her past record is any indication. Let's hope circumstances will keep her out of the White House forever.presidency, but I have to believe she won't. Hopefully, too many people will remember the scandals. <br />What drives Hillary Clinton to remake America? Saul Alinsky and her days as a radical at college inform our former First Lady's belief system. Tyrrell and Davis pored through Hillary's &quot;Living History&quot; and adroitly compared statements she made in the book with Alinsky's radical primer for overthrowing society. The comparisons are frightful. Senator Clinton's penchant for confrontation, her practice of emphasizing symbols over ethics, and the belief that discord instills meaning in one's life all mesh with the tripe found in Alinsky's book. Through these three tactics, Hillary Clinton will destroy all of our institutions and replace them with her own brand of leftist extremism. If you don't think the former First Lady is a leftist ideologue, look at what she says, at the groups that support her, and then visit the library to dig up Richard Hofstadter's &quot;The Paranoid Style in American Politics.&quot; This short essay was written to expose the psychological contours of the far right, but the same analysis applies to all extremists. I think you'll see what Hillary Clinton is all about after reading this informative article. Then read &quot;Madame Hillary.&quot;<br />I have two complaints about the book. One, it isn't as funny as &quot;Boy Clinton.&quot; You can tell Tyrrell didn't write the whole thing because the book is missing his trademark wit. Second, the heavy emphasis on power politics makes for a depressing read. Republicans and Democrats struggle not in an effort to accomplish anything but in order to grab power. I am already quite cynical about politics, and I know the book's descriptions of the shenanigans going on in Washington are true regardless of party, but I am always still surprised by the depths elites will go to attain power. Still, Hillary Clinton is the worst of the lot if her past record is any indication. Let's hope circumstances will keep her out of the White House forever.	2004-03-22
748389:US	52012289	R29EE7EOI4BV2D	080326187X	133326057	Ham, Eggs, and Corn Cake: A Nebraska Territory Diary	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Good Life?	In 1857, Erastus F. Beadle, a book and magazine publisher who ultimately became wealthy due to his introduction of the dime novel, headed west to stake a claim in Omaha, Nebraska Territory. An informative introduction to this engaging frontier diary, written by historian Ronald Naugle, tells us Beadle was born in New York in 1821, the son of Flavel and Polly Fuller Beadle. At the age of fourteen he took quite a shine to the publishing business, ultimately moving to Buffalo where he soon formed a company with his brother Irwin. Several magazine projects soon followed, successful enterprises that promised a bright future for the young Beadle. By the time he took his trip to Omaha, he was thirty-five years old, married with several children, and looking at an immensely successful career as a purveyor of printed materials. The call of the American West was, however, too strong a lure to resist. Beadle left New York and embarked on the long, often perilous journey to his new home in Omaha, promising to send for the wife and kids once he settled into his new career as landowner and real estate booster. Beadle returned to New York some six months later, disillusioned with prospects in the west but with a love for the freedom, clean air, and wide-open spaces of Nebraska. He ultimately became a millionaire from the sales of his books, retired to a spacious mansion in New York, and died in 1894.<br />Beadle's diary of his travels to and adventures in the Nebraska Territory, while incomplete as diaries are wont to be, does make for entertaining reading. The actual journey across the country, which constitutes a significant portion of the narrative, is full of humor, dangers, and intriguing people. It is difficult to read something written during a specific historical period and not look for passing references to larger issues of the day, and Beadle's travelogue is no exception. He meets several individuals as he wends his way to Omaha who live or lived in &quot;Bloody Kansas,&quot; a region seething with discord between slavery and anti-slavery forces. One woman Beadle encounters on a steamboat actually fled from the carnage at Lawrence. When offered a job in Kansas, Beadle politely turns it down--probably due in part to the political problems in that state--even though the salary is quite large. He also meets a man who claimed to have married the widow of William Morgan, the person supposedly murdered by Freemasons in New York back in the 1820s, an event that touched off massive anti-Masonic outrages. When in Omaha, Beadle meets several Indians and laments the difficult conditions faced by Native Americans in the face of enormous white immigration into the region.<br />Erastus Beadle's job in Omaha was with the Sulphur Springs Land Company, an organization set up to develop a city just outside of Omaha called Saratoga. The boosters in this company envisioned a place with a grand hotel, bustling streets, and hundreds of occupied homes. Saratoga eventually failed due to an economic bust in the late 1850s that caused bank failures and declining property values. When Beadle was there, however, the place was booming. He sold plots, surveyed, helped bring in supplies, and did whatever else was needed to bring Saratoga to fruition. At some point, Beadle tired of his job, resigned his post, and acquired a huge tract of land he subsequently named Rock Brook Farm (near Center Street here in Omaha; predictably, a shopping center sits there now). The lure of farming a large plot of land wasn't enough to hold his attention, and he returned to his home state of New York and his family.<br />Many of Beadle's observations alternate between levity and misfortune. The conditions he describes concerning steamboat travel up the Missouri River are often humorous, as people jockey for sleeping space in cramped quarters or dine on atrocious foods. What really takes the cake are his complaints about Omaha's weather. Anyone who lives here will read this accountand know not a lot has changed since the 1850s. Beadle describes, for example, frigid conditions towards the end of April that left ice two inches thick in his water basin. The appearance of snow in the same month is a source of profound mystery to the writer, as is the reality of a frigid, windy day followed by heat and humidity the next. Welcome to Nebraska, Mr. Beadle! Closely associated with his gripes about the inclement conditions are complaints about his medical condition. The writer, like most people living in the nineteenth century, worries endlessly about the most mundane coughs, sneezes, or rashes. Repeatedly, Beadle describes in detail how someone he has met either is sick or suddenly dies after a sickness. His own coughing fits that appear after arriving in Omaha worry him, as do the emergence of bodily aches and painful boils. The knowledge after the fact that someone he traveled with on a steamboat had smallpox sends him into fits. &quot;Ham, Eggs, and Corn Cake&quot; primarily highlights the perilous conditions involved in traveling and living in America during the nineteenth century.<br />&quot;Ham, Eggs, and Corn Cake&quot; has a limited appeal. Historians of Nebraska or other Midwestern states should probably read it, students in the area could use it for papers, or residents of Omaha might like to read it just to see what certain parts of the city once looked like. I found it a quick read, full of intriguing information and memorable anecdotes. I would like to say that traveling to Omaha is a lot easier that last time I checked. We just upgraded from stagecoaches to automobiles a few years ago, and we hardly travel by steamboat anymore since we heard about those flying chariot thingies a few months back. Seriously, give it a shot if you like nineteenth century travelogues.and know not a lot has changed since the 1850s. Beadle describes, for example, frigid conditions towards the end of April that left ice two inches thick in his water basin. The appearance of snow in the same month is a source of profound mystery to the writer, as is the reality of a frigid, windy day followed by heat and humidity the next. Welcome to Nebraska, Mr. Beadle! Closely associated with his gripes about the inclement conditions are complaints about his medical condition. The writer, like most people living in the nineteenth century, worries endlessly about the most mundane coughs, sneezes, or rashes. Repeatedly, Beadle describes in detail how someone he has met either is sick or suddenly dies after a sickness. His own coughing fits that appear after arriving in Omaha worry him, as do the emergence of bodily aches and painful boils. The knowledge after the fact that someone he traveled with on a steamboat had smallpox sends him into fits. &quot;Ham, Eggs, and Corn Cake&quot; primarily highlights the perilous conditions involved in traveling and living in America during the nineteenth century.<br />&quot;Ham, Eggs, and Corn Cake&quot; has a limited appeal. Historians of Nebraska or other Midwestern states should probably read it, students in the area could use it for papers, or residents of Omaha might like to read it just to see what certain parts of the city once looked like. I found it a quick read, full of intriguing information and memorable anecdotes. I would like to say that traveling to Omaha is a lot easier that last time I checked. We just upgraded from stagecoaches to automobiles a few years ago, and we hardly travel by steamboat anymore since we heard about those flying chariot thingies a few months back. Seriously, give it a shot if you like nineteenth century travelogues.	2004-03-12
759105:US	52012289	RNQ0HJ34ARLMA	0316921173	669738240	Infinite Jest: A Novel	Books	5	439	464	N	N	Pure genius	Say farewell, at least for a month or so, to your family, friends, and other hobbies. Figure out a way to fortify your fingers, wrists, and arms so you can hold this book up for hours at a time over a period of weeks. Reconfigure the lighting arrangement in your reading area for maximum glow. Find two sturdy bookmarks. Take a deep breath, let it out real slow, and you are ready to begin the monumental task of reading David Foster Wallace's &quot;Infinite Jest.&quot; It took me three solid weeks to navigate a path through the byzantine structures of Wallace's magnum opus, three weeks of reading at least twenty pages a day (often more than that, of course) to get through the nearly 1,000 pages of text and the ninety plus pages of endnotes that make up this novel. If you have heard of Wallace before, and you probably have if you are checking out reviews for the book, you know &quot;Infinite Jest&quot; has quite a reputation in the literary world. You will see stuffed shirts tossing around words like &quot;post post-modernism&quot; and other academic jargon while referring to Wallace's oeuvre. Don't let these old fogies get you down; &quot;Infinite Jest&quot; is an immensely readable, hypnotically fascinating novel chock full of great humor, great sadness, and thought provoking themes.<br />The novel takes place in Enfield, Massachusetts in the near future. In the story, Canada, the United States, and Mexico formed a federation called the Organization of North American Nations (known as O.N.A.N.). The citizens of this confederation spend their time watching entertainment cartridges playable on their &quot;teleputers,&quot; devices that came about when broadcast television went bankrupt. Advertisers predictably had a cow over the loss of television, so the government allowed companies to purchase calendar years and rename them. Hence, we have years called &quot;The Year of Glad,&quot; and &quot;The Year of the Depend Adult Undergarment.&quot; Not everyone is happy with the O.N.A.N. arrangement; Quebecois revolutionaries continue to seek an independent homeland from their Canadian masters, only now they have to deal with the United States as well. In a devious bid for independence, a group of terrorists known as &quot;The Wheelchair Assassins&quot; (!) are seeking a film cartridge that supposedly kills anyone who watches it by turning them into pleasure seeking zombies. Moreover, a new energy system called annular fusion requires the confederation to dump its toxic waste into a place called &quot;The Great Concavity,&quot; an abandoned area encompassing most of Maine and other northeastern regions. The concavity borders Quebec, and the toxins flung there with giant catapults (!!) have leeched into surrounding areas, thus causing thousands of people to develop life-threatening deformities.<br />Wallace introduces dozens of oddball characters in the course of his narrative, with special emphasis placed on the students at the Enfield Tennis Academy and the addicts populating a drug rehab right down the hill called Ennet House. The primary character at Enfield is one Hal Incandenza, a genius and a tennis star with a growing addiction to marijuana. Living with Hal are his horribly disfigured brother Mario, his promiscuous but hyper intelligent mother Avril, and several fellow students who redefine our conceptions of the bizarre. Hal has difficulties dealing with his family due to, among other issues, the horrific suicide via microwave oven of his father James. Dad was a scientist who helped develop annular fusion before going into experimental filmmaking. It was, in fact, James Incandenza who made the fatal entertainment cartridge that is causing so many headaches. In opposition to the madhouse that is Enfield is the madhouse that is Ennet House, where drug addict Don Gately attempts to take things one day at a time. Gately lived a life of desperate abandon, burglarizing homes in order to pay for his addictions. The only thing harder than living on drugs is kicking the habit, and Wallace describes in minute detail the hard sought sobriety of Don Gately and his fellow addicts. I know this summary stinks, I know I'm leaving tons of stuff out, but place the blame on Wallace for constructing such a complex novel.<br />Several themes thread their way through the novel. The most notable is the theme of addiction and recovery represented by Hal Incandenza and Don Gately. Another theme is the role of entertainment in American society, something Wallace sees as a calamity of epic proportions that will only end in death. If you tire of looking for deeper meaning in &quot;Infinite Jest,&quot; don't worry. You can laugh yourself sick over the humorous aspects of the book or stare in open-mouthed awe at the numerous digressions from the main story. Wallace is a powerful writer, capable of infusing seemingly banal situations like filmmaking and sports with amazing energy. Check out the story about Hal's brother Orin punting in his first football game, or the Eschaton disaster at the academy, or James Incandenza's filmography in one of the endnotes for proof of this assertion. I especially loved the filmography and the endnote explaining the origins of the Wheelchair Assassins, two of the funniest, most wildly inventive things I have ever read. Most of the book is as equally brilliant even as it veers off in a dozen different directions.<br />&quot;Infinite Jest&quot; is intricate, with its multitude of subplots, OED inspired vocabulary, and tragic characters, yet the book still entertains because Wallace knows how to drape a compelling, easily understood story over all of the complexities. I'm under no illusions that I picked up on more than a fraction of the many things Wallace was attempting to say, but who cares? I had a heckuva a ride through this book, and hopefully you will too. Remember, take your time, breathe easy, and don't worry too much about carpal tunnel syndrome.<br />P.S. Allston Rules.n living on drugs is kicking the habit, and Wallace describes in minute detail the hard sought sobriety of Don Gately and his fellow addicts. I know this summary stinks, I know I'm leaving tons of stuff out, but place the blame on Wallace for constructing such a complex novel.<br />Several themes thread their way through the novel. The most notable is the theme of addiction and recovery represented by Hal Incandenza and Don Gately. Another theme is the role of entertainment in American society, something Wallace sees as a calamity of epic proportions that will only end in death. If you tire of looking for deeper meaning in &quot;Infinite Jest,&quot; don't worry. You can laugh yourself sick over the humorous aspects of the book or stare in open-mouthed awe at the numerous digressions from the main story. Wallace is a powerful writer, capable of infusing seemingly banal situations like filmmaking and sports with amazing energy. Check out the story about Hal's brother Orin punting in his first football game, or the Eschaton disaster at the academy, or James Incandenza's filmography in one of the endnotes for proof of this assertion. I especially loved the filmography and the endnote explaining the origins of the Wheelchair Assassins, two of the funniest, most wildly inventive things I have ever read. Most of the book is as equally brilliant even as it veers off in a dozen different directions.<br />&quot;Infinite Jest&quot; is intricate, with its multitude of subplots, OED inspired vocabulary, and tragic characters, yet the book still entertains because Wallace knows how to drape a compelling, easily understood story over all of the complexities. I'm under no illusions that I picked up on more than a fraction of the many things Wallace was attempting to say, but who cares? I had a heckuva a ride through this book, and hopefully you will too. Remember, take your time, breathe easy, and don't worry too much about carpal tunnel syndrome.<br />P.S. Allston Rules.	2004-03-04
764919:US	52012289	R2Y3SGX84LI8SH	0895261014	74442182	Shut Up and Sing: How Elites from Hollywood, Politics, and the UN Are Subverting America	Books	4	62	82	N	N	You go, girl!	Conservative talk show host Laura Ingraham decided to write a book called &quot;Shut Up and Sing: How Elites from Hollywood, Politics, and the UN Are Subverting America&quot; in an effort to throw a spotlight on the folly of our so called &quot;leaders.&quot; Dismissed as a hateful screed by hysterical shills for the Left, the author's book is in reality an intriguing, funny, and forceful call to action for American citizens weary of the idiocy that passes as &quot;liberalism&quot; today. Far from being the friendly, inclusive ideology of the common man, many of today's leftists are narrow minded, intolerant bigots full of self-loathing guilt about the success of America. By the way, I don't pay attention to any particular radio programs endorsing either side of the political spectrum, largely due to my increasing annoyance with both right and left, but I would definitely give Ingraham a listen based solely on this book. Would I condone everything she said lock, stock, and barrel? Definitely not, but it's always fun to see one of these self-righteous leftist zealots take a shot on the chin.<br />Who are the elites who spend every waking minute making the rest of us miserable? According to Ingraham, they occupy prominent positions in the entertainment industry, politics, academia, the judiciary, and the United Nations. You know a lot of them by sight: Tim Robbins, Susan Sarandon, Madonna, Rosie O'Donnell, Barbra Streisand (grrr), Jane Fonda (double grrr), Ted Kennedy, Michael Moore, Noam Chomsky, Susan Sontag, Cornel West, and a million other dupes espousing blatant &quot;Hate America&quot; ideologies. Ingraham even includes a pictorial &quot;rogue's gallery&quot; in the middle of the book in case you don't know the faces of our anti-American enemy. Many of the individuals listed above work in Hollywood, a place that has had such a corrosive effect on this country that anyone who says and believes otherwise ought to reserve themselves a padded room at the local mental motel. Through certain movies, public appearances, and other media driven avenues, these elites attempt to instill their unhealthy ideas on the rest of American society. According to Ingraham's elites, America is an intolerant society dominated by ignorant bumpkins suffering from a mental disability called religion who want to impose their backward, parochial views on every other part of the globe. The elites urge us to take the United Nations and socialist Europe as the model for what America should become: a powerless cog in a world government presided over by leftist overlords. It seems communism never went away. What a surprise.<br />The author heaps scorn upon Hollywood, but reserves most of her venom for other areas of elite control, specifically academia, politics, and religion bashers. Loads of books outline in greater detail the horrific conditions of America's left wing indoctrination centers (read: colleges and universities), so Ingraham's summary doesn't add much to the historiography. What it does do in relatively few pages is introduce the novice reader to some of the wackos in higher education. Unfortunately, the insanity found at the university level has now filtered down to the earliest grades in public schools. Subversion of the education system wouldn't be possible if the political organs didn't provide a comfortable home for cranks, and the author writes in detail about the lunacy taking place in the federal government. The judicial branch carries most of the responsibility for the problems we face. Instead of interpreting the law, these guys and gals use the bench to launch convoluted social programs impervious to the will of the electorate. One field of contention with the courts concerns the status of religion in the public sphere. The author outlines elite efforts to make secularism the state religion. While I am definitely not a Christian (or a member of any other faith), I cannot wait for the day when some lawyer steps up in front of a court and successfully argues secularism has become a religion endorsed by the government in direct violation of the Constitution. You know it will happen.<br />&quot;Shut Up and Sing&quot; isn't a perfect book by any standard. Ingraham, for instance, fails to recognize the true nature of the elites in America. What she describes in this book transcends the political labels of &quot;Republican&quot; and &quot;Democrat.&quot; And while the author takes President Bush to task over the mess that is immigration policy in the United States, and criticizes corporate greed and the increasing monopolization of American business, she simply cannot bring herself to elevate the debate above right versus left. Both parties are taking us down the road to ruin because both parties pay homage to the idea of &quot;democracy.&quot; Democracy, like communism, sounds great on paper but has been a disaster in practice. A slothful, indifferent public too busy enjoying bread and circuses cannot make democracy work. Turning over your civic duties to others leads in large part to the types of problems described in this book. A return to the republican virtues our founding fathers endorsed in the Constitution is the best hope for the country.<br />&quot;Shut Up and Sing&quot; is an intriguing book well worth your time. I fear for the future every time I read books like this one, regardless of their political orientation, because the country has degraded so far in such a short time that revolution is probably the only possible remedy now. Since revolutions tend to be rather messy affairs involving the deaths of thousands if not millions of people, and usually take divergent courses never imagined at their inception, I would rather see a more rational solution to our problems.urt and successfully argues secularism has become a religion endorsed by the government in direct violation of the Constitution. You know it will happen.<br />&quot;Shut Up and Sing&quot; isn't a perfect book by any standard. Ingraham, for instance, fails to recognize the true nature of the elites in America. What she describes in this book transcends the political labels of &quot;Republican&quot; and &quot;Democrat.&quot; And while the author takes President Bush to task over the mess that is immigration policy in the United States, and criticizes corporate greed and the increasing monopolization of American business, she simply cannot bring herself to elevate the debate above right versus left. Both parties are taking us down the road to ruin because both parties pay homage to the idea of &quot;democracy.&quot; Democracy, like communism, sounds great on paper but has been a disaster in practice. A slothful, indifferent public too busy enjoying bread and circuses cannot make democracy work. Turning over your civic duties to others leads in large part to the types of problems described in this book. A return to the republican virtues our founding fathers endorsed in the Constitution is the best hope for the country.<br />&quot;Shut Up and Sing&quot; is an intriguing book well worth your time. I fear for the future every time I read books like this one, regardless of their political orientation, because the country has degraded so far in such a short time that revolution is probably the only possible remedy now. Since revolutions tend to be rather messy affairs involving the deaths of thousands if not millions of people, and usually take divergent courses never imagined at their inception, I would rather see a more rational solution to our problems.	2004-02-29
828465:US	52012289	R2A2U853PFRN8B	0394716280	185724719	Voices of Protest: Huey Long, Father Coughlin, & the Great Depression	Books	5	49	52	N	N	Fascinating look at dissident America, circa 1930s	In many ways the Great Depression marked a turning point for American society. Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal policies significantly altered the scope and function of the federal government through a host of social programs engineered to revive the ailing economy. A restructuring of the banking system, restrictions on the stock markets, an increase in the size of the bureaucracy, and the development of Social Security were just a few of the changes wrought by the administration. Despite the various panaceas proposed and enacted by Roosevelt's government, the economic slump doggedly persisted year after year until World War II provided jobs for millions of out of work Americans. Roosevelt and his advisors were not the only people trying to cure the country of its economic ills, however. During the early and mid 1930s, several dissident social movements exploded onto the American scene promising an end to the Depression. Historian Alan Brinkley examines two of the biggest of these movements in &quot;Voices of Protest: Huey Long, Father Coughlin, and the Great Depression.&quot;<br />The first 142 pages of &quot;Voices of Protest&quot; summarizes the life, rise, and various activities of Louisiana politician Huey Long and Catholic priest and radio personality Charles Coughlin. If you know a great deal about these two fascinating figures, you could probably skip these sections and not miss out on a great deal. Brinkley discusses Long's early life in Winn Parish, a Louisiana county with a long history of radical dissent dating back to the era of Populism. Arguing that this background imbued Long with a fondness for the common man, Brinkley outlines Huey's rise to power through the governorship of Louisiana and his eventual move into the United States Senate. Long was a corrupt politician who ran his state like a personal fiefdom, even after he went to Washington. Huey's political machine controlled every government job in the state, from the highest to lowest positions, and the man made ample use of this power to pack the state government with allies who would do his bidding. By the time the Senator proposed his &quot;Share Our Wealth&quot; palliative, he had an eager eye on the presidency. Long's plans for the country died with him when an assassin's bullet felled the Senator in the Louisiana Statehouse in 1935.<br />Charles Coughlin grew up in Canada and eventually joined the priesthood, moving to Royal Oak, Michigan in the 1920s. When his new church needed to raise funds to pay off a diocesan loan, he started a small radio program on WJR in Detroit. At first, the program consisted of short, harmless sermons. With the start of the Depression, Coughlin's broadcasts swiftly assumed political dimensions. His voice, described by many as one of the most arresting sounds ever heard on the airwaves, rapidly increased the size of his audience. As the donations poured in Coughlin expanded his radio network into a virtual empire. By the mid 1930s he was one of the most prominent figures in American society, a man looked up to by millions and a frequent guest at the Roosevelt White House. The priest and the president soon fell out over several issues, and Coughlin took his revenge on Roosevelt by forming the National Union for Social Justice and its attendant political branch, the Union Party, to unseat the president in the 1936 elections. The priest failed, and in a sign of decreasing popularity and bitterness he wholeheartedly embraced anti-Semitism and pro-German sympathies before the Catholic Church forced his retirement from public life in the early 1940s. Coughlin died in obscurity in 1979.<br />&quot;Voices of Protest&quot; takes off with chapter seven. Brinkley adroitly and convincingly analyzes the Long and Coughlin movements, explaining how the two men amassed such huge audiences with their populist rhetoric. The Depression, argues Brinkley, exposed the inherent flaws in a fundamental economic/social shift that had been going on inAmerica for decades. The centralization and bureaucratization of business and government threatened traditional American ideas about the importance of localized society. When a stock market disaster in New York City caused workers in Lincoln, Nebraska or Des Moines, Iowa to lose their jobs, people worried anew about big business and power held in the hands of an anonymous few thousands of miles away. Long and Coughlin played on these fears by proposing programs that would restore power to local communities and the individual. Their programs ultimately failed because the economic move to centralization had already gone on for far too long. Additionally, the two men's ideas contained seeds of contradiction. In an effort to restore a traditional life highlighting locality and the individual, Long and Coughlin proposed big government schemes as a means of achieving their goals. The attempt to turn Share Our Wealth and the National Union for Social Justice into nationwide political organizations failed because of this focus on localization and an inability on the part of the two men to address the core issue of the problems they attacked, namely economic centralization.<br />The rest of &quot;Voices of Protest&quot; looks closely at the organization and followers of the Long and Coughlin organizations, other dissidents operating in the 1930s, and whether Long and Coughlin were American fascists. There are a few problems with the book. I think the author fails to strongly stress the positive aspects of these movements. For example, Brinkley barely mentions that these movements brought millions of Americans into the political life of the country at a time when participation was enormously important. Moreover, the dissident movements in the United States undoubtedly pushed Roosevelt to create important pieces of legislation during his second term as president. Social Security, for example, was an attempt to co-opt Francis Townsend's old age pension plan. Still, &quot;Voices of Protest&quot; is a winner that every person interested in 20th century American history should read.America for decades. The centralization and bureaucratization of business and government threatened traditional American ideas about the importance of localized society. When a stock market disaster in New York City caused workers in Lincoln, Nebraska or Des Moines, Iowa to lose their jobs, people worried anew about big business and power held in the hands of an anonymous few thousands of miles away. Long and Coughlin played on these fears by proposing programs that would restore power to local communities and the individual. Their programs ultimately failed because the economic move to centralization had already gone on for far too long. Additionally, the two men's ideas contained seeds of contradiction. In an effort to restore a traditional life highlighting locality and the individual, Long and Coughlin proposed big government schemes as a means of achieving their goals. The attempt to turn Share Our Wealth and the National Union for Social Justice into nationwide political organizations failed because of this focus on localization and an inability on the part of the two men to address the core issue of the problems they attacked, namely economic centralization.<br />The rest of &quot;Voices of Protest&quot; looks closely at the organization and followers of the Long and Coughlin organizations, other dissidents operating in the 1930s, and whether Long and Coughlin were American fascists. There are a few problems with the book. I think the author fails to strongly stress the positive aspects of these movements. For example, Brinkley barely mentions that these movements brought millions of Americans into the political life of the country at a time when participation was enormously important. Moreover, the dissident movements in the United States undoubtedly pushed Roosevelt to create important pieces of legislation during his second term as president. Social Security, for example, was an attempt to co-opt Francis Townsend's old age pension plan. Still, &quot;Voices of Protest&quot; is a winner that every person interested in 20th century American history should read.	2004-01-13
831157:US	52012289	R30HNLDQ2VIW61	0843952016	34858117	The Rising	Books	5	112	129	N	N	Good old fashioned zombie fun	I enjoy reading all types of horror stories, but I have always had a special place in my heart for apocalyptic tales. I don't know what it is about these sorts of yarns, but give me a disastrous end of the world scenario along with a band of disparate and desperate survivors attempting to eke out an existence in a devastated world and I am there. I've probably read Stephen King's &quot;The Stand&quot; at least four times, along with &quot;On the Beach,&quot; &quot;Earth Abides,&quot; &quot;Swan Song,&quot; and many, many more stories concerning the end of humanity. The method of destruction doesn't make much of a difference in whether I will read the story, either. Give me nuclear bombs raining down from the heavens, killer viruses or related plagues, or out of control technology, and I'm happy. Brian Keene took a slightly different tack with his horror novel &quot;The Rising.&quot; Instead of vaporizing cities with megaton yield weapons or employing a killer flu, he decided good old-fashioned zombies would do the trick. Yep, the world as we know it doesn't go out with a bang in Keene's book; it goes out with chomp, a chew, and a swallow. &quot;The Rising&quot; is light years ahead of the other apocalyptic zombie book I read a couple of years ago, Candace Caponegro's &quot;The Breeze Horror.&quot;<br />We learn quickly that the world went insane when some scientists working in one of those secret weapons laboratories experimented with a new particle accelerator. Whoops. The experiment had all sorts of important functions, at least on paper, but warnings that strange incidents could take place went largely ignored by the technicians involved in the project. When reports began surfacing about the recently dead suddenly reanimating and wreaking havoc, people wrote it off as nonsense. Predicatably, the problem soon proved horribly true, resulting in escalating and ever widening scenes of violent death at the hands of the hungry undead. Society went under with astonishing speed as the flesheaters promptly attacked any living creature within reach, thereby exponentially increasing their own numbers while achieving a comparative decrease in human numbers. Electric power, cell phones, the Internet, the government, and radio and television stations began to fail in various parts of the country as the zombies rampaged. This further isolated survivors, although a few stalwart souls doggedly hang on in the face of total insanity.<br />One of these survivors is Jim Thurmond, a construction worker living in West Virginia. Hiding away in a bomb shelter he constructed in case the world ended from Y2K, Thurmond now uses it to hold off packs of roving beasties, one of them his recently deceased second wife. Jim laments his condition, sick to the very marrow of his being that he will never again see Danny, his son from his first marriage. Thurmond's son lives in far off New Jersey, a long trip under normal circumstances but now seemingly unreachable considering current affairs. Then something amazing happens that sends Jim off on a quest fraught with peril: his nearly dead cell phone rings with a message from his son. Danny whispers into the phone that things are bad where he is at but that he and his mother are currently hiding from the zombies. Thurmond resolves to leave that very minute in order to rescue his son. Just getting out of the bomb shelter presents a host of gruesome problems, problems requiring Jim to commit violence against his former neighbors and even his reanimated wife. Thurmond learns a few other things too, namely that the zombies he encounters do not resemble the shambling creatures from horror movies. The undead in this world possess the ability to think, drive cars, use weapons, and set traps for the living. New Jersey looks further and further away with every passing second.<br />Other poor souls wander through the deteriorating cities and countryside of the United States. Thurmond meets Martin, an elderly black minister, soon after he leaves his house. The two join forces to find Danny and soon run into plenty of life threatening situations, everything from packs of roving zombies to backwoods cannibals seeking some extra food to undead wildlife. At the same time, Frankie, a down on her luck heroin user and woman of the night who narrowly escapes disaster in the Baltimore Zoo also begins a trek out of the cities and into the country. We also keep tabs on one of the scientists in charge of the particle accelerator as he too seeks his destiny in a world full of the undead. You know all of these people will come together at some point in the novel; seeing how Keene pulls it off is the fun part. The conclusion to the story delivers plenty of gory violence, but also gives us an ending that raises more questions than answers. Keene's story is one of the few mass-market horror paperbacks I have read in the past few years that makes you think after you finish the book.<br />Several scenes of contrived coincidences, a bit of annoyance concerning Thurmond's robot-like determination to save his son, and a few characters who could have benefited from some better development isn't enough to hurt this book in the least. There is plenty of heavy gore, mach speed pacing, and an imaginative plot that doesn't give you all the answers. Even better, Keene used his apocalyptic tale as a vehicle by juxtaposing unconditional love and hope with death and destruction. &quot;The Rising&quot; is a good tale well told, although if the author plans a sequel perhaps he should reconsider. The conclusion is more powerful left just as it is, something a follow up novel would ruin.r, soon after he leaves his house. The two join forces to find Danny and soon run into plenty of life threatening situations, everything from packs of roving zombies to backwoods cannibals seeking some extra food to undead wildlife. At the same time, Frankie, a down on her luck heroin user and woman of the night who narrowly escapes disaster in the Baltimore Zoo also begins a trek out of the cities and into the country. We also keep tabs on one of the scientists in charge of the particle accelerator as he too seeks his destiny in a world full of the undead. You know all of these people will come together at some point in the novel; seeing how Keene pulls it off is the fun part. The conclusion to the story delivers plenty of gory violence, but also gives us an ending that raises more questions than answers. Keene's story is one of the few mass-market horror paperbacks I have read in the past few years that makes you think after you finish the book.<br />Several scenes of contrived coincidences, a bit of annoyance concerning Thurmond's robot-like determination to save his son, and a few characters who could have benefited from some better development isn't enough to hurt this book in the least. There is plenty of heavy gore, mach speed pacing, and an imaginative plot that doesn't give you all the answers. Even better, Keene used his apocalyptic tale as a vehicle by juxtaposing unconditional love and hope with death and destruction. &quot;The Rising&quot; is a good tale well told, although if the author plans a sequel perhaps he should reconsider. The conclusion is more powerful left just as it is, something a follow up novel would ruin.	2004-01-11
833313:US	52012289	RGTBPBR1Z7AGA	0440136482	598516960	Holy Blood, Holy Grail	Books	5	681	727	N	N	Well, at least it is entertaining...	First off, I have never read &quot;The Da Vinci Code.&quot; Let's get that out of the way right from the start since it seems most people who read &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot; did so because of the enormous popularity of the Brown book. No, I read &quot;Holy Blood&quot; because I love reading about conspiracy theories--UFOs, the Kennedy assassination, Britney Spears's success--anything that concerns the unexplainable. I actually came across this title about six years ago when I was reading several books about British Israelism, and only recently picked it up after accidentally stumbling over it on one of my Internet excursions. When I began describing the contents of this book to a family member, she quickly mentioned &quot;The Da Vinci Code.&quot; I now see that Brown's book apparently borrowed its plot from &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail,&quot; thereby bringing this esoteric theory about Christ, the Merovingian dynasty, and Mary Magdalene to a new generation of readers. I will say that Baigent's book is the grandest conspiracy theory I have ever read. There are conspiracy theories, and there are CONSPIRACY THEORIES. &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot; is the mother of all conspiracy theories; fifty stories tall and decked out in neon letters with sprinkles on top. If any of this is true, western civilization as we know it is undone.<br />The mystery examined in this book first came to public attention roughly a century ago, when an obscure French priest named Berenger Sauniere assumed his post in the village of Rennes-le-Chateau in Southern France. The priest uncovered some ancient, mysterious documents in an abandoned church near his village. Intrigued, he took them to the local bishop, who then instructed Sauniere to head to Paris and consult some &quot;experts&quot; there. When the priest returned to Rennes-le-Chateau, things were definitely different. He suddenly had at his disposal millions of francs, leading to several extensive and bizarre building projects in the area. When the Catholic authorities questioned his expenditures, Sauniere brazenly defied the inquiries. Surprisingly, the Church did nothing to the man even though he was a lowly priest. Moreover, he often received visits from Parisian bigwigs, people a man in Sauniere's position couldn't possibly know. When the priest died his secret apparently died with him. Or did it? Not according to the authors of &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail.&quot; Taking the Sauniere mystery as a starting point, the book proposes a shocking theory about the very origins of Christianity and nearly every secret society during the last 1000 years.<br />By looking at such diverse historical events as the Albigensian heresy, the Crusades, Freemasonry, and Christ's crucifixion, &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot; posits that Berenger Sauniere discovered documents referring to a mysterious secret society called the Priory of Zion, an organization composed of elites in European society who believe that Jesus Christ was married to Mary Magdalene, fathered children, and probably didn't die on the cross. Instead, they believe Jesus went into hiding while his family sailed for Gaul. Ultimately, Jesus' offspring married into the local population, thereby helping to form the Merovingian dynasty. Although these monarchs ultimately lost power, the bloodline of Jesus survived into succeeding generations. One descendant of the Messiah was Godfroi de Bouillon, the crusader who captured Jerusalem from the Saracens during the First Crusade. The Knights Templar, that band of knights dedicated to fighting for Christ, was in actuality a branch of the previously mentioned Priory of Zion. When the Europeans lost Jerusalem to the Saracens, the two organizations split and the Templars went to their doom. European history, according to &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail,&quot; has since been a titanic struggle for power between the Catholic Church and the Priory of Zion. The documents discovered by Sauniere, along with additional information unearthed by the authors in France's National Library, have shown that men such as Leonardo Da Vinci, Isaac Newton, Nicholas Flamel, and Jean Cocteau have served as Grand Masters of the Priory of Zion. Amazing, isn't it? Imagine what would happen if incontrovertible evidence emerged proving a descendant of Jesus walked the earth today.<br />This summary is the tip of the iceberg. There are so many things explored in this book that it is impossible to summarize them all. Most people would have a serious problem with the findings of &quot;Holy Blood,&quot; and for the most part, they would be right. The authors often make extraordinary leaps from one piece of evidence to another. For example, the book claims that &quot;The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion,&quot; the notorious anti-Semitic tract which influenced National Socialism, was originally a document concerning the truth about the Merovingian bloodlines. I don't buy this argument in the least, but that doesn't mean I reject this book completely. I thought the commentary on the Gospels was, with a few exceptions, well done, liberally employing creative reasoning and an intelligent eye for detail. Does that mean I buy the authors' arguments? I will when the Priory of Zion steps forward with proof.<br />Predictably, the arrival of &quot;Holy Blood&quot; on bookshelves in the early 1980s provoked a storm of controversy. The Church excoriated the authors for the views expressed in the book, as did history scholars and theologians. Of course, the Priory of Zion remained silent throughout the whole ordeal, neither proving nor denying the claims made in the book. As I read the &quot;Holy Blood,&quot; I kept wondering whatever became of this ultra secret organization. Are they still around waiting for the perfect time to present to the world the descendent of Christ? Or are they sitting around a table somewhere in France, playing bridge and drinking coffee while they laugh over this book? Five stars for the entertainment factor alone, but much less if taken on a purely factual level.ith additional information unearthed by the authors in France's National Library, have shown that men such as Leonardo Da Vinci, Isaac Newton, Nicholas Flamel, and Jean Cocteau have served as Grand Masters of the Priory of Zion. Amazing, isn't it? Imagine what would happen if incontrovertible evidence emerged proving a descendant of Jesus walked the earth today. <br />This summary is the tip of the iceberg. There are so many things explored in this book that it is impossible to summarize them all. Most people would have a serious problem with the findings of &quot;Holy Blood,&quot; and for the most part, they would be right. The authors often make extraordinary leaps from one piece of evidence to another. For example, the book claims that &quot;The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion,&quot; the notorious anti-Semitic tract which influenced National Socialism, was originally a document concerning the truth about the Merovingian bloodlines. I don't buy this argument in the least, but that doesn't mean I reject this book completely. I thought the commentary on the Gospels was, with a few exceptions, well done, liberally employing creative reasoning and an intelligent eye for detail. Does that mean I buy the authors' arguments? I will when the Priory of Zion steps forward with proof.<br />Predictably, the arrival of &quot;Holy Blood&quot; on bookshelves in the early 1980s provoked a storm of controversy. The Church excoriated the authors for the views expressed in the book, as did history scholars and theologians. Of course, the Priory of Zion remained silent throughout the whole ordeal, neither proving nor denying the claims made in the book. As I read the &quot;Holy Blood,&quot; I kept wondering whatever became of this ultra secret organization. Are they still around waiting for the perfect time to present to the world the descendent of Christ? Or are they sitting around a table somewhere in France, playing bridge and drinking coffee while they laugh over this book? Five stars for the entertainment factor alone, but much less if taken on a purely factual level.	2004-01-10
841115:US	52012289	R2HITCLJ799T8O	1889186384	816822059	Portrait of the Psychopath as a Young Woman	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another Ed Lee shocker	I am an Edward Lee fan. Although I have only read a few of his novels, the smorgasbord of unsettling violence, intense erotica, and whiplash prose make his writings enormous fun for a dedicated horror fan. The biggest problem facing a potential reader is how to acquire many of his books and short stories. Nearly all of his old mass-market efforts are out of print, many other novels and collections are available only through wallet crushing small press editions, and the subject matter of a majority of his tales virtually insures much of his work will remain in obscurity. In other words, I am an Ed Lee fan insofar as my meager funds allow. It does appear a ray of hope is about to break on the horizon: Lee now writes novels for mass market Leisure press, and a few of his earlier works are starting to reappear in slightly more affordable trade paperbacks. \\"Portrait of the Psychopath as a Young Woman\\" is one of these cheaper trade copies. You will still pay a nice chunk of change if you want to read this book, but at least you don't need to take out a second mortgage on the homestead to do so.<br />Written in conjunction with crime expert Elizabeth Steffen, \\"Portrait\\" tells the chilling tale of an abused woman lashing out at society. Men frequenting bars in our nation's capitol are disappearing, with their bodies turning up later in the most awful of conditions. A madman--or madwoman, as the case may be--is performing dreadful mutilations on the victims before disposing of their bodies. The only thing detectives know for sure is that the criminal has an immense knowledge of medical procedures and access to surgical equipment. A potential break in the case comes when the killer contacts a columnist for a feminist magazine by the name of Kathleen Shade. Shade, who has her own devastating history of sexual abuse at the hands of an uncle to deal with, begins receiving packages in the mail containing written accounts of the crimes committed by this murderer. These accounts--the most appalling descriptions of torture and murder imaginable--lead the tortured columnist to report her findings to the police. It is here that Shade meets the rude Lieutenant Jeffrey Spence, a beefy cop in charge of the unfolding investigation. Complicating matters is Kathleen's burgeoning relationship with Maxwell Platt, a poet she meets at a lecture hall, and the release of her abusive uncle from prison. More murders described in intricate detail and big twists and turns at the conclusion of the story bring \\"Portrait\\" to its shocking close.<br />It is difficult to label one Ed Lee book as more shocking and violent than any other, but \\"Portrait\\" manages to wallow in descriptions of the most taboo of human behaviors. Child abuse of the worst types, torture, and murder all appear with grotesque frequency in the pages of this book. Elizabeth Steffen must have contributed all of the psychological jargon and theories seen throughout the story since every character bears some type of mental scar from some area of their life. Shade often listens to one of those obnoxious radio psychologists in an effort to cope with her own problems. Lieutenant Spence has issues with his deceased mother and his sexuality. The killer, obviously, is a seething mass of psychopathologies who would probably benefit from two or three thousand years of intensive therapy if she wasn't so busy killing off all the male bar hoppers in a three state area. The only major character that doesn't seem bothered by his deficiencies but who probably should seek immediate help is Uncle Sammy, Kathleen's depraved abuser. I'm not going to go into specifics about what this guy does for a living, but he wasn't bothered by his crimes in the least. Sammy erases any hint of conscience by simply believing what he did in the outside world was a case of \\"supply and demand.\\" Sickening.<br />There are a few problems with \\"Portrait.\\" The authors outline Lieutenant Spence's psychological issues without really giving them any resolution. A reader soon wonders why we need to know anything at all about the man because it never fits into the larger story. Moreover, while I enjoyed the twist conclusion and never saw it coming, I thought the authors copped out with the happy fate of one of the principal characters. More problematic is the killer and her victims. On two occasions we get a chapter or two describing in depth the dregs the killer will soon dispatch. It is difficult in the extreme to feel any sort of compassion for these men. One guy in particular is such a monster that seeing him bow out of this mortal coil becomes a pleasure. It really shouldn't be this way, though, because the killer is far from an admirable person. No matter the depth of abuse faced by the killer when she was a child or how despicable her victims are, I resented empathizing with her actions.<br />\\"Portrait of the Psychopath as a Young Woman\\" will give you everything you expect from an Ed Lee extravaganza, but it isn't his best effort. Look instead to \\"The Bighead,\\" \\"Teratologist,\\" or his short story collection \\"The Ushers\\" for the best that Ed can be. Fans of the man will want to eventually read this story, but all others should start somewhere else and work their way to this place in increments. In fact, start with \\"City Infernal.\\" That novel is a more restrained, more accessible work targeted at a mass audience. Once you get through that one, then you might be ready to dive into the depths of despair found here and in his darker works.hem any resolution. A reader soon wonders why we need to know anything at all about the man because it never fits into the larger story. Moreover, while I enjoyed the twist conclusion and never saw it coming, I thought the authors copped out with the happy fate of one of the principal characters. More problematic is the killer and her victims. On two occasions we get a chapter or two describing in depth the dregs the killer will soon dispatch. It is difficult in the extreme to feel any sort of compassion for these men. One guy in particular is such a monster that seeing him bow out of this mortal coil becomes a pleasure. It really shouldn't be this way, though, because the killer is far from an admirable person. No matter the depth of abuse faced by the killer when she was a child or how despicable her victims are, I resented empathizing with her actions. <br />\\"Portrait of the Psychopath as a Young Woman\\" will give you everything you expect from an Ed Lee extravaganza, but it isn't his best effort. Look instead to \\"The Bighead,\\" \\"Teratologist,\\" or his short story collection \\"The Ushers\\" for the best that Ed can be. Fans of the man will want to eventually read this story, but all others should start somewhere else and work their way to this place in increments. In fact, start with \\"City Infernal.\\" That novel is a more restrained, more accessible work targeted at a mass audience. Once you get through that one, then you might be ready to dive into the depths of despair found here and in his darker works.	2004-01-05
842888:US	52012289	R5CEX31I1194H	0965530914	702490020	The Best Short Stories of Frank Norris (Ironweed American Classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Sublime, simply sublime!	Frank Norris (1872-1902) regrettably died of peritonitis at the tender age of thirty, permanently robbing America of one of its preeminent naturalist writers. His novels--including McTeague, Vandover and the Brute, The Octopus, and The Pit--constitute his greatest contributions to a genre of American literature that counted giants like Theodore Dreiser as one of its members. Every time I read one of Frank Norris's stories, I bitterly lament his untimely demise. What other wonders would have flowed from this author's pen if he had lived for another three or four decades? We should express thanks for what we do have from this writer, but the sense of genius unfulfilled still lingers. Thankfully, Ironweed American Classics wisely chose to release this slim volume containing several of Norris's lesser known short stories, all of them brilliant little tales full of Norris's trademark prose and eye for detail. Moreover, several of the stories contained within these pages present, in embryonic form, ideas that would later achieve full bloom in his marvelous novels. Fans of the author would do well to pick up this book as quickly as possible.<br />Do you want Norris the supernatural writer? Look no further than the first story, entitled \\"The Jongleur of Taillebois.\\" One of Norris's earliest written works was an epic poem set in medieval France, territory revisited in this incredibly short tale about a vicious murder and revenge sought from beyond the grave set in the twelfth century. I have read similar tales in modern day horror anthologies written by modern authors, but few express the richness of detail found in this story. Further eerie hijinks take place in the grim \\"The Guest of Honor,\\" where a group of men who met once a year to celebrate their fallen comrades has now dwindled to its final member. The man, who fears death more than anything else, grits his teeth and shows up to the annual meeting to celebrate alone the memory of his deceased pals. Norris masterfully contrasts the visit of a very special guest with the vibrancy of life flowing in the streets outside the banquet hall.<br />Do you want Norris the humorist? Check out the farcical \\"Buddy Jones, Chef de Claque,\\" about a group of men who will do anything to promote the career of a female opera singer. The men, all of them smitten with this gal, are unhappy that the head of the best opera house in Paris possesses the power to make or break a performer with a nod of the head or the crossing of his arms. In order to mitigate his influence, the men manage to discover a list of codes the opera house owner uses to send signals to the audience. If he smoothes his hair, select members of the audience clap and cheer. If he bends over, as an example, the audience remains silent and the performer bombs. Hilarity ensues when the men lose the code sheet and promptly forget which signals to send to the audience. Moreover, one of our heroes is a German who promptly launches into a loud anti-French, pro-Kaiser tirade when the opera owner pops in to restore order. The theater explodes into chaos, further exacerbated by a belief that a fire has broken out. Other humorous stories, mainly \\"Shorty Stack, Pugilist,\\" \\"The Dual Personality of Slick Dick Nickerson,\\" and \\"The Passing of Cockeye Blacklock\\" tell of the disastrous consequences associated with mixing spoiled potato salad with boxing, what happens when an amnesiac regains his memory, and the dangers of a dog retrieving a lit stick of dynamite, respectively. So much of Norris's writing delves into the dark recesses of humanity that it is great to see what an amazing sense of humor the man had.<br />Do you want Norris the political commentator? Anyone who has read \\"The Octopus\\" knows this author slung acid in the face of big business interests and corrupt politicians. \\"A Deal in Wheat\\" looks closely at the far ranging effects of rampant capitalism from various viewpoints. We watch the wheat farmer from Kansas ruined by the machinations of market traders in Chicago before seeing that raising and lowering crop prices is merely an amusing game to the powerbrokers. \\"A Deal in Wheat\\" ran as a serial in a magazine between publication of \\"The Octopus\\" and \\"The Pit,\\" the first two parts of Norris's projected \\"Epic of Wheat\\" trilogy. The author died before completing the saga, but \\"A Deal in Wheat\\" provides additional commentary about this proposed project. Critics of the period attached the label \\"muckraker\\" to authors like Norris in order to emphasis the sensationalistic aspects of these exposes on unregulated capitalism. I dislike the term because it probably came from newspapers owned by the very same plutocrats who exploited laborers. Norris--along with Ida Tarbell and Upton Sinclair--called attention to the horrific conditions in our country's factories and farms, ultimately forcing the government to launch regulatory bodies and legislation aimed at curbing these grotesque excesses.<br />There are other stories here, not a dull one among them, which continually reinforce my belief that Frank Norris was a titan of American letters. I even liked the picture on the front cover, a snapshot of the author sitting over a few sheets of paper with pen in hand and staring into the distance as though he is thinking about where he wants his next story to go. I will never be able to adequately convey my adoration for this writer's work. The only chance I have is to convince other people to read his books and short stories. Look for the Library of America volume containing several of Norris's novels, then follow up with this book. You will not be disappointed.ons of market traders in Chicago before seeing that raising and lowering crop prices is merely an amusing game to the powerbrokers. \\"A Deal in Wheat\\" ran as a serial in a magazine between publication of \\"The Octopus\\" and \\"The Pit,\\" the first two parts of Norris's projected \\"Epic of Wheat\\" trilogy. The author died before completing the saga, but \\"A Deal in Wheat\\" provides additional commentary about this proposed project. Critics of the period attached the label \\"muckraker\\" to authors like Norris in order to emphasis the sensationalistic aspects of these exposes on unregulated capitalism. I dislike the term because it probably came from newspapers owned by the very same plutocrats who exploited laborers. Norris--along with Ida Tarbell and Upton Sinclair--called attention to the horrific conditions in our country's factories and farms, ultimately forcing the government to launch regulatory bodies and legislation aimed at curbing these grotesque excesses.<br />There are other stories here, not a dull one among them, which continually reinforce my belief that Frank Norris was a titan of American letters. I even liked the picture on the front cover, a snapshot of the author sitting over a few sheets of paper with pen in hand and staring into the distance as though he is thinking about where he wants his next story to go. I will never be able to adequately convey my adoration for this writer's work. The only chance I have is to convince other people to read his books and short stories. Look for the Library of America volume containing several of Norris's novels, then follow up with this book. You will not be disappointed.	2004-01-03
845305:US	52012289	R30XT6V8FJHQ44	0898702208	658477812	Banishing God in Albania: The Prison Memoirs of Giacomo Gardin, S.J.	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Stirring account of communist brutality	When communist leader Enver Hoxha finally consolidated his rule over Albania, a mountainous country on the Adriatic, one of the first measures he implemented was a ban on religion. Taking Marx's adage that &quot;Religion is an opiate of the masses,&quot; Hoxha and his fellow travelers attempted to make themselves central to its citizen's lives. The government deemed this action necessary because the communists saw Albania's three faiths--Islam, Roman Catholicism, and Orthodox Christianity--as an obstacle to national unification. In an effort to make communism the new state &quot;religion,&quot; harsh measures of suppression and punishment directed against the representatives of these faiths took place. In &quot;Banishing God in Albania,&quot; Jesuit priest Giacomo Gardin outlines his personal encounter with the horrific measures taken by the communist government to turn Albania into the world's only &quot;atheistic state.&quot; I considered this book a necessary read because surveys of Albanian history often mention that the communists banned religion without delving into specifics. Gardin's book therefore helps to fill a critical gap in the general histories of post-World War II Albania.<br />Gardin was an Italian by birth who went to Albania after his ordination in order to help spread the gospel in that rugged country. He eventually learned the language and customs so well that people often mistook him as a native Albanian. When the communists came to power after the Germans pulled out of the country, sinister persecutions rapidly took place. Authorities tortured and executed many Albanian priests, several of whom held high-ranking positions in the Church. Communist propaganda spread amongst the population charged Catholic priests with being &quot;agents of the Vatican&quot; and thus enemies of the new people's state. Many foreign priests left the country at the insistence of Hoxha's regime, but Giacomo Gardin did not make it out as easily. Arrested on highly suspect charges of subversion and pro-fascism, the government placed the Jesuit and several others on trial. Gardin drew a six-year prison term, a sentence that stretched into ten years in a country where such antiquated ideas as justice and civil rights were mere words written on a piece of paper.<br />The author outlines in some detail the outrages committed against officials of the Church of Albania. After executing a few dozen priests, the government ordered the Church dissolved. All Roman Catholic representatives who did not leave the country could no longer openly practice their religion without the threat of serious retribution from police agents employed by the state. Some ceremonies still took place clandestinely, especially during periods of political &quot;thaw&quot; between Italy and Albania, but for the most part citizens and officers of the Church who wished to engage in religious practices risked detention, confiscation of property, and death. Once inside the prison walls, priests merited special scorn from guards and bureaucrats. Communist officials forced men of the cloth to give up their black frocks and don prison attire. Moreover, when the government ordered prisoners to toil on special public works projects, the priests usually drew the heaviest labor assignments. Gardin and his fellow clerics worked on several projects designed to reroute rivers in order to create new farmland, a type of grinding toil that often broke the spirit of the men assigned to the task. In more than a few cases the work outright killed the convict laborers.<br />More than once the accounts of Gardin's imprisonment reminded me of Alexander Solzhenitsyn's &quot;The Gulag Archipelago.&quot; Hoxha's prison system mirrored in many respects Stalin's labor camp system, from the inhuman punishments meted out to prisoners to the lengthy, senseless interrogations of those poor souls unlucky enough to fall into the clutches of the state. The comparison really should not surprise us since Hoxha considered Stalin the deity of world communism. The Albanian leader often assumed a sycophantic posture toward the grouchy Georgian, as a short excerpt from Hoxha's mind deadening panegyric &quot;With Stalin&quot;--included in an appendix of this book--shows. Unlike Solzenitsyn's massive expose, &quot;Banishing God in Albania&quot; explains away many of the atrocities committed against priests as a test from God designed to strengthen the faith of his followers. Gardin often saw the hand of the lord working actively even during times of severest stress. The author credits God with eventually easing his burden during the end of his prison term, when many of the guards began to treat him with respect and conditions marginally improved.<br />The book contains a short message from Pope John Paul II about the significance and impact of these memoirs, the aforementioned excerpt from Hoxha concerning Stalin, two sections of the Albanian constitution legalizing the abolishment of religion, and a sermon about Gardin's internment delivered by the priest at a conference held in San Francisco in 1985. &quot;Banishing God in Albania&quot; is well worth reading for both non-Catholics and readers interested in the history of the country. A few problems, such as Gardin's rather hazy sense of chronology and an inadequate explanation about why he went to prison while other foreign nationals left the country, do little to mar the stirring power of this thin volume. I look forward to similar chronicles from members of the Muslim and Orthodox Christian communities in Albania, two groups who also experienced persecution at the hands of Hoxha's terrorists. The communists are no longer in power in Albania, but their destructive policies will continue to scar the country for many generations to come. Gardin's book provides evidence of only a fraction of the monstrous crimes committed by this regime.ince Hoxha considered Stalin the deity of world communism. The Albanian leader often assumed a sycophantic posture toward the grouchy Georgian, as a short excerpt from Hoxha's mind deadening panegyric &quot;With Stalin&quot;--included in an appendix of this book--shows. Unlike Solzenitsyn's massive expose, &quot;Banishing God in Albania&quot; explains away many of the atrocities committed against priests as a test from God designed to strengthen the faith of his followers. Gardin often saw the hand of the lord working actively even during times of severest stress. The author credits God with eventually easing his burden during the end of his prison term, when many of the guards began to treat him with respect and conditions marginally improved. <br />The book contains a short message from Pope John Paul II about the significance and impact of these memoirs, the aforementioned excerpt from Hoxha concerning Stalin, two sections of the Albanian constitution legalizing the abolishment of religion, and a sermon about Gardin's internment delivered by the priest at a conference held in San Francisco in 1985. &quot;Banishing God in Albania&quot; is well worth reading for both non-Catholics and readers interested in the history of the country. A few problems, such as Gardin's rather hazy sense of chronology and an inadequate explanation about why he went to prison while other foreign nationals left the country, do little to mar the stirring power of this thin volume. I look forward to similar chronicles from members of the Muslim and Orthodox Christian communities in Albania, two groups who also experienced persecution at the hands of Hoxha's terrorists. The communists are no longer in power in Albania, but their destructive policies will continue to scar the country for many generations to come. Gardin's book provides evidence of only a fraction of the monstrous crimes committed by this regime.	2004-01-01
847511:US	52012289	R3V4BAMAZAWGHJ	0671025465	961720190	Deviant: The Shocking True Story of Ed Gein, the Original Psycho	Books	5	110	116	N	N	Gein still shocks after all these years	In the autumn of 1957, the nation learned of a nightmare unfolding in the little rural town of Plainfield, Wisconsin. A local recluse and simpleton by the name of Edward Gein murdered Bernice Worden, the owner of the local hardware store. A murder, even in 1950's America, wouldn't grab the attention of most folks, but this crime did. Local police searching Gein's farmhouse uncovered a soul shattering house of horrors. Not only did they find murder victim Worden in the most degrading condition, the police also discovered pieces of human bodies inside the house. Gein had fashioned soup bowls out of human skulls, masks out of human faces, and furniture out of human flesh. Every hour spent in the farmhouse turned up even more horrors, enough to make even the most hardened cop sick to his stomach. As the official inquiry deepened, America learned that a human monster lived in the most unlikely of settings, a man who embodied virtually every ghastly psychopathology known to modern science. The name Eddie Gein became synonymous with evil and he quickly became part of the dark side of American pop culture. Author Harold Schechter, a professor of American culture at Queens College, decided to write a factual account of the horrendous crimes of Edward Gein in an effort to finally set the record straight about one of America's premier boogeymen. &quot;Deviant&quot; is the result.<br />The author adroitly sums up Gein's family tree in a few pages. Despite what must have been a scarcity of information, Schecter reveals Ed's father as an orphan who went on to a successful career as an alcoholic and pest. The only thing Gein's father accomplished in life was his marriage to Augusta, Eddie's mother and an all around terror. According to &quot;Deviant,&quot; the complex relationship between this overweening woman and her sons led directly to the seething mass of insanity that was Edward Gein. Augusta preached an ultra conservative Christian theology that saw all women in the world as inferior beings. She constantly railed about the sinfulness of the world to her two sons, making it clear that no woman would ever be good enough for her two boys. When not on a religious tirade, Augusta belittled her husband with a vigor rarely seen in the worst of marriages. After closing down a family run store in La Crosse, Augusta moved the clan to a farm near Plainfield. Ed's father died soon after, a shattered wreck barely missed by the rest of the family. His brother Henry died under mysterious circumstances while fighting a brushfire on the Gein property, a death many attributed to Ed because Henry had the temerity to question Augusta's iron rule. With the death of his mother shortly thereafter, Ed was left alone in the world for the first time.<br />Plainfield residents always liked Ed Gein. Sure, the guy was a little strange, always walking around with a dopey grin on his face while making the most outrageous statements about shrunken heads and other oddball stuff, but people generally thought him harmless. Many of his neighbors appreciated Ed showing up and helping out when work needed doing, or volunteering to watch the kids when the parents headed into town (!). Not until the police exposed Gein's repulsive activities did anyone have an inkling of what this guy was really about. Once they knew, the questions and outrageous stories started. Ed became a lightening rod for every mysterious disappearance in Wisconsin and neighboring states during the previous fifteen years. Even though police later cleared Gein in all but two murders--Bernice Worden and Mary Hogan--investigators and citizens continued to suspect Ed in a series of crimes. Moreover, townspeople came forward with supposedly &quot;true&quot; tales about close calls with the now exposed killer. The media, writes Schechter, carries most of the blame for printing the most ridiculous stories in an effort to sell papers. These media accounts went a long way towards installing Gein as an enduringpop cultural icon, an icon who continues to exert an influence even today.<br />I had a few problems with &quot;Deviant&quot; even though I consider the book well written and nicely researched. The biggest difficulty concerns the lack of footnotes. I imagine Schechter had to make a tradeoff with the publishing company since a book marketed to a general audience will not sell well if potential buyers see pages of citations. But a book from a scholar that purports to tell the facts behind the Gein case needs to contain citations so interested readers can reproduce his findings. I hate to harp about footnotes/endnotes since I like to avoid them whenever possible as much as the next guy, but a book that references this many public officials, newspapers, and public documents should have the notes.<br />&quot;Deviant&quot; does do a good job in several areas. Schechter presents compelling evidence that Gein was not a cannibal, a revelation that may come as a shock to many who consider themselves knowledgeable about the case. Not that it really matters, of course, because Ed indulged in so many appalling excesses that removing one stigma does nothing to lessen the overall horror of his activities. Still, it is nice to see someone finally look closely at all of the case documents in order to write the most truthful account possible. &quot;Deviant&quot; is grim stuff, some of the worst accounts of human atrocities captured on paper, but true crime buffs will appreciate Schechter's attention to detail concerning the man who many consider to be one of the worst criminals in American history. I also recommend &quot;Deviant&quot; for first time readers with an itch to learn about the guy who inspired Norman Bates, Leatherface, and nearly every horror film psycho since the 1960s.pop cultural icon, an icon who continues to exert an influence even today.<br />I had a few problems with &quot;Deviant&quot; even though I consider the book well written and nicely researched. The biggest difficulty concerns the lack of footnotes. I imagine Schechter had to make a tradeoff with the publishing company since a book marketed to a general audience will not sell well if potential buyers see pages of citations. But a book from a scholar that purports to tell the facts behind the Gein case needs to contain citations so interested readers can reproduce his findings. I hate to harp about footnotes/endnotes since I like to avoid them whenever possible as much as the next guy, but a book that references this many public officials, newspapers, and public documents should have the notes. <br />&quot;Deviant&quot; does do a good job in several areas. Schechter presents compelling evidence that Gein was not a cannibal, a revelation that may come as a shock to many who consider themselves knowledgeable about the case. Not that it really matters, of course, because Ed indulged in so many appalling excesses that removing one stigma does nothing to lessen the overall horror of his activities. Still, it is nice to see someone finally look closely at all of the case documents in order to write the most truthful account possible. &quot;Deviant&quot; is grim stuff, some of the worst accounts of human atrocities captured on paper, but true crime buffs will appreciate Schechter's attention to detail concerning the man who many consider to be one of the worst criminals in American history. I also recommend &quot;Deviant&quot; for first time readers with an itch to learn about the guy who inspired Norman Bates, Leatherface, and nearly every horror film psycho since the 1960s.	2003-12-31
851569:US	52012289	R2NRY95EIC3T0E	0316286168	713381175	Washington: The Indispensable Man	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Masterfully written, massively informative	George Washington: Born: February 22, 1732, Pope's Creek, near Fredericksburg, Westmoreland County, Virginia. Parents: Augustine and Mary Ball Washington. Education: private. Married: 1759, Mrs. Martha Dandridge Custis (1731-1802), two stepchildren. Career: surveyor; farmer; soldier; member, Virginia House of Burgesses, 1759-1774; member, Continental Congress, 1774-75; commander-in-chief, Continental Army, 1775-1783; president, Constitutional Convention, 1787; first President of the United States of America, 1789-1797. Died: December 14, 1799, Mount Vernon, Virginia.<br />The above list of Washington's accomplishments leaves out a few things, but I am willing to bet it looks more impressive than most people's resumes. Even the other founding fathers cannot assemble a list of such august positions. Head of the Revolutionary War effort? Head of the Constitutional Convention? The first President of the United States of America? Good luck Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, Alexander Hamilton, James Monroe, and Benjamin Franklin! Repeatedly, the man of the hour during the revolutionary period and the subsequent formation of the government was George Washington. I recently decided to read a biography of this fascinating figure, a man who most consider the father of the nation. Happily, and wisely, as it turned out, I picked non-academic historian James Thomas Flexner's biography of Washington, a one-volume distillation of an enormous four-volume treatment written during the 1960s and early 1970s. Entitled &quot;Washington: The Indispensable Man,&quot; the author tackles the complexity of our nation's patriarch with infinitely readable prose stretched across fifty-two short chapters. The author himself notes that biographies of Washington &quot;are as innumerable as the leaves in a forest,&quot; with many of them falling into three categories: &quot;the historically sound, the goody-goody, and the debunking.&quot; Flexner's biography occasionally falls under all three of these rubrics.<br />Interest in Washington tends to center on his military career. A good portion of the book deals with his lengthy service in arms, from his association with the British in the French-Indian War, his work securing Virginia's frontier from marauding Indian bands, and his role as commander-in-chief of the American Army during the Revolutionary War. Washington saw a lot of action during these various campaigns, winning respect as a man who could ride into combat without getting hit with a bullet. More importantly, Flexner reveals that Washington the general was not a very effective tactician. He continually lost campaigns due to a lack of knowledge about then current strategies of warfare. His campaign with General Braddock ended in disaster, his attempts to stave off Indians more or less failed, and his victories in the colonial revolution often arose from a combination of unorthodox ideas, aid from the French, and a propensity to promote officers based on merit and not social status. The last point is one of the most important, according to Flexner, because it not only went against European ideas about promoting officers but also was an ability Washington applied to his presidency and other areas of his life. Washington ultimately spent more time bombarding the perennially broke Congress with requests for financial aid and trying to keep his soldiers in the army than he did duking it out with the British.<br />Most of Washington's life was spent oscillating between Mount Vernon and public service. He loved to spend his days working on his sprawling estate, buying land, developing a canal project on the Potomac River, and experimenting with crops and breeding mules. He designed the architectural style of Mount Vernon, entertained hundreds of guests, and refused to sell his slaves because he did not like the idea of splitting up black families. He was quite the ladies man, always enjoying the company of lovely young woman with whom he liked to flirt. As much as Washington enjoyed other people's company, he often sank into despondent moods where he worried about death and illness. The conclusion of the book, where Flexner describes the father of the country on his deathbed at his beloved Mount Vernon, is one of the most eloquent pieces of history I have ever read.<br />Public service often found Washington at the center of the great issues of the time. Flexner argues that Washington was a centrist, always attempting to draw divergent viewpoints together based on common ground. He did this in time of war, as head of the Constitutional Convention, and as president. The author defines Washington's presidency as a titanic battle between the Federalists led by Alexander Hamilton and Republicans headed up by Thomas Jefferson. Since both men sat on the first president's cabinet--Hamilton as Treasurer and Jefferson as Secretary of State--the old general often had to bring both sides together. The Hamiltonians supported relations with Britain, heavily regulated banking, and centralized government. Jeffersonians supported France, agriculture, and localized government. Battles were fought between the two sides throughout the Washington administration, but the nation's hero often managed to steer a moderate course between the two positions. Flexner masterfully steers the reader through the complexities of the early American government as well, deftly explaining the differences of opinion that divided Jefferson and Hamilton and how the country responded to these mutually exclusive philosophical spheres. Without Washington's strident centrism, implies the author, our nation could very well have veered off course into extremism before the country matured.<br />Flexner's book celebrates Washington but avoids turning into a panegyric. I felt surprised repeatedly that this treatment got me fired up about one of our nation's founders. My ancestors didn't even arrive here until the 1840s or 1850s, long after the founding fathers went to their graves, but perhaps that is part of America's magic. Newcomers willing to assimilate the ideals of this country soon feel they have a stake in its maintenance and identify with its foundation. Reading this book makes you feel a bit sad about the sorry state of affairs in the country today.ch as Washington enjoyed other people's company, he often sank into despondent moods where he worried about death and illness. The conclusion of the book, where Flexner describes the father of the country on his deathbed at his beloved Mount Vernon, is one of the most eloquent pieces of history I have ever read.<br />Public service often found Washington at the center of the great issues of the time. Flexner argues that Washington was a centrist, always attempting to draw divergent viewpoints together based on common ground. He did this in time of war, as head of the Constitutional Convention, and as president. The author defines Washington's presidency as a titanic battle between the Federalists led by Alexander Hamilton and Republicans headed up by Thomas Jefferson. Since both men sat on the first president's cabinet--Hamilton as Treasurer and Jefferson as Secretary of State--the old general often had to bring both sides together. The Hamiltonians supported relations with Britain, heavily regulated banking, and centralized government. Jeffersonians supported France, agriculture, and localized government. Battles were fought between the two sides throughout the Washington administration, but the nation's hero often managed to steer a moderate course between the two positions. Flexner masterfully steers the reader through the complexities of the early American government as well, deftly explaining the differences of opinion that divided Jefferson and Hamilton and how the country responded to these mutually exclusive philosophical spheres. Without Washington's strident centrism, implies the author, our nation could very well have veered off course into extremism before the country matured. <br />Flexner's book celebrates Washington but avoids turning into a panegyric. I felt surprised repeatedly that this treatment got me fired up about one of our nation's founders. My ancestors didn't even arrive here until the 1840s or 1850s, long after the founding fathers went totheir graves, but perhaps that is part of America's magic. Newcomers willing to assimilate the ideals of this country soon feel they have a stake in its maintenance and identify with its foundation. Reading this book makes you feel a bit sad about the sorry state of affairs in the country today.	2003-12-28
854541:US	52012289	R10CXOLD9XCGH0	0843952180	453244711	Darkfall	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Laws has a great imagination	It is Christmas Eve, and all of the businesses housed in the fourteen story Fernley House are gearing up for an alcohol soaked series of office parties the participants will not soon forget. On the third floor, an architectural firm pours down drinks with reckless abandon. One of the junior partners in the firm decides after a few drinks that he must marry the senior secretary. The fourth floor shindig occurs in an accounting firm, with the bean counters dancing to Bruce Springsteen while somebody spikes the punch with vodka. The employees at Magnus Shipping, Inc., on the fourteenth floor, dance wildly to the sounds wafting up from the other parties, although they would have had their own music if one of the office girls had remembered to bring a tape player. Vincent Saville, one of the employees in the firm, stays back and silently clucks his tongue at the unfolding shenanigans. He feels that upper management should not condone such earthy fraternizing amongst the rabble, but keeps his thoughts to himself lest it should harm his career. Moving amidst all of this tumultuous cheer is the building maintenance man, Alec Beaton, a retired tar with a bad attitude towards the building's inebriated tenants. Not one of them offered Alec a drink, let alone a tip for keeping the building open and the boilers heated up for the parties. Grousing in the basement, Beaton casts aspersions on the jolly souls on the floors above. Outside, a massive storm full of lightening, sleet, and snow lashes the building and the surrounding area.<br />Things take a turn south when an eardrum shattering series of clangs assails Beaton's senses. Nearly knocked senseless by this mysterious event, the janitor suspects the boilers are about to blow and heads up to warn the people still in the building. Oddly, he discovers everyone has suddenly disappeared, although music still plays, lights still blaze, and drinks still sit on tables. It looks as though everyone except Beaton just melted away into the atmosphere, and in way, that is exactly what happened. Deeply disturbed, Alec phones the police and sets into motion what will soon become a massive investigation into what appears to be a supernatural event of tremendous proportions. Over eighty people suddenly vanished without a trace and the authorities want to know why. They do eventually discover what goes on in the deep recesses of Fernley House, although the truth is enough to send the hardiest souls fleeing from the building in terror.<br />Some will stay, of course, to make a stand against the evil fast enveloping Fernley House. Foremost of these brave souls is Detective Jack Cardiff. A veteran cop wrenched away from his desk and the memories of his deceased wife and child on a miserable Christmas Eve, Cardiff soon experiences some of the same eerie events Beaton described on the phone. Moreover, he and several of his officers discover a severed hand on one of the upper office floors, a hand neatly severed at the wrist with no signs of violence to explain its presence. When some ominous government agents led by a man named Rohmer show up, Cardiff and his fellow officers begin hearing enigmatic references to darkfalls, returners, and events that explain such supernatural events as the Bermuda Triangle, hauntings, and mysterious disappearances. It seems that the powerful storm raging away outside has a lot to do with what is going on at Fernley House.<br />I give British author Stephen Laws high marks for coming up with an enormously imaginative idea in &quot;Darkfall.&quot; Originally written in 1992 but only hitting our shores within the last year, this book does a great job marrying eerie atmosphere with gory violence and lumbering beasts. Fernley House quickly becomes a closed, claustrophobic trap as Cardiff, a local thief named Devlin, a returner (read and understand), and the government agents move through the building in search of a way to escape the emerging horrors brought into existence by the storm. And what horrors this building births! What starts out as a simple tale of disappearing people turns into an expansive exposition on the unknown qualities of electricity, the pursuit of spiritual power, and the discovery of hidden realms beyond the knowledge of mankind that change those poor souls who experience them in decidedly unpleasant ways. Toss in a splash of Zoroastrianism and you have the essence of &quot;Darkfall.&quot; Laws ably puts it all together in a way that, by the time you reach the conclusion of the book, you can look back and see you have traveled quite a distance from page one.<br />&quot;Darkfall&quot; hits a few road bumps along the way. Jack Cardiff and Agent Rohmer are about the only characters Laws bothers to develop in a significant way. The other police officers, Jimmy Devlin, and a few of the government agents who really know what is going on are mere cardboard cutouts who serve as cannon fodder for the monstrosities pouring out of the building or as actors who explain the plot to the reader. I found the burgeoning romantic connection between Devlin and the returner contrived and not at all compelling. I guess a romance is an easy plot device to fall back upon, even in a supernatural horror story, but &quot;Darkfall&quot; would have worked just as well without it. Despite these minor difficulties--including some iffy scientific theories about electricity--Laws's book is a great read that moves with mach speed from beginning to end. If you enjoy highly imaginative horror, &quot;Darkfall&quot; should definitely provide you with a few hours of entertainment.torm. And what horrors this building births! What starts out as a simple tale of disappearing people turns into an expansive exposition on the unknown qualities of electricity, the pursuit of spiritual power, and the discovery of hidden realms beyond the knowledge of mankind that change those poor souls who experience them in decidedly unpleasant ways. Toss in a splash of Zoroastrianism and you have the essence of &quot;Darkfall.&quot; Laws ably puts it all together in a way that, by the time you reach the conclusion of the book, you can look back and see you have traveled quite a distance from page one.<br />&quot;Darkfall&quot; hits a few road bumps along the way. Jack Cardiff and Agent Rohmer are about the only characters Laws bothers to develop in a significant way. The other police officers, Jimmy Devlin, and a few of the government agents who really know what is going on are mere cardboard cutouts who serve as cannon fodder for the monstrosities pouring out of the building or as actors who explain the plot to the reader. I found the burgeoning romantic connection between Devlin and the returner contrived and not at all compelling. I guess a romance is an easy plot device to fall back upon, even in a supernatural horror story, but &quot;Darkfall&quot; would have worked just as well without it. Despite these minor difficulties--including some iffy scientific theories about electricity--Laws's book is a great read that moves with mach speed from beginning to end. If you enjoy highly imaginative horror, &quot;Darkfall&quot; should definitely provide you with a few hours of entertainment.	2003-12-24
859430:US	52012289	R1F60OFCZPU2F3	0141304707	256728441	The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Marvelous tales from a master	A recent discussion with several friends left me fending off accusations that the only material I read or watch pertains to the horror genre. I had some difficulty convincing these misguided souls that I do indeed like to read literature and watch films that don't contain a masked maniac. Exhibit A in my defense is Roald Dahl's \\"The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar and Six More,\\" a book I adored as a child and one that fully deserves to sit alongside the author's better known \\"Charlie and the Chocolate Factory\\" and \\"James and the Giant Peach.\\" Dahl the man had an interesting life; he worked in the oil business in Africa before joining the RAF during World War II to fight the Luftwaffe. Injuries incurred from a plane crash briefly sidetracked Dahl's military career, but eventually gave the world something to sing about because it directly led to the beginning of his writing career. You get all of this information from one of the stories in the book, but Dahl's fiction deservedly receives the most attention. Fortunately, we get a lot of that here too. Roald Dahl died in 1990.<br />The non-fiction pieces here are wonderful. His first story, \\"A Piece of Cake,\\" is here, along with an account of how Dahl became a writer. Entitled \\"Lucky Break,\\" this story is really a short autobiography of the writer from his early school days through his war experiences. The sections outlining his years at one of England's public schools should be read by anyone who thinks American places of learning are terrible. English public schools, Dahl writes, are actually very private academies devoted to the total education of their pupils. During the writer's childhood, this meant harsh, rigid discipline of a type usually seen in the military. The brutality exhibited by teachers and elder classmates at the school is shocking: the older students routinely whipped younger pupils with switches, an activity mirrored by the teachers whenever students misbehaved. There are great, tension filled descriptions of the beatings endured by Dahl at the hands of these tormentors. The author advises that wearing thick pajamas and undergarments will protect one's posterior from the brunt of a switching administered by a fellow classmate, but nothing will save you from the headmaster's canes. Yikes! And to think the worst thing that happened to me in school involved losing my locker combination. School wasn't a total loss for the young author, however, as it was the place where he learned to love literature.<br />The centerpiece story, \\"The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar,\\" is one of the best in the book. It's really two stories in one, about a wealthy but frivolous soul named Henry Sugar and his discovery of an unusual book in a friend's library. The book tells the story about a man in India who has learned to see through objects without the use of his eyes. Sugar gets the sudden inspiration to attain this ability and soon discovers that he is a natural at it, one of the rare people with the amazing gift to learn this art in just a few years. Henry's motivations are highly suspect at first: he wishes to use this newfound talent to cheat at the casino, thereby earning himself a fortune. But something rather odd occurs during his training process when Sugar soon discovers that he has little interest in accumulating money for selfish ends. He decides instead to use his gift to fund orphanages for the world's poor, and over the next several decades bilks casino after casino out of millions of dollars. Sugar soon becomes so well known to the owners of these gambling houses that he must assume disguises to keep the game going. Dahl writes the story in such a way that the reader becomes convinced Henry Sugar was a real, breathing person.<br />\\"The Swan\\" is another gem about a precocious child named Peter Watson who runs into two local tormentors, Ernie and Raymond, while out bird watching. The two goons march Watson around at the point of a gun for no other reason then alleviatingtheir boredom on a weekend. They first tie Peter to the railroad tracks and trick him into believing he will be hit by a train. The final indignity occurs when Raymond and Ernie shoot a beautiful swan, tie its wings to Peter's arms, and force him to climb a tree so they can see him \\"fly.\\" No spoilers here, but there is something magical and memorable about what happens next as Peter learns that he is one of those precious souls which all the bullies in the world will never triumph over. Along with \\"The Swan,\\" you get \\"The Hitchhiker\\" and the less interesting \\"The Boy Who Talked With Animals.\\"<br />\\"The Mildenhall Treasure\\" is an incredible story about an amazing discovery. On a cold winter morning, a farmer plowing another man's land stumbled upon the greatest cache of Roman silver ever found in Britain. Regrettably, Gordon Butcher didn't know what he had found because the silver had tarnished during its years in the ground. His boss did know what it was and took the stuff home where hid it for a few years before the authorities discovered it. The crux of the story centers on a British law that says the person who FINDS any treasure receives compensation for the full market value of the items. The Mildenhall plates, bowls, and spoons would have netted Butcher nearly a million pounds. By allowing his boss to walk off with the silver, Butcher received only one thousand pounds. In a way, this book is similar to the Mildenhall Treasure: a great find even if you have little idea of it at first glance. Roald Dahl's works are genius and everyone should read a few of them.g their boredom on a weekend. They first tie Peter to the railroad tracks and trick him into believing he will be hit by a train. The final indignity occurs when Raymond and Ernie shoot a beautiful swan, tie its wings to Peter's arms, and force him to climb a tree so they can see him \\"fly.\\" No spoilers here, but there is something magical and memorable about what happens next as Peter learns that he is one of those precious souls which all the bullies in the world will never triumph over. Along with \\"The Swan,\\" you get \\"The Hitchhiker\\" and the less interesting \\"The Boy Who Talked With Animals.\\"<br />\\"The Mildenhall Treasure\\" is an incredible story about an amazing discovery. On a cold winter morning, a farmer plowing another man's land stumbled upon the greatest cache of Roman silver ever found in Britain. Regrettably, Gordon Butcher didn't know what he had found because the silver had tarnished during its years in the ground. His boss did know what it was and took the stuff home where hid it for a few years before the authorities discovered it. The crux of the story centers on a British law that says the person who FINDS any treasure receives compensation for the full market value of the items. The Mildenhall plates, bowls, and spoons would have netted Butcher nearly a million pounds. By allowing his boss to walk off with the silver, Butcher received only one thousand pounds. In a way, this book is similar to the Mildenhall Treasure: a great find even if you have little idea of it at first glance. Roald Dahl's works are genius and everyone should read a few of them.	2003-12-19
860484:US	52012289	ROCDZ80SOK2FA	1593790104	217071618	Beyond Iraq: The Next Move--Ancient Prophecy and Modern Day Conspiracy Collide	Books	2	66	103	N	N	Divisive and hurtful	The author of the short &quot;Beyond Iraq: The Next Move,&quot; Michael Evans, wastes little time informing us about his impressive credentials: this fundamentalist Christian minister regularly confers with heads of state, powerbrokers, and the shining stars of the Christian Right. Names like Menachem Begin, Benjamin Netanyahu, George Bush, James Baker, Shimon Peres, and even Yasser Arafat repeatedly appear in this book. Moreover, Evans includes photos of himself posing with several of these politicians. You will notice that many of the names I just listed were leaders of the State of Israel, a nation that Mike Evans feels is in a calamitous situation right now with the emergence of a worldwide terrorism threat. It is no secret that Israel and other countries have suffered terror attacks in the past, but for this author the events of September 11, 2001 have introduced the United States into the mix in a way never seen before. Evans considers himself a faithful servant of Israel, so this book takes the position that America must step to the forefront of the war against Islamic fundamentalism and give full and unflagging support to the Jewish nation's struggle against its Arab enemies.<br />&quot;Beyond Iraq&quot; looks to the Bible in order to argue that Saddam Hussein's Iraq is really the reincarnation of ancient Babylon, that evil city which receives so much bad press in the good book. Evans doesn't go so far as to claim that Iraq and the war on terrorism completely fulfill ancient prophesy (he's careful with his predictions), but he does hint from time to time that evidence exists in Revelations and Daniel that could point to unfolding incidents in the deserts of the Middle East that should concern any right thinking Christian. How to deal with this vexing problem? Prayer, the author trumpets throughout the book, is one way to guarantee a victory over the forces of darkness emerging from caves in Afghanistan and from the conference rooms of Arab dictators. Through direct communion with God, Christians around the world can help defeat Al-Qaeda and the other nefarious plots those pesky groups like the P.L.O or Hamas undertake everyday. In fact, we can insure that America's leaders will do the right thing in the Middle East--namely preventing the implementation of the &quot;Road Map&quot; to peace supported by western governments--through constant prayer.<br />This peace plan, the author states, is a grievous insult to Israel because it demands serious land, economic, and political concessions to the Palestinian people. More importantly, the &quot;Road Map&quot; gives tacit support to the terrorists in the P.L.O., a group that Evans sees as still favoring total war against the Jewish state. In a brief history of that organization the author reveals how Yasser Arafat and his followers moved from one Arab country to another, sowing everywhere the seeds of discontent. The Jordanians threw them out after the group engaged in criminal activities that undermined their government. This left the P.L.O. in the loving arms of Syria, except that country didn't want Arafat's gang either so they shipped them off to Lebanon. Evans reveals that the Palestinian terrorists threw Lebanon into complete chaos in the 1970s and 1980s by undermining its fragile Christian/Muslim coalition government and by launching raids into northern Israel. Why, writes Evans, would any government in the world wish to support such an unreconstructed gang of thugs like the P.L.O. with all of this troubling evidence? In his examination of the activities of the Palestinian Liberation Organization, Evans does score a few points. Unfortunately, the author enters dangerous territory when he turns his criticisms into an overarching denunciation of all Muslims.<br />Evans implores us to &quot;wake up to the fact that not all religions are good-some just poise their adherents to kill.&quot; I'm really not interested in using this review as a vehicle to attack fundamentalistChristianity, as I sympathize with a few of their ideas even though I am an agnostic, but this statement is just hateful. In fact, Christianity fits this description quite nicely if one looks at its actions over the last thousand years or so. The Crusades? Pogroms against Jews and Muslims? Forced conversions to the Christian faith during the Age of Discovery? The list could go on and on if one looks closely. In a related side note, Evans claims we can understand the Islamic &quot;mindset&quot; when we realize that this faith's belief in determinism (the idea that everything happens in the world according to the will of Allah) is a guiding principle. Well, doesn't fundamentalist Christianity believe the same thing? This book repeatedly underscores the idea that God works in all things. That is why the author urges us to pray because he believes that God takes an active interest in the minutest affairs of mankind. I guess how you look at Islam depends on what side of the pew you sit on (or prayer mat, as the case may be). Do certain elements of Islam seek a fundamentalist solution to their interactions with the West even if that means preaching violence and hatred? Of course, but that doesn't mean we need to whip out the brush and start slapping tar on everyone who believes in Allah or takes a hajj to Mecca.<br />Let's face facts: Christian fundamentalists support Israel because they believe that all Jews will convert to Christianity when the Messiah returns, thereby fulfilling the New Testament. Jews in Israel elicit aid from Christian fundamentalists in the United States because their country needs all the support it can get. I read this book because I enjoy learning about prophecies either secular or religious, but readers who wish to learn more about the war on terrorism, Iraq, Islam, or the Palestinian-Israeli difficulties should probably look beyond this polemical work.Christianity, as I sympathize with a few of their ideas even though I am an agnostic, but this statement is just hateful. In fact, Christianity fits this description quite nicely if one looks at its actions over the last thousand years or so. The Crusades? Pogroms against Jews and Muslims? Forced conversions to the Christian faith during the Age of Discovery? The list could go on and on if one looks closely. In a related side note, Evans claims we can understand the Islamic &quot;mindset&quot; when we realize that this faith's belief in determinism (the idea that everything happens in the world according to the will of Allah) is a guiding principle. Well, doesn't fundamentalist Christianity believe the same thing? This book repeatedly underscores the idea that God works in all things. That is why the author urges us to pray because he believes that God takes an active interest in the minutest affairs of mankind. I guess how you look at Islam depends on what side of the pew you sit on (or prayer mat, as the case may be). Do certain elements of Islam seek a fundamentalist solution to their interactions with the West even if that means preaching violence and hatred? Of course, but that doesn't mean we need to whip out the brush and start slapping tar on everyone who believes in Allah or takes a hajj to Mecca.<br />Let's face facts: Christian fundamentalists support Israel because they believe that all Jews will convert to Christianity when the Messiah returns, thereby fulfilling the New Testament. Jews in Israel elicit aid from Christian fundamentalists in the United States because their country needs all the support it can get. I read this book because I enjoy learning about prophecies either secular or religious, but readers who wish to learn more about the war on terrorism, Iraq, Islam, or the Palestinian-Israeli difficulties should probably look beyond this polemical work.	2003-12-18
863940:US	52012289	R2VMIAHJLEB3BW	0786408081	273968169	Herschell Gordon Lewis, Godfather of Gore: The Films	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A must have for HGL fans	Herschell Gordon Lewis's 1963 film \\"Blood Feast\\" introduced the world to the gore film. This statement alone should provide reason enough for horror film aficionados to sit up and take notice of this director's work. The release of this movie turned out to be an extremely profitable revelation for H.G. Lewis as he quickly realized audiences hungered for movies containing scenes of stomach churning violence. Over the next nine years Lewis repeatedly returned to the gore film, releasing cathedrals of schlock like \\"2000 Maniacs,\\" \\"Color Me Blood Red,\\" \\"The Gruesome Twosome,\\" \\"A Taste of Blood,\\" \\"The Wizard of Gore,\\" and \\"The Gore-Gore Girls;\\" an impressive array of increasingly sick pictures that continued to shock the masses. By 1972, the year he made \\"The Gore-Gore Girls,\\" Lewis tired of the low budget film business and went into advertising. Fans had to wait thirty years before the man returned to give us 2002's \\"Blood Feast 2: All U Can Eat.\\" If you have never had the pleasure of watching one of Lewis's films, I insist that you go out and rent one immediately. Don't worry about finding them on DVD because all of these titles are readily available, usually stocked with many extras. You might want to watch the films before you dive into Randy Palmer's comprehensive study of Lewis's film career because the book contains MAJOR spoilers.<br />The reader quickly learns that the director earned a master's degree in journalism and a doctorate in psychology before stepping into stints in radio and television in the early 1950s. Lewis moved from these fields into the exciting world of industrial films, eventually forming his own small film company in Chicago and thereby gaining the rudimentary skills necessary for his later career as a schlock filmmaker. The big jump into feature films came when a friend asked Lewis why he wasn't making films for the cinema houses. Fortuitous events soon arose that brought Lewis into the world of the \\"nudie\\" films, or short features that showed nubile young women prancing around nudist colonies in Florida. The director's first and second films, \\"The Prime Time\\" and \\"Living Venus\\" were box office bombs, but from these mistakes he learned how to squeeze product out of small budgets. The road to \\"Blood Feast\\" began when Lewis teamed up with David Friedman, a fellow independent filmmaker, and the two embarked on a successful career making \\"nudie\\" films. When problems arose with some of these movies, the two sat down and tried to think of a sure fire way to rake in big bucks. According to Lewis, in the early 1960s there were two ways for a low budget filmmaker to make money: make movies loaded with sex or violence. Choosing violence as their raison d'etre, the result was \\"Blood Feast,\\" shot in a matter of days with a mere twenty five thousand dollar budget. The film was a huge hit and Lewis's notoriety was born.<br />Author Randy Palmer outlines Lewis's entire career, from the heady days of his association with David Friedman, the lawsuits against partners and production companies, and the numerous headaches that arose when shooting films. The book contains some great anecdotes about such diverse topics as the difficulties of working with Connie Mason to finding people willing to squeeze an animal's eyeball for effect. Each gore film receives a scene by scene breakdown from Palmer, followed by plenty of commentary from Lewis. Who knew that the sheep's tongue used in \\"Blood Feast\\" stunk so badly that even dousing the thing in Pine Sol wouldn't kill the odor? Lewis eventually had to jettison the idea of putting the tongue in the actress's mouth, relying instead on a more restrained shot for the scene. Not only do we learn how Lewis constructed many of the effects for his films, we also learn about some of his great disappointments. For example, in \\"The Wizard of Gore\\" Lewis wanted to use a goat carcass in the final scene to simulate a human body being pulled apart. Regrettably, the owner of the apartment where they shot that scene worried about the effects such a gory stunt would have on his carpet so Lewis opted for what we see in the movie. The book has a decidedly DVD commentary feel to it, but often goes above and beyond anything you would hear on a movie disc.<br />One problem with Palmer's book concerns a lack of information from Lewis associates. Where are the interviews with David Friedman, Connie Mason (!), Mal Arnold, Bill Kerwin, Ray Sager, or other people he worked with frequently? Comments from others would definitely provide even greater insights into this filmmaker's career. Despite these omissions, the book works due in large part to the huge input from Lewis himself. Anyone who has listened to a commentary for one of his films knows this guy is not only articulate but hilarious as well. You get a lot more of that type of talk here, with Lewis waxing philosophic on every aspect of his career. It is sort of sad that the world Herschell Gordon Lewis moved in is long gone because there are no more drive-ins clamoring for cheap and cheesy product. Lewis claims he is no longer a filmmaker, but the emergence of his \\"Blood Feast\\" sequel last year along with the impression he gives here about his moviemaking days gives me hope that we can get this guy behind the camera again.  Wouldn't a sequel to \\"The Wizard of Gore\\" be divine?e they shot that scene worried about the effects such a gory stunt would have on his carpet so Lewis opted for what we see in the movie. The book has a decidedly DVD commentary feel to it, but often goes above and beyond anything you would hear on a movie disc. <br />One problem with Palmer's book concerns a lack of information from Lewis associates. Where are the interviews with David Friedman, Connie Mason (!), Mal Arnold, Bill Kerwin, Ray Sager, or other people he worked with frequently? Comments from others would definitely provide even greater insights into this filmmaker's career. Despite these omissions, the book works due in large part to the huge input from Lewis himself. Anyone who has listened to a commentary for one of his films knows this guy is not only articulate but hilarious as well. You get a lot more of that type of talk here, with Lewis waxing philosophic on every aspect of his career. It is sort of sad that the world Herschell Gordon Lewis moved in is long gone because there are no more drive-ins clamoring for cheap and cheesy product. Lewis claims he is no longer a filmmaker, but the emergence of his \\"Blood Feast\\" sequel last year along with the impression he gives here about his moviemaking days gives me hope that we can get this guy behind the camera again.  Wouldn't a sequel to \\"The Wizard of Gore\\" be divine?	2003-12-15
866676:US	52012289	R1A69WB5X4JTYF	0786707526	816027903	The Quest for Cthulhu (Carroll & Graf Science Fiction)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Fair effort, but definitely not Lovecraft	After the great H.P. Lovecraft died, his sometime colleague August Derleth stepped in to keep that author's work alive. Derleth founded Arkham House Press, a publishing company that reprinted the master's stories so new generations of horror/fantasy readers could discover the eldritch nightmares originally penned by Lovecraft. Instead of merely reprinting the thirteen original tales from the master, Derleth contributed his own stories to the mythos and inspired other writers to do the same. Even today, writers of the macabre consider it imperative to churn out at least one Lovecraft themed tale. Robert Bloch, Clark Ashton Smith, Charlee Jacob, Robert E. Howard, Stephen King, J. Ramsey Campbell, and many other authors have all written tales set in Lovecraft's Cthulhu milieu. This book, &quot;Quest for Cthulhu,&quot; is August Derleth's contributions to the mythos written from the 1930s to the 1950s. For those unfamiliar with Lovecraft's Cthulhu tales, his stories concerned a whole constellation of &quot;ancient gods,&quot; or evil deities cast into exile when another set of gods battled these creatures for control of the universe. These ancient gods are multidimensional beings capable of traveling anywhere in the universe, and some arrived on earth where they built vast cities populated by eerie beings who worshipped these evil deities. Traces of this time before man still exist in out of the way places on the planet and in ancient texts like the &quot;Necronomicon&quot; locked away in Miskatonic University in Massachusetts. The fun comes when some poor soul unlocks part of the secrets of this pre-Adamic age and promptly suffers a whole host of horrors for their incessant curiosity.<br />&quot;Quest for Cthulhu&quot; has two parts. The first, under the title of &quot;The Mask of Cthulhu,&quot; contains several stand alone short stories about men who would have been better off in the long run if they had simply checked their curiosity. &quot;The Return of Hastur&quot; relates what happens when one ignores the directions contained in a last will and testament. &quot;The Whippoorwills in the Hills&quot; describes how one man falls under the evil spell of an ancient god while living in an abandoned house with disastrous consequences for the local populace. &quot;Something in the Wood&quot; is a very short story about an art critic who ultimately disappears without a trace after obtaining a creepy looking statue from a friend. &quot;The Sandwin Compact&quot; discusses the terrible fate awaiting those humans who welch on a contract with the ancient ones. &quot;The House in the Valley&quot; is more or less a retread of &quot;The Whippoorwills in the Hills.&quot; &quot;The Seal of R'lyeh&quot; sets up the second part of the book with a story about the horrors that lie off the coast of Innsmouth, Massachusetts and the strange link between the denizens of that town and the ancient ones.<br />The second section of the book, a series of &quot;statements&quot; from various individuals comprising a novella entitled &quot;The Trail of Cthulhu,&quot; finds Derleth exploring the attempts of Cthulhu's minions to bring their evil deity back to power on earth. Each statement builds on the previous one as we see a growing effort on the part of several men to prevent the horrible reemergence of one of the most powerful of the ancient gods.<br />While I appreciated reading several new tales about Lovecraft's epic mythos, I found Derleth's stories somewhat derivative of the original tales. Far too often this author reincorporates the same themes in each of his stories, making it quite difficult to get through some parts of the book. In a few places, &quot;The Quest for Cthulhu&quot; is downright plodding. Another annoying aspect for me was whenever Derleth had a character refer directly to one of H.P. Lovecraft's stories as proof of the presence of the evil ones. This reference appears in several places and seemed very fanboyish, as though Derleth sought credibility for his own stories by dropping Lovecraft's name. Moreover, the six stories that make up the first part of the book are absolutely arthritic to read due to Derleth's massive use of commas. I always enjoyed Lovecraft's ornate language, the endless adjectives and arcane language that author used in his writings, but some of the run-on sentences in these stories would frustrate Marcel Proust. Fortunately, &quot;The Trail of Cthulhu&quot; sequence flows much better than the first few stories. A final complaint here is the huge plot hole threading its way throughout nearly every tale in the book. If the minions of the ancient ones truly seek to bring back their gods and oppose every attempt by the &quot;good guys&quot; to prevent this eventuality, why not simply burn the library at Miskatonic University? That depository houses all of the important texts about the ancient gods along with documents donated to the library by those opposing these evil deities, so why waste time following people around? Destroying the library would virtually insure that no new opponents would arise to interfere with the nefarious plans of Innsmouth and the dreaming Cthulhu.<br />I liked how Derleth subtly hinted at the &quot;real&quot; reasons behind nuclear testing in the South Pacific, how he explored in greater depth some of the dread texts outlining the existence of the ancient gods, and the greater reliance on &quot;anthropological proof&quot; of the pervasive influence of the evil deities. This last point appears repeatedly throughout the stories as Derleth ties together many ancient religions under the banner of Cthulhu. Moreover, he insinuates that Christianity's Satan/God taxonomy is really a distorted representation of the titanic battle that took place in outer space between the elder gods and the ancient gods. While there are many problems with Derleth's interpretation of Lovecraft, the book isn't a total loss. Fans of the Cthulhu mythos will still find much to like with August Derleth.ought credibility for his own stories by dropping Lovecraft's name. Moreover, the six stories that make up the first part of the book are absolutely arthritic to read due to Derleth's massive use of commas. I always enjoyed Lovecraft's ornate language, the endless adjectives and arcane language that author used in his writings, but some of the run-on sentences in these stories would frustrate Marcel Proust. Fortunately, &quot;The Trail of Cthulhu&quot; sequence flows much better than the first few stories. A final complaint here is the huge plot hole threading its way throughout nearly every tale in the book. If the minions of the ancient ones truly seek to bring back their gods and oppose every attempt by the &quot;good guys&quot; to prevent this eventuality, why not simply burn the library at Miskatonic University? That depository houses all of the important texts about the ancient gods along with documents donated to the library by those opposing these evil deities, so why waste time following people around? Destroying the library would virtually insure that no new opponents would arise to interfere with the nefarious plans of Innsmouth and the dreaming Cthulhu.<br />I liked how Derleth subtly hinted at the &quot;real&quot; reasons behind nuclear testing in the South Pacific, how he explored in greater depth some of the dread texts outlining the existence of the ancient gods, and the greater reliance on &quot;anthropological proof&quot; of the pervasive influence of the evil deities. This last point appears repeatedly throughout the stories as Derleth ties together many ancient religions under the banner of Cthulhu. Moreover, he insinuates that Christianity's Satan/God taxonomy is really a distorted representation of the titanic battle that took place in outer space between the elder gods and the ancient gods. While there are many problems with Derleth's interpretation of Lovecraft, the book isn't a total loss. Fans of the Cthulhu mythos will still find much to like with August Derleth.	2003-12-13
870260:US	52012289	R3JRPZR2ASMEW	0521357454	701526329	That Noble Dream: The 'Objectivity Question' and the American Historical Profession (Ideas in Context)	Books	5	82	87	N	N	Must read for every historian	When a professor assigned Peter Novick's \\"That Noble Dream\\" as one of the last readings in one of my seminars, I blanched. Who, I inwardly groaned, would force students to read a book this huge in the waning weeks of the semester, a time when the heavy weight of tests, papers, and grading exams rests on your shoulders? \\"Look at the size of that font! How in the heck are we supposed to get through that thing in a week?\\" wailed a fellow sufferer, echoing what we all thought as we blearily thumbed through the book. Initial skimming seemed to confirm that this would be one of those scholarly books that take years off your life even as you promptly forget what you read a mere five minutes ago. Now, I've done some power reading during my tenure as an undergraduate and graduate student; I once cruised through Herodotus in two days and Thucycdides in even less time. You learn to accept things like this in the unnatural world of the academy. With lengthy papers due at the same time I opened this book, I decided to power stuff this one. Even now I can hear the knowing snickers of graduate students across the nation who may be reading this review, seminar hardened souls amused to no end that I actually assumed I had to READ the book. I can hear the chorus: just skim through it over the course of a few hours, learn the main argument, take a few notes, and nod sagely in class.<br />Well, a funny thing happened on the way to the end of Novick's treatment of the noble profession: I rapidly discovered that this book is brilliant; a veritable cathedral of razor sharp analysis, amazing use of primary source material, and all written with one eye firmly planted on the bigger picture. What human being is capable of this Gibbonesque treatment of the American historical profession? Apparently a University of Chicago professor with a whole lot of time on his hands, a man whose primary field of research has little to do with American history. Well, Gibbon's inspiration for his enormous masterwork came from a visit to the ruins of Rome, so why not an equally impressive history from someone working outside his field? A comprehensive summary of the book is an exercise in futility here, but I think I should take a stab at it since I am studying history and often must summarize scads of material into a few precious paragraphs. My review will be inferior anyway compared to the extremely insightful essay found below on this very page.<br />Novick begins with an examination of the German methodologies of history---an appropriate starting point because Americans wishing to study the past on an advanced level in the nineteenth century needed to go to school in Europe---in an attempt to discover how the first generation of professional American historians approached their craft. To be sure, amateur historians like Parkman, Prescott, and Adams wrote narrative histories on such huge topics as North America, Mexico, and the early governments of the United States. But in an age where scientific methods came of age, men stood up and rejected the narratives, believing that the very same techniques could, and should, be applied to the study of history. An age of strict objectivity called for an equally rigorous impartiality in looking at the past, and the first trained historians here did so with relish. Worshipping the phrase \\"wie es eigentlich gewesen,\\" or studying history \\"as it really was,\\" our academic ancestors attempted to collect as much factual evidence from historical sources as possible, crafting \\"building blocks\\" of history so that in the near future men could unearth the universal truth by putting these blocks together. Amusingly, Novick discovers that the American historians misunderstood this magical phrase, that it should translate as \\"as it essentially is,\\" a different ballgame altogether that means a historian should employ his intuition in his studies. Since this is the exact opposite of how our historians applied the phrase, the entire edifice of our profession balances upon a translation error! Study hard for those proficiency exams, my friends!<br />Novick's scrupulous treatment of the succeeding years of the profession reveals metatectonic (a word that appears throughout the book, and frankly, I love it and use it whenever possible) themes, but the biggest one may be that big social changes lead to big changes in the academy. While many scholars like to think they create rather than react to societal transformations, Novick proves them wrong repeatedly. War, for example, served to bring about sea changes in how historians studied history. The nightmares unfolding at places like Ypres and the concomitant moral discord after that war led to a short period of \\"doubt casting\\" in every field of western human endeavor. Things that seemed indisputable before millions died in the mud suddenly assumed a worrisome etherealness, a hazy uncertainty that ushered in the beginnings of relativism. The Second World War and the subsequent Cold War, with its need for absolute convictions (Hitler and Communism bad, Us good), temporarily quashed proto-relativism in favor of consensus. We are where we are at now, in an age of unbridled relativism, \\"social construction,\\" and \\"deconstruction\\" because of the Vietnam War and the rise of the New Left historians. Novick outlines it all in one page after another, pages rife with the words of the historians who were there when it happened.<br />A short review fails to relate the impressiveness of this work. There are a few omissions here, one being the pedagogical functions of history as mentioned in a previous review. The other problem concerns the shortage of information about earning credentials in the profession. For information on how much fun that process is, you need to look at Theodore Hamerow's curmudgeonly treatment of life in graduate school, \\"Reflections on History and Historians.\\"ur profession balances upon a translation error! Study hard for those proficiency exams, my friends!<br />Novick's scrupulous treatment of the succeeding years of the profession reveals metatectonic (a word that appears throughout the book, and frankly, I love it and use it whenever possible) themes, but the biggest one may be that big social changes lead to big changes in the academy. While many scholars like to think they create rather than react to societal transformations, Novick proves them wrong repeatedly. War, for example, served to bring about sea changes in how historians studied history. The nightmares unfolding at places like Ypres and the concomitant moral discord after that war led to a short period of \\"doubt casting\\" in every field of western human endeavor. Things that seemed indisputable before millions died in the mud suddenly assumed a worrisome etherealness, a hazy uncertainty that ushered in the beginnings of relativism. The Second World War and the subsequent Cold War, with its need for absolute convictions (Hitler and Communism bad, Us good), temporarily quashed proto-relativism in favor of consensus. We are where we are at now, in an age of unbridled relativism, \\"social construction,\\" and \\"deconstruction\\" because of the Vietnam War and the rise of the New Left historians. Novick outlines it all in one page after another, pages rife with the words of the historians who were there when it happened.<br />A short review fails to relate the impressiveness of this work. There are a few omissions here, one being the pedagogical functions of history as mentioned in a previous review. The other problem concerns the shortage of information about earning credentials in the profession. For information on how much fun that process is, you need to look at Theodore Hamerow's curmudgeonly treatment of life in graduate school, \\"Reflections on History and Historians.\\"	2003-12-10
870635:US	52012289	R1BY3PVRUP9SH0	0684844974	842366392	America in Black and White: One Nation, Indivisible	Books	5	27	31	N	N	Slightly to the right of center look at race relations	Stephan and Abigail Thernstrom's &quot;America in Black and White: One Nation, Indivisible&quot; charts a different course from many of the scholarly books written about racial relations in the United States today. The authors agree that the civil rights movements of the 1950s and 1960s was a resounding success, opening many doors to African-Americans as a result of the systematic dismantling of Jim Crow laws in the South. This book is necessary, claim the authors, because the ideas that originally drove the civil rights movement have since drifted into dangerous terrain. According to this book, Martin Luther King's message of one nation where all people will be judged by their individual merits and not skin color has become a land where blacks and whites are once again moving into separate camps based on race. The introduction of affirmative action programs and other racial social policies does not solve divisive problems but instead creates new racial barriers. Moreover, media and civil rights proponents today discuss black problems as though that segment of the population has made little progress. The authors insist that there are still nagging difficulties to overcome, but that a &quot;lack of analytic rigor&quot; leads to false perceptions about how far blacks have actually risen in society. Therefore, the authors rely heavily on statistical tables, charts, and polls to prove their arguments.<br /><br />The first section of &quot;America in Black and White&quot; outlines the history of the odious conditions blacks faced in the American South and the resulting rise of the civil rights movement. The Thernstroms describe southern society in all of its squalor: the crushing poverty faced by both whites and blacks, the lackluster drive towards industrialization that kept many members of the population toiling in fields and small towns, pathetic levels of state spending on education for blacks, and the biases of the criminal justice system. Relying heavily on Gunnar Myrdal's groundbreaking study of race in America, the authors correctly detail the host of social structures aligned against the African-American population. For example, blacks rarely received decent treatment in the legal system because police departments run by whites often failed to protect the black citizenry from criminals. Moreover, the legal system in the South considered crimes committed against blacks secondary to outrages perpetrated against white members of society. Subsequent sections of the book take an in depth look at black progress in various social arenas from the 1970s onward, arenas such as education, politics, law, crime, and many others.<br />The absence of job opportunities, poor education, lack of protections in the courts, and segregation policies in the South led African-Americans to increasingly move north. The first migration came during World War I. A second, even larger migration occurred in the 1940s and 1950s. Blacks in the North did not have to deal with segregation, but did experience racism in housing and certain sectors of the job market. Better conditions in the northern states led to an increasing drive for an end to Jim Crow in the South. The authors argue that federal legislation destroying segregation in the 1960s also contained the seeds of future divisions. The Thernstroms see a sinister change of direction with the release of Daniel Patrick Moynihan's report on the black family in 1965. Moynihan's remedy for the problems faced by black citizens, echoed by Lyndon Johnson in a speech at Howard University the same year, moved beyond providing for equal opportunity to call for &quot;equal results&quot; as well. This argument indirectly endorsed the idea of affirmative action and social entitlement programs based specifically on race. For the authors, the problems inherent in this approach are clear: to formulate policy giving special treatment to one race is just as racist as passing laws subjugating specific races.<br />Perhaps the most interesting section of &quot;America in Black and White,&quot; and probably the most controversial, concerns the authors' claims that African-American social advancement was greatest immediately before the rise of the civil rights movement. During the 1940s and 1950s, the authors write, blacks surged forward in nearly all areas of American society. This growth was far from perfect, but in the arenas of education, economics, politics, and sports blacks saw remarkable gains. Almost half of the African-Americans who lived in poverty moved out of that classification during this period. Education levels for blacks, while lagging behind whites, still grew significantly compared to earlier eras in American history. This period also saw the integration of professional baseball and basketball, opening up an entirely new aspect of society to black advancement. African-Americans showed signs of vigor at the polls, as a court case outlawing white southern primaries and greater movement to the North allowed more blacks to vote than ever before. Obviously, there were still many problems to overcome: black wages still lagged behind white levels, education was still a problem, and the South still practiced vigorous discrimination against its black population. But African-Americans did make progress, and this chapter effectively illustrates that modern day claims about the complete lack of black improvement before the civil rights movements of the 1960s are patently false.<br />The greatest problem with this analysis of black gains during the 1940s and 1950s is that it undercuts the need and influence of activism as a force for change. If African-Americans were achieving so much, why did the civil rights movement appear on the scene? It may well be a case of a segment of the population finding some success and quickly wanting more, thereby accelerating the growth and scope of that change. But the Thernstroms spend more time discussing the overarching factors-political, economic, and social-that contributed to two decades of growth instead of focusing on what everyday people were doing on a local level to bring about advancement. Following this argument to its logical conclusion makes a reader suspect that twenty years of gradual progress would have toppled Jim Crow laws without the assistance of any sort of social activism.the most interesting section of &quot;America in Black and White,&quot; and probably the most controversial, concerns the authors' claims that African-American social advancement was greatest immediately before the rise of the civil rights movement. During the 1940s and 1950s, the authors write, blacks surged forward in nearly all areas of American society. This growth was far from perfect, but in the arenas of education, economics, politics, and sports blacks saw remarkable gains. Almost half of the African-Americans who lived in poverty moved out of that classification during this period. Education levels for blacks, while lagging behind whites, still grew significantly compared to earlier eras in American history. This period also saw the integration of professional baseball and basketball, opening up an entirely new aspect of society to black advancement. African-Americans showed signs of vigor at the polls, as a court case outlawing white southern primaries and greater movement to the North allowed more blacks to vote than ever before. Obviously, there were still many problems to overcome: black wages still lagged behind white levels, education was still a problem, and the South still practiced vigorous discrimination against its black population. But African-Americans did make progress, and this chapter effectively illustrates that modern day claims about the complete lack of black improvement before the civil rights movements of the 1960s are patently false.<br />The greatest problem with this analysis of black gains during the 1940s and 1950s is that it undercuts the need and influence of activism as a force for change. If African-Americans were achieving so much, why did the civil rights movement appear on the scene? It may well be a case of a segment of the population finding some success and quickly wanting more, thereby accelerating the growth and scope of that change. But the Thernstroms spend more time discussing the overarching factors-political, economic, and social-that contributed to two decades of growth instead of focusing on what everyday people were doing on a local level to bring about advancement. Following this argument to its logical conclusion makes a reader suspect that twenty years of gradual progress would have toppled Jim Crow laws without the assistance of any sort of social activism.	2003-12-09
875451:US	52012289	R2TG082SDPQW61	0195132793	639806265	The White Image in the Black Mind: African-American Ideas about White People, 1830-1925	Books	3	10	18	N	N	Black ideas about white racism	Historian Mia Bay tackles the reverse side of the coin first forged by George Fredrickson in this examination of African-American thought concerning whites, \\"The White Image in the Black Mind.\\" The transposition of Fredrickson's title for this book is appropriate as Bay traces the development of black responses to white racist ideology from nineteenth century African-American intellectuals to the emergence of messianic black sects in the early twentieth century. Such a comprehensive task was not easy since Bay had to tackle both black intellectual responses to racialist ideologies and the generally uneducated slave perceptions regarding institutional racism. Wisely deciding to approach these two diverse African-American responses by splitting them into separate sections, Bay then draws the two areas together by constructing an overarching argument about black responses to dominant white racial ideas. According to the author, both black intellectuals and slaves formed their opinions and theories about whites within a racial discourse constructed by whites. The book argues that blacks in the nineteenth century reduced white supremacist ideas about Africans to issues of social power, charging that whites maintained black inferiority in order to justify exploitation and abuse. In the early years of the twentieth century, changing conditions in American society and a new anthropological theory rejecting the biological concepts of race led to a significant divide among blacks concerning their views on racism. The intellectuals endorsed the new cultural theory of race while nascent black messianic sects founded by Marcus Garvey and other charismatic leaders embraced racist ideas that emulated the old white racial ideologies of the nineteenth century.<br />Black ethnographers such as Frederick Douglass and John McCune Smith developed a revisionist argument against white racism that operated within the confines of white racialist dialogue. These intellectuals adhered to a strict environmentalist position concerning racial categories, allowing for a temporary black inferiority while proposing arguments about future ascendancy for the African race. Moreover, according to these thinkers, one only needed look at ancient Egypt as proof of the potential for black merit because the ethnographers charged that black Africans once ruled that advanced land. Regrettably, these intellectuals fell prey to a contradiction in their arguments: while claiming an origin indistinguishable from that of all other peoples on the earth, the redefinition of Egypt as a touchstone for black excellence tacitly endorsed an idea of racial supremacy over white cultures, especially when the ethnographers placed these claims next to examples of the barbarity of Anglo-Saxons.<br />Slaves constituted the majority of the black population in the nineteenth century, but without an education and suffering under the yoke of illiteracy these men and women knew little about the ethnological debates occurring between educated whites and blacks. But the enslaved still recognized and responded to the racism they endured on a daily basis. According to Bay, slaves realized that southern whites saw them as little more than domesticated animals, but African-Americans never internalized this insulting comparison. Blacks in bondage often defined whites in terms of their economic and social power, rarely through color distinctions. Ultimately, enslaved blacks accepted certain distinctions between themselves and whites, one example being the issue of divine justice and how whites would suffer at the hands of God for their poor treatment of black slaves, but again these differences had little to do with the color of the skin.<br />Perhaps Bay's most important achievement with this book concerns her claims about how black arguments against white racialism fell, almost without exception, within the constraints of a racialized society. Black ethnographers argued against white theories on race by revising, not completely redefining, those ideas. Their thoughts did not bring about a paradigm shift in racial relations because of the embedded structures of racism within American society. It fell to Franz Boas and his new anthropological theories to bring about a sea change in American racial thought, and this shift did not occur in earnest until the early to mid twentieth century. In retrospect, black thinkers of this era deserve some credit for doing the best they could under the circumstances. Although these black scholars fell victim to an inconsistency in their theories that ultimately led to distinct forms of reverse racism, their arguments against white ideologies kept a flame of hope alive during the darkest days of oppression. If there had been nothing but silence from African-Americans during the nineteenth century, efforts at improved race relations today could look substantially different.<br />Bay concludes with an examination of Afrocentrism and its perceived origins in nineteenth century black ethnology. Afrocentrism argues that blacks are largely responsible for the development of mathematics, physics, philosophy, and other mental achievements. Afrocentrists generally agree that the Greeks stole most of their ideas from the ancient black Egyptians, and that individuals like Cleopatra and Jesus were black. Recently, academics have repudiated many of the claims of Afrocentrism, specifically Mary Lefkowitz in her book \\"Not Out of Africa: How Afrocentrism Became an Excuse to Teach Myth as History.\\" This scholar convincingly argues that many Afrocentric theories originated from a Freemason text which borrowed heavily from an eighteenth century tract written by a French classicist. This author, who had no access to Egyptian sources and wrote his history before linguists learned how to translate hieroglyphics, constructed an alternate history of Egypt using fragmentary and questionable Greek and Roman sources. Bay unfortunately never examines this new scholarship on the origins of Afrocentrism. Doing so could pose some interesting questions about where black ethnographers got their ideas about the grandeur of an ancient black Egypt.e by revising, not completely redefining, those ideas. Their thoughts did not bring about a paradigm shift in racial relations because of the embedded structures of racism within American society. It fell to Franz Boas and his new anthropological theories to bring about a sea change in American racial thought, and this shift did not occur in earnest until the early to mid twentieth century. In retrospect, black thinkers of this era deserve some credit for doing the best they could under the circumstances. Although these black scholars fell victim to an inconsistency in their theories that ultimately led to distinct forms of reverse racism, their arguments against white ideologies kept a flame of hope alive during the darkest days of oppression. If there had been nothing but silence from African-Americans during the nineteenth century, efforts at improved race relations today could look substantially different.<br />Bay concludes with an examination of Afrocentrism and its perceived origins in nineteenth century black ethnology. Afrocentrism argues that blacks are largely responsible for the development of mathematics, physics, philosophy, and other mental achievements. Afrocentrists generally agree that the Greeks stole most of their ideas from the ancient black Egyptians, and that individuals like Cleopatra and Jesus were black. Recently, academics have repudiated many of the claims of Afrocentrism, specifically Mary Lefkowitz in her book \\"Not Out of Africa: How Afrocentrism Became an Excuse to Teach Myth as History.\\" This scholar convincingly argues that many Afrocentric theories originated from a Freemason text which borrowed heavily from an eighteenth century tract written by a French classicist. This author, who had no access to Egyptian sources and wrote his history before linguists learned how to translate hieroglyphics, constructed an alternate history of Egypt using fragmentary and questionable Greek and Roman sources. Bay unfortunately never examines thisnew scholarship on the origins of Afrocentrism. Doing so could pose some interesting questions about where black ethnographers got their ideas about the grandeur of an ancient black Egypt.	2003-12-06
875472:US	52012289	RE7VHRNHJSEYG	0819561886	887488756	The Black Image in the White Mind: The Debate on Afro-American Character and Destiny, 1817-1914	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Seminal work on American race history	George Fredrickson's book, &quot;The Black Image in the White Mind,&quot; is an intellectual history dealing with the rise of formalized racial ideologies in nineteenth century America. The author argues that these anti-black intellectual concepts, far from forming in a vacuum, arose in concert with other significant trends occurring in the American political, economic, and social arena. Moreover, Fredrickson points out the significant role the American North, an area not usually associated with overt racism, played in this emotionally charged discourse. Many of the ideas articulated in the North reinforced as often as they countered the extremely hostile invective circulating in the South. Most importantly, &quot;The Black Image in the White Mind&quot; stresses the underlying themes that all of these theories, regardless of northern or southern orientation, shared between 1817 and 1914: the author convincingly avers that every racial hypothesis assumed the idea of black inferiority, that blacks differed significantly from whites &quot;physically, intellectually, and temperamentally,&quot; that animosity between whites and blacks was inevitable, saw miscegenation as a sublime evil, and viewed a biracial society as an impossibility best remedied by the outright removal of African-Americans from United States territory or through various forms of subordination to the dominant white society. It is not surprising this book is still a standard assignment in graduate seminars about race history.<br />Fredrickson begins his analysis with the emergence of the colonization movement in the 1820s and 1830s and concludes with the plight of the American black under the Progressive movement of the early twentieth century. Along the way, the author discusses in detail various racial ideas: scientific racism, romantic racialism, recurring incarnations of Southern white paternalism, white nationalism, Negrophobia, and Accommodationist racism. In the American South, Fredrickson argues that a major tenet of racialist thought was Herrenvolk democracy, or a type of political theory that gave the dominant white population in the South all the fruits of democracy while denying blacks equivalent rights. Herrenvolk democracy informed much of the racial thought in this region during the nineteenth century because it created a hierarchical biracial system justified by slavery and later segregation systems. &quot;The Black Image in the White Mind&quot; proves that white racist thought in the nineteenth century was never a constant, monolithic ideology but a set of basic assumptions capable of adjusting to changing economic, political, or religious circumstances in the larger society. Just when one branch of racialist thought died down, another sprang up in an entirely different place and time with just as much virulence as the previous manifestation.<br />Perhaps the most compelling argument in Fredrickson's book is his formulation of romantic racialism. This idea, which posited that blacks were docile, childlike creatures whose attributes allowed them to attain a level of Christianity unavailable to &quot;naturally aggressive&quot; Caucasians, had great appeal among abolitionists in the North who believed slavery was wrong on religious grounds. Moreover, romantic racialism arose as a response to emerging ideas about perceived Anglo-Saxon superiority and the need for a homogeneous white nation. Fredrickson brilliantly develops this idea primarily through a literary analysis of Harriet Beecher Stowe's novels &quot;Uncle Tom's Cabin&quot; and &quot;Dred.&quot; The articulation of romantic racialism explodes any lingering myths regarding abolitionists as rock ribbed anti-racists because it shows that these moral crusaders still argued for forcible removal of blacks from American territory.<br /><br />Fredrickson addresses what is arguably his book's most serious problem in a new introduction to the 1987 reprint. He confesses that he focused more on what white intellectuals thought about blacks than what blacks said or did about their own situation in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Admittedly, the title of the book should blunt some criticism directed towards the author on this point: a title like &quot;The Black Image in the White Mind&quot; leaves little doubt as to what viewpoint the author will take. Still, the author does leave significant gaps in certain places of his book that beg for elaboration. For example, at one point the author refers to a correspondence between Salmon P. Chase and black writer and intellectual Frederick Douglass, a correspondence revealing in succinct detail what Chase thought about racial separation. Surely, Douglass responded to Chase's arguments in some way, but what that response might have been does not appear in the book.<br /><br />More problematic is the section on Southern Negrophobia, where the author spends a great amount of time discussing how intellectuals in the South at the turn of the century began arguing that the black was a subhuman beast whose greatest social accomplishments consisted of crimes against whites, specifically white women. Was there an enormous explosion in violent crime at this time in this region? If so, what underlying factors contributed to an expansion of crime in the South? The author's analysis of Negrophobia fails to provide any concrete data about the number of violent offenses in the South.  Ultimately, Fredrickson resorts to psychohistory to explain the possible reasons behind Negrophobia, arguing that this scurrilous from of racial hatred arose from &quot;a projection of unacknowledged guilt feelings derived from their [white southerners] own brutality towards blacks.&quot; Perhaps this claim does have some merit, but Fredrickson cites no sources to back up this particular argument. By looking at Negrophobia relying solely on the sources, Fredrickson might have discovered more relevant reasons for why specific racial ideologies arose when they did. As it stands now, &quot;The Black Image in the White Mind&quot; offers an intriguing, if incomplete, analysis of American intellectual racism.te intellectuals thought about blacks than what blacks said or did about their own situation in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Admittedly, the title of the book should blunt some criticism directed towards the author on this point: a title like &quot;The Black Image in the White Mind&quot; leaves little doubt as to what viewpoint the author will take. Still, the author does leave significant gaps in certain places of his book that beg for elaboration. For example, at one point the author refers to a correspondence between Salmon P. Chase and black writer and intellectual Frederick Douglass, a correspondence revealing in succinct detail what Chase thought about racial separation. Surely, Douglass responded to Chase's arguments in some way, but what that response might have been does not appear in the book.<br /><br />More problematic is the section on Southern Negrophobia, where the author spends a great amount of time discussing how intellectuals in the South at the turn of the century began arguing that the black was a subhuman beast whose greatest social accomplishments consisted of crimes against whites, specifically white women. Was there an enormous explosion in violent crime at this time in this region? If so, what underlying factors contributed to an expansion of crime in the South? The author's analysis of Negrophobia fails to provide any concrete data about the number of violent offenses in the South.  Ultimately, Fredrickson resorts to psychohistory to explain the possible reasons behind Negrophobia, arguing that this scurrilous from of racial hatred arose from &quot;a projection of unacknowledged guilt feelings derived from their [white southerners] own brutality towards blacks.&quot; Perhaps this claim does have some merit, but Fredrickson cites no sources to back up this particular argument. By looking at Negrophobia relying solely on the sources, Fredrickson might have discovered more relevant reasons for why specific racial ideologies arose when they did. As it stands now, &quot;The Black Image in the White Mind&quot; offers an intriguing, if incomplete, analysis of American intellectual racism.	2003-12-05
875912:US	52012289	R1JP8689ZOKKNL	0195023749	159113101	Black Culture and Black Consciousness: Afro-American Folk Thought from Slavery to Freedom (Galaxy Books)	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Amazing	In his impressive study of the African-American experience in America, \\"Black Culture and Black Consciousness: Afro-American Folk Thought from Slavery to Freedom,\\" author Lawrence Levine assembles a vast collection of songs, jokes, medicine, tales, music, and humor to argue against the once widely held notion that slavery reduced blacks to a state of hopeless degradation, completely dissipated their African heritage, and left them largely dependent on white cultural norms. According to Levine, not only did blacks possess a culture and consciousness independent of the dominant white society, but this culture was extraordinarily complex and capable of constantly changing to fit the latest challenges confronting both white and black society. The author claims that up to the time of emancipation, slaves' oral communications created a \\"sacred\\" world that transcended bondage and went beyond the control of their white overlords. African influences consisting of \\"call and response\\" song and the reversal of the social hierarchy through stories remained important in all aspects of black life in the antebellum South, eventually informing spirituals, folk medicine, and story creation. When blacks told tales about the animal world, or sang songs with a spiritual focus, doing so created a sense of inclusive community while constructing a cosmology that gave blacks an important place in the unity of the physical world.<br />This sacred world gave way to increasing secularization after emancipation when blacks assimilated some white influences during the move from the plantation to larger society. Since white society still limited the roles of blacks in society, the result of freedom was a cultural dualism, or the \\"double consciousness\\" articulated by W.E.B. DuBois, which Levine best expresses when he studies how blacks spoke the English language. When dealing with whites, blacks tended to communicate using proper English language forms. Among their own people they spoke using distinctive black constructions. Rather than seeing this as devious or ignorant, as many whites did during that time, the author sees this as a way blacks maintained their own identity during the heady days of freedom when white culture threatened to overwhelm their traditions. Blacks did adopt some white cultural ideas, which Levine rigorously outlines through the study of such diverse fields as hero stories and blues music, but they never accepted them at the expense of their own traditions. The blues particularly presented a significant challenge for the black community because this form of expression closely mirrored many aspects of white music: individual singing versus group singing and the creation of songs based on an individual's experiences and problems. The author argues that while blues did employ some white musical elements, the problems often articulated in the songs dealt with concerns affecting the entire black population. Moreover, blues music helped spread a sense of community through the wide distribution of recorded songs.<br />Particularly impressive in Levine's study, aside from the massive amount of material he collected and synthesized, is his study of the trickster tales. It is here, in the widely circulated black tales about Brer Rabbit and other denizens of the animal world, that African-American culture related a plethora of different meanings to changing times. \\"Black Culture and Black Consciousness\\" teases out multiple definitions from these ostensibly simple tales, showing how blacks imbued the stories with lessons about patience, the weak versus the strong, the value of listening, and the importance of marriage among many others. Most relevant is how these stories did not merely fall into a \\"hate the white man\\" mold, but reflected the broad concerns and hopes of an entire community. The trickster tales, in Levine's masterful hands, reveal that blacks often shared the same concerns about life that white people did. A superficial examination of the stories, as it seems many have made over the years, does not reveal the depth and breadth of the human experience contained within the tales. The author works wonders with these stories.<br />As difficult as it is to criticize a work that accomplishes such a masterful fusion of diverse sources, Levine does make a few omissions. He introduces, for example, the concept of black toasts without discussing the origins of this rhyming wordplay. Were there other forms of black oral traditions that the author failed to analyze? Unfortunately, black religious sermons receive little attention from this scholar. Religion played an enormous role in African-American oral tradition, as evidenced in the examinations of spirituals and gospel music in the book. Where did the pulpit fit into the development and maintenance of culture and consciousness? We know from the this book, along with Mia Bay's examination of ex-slave testimony, that black preachers existed and were important figures respected by black people as far back as the first conversions of African-Americans to Christianity. Black religious figures continued to exert considerable influence on their communities after emancipation. Even today, some black religious services easily conform to the modes of communication outlined in Levine's book, especially the African \\"call and response\\" patterns used in slave spiritual songs.<br />Moreover, black newspapers created after the freeing of the slaves also served to unite the black community and functioned as a center of cultural consciousness. \\"Chicago Defender,\\" a black newspaper, spoke out against problems confronting black people in the early part of the twentieth century. The paper also played a vital role in encouraging southern blacks to migrate to the North around the time of World War I. Black periodicals like the \\"Chicago Defender,\\" regrettably unexamined by this book, fits the author's definition of black ethnicity after emancipation: adopting a white idea and melding the concept with black cultural concerns.ion of the stories, as it seems many have made over the years, does not reveal the depth and breadth of the human experience contained within the tales. The author works wonders with these stories.<br />As difficult as it is to criticize a work that accomplishes such a masterful fusion of diverse sources, Levine does make a few omissions. He introduces, for example, the concept of black toasts without discussing the origins of this rhyming wordplay. Were there other forms of black oral traditions that the author failed to analyze? Unfortunately, black religious sermons receive little attention from this scholar. Religion played an enormous role in African-American oral tradition, as evidenced in the examinations of spirituals and gospel music in the book. Where did the pulpit fit into the development and maintenance of culture and consciousness? We know from the this book, along with Mia Bay's examination of ex-slave testimony, that black preachers existed and were important figures respected by black people as far back as the first conversions of African-Americans to Christianity. Black religious figures continued to exert considerable influence on their communities after emancipation. Even today, some black religious services easily conform to the modes of communication outlined in Levine's book, especially the African \\"call and response\\" patterns used in slave spiritual songs. <br />Moreover, black newspapers created after the freeing of the slaves also served to unite the black community and functioned as a center of cultural consciousness. \\"Chicago Defender,\\" a black newspaper, spoke out against problems confronting black people in the early part of the twentieth century. The paper also played a vital role in encouraging southern blacks to migrate to the North around the time of World War I. Black periodicals like the \\"Chicago Defender,\\" regrettably unexamined by this book, fits the author's definition of black ethnicity after emancipation: adopting a white idea and melding the concept with black cultural concerns.	2003-12-05
875998:US	52012289	R25WSHU9ULMO8R	0195146905	270008955	The Strange Career of Jim Crow	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Still influential today	C. Vann Woodward's &quot;The Strange Career of Jim Crow&quot; was the first major effort to analyze the segregation system in the American South. Appearing in 1955, the author's treatment of this institution refuted contemporary statements made by several public figures who argued that racial separation was an ancient phenomenon that would last indefinitely. Not so, argued Woodward, as he proceeded to prove that the South experienced a time after the Civil War when the two races often intermingled without widespread hostility on the part of southern whites. Woodward's book expresses the heartfelt belief that since segregation was a recent development, the possibility existed for the South to reject its separatist doctrine and eventually embrace integrationist principles. The first chapters deal with the period during and after Reconstruction, what Woodward refers to as the First Reconstruction, when the South grudgingly accepted conditions forced upon it by the North. The author argues that blacks in southern urban areas often lived side by side with white citizens, as well as rode in the same streetcars and dined in many of the same restaurants. There were exceptions to these incidents, but overall monolithic, legalized segregation measures simply did not exist.<br />One of the reasons for this lack of overarching segregation policies concerned southern politics in the post-Civil War South. The author outlines three political philosophies during the 1880s and 1890s that worked to capitalize upon black support. Southern liberalism went nowhere with its arguments that all citizens must have equal rights in all social spheres. Conservative southerners took a position between liberals and radical racists, arguing that in every society there existed superior and inferior elements. Obviously, conservatives claimed, blacks occupied an inferior position to whites. This did not mean that blacks should be treated harshly or denied privileges. The conservatives were paternalists and used the goodwill they earned from blacks to capture elective offices from the Redeemers. The conservative political philosophy collapsed when widespread corruption swept its proponents from office. The Populists, the last southern political structure Woodward discusses, also attempted an alliance with blacks. The movement was short lived, and with external pressures of the 1880s and 1890s such as economic depression and northern indifference to blacks, southerners blamed blacks for their social ills. Moreover, southern politicians weary of the years of malicious infighting decided to seek a measure of unification, and they achieved this fusion by blaming black voters for economic and political discord. It is at this time, writes the author, when segregation laws blossomed across the South.<br />The second section of the book deals with the emergence and consequences of what Woodward calls the Second Reconstruction. Starting during the Second World War and emerging fully during the 1950s and 1960s, this era of race relations saw increasing waves of attacks directed against Jim Crow in the South. The first maneuvers came from the White House, with Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman launching several initiatives aimed at integrating defense jobs and the armed services. The second wave came with a series of Supreme Court actions seeking to integrate the school systems. With action came reaction as the segregationists finally launched an offensive against Brown vs. The Board of Education when lower court judges in the South upheld the higher court's ruling. The resulting attempts to undercut the judgment by southern state governments coupled with periodic outbreaks of violence led to even more civil rights initiatives from the federal government. Kennedy proposed and Johnson pushed through Congress measures aimed at accelerating integration and restoring the black vote in the South. The Second Reconstruction ended after the riots of the 1960s in northern citiescaused civil rights organizations to shift from a role of non-violence to militant black nationalism. Woodward's book concludes on a rather pessimistic note when he observes that black-white relations seem to be reverting to a new form of racial separation.<br />It is difficult to find problems with &quot;The Strange Career of Jim Crow.&quot; The book was the first work to sum up the civil rights movement in the United States. Moreover, the author wrote a book broad enough to give historians plenty of material for further research, something scholars always appreciate. Even the form of the book, with its lack of footnotes and energetic style, is more of a plus than a minus. By writing a friendly, accessible treatment of the issue, Woodward managed to reach beyond the walls of academia and find a wide public audience. It is not difficult to imagine that many of the young people registering black voters or going on freedom rides could cite this book as a major influence in their decision to make a stand against segregation. As the afterword shows, even Martin Luther King, Jr read and quoted Woodward on occasion. Finally, the fact that this book has never gone out of print underscores its seminal influence on the country at large.<br />No book is immune to criticism, however. Woodward often fails to incorporate into his narrative what actions blacks took in response to segregation. This critique is not always valid: the author does cite a black newspaperman who toured the South in the late 1800s, along with several members of the Black Panther Party. But in several places the book needs some description of black agency, especially the chapter concerning southern politics. Woodward presents the black population in the 1880s and 1890s as a passive force palmed off from one white political faction to another. Are we to assume that black voters simply bowed their heads and acted the role of dupes to savvy white politicians? Perhaps many did due to a lack of education and a lingering submissiveness from the days of slavery, but there were people who attempted to participate in the system in order to earn their rights.es caused civil rights organizations to shift from a role of non-violence to militant black nationalism. Woodward's book concludes on a rather pessimistic note when he observes that black-white relations seem to be reverting to a new form of racial separation.<br />It is difficult to find problems with &quot;The Strange Career of Jim Crow.&quot; The book was the first work to sum up the civil rights movement in the United States. Moreover, the author wrote a book broad enough to give historians plenty of material for further research, something scholars always appreciate. Even the form of the book, with its lack of footnotes and energetic style, is more of a plus than a minus. By writing a friendly, accessible treatment of the issue, Woodward managed to reach beyond the walls of academia and find a wide public audience. It is not difficult to imagine that many of the young people registering black voters or going on freedom rides could cite this book as a major influence in their decision to make a stand against segregation. As the afterword shows, even Martin Luther King, Jr read and quoted Woodward on occasion. Finally, the fact that this book has never gone out of print underscores its seminal influence on the country at large.<br />No book is immune to criticism, however. Woodward often fails to incorporate into his narrative what actions blacks took in response to segregation. This critique is not always valid: the author does cite a black newspaperman who toured the South in the late 1800s, along with several members of the Black Panther Party. But in several places the book needs some description of black agency, especially the chapter concerning southern politics. Woodward presents the black population in the 1880s and 1890s as a passive force palmed off from one white political faction to another. Are we to assume that black voters simply bowed their heads and acted the role of dupes to savvy white politicians? Perhaps many did due to a lack of education and a lingering submissiveness from the days of slavery, but there were people who attempted to participate in the system in order to earn their rights.	2003-12-05
876073:US	52012289	R3HT5C05DGE5P3	0807847399	474676998	Closing the Gate: Race, Politics, and the Chinese Exclusion Act (Contention; 7)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Well researched look at Chinese exclusion	Andrew Gyory's &quot;Closing the Gate: Race, Politics, and the Chinese Exclusion Act&quot; attempts to answer a central question about the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, specifically why the United States government passed this bill. According to the author, current historians who have examined the issue fail to offer a comprehensive explanation for this event. Gyory claims that the act did not arise from nationwide racism or at the behest of national labor leaders even though these elements formed an important aspect in its passage. Instead, he offers an alternative thesis: the Chinese Exclusion Act came into existence largely because national politicians sought votes from western states. Moreover, office seekers falsely claimed that anti-Chinese legislation had tacit support from workers across the nation and further argued that the laboring classes would greatly benefit from such a bill. Gyory finds that far from supporting an exclusion of Asian workers, most workingmen east of the Rocky Mountains had few concerns with Chinese immigration.<br />The first few chapters define an issue that repeatedly appears throughout the book: labor in the West supported Chinese exclusion while workers in the East did not. The distinction between the two camps hinged on the issue of importation versus exclusion. Starting in 1869 and reappearing throughout the 1870s, eastern capitalists threatened to import Chinese to break strikes. The fear that these Asian laborers would work longer hours for a lower wage presented a serious threat to emerging efforts at unionization. Most attempts to bring in Asian workers never materialized, despite the hysteria regarding an 1870 incident in North Adams, Massachusetts where a factory owner did bring in Chinese labor to break a strike. It was the implied threat of such a widespread influx of cheap, non-unionized labor that terrified the average eastern workingman. Gyory argues that even when workers thought such a danger loomed on the horizon, they still did not embrace exclusionary policies. The picture that emerges is instead one of eastern workers welcoming the Chinese with open arms as long as they came to the United States of their own freewill and not under contract with factory owners.<br />The stance of eastern labor did not find a reciprocal attitude in California and the West Coast. These regions supported a ban on Chinese immigration from the highest echelons of society down to the lowest ranks of the working class. Westerners persistently sought legislation at the federal level to end the Asian influx, with men like Denis Kearney embarking on widely touted tours of the East to promote an exclusionist agenda. These efforts either completely failed or achieved only limited results until the national election of 1880 when presidential hopeful Senator James G. Blaine realized that promoting a ban on Chinese immigration could sweep western votes into the pockets of the Republican Party. Blaine failed to secure the presidential nomination, but both parties soon adopted his race baiting tactics in the hope of winning a presidential election in an era of razor thin vote margins. After several intricate political maneuvers in Congress, President Chester A. Arthur signed the Chinese Exclusion Act into law in 1882. Eastern unions, which had ardently opposed immigration bans for so many years, eventually supported exclusion when it became apparent that this measure was the best labor legislation they would likely get from the federal government.<br />Gyory's research on this issue is exhaustive. By scouring through mounds of newspapers and related documents, he successfully constructs an argument that eastern unions opposed importation while supporting Chinese immigration. His presentation of the political machinations centering on Chinese exclusion shows the author's mastery at negotiating the immense source material concerning congressional debates and election politics. Moreover, the section of the book outlining Denis Kearney's excursion East illustrates the level of hostility westerners had for Asians while revealing the character of this flamboyant orator. Historians, like the public, enjoy reading about such vibrant individuals.<br />The author's central premise that eastern workers opposed exclusion runs into a major difficulty when one realizes that the book deals almost exclusively with unions or pro-union laborers. Labor unions during the 1870s never came close to representing a majority of workers nationwide, so drawing an overarching conclusion that &quot;workers&quot; opposed exclusion is arguably still up for debate. Moreover, Gyory often fails to make the critical distinction between organized labor and &quot;workers,&quot; and would probably have found firmer ground if he had argued that UNIONS in the East opposed exclusion. Of course union members supported Chinese workers; they could build stronger unions if they could convince Asian laborers to join their ranks. Accomplishing this feat would be more difficult if Chinese laborers could only work through restrictive contracts with capitalist owners.<br />A further problem with this book lies in the hysterical tones westerners used when referring to Asian immigrants. Why did every level of society in the West reach near consensus about the undesirability of the Chinese? Other than a vague reference to westerners living in an area where the Chinese formed a measurable minority of the population, Gyory never examines the reasons for this overwhelming hatred. Defining the causes of this western repugnance would not necessarily translate into a justification of anti-Asian hatred, but rather would provide an explanation for the unanimous calls for exclusion in this area. Several western figures quoted in the book make vague references to vices and prostitution in their arguments for an immigration ban, so certainly there were specific issues on the West Coast that excited public opinion against the Chinese. What were they and why do they not appear in this book?k outlining Denis Kearney's excursion East illustrates the level of hostility westerners had for Asians while revealing the character of this flamboyant orator. Historians, like the public, enjoy reading about such vibrant individuals.<br />The author's central premise that eastern workers opposed exclusion runs into a major difficulty when one realizes that the book deals almost exclusively with unions or pro-union laborers. Labor unions during the 1870s never came close to representing a majority of workers nationwide, so drawing an overarching conclusion that &quot;workers&quot; opposed exclusion is arguably still up for debate. Moreover, Gyory often fails to make the critical distinction between organized labor and &quot;workers,&quot; and would probably have found firmer ground if he had argued that UNIONS in the East opposed exclusion. Of course union members supported Chinese workers; they could build stronger unions if they could convince Asian laborers to join their ranks. Accomplishing this feat would be more difficult if Chinese laborers could only work through restrictive contracts with capitalist owners.<br />A further problem with this book lies in the hysterical tones westerners used when referring to Asian immigrants. Why did every level of society in the West reach near consensus about the undesirability of the Chinese? Other than a vague reference to westerners living in an area where the Chinese formed a measurable minority of the population, Gyory never examines the reasons for this overwhelming hatred. Defining the causes of this western repugnance would not necessarily translate into a justification of anti-Asian hatred, but rather would provide an explanation for the unanimous calls for exclusion in this area. Several western figures quoted in the book make vague references to vices and prostitution in their arguments for an immigration ban, so certainly there were specific issues on the West Coast that excited public opinion against the Chinese. What were they and why do they not appear in this book?	2003-12-05
876476:US	52012289	R45OMQZ5MCK29	0520207246	629609126	The White Scourge: Mexicans, Blacks, and Poor Whites in Texas Cotton Culture (American Crossroads)	Books	3	20	27	N	N	Cotton culture and racism	In &quot;The White Scourge: Mexicans, Blacks, and Poor Whites in Texas Cotton Culture,&quot; historian Neil Foley employs a Marxist methodology to argue that the economic system of cotton farming in central Texas gave rise to a social hierarchy arrayed around the concepts of race. Specifically, the author claims that the idea of &quot;whiteness&quot; informed race relations between farm owners and the poor white, black, and Mexican agricultural workers in the region. Poor white farmers, who believed that it was possible to work their way up an agricultural ladder from sharecropper to owner, gradually lost their &quot;whiteness,&quot; as high land prices, low cotton prices, and an influx of cheap Mexican labor undercut their efforts to acquire property.<br />&quot;White Scourge&quot; starts by showing how Texas underwent significant economic and demographic changes after the Civil War. According to the book, central Texas eventually assumed a unique position within the country because it was a place where the cotton culture of the Deep South met the Mexicanized West. Whites of all classes in Texas despised the arrival of Mexican laborers, arguing that these people were dirty, uneducated peons who often subscribed to dangerous anti-American ideas of socialism and anarchism. Simultaneously, farm owners wanted Mexicans brought into the country as cheap labor to help harvest the cotton crops. This uncomfortable paradox resulted in wealthy white landowners claiming that poor whites who failed to achieve farm ownership were as undesirable as blacks and Mexicans. Poor whites despised immigrants arriving from Mexico because they drove out white tenants and sharecroppers, thereby reducing the entire work force in central Texas to the role of landless farm laborers.<br />Foley closely examines the white racist ideas leveled against Mexican immigrants, the role of women on the farm, unionization attempts, the effects of New Deal agricultural policies in Texas, and how mechanization and corporate farms undermined whites, blacks, and Mexicans. His argument repeatedly appears in these sections: the social constructions of race and whiteness allowed farm owners to deal a serious blow to farm tenancy and sharecropping, two agricultural methods that allowed many to earn enough money to buy farms. Moreover, racial divisions among whites, blacks, and Mexicans inhibited the formation of interracial unions capable of battling farm owners. Ultimately, race played a major role in completing the move from an economic agricultural system based on farm ownership for all to a polarized ownership/migrant labor arrangement.<br />&quot;White Scourge&quot; is at its best when describing the destructive effects Roosevelt's New Deal Agricultural Adjustment Act inflicted upon migrant laborers throughout the South. Historians frequently praise Roosevelt's Depression era policies as extraordinary measures that saved millions from desperate circumstances. In many cases, this claim is true, but there was also a downside to the president's social palliatives. Foley's research reveals that by paying farm owners in Texas to plow under cotton in order to elevate crop prices, the result for those who did not own land was disastrous. Farm owners often refused to share government reimbursement checks with their contracted tenants. Moreover, owners sat on the local committees charged with examining complaints from tenants and sharecroppers. The same people stealing federal relief checks had the power to deny legitimate complaints lodged by tenants and sharecroppers. Conditions reached such horrific proportions that around two million people eventually left the South by the end of the 1930s. Foley's examination of this period in Texas history is neatly researched and cogently argued.<br />One reason farm owners could fleece their tenants out of relief monies was due to the nature of contracts between land owners and aspiring farmers. The agreements between the two sides were usually oral because poor whites, blacks, and Mexicans could rarely read or write. This widespread illiteracy is at the bottom of a significant problem in &quot;White Scourge.&quot; Most of the author's source material comes from social and political elites, from men and women who could both read and write. Sources include government commissions, labor leaders, politicians making pronouncements on events in Texas, and other educated observers concerned about the potential social problems arising in the cotton fields. Hearings conducted by state officials to determine what actions the government should take concerning the problem of farm ownership do occasionally capture the voices of the landless poor, but the laments from those actually suffering through the difficulties are few in number. A lack of sources left behind by the masses is perhaps an unavoidable problem in social history, but it is a problem that raises questions about the author's arguments.<br />An excellent example of the difficulty in getting at what the common farm worker thought appears when Foley examines the rise and fall of Tom Hickey's Land League of the 1910s. The chapter devoted to this labor leader consists largely of interactions between Hickey and other labor leaders, with precious little information about what the rank and file said or did. The author places great emphasis on how the union elites celebrated Mexican actions against landowners and how these leaders used it to cast aspersions on white men's manhood in an effort to swell the ranks of the Land League. Foley sees this as a way of &quot;whitening&quot; Mexicans while challenging poor white claims to whiteness. Without corroborating evidence from the masses, however, this attempt may have been simply one way of getting people into the union. There needs to be more evidence from average people about the role whiteness played in their daily lives before I accept &quot;whiteness&quot; as a legitimate historical methodology. For those who wish to learn more about &quot;whiteness&quot; studies, look for an excellent critique of the field written by historian Eric Arnesen. He takes Foley to task on several issues important to the study and research of history.e usually oral because poor whites, blacks, and Mexicans could rarely read or write. This widespread illiteracy is at the bottom of a significant problem in &quot;White Scourge.&quot; Most of the author's source material comes from social and political elites, from men and women who could both read and write. Sources include government commissions, labor leaders, politicians making pronouncements on events in Texas, and other educated observers concerned about the potential social problems arising in the cotton fields. Hearings conducted by state officials to determine what actions the government should take concerning the problem of farm ownership do occasionally capture the voices of the landless poor, but the laments from those actually suffering through the difficulties are few in number. A lack of sources left behind by the masses is perhaps an unavoidable problem in social history, but it is a problem that raises questions about the author's arguments.<br />An excellent example of the difficulty in getting at what the common farm worker thought appears when Foley examines the rise and fall of Tom Hickey's Land League of the 1910s. The chapter devoted to this labor leader consists largely of interactions between Hickey and other labor leaders, with precious little information about what the rank and file said or did. The author places great emphasis on how the union elites celebrated Mexican actions against landowners and how these leaders used it to cast aspersions on white men's manhood in an effort to swell the ranks of the Land League. Foley sees this as a way of &quot;whitening&quot; Mexicans while challenging poor white claims to whiteness. Without corroborating evidence from the masses, however, this attempt may have been simply one way of getting people into the union. There needs to be more evidence from average people about the role whiteness played in their daily lives before I accept &quot;whiteness&quot; as a legitimate historical methodology. Forthose who wish to learn more about &quot;whiteness&quot; studies, look for an excellent critique of the field written by historian Eric Arnesen. He takes Foley to task on several issues important to the study and research of history.	2003-12-05
885660:US	52012289	R2T417RGO49E2G	0253215706	819993231	Albanian Identities: Myth and History	Books	5	58	71	N	N	An Albania lover's delight	I have always been fascinated with Albania. With lots of other things on my plate nowadays I haven't really had the time to read many books about this little country on the Adriatic. Once part of the Ottoman Empire, Albania declared its independence in 1912 only to find itself immediately beset by Greek, Montenegrin, and Serbian soldiers who all wanted a slice of the country for their own purposes. The total collapse of the Sublime Porte left Albanians scrambling for support from the Western European powers, but a majority Muslim population (a relic of Ottoman occupation) left many European leaders wary of supporting Albanian claims. Otto Von Bismarck sneeringly referred to Albania as a mere &quot;geographic expression,&quot; and other powers seemed to implicitly support this view. World War I led to more troubles, more border partitions, and more problems with Balkan neighbors. The interwar period saw Albania experiment with western style government and monarchy under the leadership of Fan Noli and Ahmed Zogu, respectively. The Italians occupied the country in the late 1930s, leading to King Zog's ouster and clandestine warfare between Albania, Italy, and Germany. As the war ended, Enver Hoxha and his communist partisan forces triumphed over other Albanian liberation factions and took over the country. What followed was nearly fifty years of brutal Stalinist style communism. Today, Albania is working hard at restructuring their country.<br />&quot;Albanian Identities: Myth and History&quot; is a selection of essays about Albania taken from an academic conference held a few years ago. Included is research from well known Albanian scholars Bernd Fischer, Noel Malcolm, and Stephanie Schwandner-Sievers along with contributions from a range of other researchers looking at Albanian myth through the eyes of the historian, sociologist, and anthropologist. As Schwandner-Sievers writes in her introductory essay to the collection, a central goal of this book is to &quot;trace the context of their (myths) production and transformations, and to show how local and individual variations stand in contrast to the homogenous national claims of Albanian myths.&quot; Yes, if you cannot tell from the above quotation, the articles in this book are quite scholarly. It isn't as bad as it sounds, as the vast majority of the contributions to this effort are highly readable. You should have a background in Albanian history, however, because the writers assume you know about Enver Hoxha, Naim Frasheri, the Megali Idea, Bektashism, and the League of Prizren among many other people and places. In fact, if you don't understand the implications of using the term &quot;Kosovo&quot; versus &quot;Kosova,&quot; you probably shouldn't read this book until you have a few survey texts under your belt.<br />My favorite essays in the book include Bernd Fischer's &quot;Perceptions and Reality in Twentieth Century Albanian Military Prowess,&quot; M.J. Alex Standish's &quot;Enver Hoxha's Role in the Development of Socialist Albanian Myths,&quot; Mariella Pandolfi's &quot;Myths and New Forms of Governance in Albania,&quot; and &quot;Youth NGOs in Albania: Civil Society Development, Local Cultural Constructions of Democracy, and Strategies of Survival at Work&quot; by Nicola Mai. Another excellent article written by Roderick Bailey, &quot;Smoke Without Fire? Albania, SOE, and the Communist 'Conspiracy Theory,'&quot; attempts to explode the myths surrounding the role that British operatives played in Hoxha's rise to power after WWII. Mariella Pandolfi's research showing how western humanitarian organizations subvert Albanian political, economic, and social institutions through a type of &quot;supra colonialism&quot; not only resonates deeply with anyone who has even a cursory knowledge of Western European/Albanian relations, but should provide a dozen or so doctoral candidates with enough potential research topics to last the length of their scholarly careers. M.J. Alex Standish compares Enver Hoxha's self-promoting propagandistic emanations with descriptions of Jesus Christ in the New Testament, and finds more similarities than differences. It is unfortunate I cannot summarize every article in this outstanding book, but hopefully the few I touched on will give you an idea of the types of topics covered in &quot;Albanian Identities: Myth and History.&quot;<br />These are the cream of the crop, but every article is articulate, informative, and massively interesting. Other essays address themes of myth in the writings of Ismail Kadare, conspiracy theories in Albanian newspapers, the myths of religion in the formation of an Albanian national identity, and even how Albanian-Americans incorporated their homeland myths into their new lives in the United States. Nearly every article in this book was the equivalent of waking up early on Christmas morning to see what Santa left under the tree. The book takes great pains to emphasize that these articles are not attacking Albanian culture or attempting to denigrate the beliefs of various peoples. Instead, these scholars want to discover how myth manipulation can encourage violence, economically exploit people, and promote ultra nationalistic-expansionist ideas. In this respect, one hopes that a similar tome exploring Serbian and Greek myths is in the works since those two powers have caused much distress to the Albanians over the years. After all, by adopting the definitions about myth in this book we can see that Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic used the myths surrounding the Battle of Kosovo Polje in 1389 to launch an ethnic war against the Kosovar majority there in the 1990s.<br />&quot;Albanian Identities: Myth and History&quot; is an excellent addition to any Albania fan's library. About the only problem I had with the book as a whole is that the definition of myth is too narrow. Yes, myths do the things written about here, but they also fulfill a whole host of other important functions in people's lives. For example, many myths act as archetypes of virtuous behaviors such as bravery, honesty, charity, and the like. Is it possible to separate the various elements of myth? Can we look at only one, two, or three facets of myth while relegating the other parts into the background? Relevant questions, I think.tandish compares Enver Hoxha's self-promoting propagandistic emanations with descriptions of Jesus Christ in the New Testament, and finds more similarities than differences. It is unfortunate I cannot summarize every article in this outstanding book, but hopefully the few I touched on will give you an idea of the types of topics covered in &quot;Albanian Identities: Myth and History.&quot;<br />These are the cream of the crop, but every article is articulate, informative, and massively interesting. Other essays address themes of myth in the writings of Ismail Kadare, conspiracy theories in Albanian newspapers, the myths of religion in the formation of an Albanian national identity, and even how Albanian-Americans incorporated their homeland myths into their new lives in the United States. Nearly every article in this book was the equivalent of waking up early on Christmas morning to see what Santa left under the tree. The book takes great pains to emphasize that these articles are not attacking Albanian culture or attempting to denigrate the beliefs of various peoples. Instead, these scholars want to discover how myth manipulation can encourage violence, economically exploit people, and promote ultra nationalistic-expansionist ideas. In this respect, one hopes that a similar tome exploring Serbian and Greek myths is in the works since those two powers have caused much distress to the Albanians over the years. After all, by adopting the definitions about myth in this book we can see that Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic used the myths surrounding the Battle of Kosovo Polje in 1389 to launch an ethnic war against the Kosovar majority there in the 1990s.<br />&quot;Albanian Identities: Myth and History&quot; is an excellent addition to any Albania fan's library. About the only problem I had with the book as a whole is that the definition of myth is too narrow. Yes, myths do the things written about here, but they also fulfill a whole host of other important functionsin people's lives. For example, many myths act as archetypes of virtuous behaviors such as bravery, honesty, charity, and the like. Is it possible to separate the various elements of myth? Can we look at only one, two, or three facets of myth while relegating the other parts into the background? Relevant questions, I think.	2003-11-27
896993:US	52012289	R1XQJR7IJPMJDY	1568821328	483280358	The Three Impostors and Other Stories: Vol. 1 of the Best Weird Tales of Arthur Machen (Call of Cthulhu Fiction) (v. 1)	Books	5	44	48	N	N	One of the Great Masters of the Macabre	Arthur Machen (1863-1947), an English author best known for his eerie stories about supernatural creatures and situations, served as a major influence on later explorers of the macabre. H.P. Lovecraft, for example, cited Machen as an authority and even wrote articles about him on occasion. The introduction to this compilation of some of Machen's best stories, written and edited by S.T. Joshi, underscores the author's ability to shock his Victorian contemporaries, who blasted his works publicly by labeling them obscene. Joshi argues the ridiculousness of this criticism, for Machen actually was an orthodox Anglo-Catholic who presented the concepts of nature as a corrupted influence that only civilization with its strict rules can negate. That's one way to view Machen's work: with a lot of scholarly blather. For most horror fans, it simply does not matter whether this author used horror as a means to support the social status quo. What is important is that Machen wrote cracking good stories that are not only eerie but also inspired future writers in the genre.<br />The best story in this collection is arguably the first one, &quot;The Great God Pan.&quot; This horrific tale boils down to one sublime theme: don't mess with Mother Nature. A doctor performs a brain experiment on a young lady with absolutely horrific results, although the scope of the terror isn't widely known at first. As the story unfolds, we discover that this woman had a physical experience with something beyond our realms of perception, something so bizarre that our frail little minds can barely grasp the implications of such an unholy union. The result is a child, a very special child with a very evil character. This wicked offspring consequently ravages her way through the upper crust of British society, luring men into her clutches and then performing acts on them that cause the dupes to die in a quite terrible manner. There are some clever twists and turns throughout the story, such as bringing one of the doctors present at the beginning of the story back into the plot towards the end, that I quickly realized is a trademark of Machen's writing style. &quot;The Great God Pan,&quot; perhaps better than any other story in this collection, shows the influence this author had on Lovecraft and others. Like the author of &quot;The Mountains of Madness,&quot; the narrator here only alludes to shocking incidents in an oblique way, leaving it up to the reader to fill in the terrible blanks.<br />&quot;The Inmost Light&quot; and &quot;The Shining Pyramid,&quot; while intriguing in their own ways, do not seem to pack the emotional punch of the &quot;The Great God Pan.&quot; One story that does rise to the level of greatness is &quot;The Three Imposters; or, The Transmutations,&quot; a sprawling epic that forms the bulk of the book. This is a wonderfully constructed oddity, a larger story built up of numerous interlocking smaller tales that could well stand on their own. Two characters, a Mr. Dyson and a Charles Phillips, encounter three individuals looking for a mysterious man wearing spectacles. The three people tell various stories to one or another of these men, including one set in the American West, a wacky yarn about an overachiever who imbibes a mysterious white powder with horrific results, and &quot;The Novel of the Black Seal,&quot; my favorite story by far. In this intense tale concerning our lack of knowledge about the ancient past, a scientist going on retreat to the wilds of Wales mysteriously disappears forever after attempting to prove his theories about a weird little seal inscribed with the most curious markings. Parts of this story read like a mystery novel, as the main character in the story (a female servent/secretary type) discovers the aftermath of weird goings on and attempts to investigate the strangeness. I thought Machen achieved an amazing level of taut pacing with this story, and the conclusion to &quot;The Three Imposters&quot; shows the author bringing together the story in a satisfactory way.<br />One of the things I liked about Machen's stories is the emphasis he puts on atmosphere and background. Outside of Dickens, I cannot remember reading another author who describes the squalid streets and alleyways of London as well as Machen does. Joshi mentions this in his introduction to the book, but until you actually sit down and read the stories you simply won't grasp the detail Machen offers on every page. Moreover, this hyper atmospheric writing style extends to stories that take place outside the city as well. As anyone who has read horror knows, atmosphere is as important, if not more so, to a story than nearly any other element. With his bleak descriptions of the seedy London byways, Machen elevates horror to new heights.<br />In fact, all of the stories in this collection achieve greatness in their own unique ways. From what editor Joshi said in the introduction to this book, Machen failed to sustain his career in the long run. His later stories didn't sell well at all and seemed to be mere shadows of his former glories. Fortunately, we still have his creepy gems to read and savor today. If I had to rank Machen in the pantheon of grand horror writers, I would place him on more or less an even keel with Lovecraft but below Algernon Blackwood. But that comparison comes from only having read the few stories in this slim book. Certainly there are still Arthur Machen gems out there I have yet to see, so perhaps his stature will rise even higher in my eyes in the near future. Still, if you like Lovecraft and wish to read similarly themed stories, you need to pick up &quot;The Three Imposters and Other Stories&quot; soon. You won't be disappointed.uthor bringing together the story in a satisfactory way.<br />One of the things I liked about Machen's stories is the emphasis he puts on atmosphere and background. Outside of Dickens, I cannot remember reading another author who describes the squalid streets and alleyways of London as well as Machen does. Joshi mentions this in his introduction to the book, but until you actually sit down and read the stories you simply won't grasp the detail Machen offers on every page. Moreover, this hyper atmospheric writing style extends to stories that take place outside the city as well. As anyone who has read horror knows, atmosphere is as important, if not more so, to a story than nearly any other element. With his bleak descriptions of the seedy London byways, Machen elevates horror to new heights.  <br />In fact, all of the stories in this collection achieve greatness in their own unique ways. From what editor Joshi said in the introduction to this book, Machen failed to sustain his career in the long run. His later stories didn't sell well at all and seemed to be mere shadows of his former glories. Fortunately, we still have his creepy gems to read and savor today. If I had to rank Machen in the pantheon of grand horror writers, I would place him on more or less an even keel with Lovecraft but below Algernon Blackwood. But that comparison comes from only having read the few stories in this slim book. Certainly there are still Arthur Machen gems out there I have yet to see, so perhaps his stature will rise even higher in my eyes in the near future. Still, if you like Lovecraft and wish to read similarly themed stories, you need to pick up &quot;The Three Imposters and Other Stories&quot; soon. You won't be disappointed.	2003-11-18
897735:US	52012289	R2RT2ZII7LK6GT	0060534621	330114902	The Movies of My Life	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Fuguet's Novel Soars	Alberto Fuguet, I have found in a few research excursions, did something new with Latin American literature. In 1996 he edited a collection of short stories called &quot;McOndo,&quot; a book containing stories written by Latin American authors under the age of thirty-five. This may not sound all that impressive, but what Fuguet did was deliver a broadside to magical realism, a literary style that has dominated Latin American literary circles for decades. Fuguet's novel, &quot;The Movies of My Life,&quot; is a logical extension of his belief that a novel about South America (in his case, Chile) should tell a story about how people move, work, and think in real life situations. What I know about this type of literature from the Southern Hemisphere could fit on the head of a pin. I have never read Mario Vargas Llosa, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, or any of those other guys who are so well known. After reading &quot;The Movies of My Life,&quot; I would vastly prefer spending my time with this type of realistic prose. This book is not merely literary realism; it is so realistic that I couldn't convince myself I wasn't reading a non-fiction biography. I actually looked up Yul Brynner on a website to check and see if he had really married one of the minor characters in the book! Some critics in South America apparently criticized Fuguet and others for internalizing American pop culture or some such nonsense, and on the surface that may look to be the case. Trust me when I say that there is much, much more to this book than such a trite analysis.<br />&quot;This is one of the drawbacks to being a seismologist: I always look deeper, I search for the cracks, I scan for flaws and resistances.&quot; So begins the story of Beltran Soler, a Chilean earthquake specialist born in Chile but who lived in California for a few years before returning to his country of origin at the age of ten. His emotional state as an adult appears to be about as stable as one of the fault lines he examines as part of his job. While taking a trip to a conference in Japan, he learns from his sister that his grandfather died in an earthquake in El Salvador. With this knowledge already eating him up inside, he meets a woman on a plane who tells him about someone who wrote a book about the greatest movies of their life. Suddenly inspired to replicate this feat, Soler stays over in California for a few days and furiously types his own list of influential films in an e-mail to this anonymous woman. What follows is an often painful excursion through the trials and tribulations of a young boy caught between two mutually exclusive worlds. &quot;The Movies of My Life&quot; is fictional, although it is important to note that Fuguet himself lived in California as a youth just as the Beltran character did.<br />Each movie in the list touches off an intimate memory of some aspect of Beltran Soler's life. The first twenty-five films explore his early life as a Chilean immigrant in Southern California, with a movie like &quot;Woodstock&quot; bringing to the surface a recollection of Beltran's Uncle Carlos's countercultural attitudes. Another film, &quot;Krakatoa, East of Java,&quot; provides a memory of his Grandfather Teodoro, the man who influenced Beltran to become a seismologist and the one who died recently in El Salvador. Not all of the films supply such easy connections, and for many pages the reader wonders where it is all going. As the book grows on you, and it will, a picture slowly begins to emerge about why Beltran is the way he is as a grown up. His family life was never easy, with his philandering father and sometimes touchy relatives always creating emotional rifts and fractures. When the Solers decide to pay a visit to relatives in Chile after the overthrow of the Allende regime, Beltran's world suddenly falls out from under him when his family decides to stay there permanently.<br />The next twenty-five films outline Beltran's life in Chile. An alien world after living in California for so long, the country's language, its schools, and its new leader General Pinochet serve as nearly insurmountable obstacles for the young boy to overcome. The movies continue to focus attention on specific incidents in Beltran's life. Issues hinted at in California now become full blown problems: his father and mother suffer a serious break, puberty arrives on the scene to wreak havoc on Beltran's existence, and he meets his first serious love. The final movie and the memory it brings back is simply devastating in its shocking power. I won't ruin it for you, but you will definitely find it surprising and horrific. Of course, not all of the memories are bad. Beltran remembers the family across the street who went on a television show singing tunes from &quot;The Sound of Music,&quot; or the neighborhood friend in California who often recreated films like &quot;The Poseidon Adventure&quot; in his garage using his friends to act out the roles. There is plenty of good with the bad here, just like life, and all of it is so realistic that even now I have a difficult time thinking of &quot;The Movies of My Life&quot; as fiction.<br />I really got the sense I was reading great literature as I made my way through this book. It is too bad that many of this author's writings have yet to find an English translation. After reading &quot;The Movies of My Life,&quot; I passed the book on to a family member who promises to give it to someone else after she finishes it. I am incredibly surprised to see no reviews for this book, but perhaps word of mouth will help spread the word about this marvelous Chilean novelist.ng in California for so long, the country's language, its schools, and its new leader General Pinochet serve as nearly insurmountable obstacles for the young boy to overcome. The movies continue to focus attention on specific incidents in Beltran's life. Issues hinted at in California now become full blown problems: his father and mother suffer a serious break, puberty arrives on the scene to wreak havoc on Beltran's existence, and he meets his first serious love. The final movie and the memory it brings back is simply devastating in its shocking power. I won't ruin it for you, but you will definitely find it surprising and horrific. Of course, not all of the memories are bad. Beltran remembers the family across the street who went on a television show singing tunes from &quot;The Sound of Music,&quot; or the neighborhood friend in California who often recreated films like &quot;The Poseidon Adventure&quot; in his garage using his friends to act out the roles. There is plenty of good with the bad here, just like life, and all of it is so realistic that even now I have a difficult time thinking of &quot;The Movies of My Life&quot; as fiction.<br />I really got the sense I was reading great literature as I made my way through this book. It is too bad that many of this author's writings have yet to find an English translation. After reading &quot;The Movies of My Life,&quot; I passed the book on to a family member who promises to give it to someone else after she finishes it. I am incredibly surprised to see no reviews for this book, but perhaps word of mouth will help spread the word about this marvelous Chilean novelist.	2003-11-17
943724:US	52012289	R33U16SJ7QQY4B	0972915796	539213051	Teratologist	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Gruesome and Godly	Perhaps the best way to describe Ed Lee's and Wrath James White's collaborative effort \\"Teratologist\\" is to define what the title means. According to the dictionary, teratology is the study of birth defects. It follows, therefore, that a teratologist is a practitioner of this unseemly activity. Anyone with even a passing familiarity with horror author Ed Lee will grimace once you know what this term means because with good old Ed in the driver's seat, teratology is about to take on a whole new dimension of nastiness. The latest entry from the author of \\"The Bighead,\\" \\"City Infernal,\\" and \\"The Ushers\\" will leave you gasping for breath as you pore over page after page of the most nauseatingly gruesome descriptions ever put to paper. This may be Ed Lee's most disgusting novella yet, and that's saying something. Then again, putting all of the blame on Lee's shoulders may not be appropriate. Wrath James White contributed to this nightmare of depravity as well. I only focus on Ed Lee because I am more familiar with his writings; this novella forms the sole basis of my knowledge about White.<br />\\"Teratologist\\" starts with an encounter between Sharon, a young lady who suffers from a slew of congenital problems, and a depraved caretaker at the home where this poor woman lives. Sharon's life is one of misery, although her low intelligence does not allow her to perceive the terribleness of her condition. Within a few pages, a strange man with a British accent \\"rescues\\" her from this horrible place and promises to take her somewhere clean and nice. Sharon is hardly in any condition to argue with her liberator, although she does notice most of the hospital staff lying on the floor in pools of blood as she leaves her surroundings. Strange things are afoot and the reader has absolutely no idea where Lee and White are about to take us, except that the destination will probably be highly unpleasant for all involved.<br />Soon enough, \\"Teratologist\\" introduces us to two reporters who earn their living interviewing and photographing the ultra rich and famous. The character that stands out here is Westmore, an aging, drunken photographer with a world-weary cynicism as sharp as a razor blade. Westmore is packing away the drinks in a lounge when he learns from his buddy Bryant that the two must conduct an interview with John Farrington, a thirty year old multibillionaire stock market prodigy. Farrington has a shadowy past, and the two reporters hope to uncover some salacious information to make their article especially good. After all, Bryant and Westmore will be the first journalists to actually interview this guy, as other attempts to do so by various reporters and biographers failed miserably. What these two don't know about Farrington, but what they will eventually learn after meeting the mysterious billionaire, is best left unsaid in order not to ruin the overall story. Let's just say that someone with a lot of monetary clout in this world seeks to obtain a little more power by luring the supreme, omniscient deity himself (or, to be fair, herself) to earth. In order to accomplish this stupendous event, acts of the most degrading, unspeakable evil are taking place at the Farrington residence. The conclusion of the story teaches us that working for something hard enough might accomplish results far removed from the original goal.<br />As I read \\"Teratologist,\\" I wondered how Lee and White constructed the story. Did the two writers switch off every other chapter? I think so to some extent, but I am not entirely sure. I think it is a safe bet to say that Lee wrote most if not all of the chapters dealing with the medical terminology of birth defects, as well as the chapters describing the pornographic acts between the characters in the story. The centrality to the story of a pharmaceutical drug that stimulates the sex drive also reminds me of at least two Lee novels, \\"Monstrosity\\" and \\"The Chosen.\\" Moreover, the significant religious dialogue thatappears near the middle of the tale and runs through to the conclusion also resemble several of Lee's theological musings in other stories, especially the descriptions of the \\"New Dark Age\\" towards the end of the book. The biggest problem with this analysis is that it finds little room for White's contributions. The whole novella from start to finish resembles a classic Ed Lee story.<br />Every time I read another Ed Lee book, I come up with a new theory about this unique author. \\"Teratologist\\" is without a doubt one of the most graphically disturbing stories I have ever read, but at the same time, the novella contains a significant message about the redeeming qualities of God. This isn't a horror story per se, but rather an extreme form of social critique regarding the despicable conditions of our world and how most of us have fallen away from the one thing that could save us. I don't think it is a coincidence that the Caliginaut chooses the Westmore character to save the world. One need only look at the Old Testament to see example after example of God choosing the weakest, or most unlikely person among us, to work his will. If this sounds rather conservative, perhaps it is. I don't want to speak for Ed Lee and Wrath James White by inserting grand ideas into their little book that may not belong there in the first place, but go ahead and read it for yourself and see if this theological interpretation fits or not. Whatever \\"Teratologist\\" ultimately means, it is at the very least another intense read from Ed Lee.appears near the middle of the tale and runs through to the conclusion also resemble several of Lee's theological musings in other stories, especially the descriptions of the \\"New Dark Age\\" towards the end of the book. The biggest problem with this analysis is that it finds little room for White's contributions. The whole novella from start to finish resembles a classic Ed Lee story.<br />Every time I read another Ed Lee book, I come up with a new theory about this unique author. \\"Teratologist\\" is without a doubt one of the most graphically disturbing stories I have ever read, but at the same time, the novella contains a significant message about the redeeming qualities of God. This isn't a horror story per se, but rather an extreme form of social critique regarding the despicable conditions of our world and how most of us have fallen away from the one thing that could save us. I don't think it is a coincidence that the Caliginaut chooses the Westmore character to save the world. One need only look at the Old Testament to see example after example of God choosing the weakest, or most unlikely person among us, to work his will. If this sounds rather conservative, perhaps it is. I don't want to speak for Ed Lee and Wrath James White by inserting grand ideas into their little book that may not belong there in the first place, but go ahead and read it for yourself and see if this theological interpretation fits or not. Whatever \\"Teratologist\\" ultimately means, it is at the very least another intense read from Ed Lee.	2003-10-12
948866:US	52012289	R1OPDOGPAN09DF	0060013990	688765715	The Eve of Destruction: The Untold Story of the Yom Kippur War	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Some Holes, but Engaging History	Howard Blum knows how to write engaging history, and I ought to know since I spend a good portion of time reading dry as dust academic journal articles and books. Most scholarly treatments of any historical subject reek of infuriatingly dense prose, annoying jargon, and specialization carried to the nth degree. &quot;The Eve of Destruction: The Untold Story of the Yom Kippur War&quot; avoids all of these trappings in an attempt to tell the events surrounding the disastrous war that started between Israel, Egypt, and Syria on October 6, 1973. I didn't realize it at the time, but this book arrives just in time to cash in on the thirtieth anniversary of that catastrophic conflict, a conflict that nearly sent the Middle East spiraling into nuclear conflagration. Howard Blum is an author who has written several other books, including &quot;The Brigade,&quot; &quot;Gangland,&quot; and &quot;Out There.&quot;<br />According to Blum, several important factors contributed to the near defeat of Israel in the Yom Kippur War. Mainly, and this factor supposedly appears in print for the first time here, the Mossad and Israeli politicians made the nearly fatal mistake of relying heavily on an Egyptian double agent when formulating their national security policies. Referred to by Blum as &quot;The Concept,&quot; the information this agent fed Israeli intelligence gave rise to a belief that until Egypt acquired long-range missiles and bombers and the Arab states unified, Israel would be safe. This &quot;concept&quot; soon informed all aspects of Israeli military and political policy to the point that a secret visit to Israel by the King of Jordan about the Egyptian/Syrian war plans went ignored. Coupled with an unforgivable level of arrogance expressed by figures like Moshe Dayan, still buoyed by the country's 1967 victory over the Arabs, Israel's complacency nearly led to its destruction. Evidence about Syrian troop massing on the border or Egyptian acquisition of Soviet made SAM missiles created barely a ripple in high level military circles.<br />Meanwhile, an Egyptian army officer name Saad el Shazly created his own &quot;concept,&quot; a plan to smash through the Bar-Lev defensive forts along the Suez Canal and retake the Sinai Peninsula from Israel. To accomplish this feat, Shazly would take air-to-air missiles and create a shield behind which Egyptian tanks and troops would advance into the peninsula. The Israeli Air Force was not familiar with these new missiles, so the shield would render Jewish planes ineffective against the Arab advance. Shazly, tapped by President Sadat to put this plan into action, quickly did so with an ingenuity that even Israeli generals later admired. Using high-powered water cannons purchased in Europe, the Egyptians managed to knock down giant mountains of sand the Israelis had built along the Suez. Arab forces quickly built pontoon bridges across the water and overran the forts on the coast. Simultaneously, a giant force of Syrian tanks and regular army invaded Israel from the north, capturing key military installations and nearly driving all the way into the interior of the country. The situation deteriorated so rapidly that Golda Meir and her cabinet approved the use of nuclear weapons against Egypt and Syria, a plan that fortunately never came to fruition.<br />Threading its way throughout the book are stories about individual figures both Jew and Arab. Blum takes us into the high command bunkers of Egypt and Israel as the war unfolds, argues that Ariel Sharon was a reckless tank commander whose attempts to make a name for himself on the battlefield cost numerous lives and nearly lost the war in the Sinai, and follows the battlefield heroics of Israeli tank commanders who often held off hundreds of tanks with a minimum of equipment and soldiers. &quot;The Eve of Destruction&quot; is truly a compelling narrative history that does what good history ought to do: tell the reader the big picture while showinghow individual people and actions shape that picture. Many of the accounts of the big tank battles are downright gripping, making the reader feel as though they are right on the front lines with the soldiers.<br />Blum achieves a certain measure of objectivity about the whole affair, readily pointing out the numerous Israeli blunders before and during the war. He also shows how political posturing by Sadat led to the defeat of Egyptian troops in the Sinai. I would have liked more accounts about Egyptian and Syrian soldiers in combat, but I still feel that &quot;The Eve of Destruction&quot; does a better job at the balance game than many books written in recent years about the Arab/Jewish situation. Blum argues that Egypt's operation in the Sinai during 1973 was more of an attempt to regain a sense of national honor than a serious gambit to &quot;drive the Jews into the sea,&quot; a claim that will certainly anger some readers, but one that does possess a certain logic. Moreover, the author states that in this aspect, Egypt succeeded in redeeming itself after its devastating loss in 1967. For Blum, the Yom Kippur War changed the Middle East forever, leading to Sadat's eventual overtures towards Israel a few years later and presumably, peace with Jordan as well.<br />I know little of this specific conflict, as I'm not much into military history. I can say I came away with a better understanding of the power dynamics in this volatile area. One problem: Blum never adequately explains how the Arabs would have dealt with Israel's nuclear weapons. Perhaps Egypt and Syria didn't know Israel possessed these weapons at the time, but if so, Blum could have elaborated on this a bit better. Anyway, Blum's book is a great read and a good introduction to the last big Arab/Israeli War (excepting the invasion of Lebanon in the 1980s, of course).how individual people and actions shape that picture. Many of the accounts of the big tank battles are downright gripping, making the reader feel as though they are right on the front lines with the soldiers.<br />Blum achieves a certain measure of objectivity about the whole affair, readily pointing out the numerous Israeli blunders before and during the war. He also shows how political posturing by Sadat led to the defeat of Egyptian troops in the Sinai. I would have liked more accounts about Egyptian and Syrian soldiers in combat, but I still feel that &quot;The Eve of Destruction&quot; does a better job at the balance game than many books written in recent years about the Arab/Jewish situation. Blum argues that Egypt's operation in the Sinai during 1973 was more of an attempt to regain a sense of national honor than a serious gambit to &quot;drive the Jews into the sea,&quot; a claim that will certainly anger some readers, but one that does possess a certain logic. Moreover, the author states that in this aspect, Egypt succeeded in redeeming itself after its devastating loss in 1967. For Blum, the Yom Kippur War changed the Middle East forever, leading to Sadat's eventual overtures towards Israel a few years later and presumably, peace with Jordan as well.<br />I know little of this specific conflict, as I'm not much into military history. I can say I came away with a better understanding of the power dynamics in this volatile area. One problem: Blum never adequately explains how the Arabs would have dealt with Israel's nuclear weapons. Perhaps Egypt and Syria didn't know Israel possessed these weapons at the time, but if so, Blum could have elaborated on this a bit better. Anyway, Blum's book is a great read and a good introduction to the last big Arab/Israeli War (excepting the invasion of Lebanon in the 1980s, of course).	2003-10-07
963941:US	52012289	R2ZEKIOMOIOKZ3	0895262320	71489	The Old Limey	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Witty Comedy	Retired British General Nigel Haversham just cannot seem to rid his life of problems. First, his precious goddaughter Alexandra ran off to America in pursuit of her shiftless boyfriend Sean, one of those sensitive, left leaning artists a rigid old guard conservative like Haversham despises with the heat of a million suns. When Alexandra's mother asks Nigel to go to America and track down her daughter, he readily agrees. Almost as soon as Haversham steps off the plane in California, the problems wash over him in an unending wave: he crashes his rental car after imbibing too much liquor, bringing in the unwanted attentions of the local constabulary. Since Nigel is English and promises to go home soon, the policeman lets him off with a warning. Quickly following this unpleasant escapade, the old general has a chance encounter with two beautiful California girls named Penelope and April who grudgingly agree to assist Nigel in his mission to find Alexandra. The adventures that follow twist and turn at a frenetic pace: Nigel meets up with a gang of Jamaican drug dealers, battles a gang of Latino drug dealers, disguises himself as &quot;Bongo Topaz,&quot; a Don King look alike in order to infiltrate a nightclub, rescues one of his girls from a kidnapping attempt, and drinks enough alcohol to float the QE2 up the river Thames. Nigel Haversham, a man who helped plot strategy with Norman Schwarzkopf during the Persian Gulf War, never imagined rescuing his goddaughter would be so difficult.<br />This crude summary of H.W. Crocker's &quot;The Old Limey&quot; barely scratches the surface of this amusing and oftentimes whimsical story. All of the action centers on Nigel, of course, a man who suffers from frequent delusions of grandeur coupled with a roving eye for beautiful young women. Haversham's knowledge about America seems to come from movies or crime noir novels, as he often finds himself in dangerous situations simply because he doesn't understand how things work over here. Relying on his training as a military officer in the best English tradition, Haversham thinks nothing of blithely going up against dangerous drug gangs or marching into the headquarters of a group of Black Muslims in order to enlist their aid in his rescue mission. At one point, the old general considers the plausibility of conquering California and turning it into an Islamic protectorate of England. If some of the descriptions of this retired military officer slightly resemble Don Quixote, that's because there is, to some extent, a similarity between the two. Both characters embrace chivalrous values from the past in order to deal with modern problems. While Nigel isn't rushing off to charge any windmills, he does view things in a decidedly Victorian fashion. He doesn't understand the customs or the attitudes of these strange American creatures, but always figures another glass of gin or rum will solve any potential problems. Nigel is truly a man out of time.<br />&quot;The Old Limey&quot; takes place in a Los Angeles full of nightclubs, criminals, and beautiful women. Penelope and April, Nigel's reluctant helpers, are your typical California airheads. Both girls want to run their own image consulting business that will cater to the rich and famous, and Nigel makes copious use of their skills to track down Sean and Alexandra. He even enlists of the girls' fathers to form a coalition to fight the drug dealers. At one point, this coalition consists of a contingent of Black Muslims loaned to Nigel by the Esteemed Muslim leader Iced Khalifa, Jamaican drug dealers who want Sean to answer questions about some missing money, and a coterie of Vietnam veterans who wish to rescue Penelope from the clutches of the Latino drug gang. Nigel artfully plays these disparate groups off one another in a delightfully imperialist manner. No wonder the British possessed such a huge empire for so long; they could rely on people like Nigel to hold the whole thing together.<br />I am notquite sure who is the intended target audience for this story. If you like &quot;fish out of water stories,&quot; you will probably appreciate Haversham's adventures in California. It is nice to read a story about how America looks through the eyes of a foreigner, so &quot;The Old Limey&quot; delivers on that level, too. Overall, while I rarely laughed out loud as I read this story, I did find it an amusing and satisfying read. I would love to see someone make a film version of this story, perhaps starring Sean Connery or some other similar bloke in the lead role. I can easily picture Connery turning in a great performance if such a film ever saw the light of day.quite sure who is the intended target audience for this story. If you like &quot;fish out of water stories,&quot; you will probably appreciate Haversham's adventures in California. It is nice to read a story about how America looks through the eyes of a foreigner, so &quot;The Old Limey&quot; delivers on that level, too. Overall, while I rarely laughed out loud as I read this story, I did find it an amusing and satisfying read. I would love to see someone make a film version of this story, perhaps starring Sean Connery or some other similar bloke in the lead role. I can easily picture Connery turning in a great performance if such a film ever saw the light of day.	2003-09-24
966414:US	52012289	RPCRZC0BKJDVM	0786012382	630081209	Night Thunder	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Slow to Start, Great to the Finish	Ruby Jean Jensen is one of those authors I stumbled over on a recent summertime excursion in search of fresh faces in the horror genre. I know more than a bit about who writes what in the field, but I still manage to surprise myself on a regular basis whenever I look for something new. From all accounts, Jensen is not a novice author; she has been writing novels for years even though most of her books are sadly out of print. That's a shame, too, because &quot;Night Thunder&quot; excels in its fascinating tale about an ancient evil reawakened in the present day.<br />&quot;Night Thunder&quot; begins with a series of strange occurrences during the closing days of the American Civil War. A farmer, his wife, and his young son awaken one night to the sound of drums rolling in the distance. Since the war is still on, drums are not at all unusual to hear on the road near the farmhouse. What is rather odd are the collection of beautiful people clothed in black robes and hoods standing in front of the house. These people ask the farmer for permission to stay in the woods on his property for a time, and the farmer amiably agrees. Then the bizarre activity starts: these strangers, who profess to be extremely religious people, build a small church near the woods. It isn't too long before local women begin attending the church, usually with their children in tow. Something odd is going on, as the women who attend services start exhibiting suspicious signs of what we would call cult activity, but it goes beyond that into the realm of death when the mother at the farm dies mysteriously after attending most of the services. The men in the community decide enough is enough, and they kill the hooded strangers who built the evil church. The men bury the bodies in a mass grave over which is placed a tree that promises to bind the corpses to death. As long as this tree remains, the world is safe from the horror lurking beneath its roots.<br />Flash forward to the modern day, to a construction site where a shopping mall will soon go up. In order to lay the pavement for the parking lot, construction workers will tear down that old tree. It isn't really anybody's fault; they have no clue about the tree's purpose, and the woman in charge of the development project, a local real estate agent named Beverly Boyd, forgot about the stories she heard as a small child regarding the tree's raison d'etre. You see, Beverly is the direct descendent of Jacob, the son of the farmer who let the beautiful strangers stay on his property. It isn't long after the tree comes crashing to the ground that the corpses rise from the grave and proceed to reinstall a church in the region. Three of the construction workers involved in this unholy resurrection soon find their lives turned upside down by the event. Tom Roush drove the bulldozer into the tree, and his bosses, Carl and Brent Salisaw, will soon have a front row seat to the newly returned evil.<br />Most of the book dwells on Brent's family, especially his two daughters and his wife Louise. The Salisaw family just moved into a spacious house in a semi-exclusive neighborhood, and the family feels a little out of place. When new neighbors move in, a couple with blonde hair and wonderfully exquisite features, Louise befriends these people in order to stave off some of her despair about being alone. Within a matter of days, eerie incidents begin to occur. The family dog, Pepper, mysteriously dies but then seems to reappear as the new neighbors' pet. Louise eventually decides to accept an invitation from these neighbors to go to a new church. You can guess what happens from this point on, since it is an almost mirror image of the opening chapter described above. Louise soon makes the church her life with plans to introduce her children to the wonders of the new worship center, which we soon discover carries the name &quot;Aeternita.&quot; Aeternita is definitely not your normal, everyday Christian church. Instead, the members of Aeternita promise something very important with long-term consequences in exchange for bringing in fresh initiates. Eventually, Aeternita faces a showdown with family members who share no interest in the church and who wish to liberate their enslaved relatives. The strong conclusion is almost Lovecraftian in its implications.<br />I liked &quot;Night Thunder.&quot; I especially enjoyed the in-depth descriptions of Brent Salisaw's children. Kara receives most of the attention from the author, and the reader learns to like this upbeat young girl. Maybe that's what Jensen wants you to do because at one point in the story the author does something so despicable to this nice young lady that you will wish you had never read the book. I won't ruin this incident for you, but if you like Kara, it is devastating in its impact on the reader. I felt like angry with the author after reading it; perhaps a sign of how effective the character development is in this book. Moreover, Jensen possesses no qualms about ruthlessly killing off main characters in the course of the story, another admirable trait in a horror writer. About the only thing I disliked about the book was its plodding pace for the first 100 pages. After that, though, &quot;Night Thunder&quot; moves swiftly. For those interested in suspenseful horror about resurrected cultists, this book will certainly satiate your desires. Jensen's book is great horror, and I am glad I found her.mbers of Aeternita promise something very important with long-term consequences in exchange for bringing in fresh initiates. Eventually, Aeternita faces a showdown with family members who share no interest in the church and who wish to liberate their enslaved relatives. The strong conclusion is almost Lovecraftian in its implications.<br />I liked &quot;Night Thunder.&quot; I especially enjoyed the in-depth descriptions of Brent Salisaw's children. Kara receives most of the attention from the author, and the reader learns to like this upbeat young girl. Maybe that's what Jensen wants you to do because at one point in the story the author does something so despicable to this nice young lady that you will wish you had never read the book. I won't ruin this incident for you, but if you like Kara, it is devastating in its impact on the reader. I felt like angry with the author after reading it; perhaps a sign of how effective the character development is in this book. Moreover, Jensen possesses no qualms about ruthlessly killing off main characters in the course of the story, another admirable trait in a horror writer. About the only thing I disliked about the book was its plodding pace for the first 100 pages. After that, though, &quot;Night Thunder&quot; moves swiftly. For those interested in suspenseful horror about resurrected cultists, this book will certainly satiate your desires. Jensen's book is great horror, and I am glad I found her.	2003-09-22
966492:US	52012289	R1XY0DJ54ZRWJG	0922915636	560023154	Snitch Culture: How Citizens are Turned into the Eyes and Ears of the State	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Land of the Free?	Author Jim Redden wrote \\"Snitch Culture\\" in order to bring together disparate examples of how our government and our society has embraced the concept of \\"snitching,\\" or informing on one another. Everybody professes to hate a snitch. Think of all the various labels we have for someone who informs on another person: snitch, tattletale, rat, stool pigeon, whistleblower, fink, and several others I am probably forgetting. None of these words convey a positive image, do they? Think of all of the media images that show what happens to someone who snitches on another person and you will usually discover that these images are not positive ones. Nowadays, however, we live in a new era, an era that encourages citizens to inform on other people. A respected national magazine made corporate whistleblowers their \\"Person of the Year\\" recently, if memory serves me correctly. Law enforcement always pays good money for information on people who commit even the most mundane crimes. And the less said about schools the better. Perhaps our society suffers from a massive case of hypocrisy, where we believe one thing (ratting out another person is bad) but praise it nonetheless (someone broke the law! Get them!). I suspect most of us have no idea how many schemes our ruling institutions have cooked up in order to amass information about us. Certainly, the recent \\"Patriot Act\\" enacted after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack still receives much attention from watchdogs that criticize the government for its sudden interest in our library records. Well, Redden rides to the rescue with chapter after chapter of documented skullduggery from nearly any institution you can think of, both public and private.<br />It is difficult to summarize the most egregious cases outlined by Redden in this book because they are all horribly invasive and oftentimes ethically wrong. Perhaps the widespread use of informants in legal prosecutions ranks the highest, where federal and state attorneys pay money to nearly anyone with a story to tell. The fact that sometimes this information is an out and out lie doesn't bother the authorities in the least, even when wrong information leads to the death or injury of an innocent person. Redden finds such an account in the case of a man seriously wounded by police when a drug snitch threw his name out at random even though this man was completely innocent of any crime. The federal government doesn't stop there. The FBI and government intelligence apparatuses routinely spy on the American people, often in the name of \\"National Security.\\" These institutions even want to know what you are looking at on your computer, and have made attempts to do just that by attaching spy equipment to some of the biggest servers in the country. Redden goes so far as to claim that there is no war on drugs, terrorism, or youth violence but only a war on the American people over gathering information on all of us.<br />It isn't just government resorting to immoral information gathering. Corporations and private watchdog groups do it quite often. Companies now monitor the Internet in order to see what their employees are doing. This may not sound like a bad idea, as wasted labor does impact a business's bottom line. The problem comes when bosses punish people for running private websites on their own time and not accessing them from work. Yes, this apparently happened in several instances, at least according to Redden. Private watchdog groups present another example of the snitch culture. The author cites the infamous case of the Anti-Defamation League's illegal gathering of information. The ADL, ostensibly dedicated to rooting out dangerous racist groups throughout the country, also spies on just about anyone it wants to regardless of political affiliations. A raid on their San Francisco office turned up thousands upon thousands of documents on organizations and people with absolutely zero links to racist organizations. Even worse, the ADL often shares information with police departments around the country, forming a link between private and government institutions that like to spy.<br />War and the threat of war constitute one of the major tenets of the snitch culture. During the conflict in Kosovo, suspicious evidence exists that an anti-war website created to oppose NATO operations in this former Yugoslavian province suffered a computer attack from the United States military. The website wasn't really hurting anyone, just providing news accounts of activities in the region with a view towards stopping the war. The operators of the site soon learned that a private watchdog had labeled their efforts \\"militia\\" activity, and shortly thereafter the site went down after being bombarded by so many requests for information that the server crashed. Scary stuff, even if the operators of the site will never know for sure that military computer specialists launched the attack, but there are several pieces of compelling evidence that our armed forces were behind this computer generated assault. I could go on and on about the endless examples Redden cites regarding snitching, spying, and information gathering.<br />The one drawback to the book is one that most reviews mention: Redden rarely distinguishes between times when snitching is useful and when it is illegal. In this author's world, ALL information gathering efforts fall into negative categories. In a way, I do agree with his analysis even though there are cases where informing on other people is a necessity. Redden recognizes that human nature always seems to make us go overboard on something when a crisis arises. Therefore, even good spying nearly always leads to abuses. \\"Snitch Culture\\" does a good job collating information about these massive abuses, but does little to present realistic solutions to the problem.es information with police departments around the country, forming a link between private and government institutions that like to spy.<br />War and the threat of war constitute one of the major tenets of the snitch culture. During the conflict in Kosovo, suspicious evidence exists that an anti-war website created to oppose NATO operations in this former Yugoslavian province suffered a computer attack from the United States military. The website wasn't really hurting anyone, just providing news accounts of activities in the region with a view towards stopping the war. The operators of the site soon learned that a private watchdog had labeled their efforts \\"militia\\" activity, and shortly thereafter the site went down after being bombarded by so many requests for information that the server crashed. Scary stuff, even if the operators of the site will never know for sure that military computer specialists launched the attack, but there are several pieces of compelling evidence that our armed forces were behind this computer generated assault. I could go on and on about the endless examples Redden cites regarding snitching, spying, and information gathering.<br />The one drawback to the book is one that most reviews mention: Redden rarely distinguishes between times when snitching is useful and when it is illegal. In this author's world, ALL information gathering efforts fall into negative categories. In a way, I do agree with his analysis even though there are cases where informing on other people is a necessity. Redden recognizes that human nature always seems to make us go overboard on something when a crisis arises. Therefore, even good spying nearly always leads to abuses. \\"Snitch Culture\\" does a good job collating information about these massive abuses, but does little to present realistic solutions to the problem.	2003-09-22
966615:US	52012289	R31EAKF35D0YWS	0786015373	405091504	Haunted Ground	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Surprisingly Different But Quite Entertaining	Stephen Gresham's \\"Haunted Ground\\" offers many surprises for its readers. The publisher classified the book as horror, but after reading this story, I am not so sure that designation is an appropriate one. Nominally, the author's story does contain a significant plotline concerning a house populated with ghosts, a supernatural element that often takes a back seat to the interactions between the two main characters, Judith and Teddy. \\"Haunted Ground\\" is closer to an intense psychological drama about \\"coming of age\\" than the usual gruesomely graphic horror novels I am used to reading. This does not mean the book is bad, as nothing could be further from the truth. It's just that I went in looking for a conventional haunted house story and discovered something else entirely different. I soon made the necessary adjustments and, much to my surprise, found that I enjoyed this gripping story immensely.<br />Ted O'Dell lives with his family on their farm in Saddle Rock, Kansas in the mid 1950s. Teddy's family is a model of contrasts: his father is a stoic farmer/mechanic whose primary role is holding the line in this troublesome clan. Ted's mother is a strange lady, prone to deep depressions that only grow greater with the arrival of Teddy's cousin Ilona (who prefers to call herself Judith). Teddy's two brothers are holy terrors, dedicated to making his life a living nightmare. Judith's arrival presents several problems that will ultimately exacerbate the simmering problems in the O'Dell household. She has a medical problem that resembles polio, a condition requiring Judith to wear cumbersome leg braces wherever she goes. Then there is the first few words she says to Teddy upon her arrival, a statement to the effect that she sometimes wakes up the dead. I don't know about you, but if I heard anyone remotely related to me say something along these lines, I would head for the hills as fast as my feet would carry me. Teddy doesn't flee because he finds himself tremendously intrigued by this beautiful and exotic relative. Young Ted soon considers himself the protector of this frail creature, and the two embark on numerous adventures around the farm.<br />Teddy has more problems to deal with than a semi-invalid cousin. For starters, there is his relationship with his brothers Jack and Norman. These two guys give troublesome a whole new meaning. One should look no further than the experience with the grease gun in the barn to recognize the utter sadism of these two figures. Even worse, Jack will eventually develop feelings for Judith, a situation that causes Teddy no end of worries. Another problem with Ted's life concerns his best friend, David, a budding homosexual who sets his sights on his good friend. Fortunately for Teddy, David is out of town for a significant part of the summer and therefore moves into the background of young O'Dell's life. Still, this complicated relationship occasionally arises in our narrator's mind, as Teddy is unsure of his sexual orientation and in some ways craves David's attentions. Finally, the matriarch of the O'Dell clan constitutes an enormous problem in Teddy's life. This woman despises the mere sight of Judith because she is jealous of the influence this girl plays in her son's life. Mother Dell schemes and plots against Judith throughout the story. All of these problems drive Teddy to the point of distraction that only his love for Judith seems to ease, and even then only occasionally.<br />What about waking up the dead? Well, the abandoned Trogler farmhouse next door to the Dell property neatly fits into the story and eventually provides the horrific elements at the book's conclusion. A terrible incident at the Trogler place years before resulted in the deaths of that family while instilling a whole lot of guilt among several citizens in the region. Occasional visits to the ramshackle farm convince Teddy that the Trogler's have indeed returned from the dead. I don't want to spoil the ending for you, but the Trogler situation provides the novel with an astonishing series of twists and turns towards the end of the story. While the book spends more time discussing Teddy's various moral dilemmas, rest easy in the knowledge that several supernatural themes run throughout the story. \\"Haunted Ground\\" is an accurate title for this book.<br />I found the character of Judith the most compelling figure in the narrative. Even though Teddy is the protagonist here, his cousin usurps most of the reader's attention. This girl is entertaining to read about because she lives in a fascinating interior fantasy world full of fiery angels and the belief that she can see her past lives. Teddy (and the reader, for that matter) doesn't believe in most of Judith's quirky thoughts, at least not at first, but he loves her just the same and usually goes along with whatever she wants to do. Considering Judith's seemingly incurable medical condition, it is not surprising that the girl believes in things that are not real. But are her beliefs mere illusions? Teddy eventually discovers that Judith's ideas may not be too far off the mark. Overall, I enjoyed \\"Haunted Ground.\\" The novel often moves at a snail's pace but is rarely boring. If you are looking for an all out horror assault, however, look somewhere else. If you want to read a book with character development as deep as an ocean, guilty secrets, and a satisfying conclusion, look no further than Stephen Gresham's \\"Haunted Ground.\\"but the Trogler situation provides the novel with an astonishing series of twists and turns towards the end of the story. While the book spends more time discussing Teddy's various moral dilemmas, rest easy in the knowledge that several supernatural themes run throughout the story. \\"Haunted Ground\\" is an accurate title for this book.<br />I found the character of Judith the most compelling figure in the narrative. Even though Teddy is the protagonist here, his cousin usurps most of the reader's attention. This girl is entertaining to read about because she lives in a fascinating interior fantasy world full of fiery angels and the belief that she can see her past lives. Teddy (and the reader, for that matter) doesn't believe in most of Judith's quirky thoughts, at least not at first, but he loves her just the same and usually goes along with whatever she wants to do. Considering Judith's seemingly incurable medical condition, it is not surprising that the girl believes in things that are not real. But are her beliefs mere illusions? Teddy eventually discovers that Judith's ideas may not be too far off the mark. Overall, I enjoyed \\"Haunted Ground.\\" The novel often moves at a snail's pace but is rarely boring. If you are looking for an all out horror assault, however, look somewhere else. If you want to read a book with character development as deep as an ocean, guilty secrets, and a satisfying conclusion, look no further than Stephen Gresham's \\"Haunted Ground.\\"	2003-09-22
967996:US	52012289	R7X57HAA8HNC0	0843951745	162485484	Toybox	Books	5	15	16	N	N	And Now For Something Completely Different...	I can't decide what I like better: horror novels or collections of horror short stories. Short stories usually read faster, and they often contain stronger shocks than a novel because the author has to deliver the goods within the space of a few pages. Novels are great because the reader often gets better character development and multiple plot threads. I guess I can keep reading both types of horror literature and quit worrying about which one of the two is superior, although after reading Al Sarrantonio's collection of horrific gems, entitled &quot;Toybox,&quot; I am giddy about short stories right now. It is difficult to describe why I liked this collection so much, as there is little in the way of the type of gory violence I always look forward to with a horror book. Despite the absence of sauce, this book is well worth reading for literate fans of the horror genre. Apparently, Sarrantonio has written tons of novels and stories over the past two decades, but I am a little ashamed to admit that this is the first book of his I have stumbled over. The introduction by Joe Lansdale effusively praises Al Sarrantonio's work as some of the best the horror field has to offer.<br />The first thing I noticed about this author's stories was the intricate yet whimsical writing style. On more than one occasion, I felt as though Sarrantonio must have channeled Dr. Suess while he wrote his tales, not in a literal sense, but more in how the stories bounce along in a pithy, sing-song way. The fact that many of these stories use children as the main characters also reminded me of the author of &quot;Green Eggs and Ham.&quot; Stories that fall into this category include &quot;Pumpkin Head,&quot; a strange tale about an unpopular classmate with a horrible past, &quot;The Corn Dolly,&quot; a haunting yarn about a young boy who finally attends the festival in the local village and learns a disturbing secret about his long gone father, and &quot;Wish,&quot; a primer about being careful about what you wish for in life. A sizeable part of this collection deals with the hopes and dreams of the young, with yearnings that usually end with catastrophic consequences once they come true. Several of the stories are amazingly short, barely more than three or four pages, but Sarrantonio's adroit use of the English language makes these shorter than short tales as satisfying as a sprawling novel.<br />Towards the end of the book, a few stories took on a darker, more ominous tone. Although I found most of the stories in the book entertaining, I soon discovered I preferred these tales. &quot;Children of Cain&quot; is probably the best entry in this part of the book, an account of two boys who end up sharing a murderous passion with devastating results for those around them. Then there is &quot;Richard's Head,&quot; about an introverted genius and the repercussions of a relationship gone sour. &quot;Red Eve&quot; is more of a science fiction/horror story about the futility of the human race to advance beyond its disastrous limitations. &quot;Pigs&quot; relates the adventures of Jan, a man living in communist Poland who must flee for his life when he learns the authorities are after him.<br /><br />Sarrantonio's &quot;Toybox&quot; is definitely not your standard horror fare these days. Few authors in the genre achieve such amazing results with the English language, let alone write stories that possess a sort of wide-eyed innocence while at the same time delivering shocks. I wouldn't go so far as to say any of these stories actually scared me (I rarely find stories or novels that spook me these days), but they are decidedly different due to a lack of gore. In fact, most of the stories imply rather than show any carnage. That's not a bad thing, but if you like horror tales with lots and lots of gruesome descriptions, you may not have much fun with Al Sarrantonio.l about what you wish for in life. A sizeable part of this collection deals with the hopes and dreams of the young, with yearnings that usually end with catastrophic consequences once they come true. Several of the stories are amazingly short, barely more than three or four pages, but Sarrantonio's adroit use of the English language makes these shorter than short tales as satisfying as a sprawling novel. <br />Towards the end of the book, a few stories took on a darker, more ominous tone. Although I found most of the stories in the book entertaining, I soon discovered I preferred these tales. &quot;Children of Cain&quot; is probably the best entry in this part of the book, an account of two boys who end up sharing a murderous passion with devastating results for those around them. Then there is &quot;Richard's Head,&quot; about an introverted genius and the repercussions of a relationship gone sour. &quot;Red Eve&quot; is more of a science fiction/horror story about the futility of the human race to advance beyond its disastrous limitations. &quot;Pigs&quot; relates the adventures of Jan, a man living in communist Poland who must flee for his life when he learns the authorities are after him. <BR> <BR>Sarrantonio's &quot;Toybox&quot; is definitely not your standard horror fare these days. Few authors in the genre achieve such amazing results with the English language, let alone write stories that possess a sort of wide-eyed innocence while at the same time delivering shocks. I wouldn't go so far as to say any of these stories actually scared me (I rarely find stories or novels that spook me these days), but they are decidedly different due to a lack of gore. In fact, most of the stories imply rather than show any carnage. That's not a bad thing, but if you like horror tales with lots and lots of gruesome descriptions, you may not have much fun with Al Sarrantonio.	2003-09-21
968140:US	52012289	R2VUQJB8BV1372	0843947527	402076302	The Deceased	Books	2	11	12	N	N	Subpar Horror Story	Tom Piccirilli is one horror author that makes me scratch my head in confusion. This author has won at least one Bram Stoker Award, the plum prize of those authors who write horror, for one of his novels. &quot;The Deceased&quot; is the third Piccirilli novel I have read, with the other two being &quot;The Night Class&quot; and the entertaining western &quot;Grave Men.&quot; Of these three books, &quot;The Deceased&quot; ranks as the worst. Come to think of it, I wasn't that impressed by &quot;The Night Class,&quot; either. The western novel was quite amusing, but if this author's other horror novels resemble &quot;The Deceased&quot; in any way, shape, or form, we are all in a lot of trouble. &quot;The Deceased&quot; is an unmitigated mess of a story, with a murky plot that becomes nearly impenetrable by the time the reader reaches the conclusion.<br />&quot;The Deceased&quot; is a tale about a horror writer named Jacob Maelstrom. Jacob's father Isaac was an enormously influential and famous horror author, well remembered and still beloved by legions of fans despite the fact that he died horribly some years ago. Several people wrote books about the strange incident that claimed the lives of not only Jacob's father but the rest of his family as well. Jacob survived, somehow, and still carries the memories of the day his sister took an axe and killed the family. Now, Jacob feels a call to return to the scene of the crime, to the Maelstrom mansion where it all began. In the course of Jacob's immersion into the memories of the house, he encounters the ghosts of his insane sister Rachel and his sadistic, wheelchair bound brother Joseph, along with images of his mother and father. Out in the forests and ponds surrounding the property, Jacob recalls the &quot;muses,&quot; some type of supernatural creatures roaming around the grounds. If the dangers of the Maelstrom house threatened only Jacob, perhaps everything would turn out for the best, but two unexpected visitors in the form of a depressed graduate student and the girlfriend of Isaac Maelstrom's agent turn up at the house. This appearance by two outsiders means that other people will face the terror of Jacob's trip down memory lane.<br />I simply do not understand the appeal Piccirilli's books have for many horror fans. That's not to say that I think every aspect of this book fails: once again, Piccirilli does create several engrossing scenes, especially the opening experience with the fan and the flashback to a day Jacob, Rachel, and Joseph spent at a pond on the mansion's grounds. These scenes work, and work well, because Piccirilli definitely possesses a gift for the English language. Yes, this guy can write better than most authors you will come across in this genre. Regrettably, the stylistic acumen of the author fails to make up for the poorly constructed organizational structure and uninspiring characters found throughout &quot;The Deceased.&quot; This story simply fails to satisfy on nearly every level, and its hallucinatory sequences, piled one on top of another, bored me. I don't mind reading books or watching films that like to mess with the readers head a bit, but anything that attempts to do so needs to contain something concrete for the reader to use as a touchstone. I don't think this story provides such a touchstone. Instead, the story zooms off the tracks every few pages.<br />I am not ready to give up on Piccirilli just yet. I know he can write stories with coherent structures (like &quot;Grave Men&quot;), and I am hoping some of his other horror novels contain just such an organized plot. I am beginning to think they don't, though, if many of the reviews I have recently read are true. In a way, Tom Piccirilli's horror novels remind me of Douglas Clegg, another writer who uses surrealism in his books. The only difference between the two is that Clegg makes the hallucinatory scenes secondary to his plot. With Clegg, you might scratch your head a few times, butat least you know where you are going. Piccirilli, as far as I can see, throws out everything EXCEPT confusing weirdness. &quot;Hexes&quot; or &quot;A Lower Deep&quot; will be up next for me, but not anytime soon. I need to take a break from this author's horror novels for a spell.t at least you know where you are going. Piccirilli, as far as I can see, throws out everything EXCEPT confusing weirdness. &quot;Hexes&quot; or &quot;A Lower Deep&quot; will be up next for me, but not anytime soon. I need to take a break from this author's horror novels for a spell.	2003-09-21
968400:US	52012289	R1CL7OZ2OEO1PX	0451458826	854571264	The Darker Side: Generations of Horror	Books	4	10	12	N	N	An Intriguing Stew of Stories	I recognized the editor of this horror anthology, John Pelan, from his various associations with goremeister Edward Lee. I have never read any of his stories, however, until I cracked the cover of \\"The Darker Side,\\" a gruesomely fascinating collection of stories from some of the best writers in horror working today. \\"The Darker Side\\" assembles a list of fresh stories from Edo Van Belkom, Simon Clark, Tom Piccirilli, Mehitobel Wilson, Charlee Jacob, Lucy Taylor, Caitlin R. Kiernan, Poppy Z. Brite, Tim Lebbon, and a host of other authors. Overall, there are twenty-seven meaty stories to sink your teeth into, and many of them are winners in every way. Sometimes, I think that horror anthologies are the best way to go for new horror fans that don't know many of the authors in the field. Heck, I read a ton of horror books and I am STILL discovering excellent writers in this genre. Anyway, this collection offers a smorgasbord of horror stories sure to entertain and sicken a reader.<br />THE BEST:<br />Maybe it's just me, but I think Charlee Jacob is one of the best writers in the business. Her novels are cathedrals of poetic language wrapped around unbelievable sequences of gory violence. The story Jacob contributed here, \\"The Plague Species,\\" will stand out in my memory for some time to come. Residents of a Greek island are shocked to discover a shocking loss of various body parts. It turns out that an invasion launched by residents of this island against the neighboring island of Timnah resulted in a horrific curse with gory implications. The language is pristine and the conclusion surprising.<br />Mehitobel Wilson wrote \\"The Mannerly Man\\" to show us a world where political correctness has run amok. In this tale, people can kill anyone who offends them, for any reason, but can only do so once. A person who goes beyond their one freebie faces automatic execution at the hands of the police. The problem with this system is that a person never knows who has killed someone and who hasn't. It's amusing in the extreme to see how people bow and scrape at the slightest thought of stepping on another person's toes. In fact, even going outside presents a whole host of dangers.<br />Shikhar Dixit's \\"Asian Gothic\\" deserves special mention if for no other reason than for writing a tale that takes place in India. Something is seriously wrong with Suraj Mahal, a house in the town of Patna. This haunted house possesses the ability to wreak bloody havoc on its residents by causing the narrator's family members to commit suicide. There's more to it than that, of course, but I like the idea of unconventional horror stories that go outside the western world.<br />THE WORST:<br />David Niall Wilson's story about a painter, \\"The Whirling Man,\\" bored me to tears with its descriptions of an artist and his encounters with a model. This guy creates some type of painting about colors squirting out of a woman's heart or some such thing. I read this a while ago and forgot about it the minute I finished it. \\"The Whirling Man\\" is just too nonsensical for my tastes.<br />\\"The Night City,\\" a joint effort by Wilum Pugmire and Chad Hensley, isn't that long of a story, but it didn't make much sense. Some weird guy visits a nightmarish, polluted city in order to experience the dark delights such a place puts on display. The descriptive language succeeds in conveying a degenerate atmosphere, but I just never really caught on to what the characters were up to. This one is definitely a \\"pass\\" on subsequent readings of the book.<br />There are many other stories of varying degrees of quality in the collection. I wouldn't want to leave out Edo Von Belkom's story, \\"Do You See What I Fear,\\" about a woman who, after undergoing an operation, rapidly comes to understand how death works in the real world. Poppy Z. Brite writes a story about the soul draining aspects of fame, and Tom Piccirilli strikes gold with his weird contribution about a guy that eats people's souls. I got akick out of Pelan's entry, about the sinister implications of taking a hobby WAY too far. On the other hand, I didn't care much for Joel Lane's \\"After the Flood,\\" a story about a basement full of water that holds people's memories. Ultimately, \\"The Darker Side\\" was a mixed bag for me, containing a few stories I didn't care for more than balanced out by great yarns of purest gold. If nothing else, I discovered a few names I think would be well worth pursuing in the future.kick out of Pelan's entry, about the sinister implications of taking a hobby WAY too far. On the other hand, I didn't care much for Joel Lane's \\"After the Flood,\\" a story about a basement full of water that holds people's memories. Ultimately, \\"The Darker Side\\" was a mixed bag for me, containing a few stories I didn't care for more than balanced out by great yarns of purest gold. If nothing else, I discovered a few names I think would be well worth pursuing in the future.	2003-09-21
972333:US	52012289	R2ZA6Q386717S	0451209540	450762437	The Policy	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Satirist Returns	I always wait with bated breath for a new Bentley Little novel. It's not that every book written by this master of horror works perfectly: a few of his stories don't work at all in terms of horror or satire, the two styles usually employed by this author. &quot;The Policy,&quot; Little's latest, first crossed my consciousness back in April or May, and I've been waiting for it ever since. Now that I have read this book, it is an easy call to place this story about the evil machinations of the insurance industry squarely into Little's social satire cannon. This is a good thing because I definitely adore this author's jabs at American obsessions. &quot;The Policy&quot; covers territory instantly familiar to readers of &quot;The Store,&quot; &quot;The University,&quot; and &quot;The Mailman.&quot; If you like to laugh until your sides ache, pick up a copy of this book or the other three I just mentioned. &quot;The Policy&quot; is vintage Bentley Little, from the increasingly bizarre occurrences throughout the story to the lackluster conclusion so dominant in this author's work.<br />&quot;The Policy&quot; centers on the character of Hunt Jackson, a newly divorced man lacking direction in his life. After losing his job at a big defense contractor on the West Coast, he decides to chuck the Southern California lifestyle and return to his childhood hometown of Tucson, Arizona. Hunt quickly reconnects with his grade school buddy Joel, now a professor at the local junior college who lives in town with his wife and daughter Lilly. Before too long, Jackson acquires a new job with the county trimming trees, and soon after this event he meets Beth, a business associate of Joel's wife. Moreover, Hunt makes quick friends with two men on his trimming crew, Edwards and Jorge. The only dark cloud on the horizon consists of a few unpleasant encounters with his insurance company, specifically over a cracked windshield and ransacked house. Hunt tries to put these unfortunate incidents out of his mind, instead wishing to focus on his new relationship and his new friendships. Eventually, Jackson marries Beth and moves into her house.<br />Jackson's insurance problems quickly escalate into the realm of the weird with the appearance of a strange man promising insurance policies of a most unusual sort. Other companies offer home, auto, and health protections, but this gentleman, working for an enigmatic corporation called &quot;The Insurance Group,&quot; sells insurance guaranteeing protection from arrest, from losing one's job, and a life insurance policy with supernatural implications. Moreover, when this guy offers insurance, you better accept it immediately or face horrifying consequences. The Jacksons, and eventually everyone they know, learn the hard way that turning down a new policy from The Insurance Group translates into destroyed property, personal injuries, and the threat of serious prison sentences. Hunt and Beth rapidly begin to wear down under the hard sell tactics of this ominous figure. In order to combat the evil insurance agent, they must travel to an old city in Mexico in order to infiltrate the headquarters of this mysterious group.<br />The biggest difficulties of &quot;The Policy&quot; echo the problems found in other Bentley Little novels: plot threads that go nowhere and a conclusion that gives lame a new meaning. Several times throughout the story, Little describes in intricate detail that the guest room in Beth's house harbors a ghostly apparition, but this supernatural event never finds a place in the larger story. Another puzzling event involves Hunt's ex-wife Eileen. At one point in the story, Jackson notices his ex getting on a bus in Tucson, an incident that leads to a bit of soul searching on the main character's part. The next thing we know, his ex-wife is dead, killed in a rampage as part of an insurance policy Hunt and Beth bought from the salesman. What does this have to do with anything in the story? Good question.As far as I can tell, the reappearance of Eileen well into the story does nothing to propel the narrative in any meaningful way. Hunt never even meets his wife in Tucson.<br />The conclusion is more problematic than a few unfinished plot threads. Many of Little's books contain great build up, and then fade into banality in the end. The same problem plagues &quot;The Policy.&quot; The final confrontation between the main characters and the evil salesman's company fails to convey even a modicum of interest, and at one point Hunt gets the salesman to do something that is so extraordinarily unbelievable that I snorted aloud. Repeatedly, the characters fighting the insurance company discover answers out of nowhere. Are we really to believe that it's this easy to defeat an evil from time immemorial? Little unquestionably possesses a fine imagination and apt writing skills, but he must work harder on constructing conclusions worthy of his ideas. Future failures in this area could result in a significant loss of his fan base.<br />Despite a few difficulties with &quot;The Policy,&quot; the author still delivers several humorous situations. We've all dealt with smarmy insurance salesman and the rip offs associated with filing claims, but the people in this story face insurance problems firmly entrenched in the regions of the supernatural. Imagine discovering that an insurance company switched all of your household items with artwork depicting lewd imagery, numerous copies of Debbie Boone's &quot;You Light Up My Life,&quot; and grossly inappropriate furniture. Moreover, imagine an insurance agent performing a physical exam on your pregnant wife, or having your real teeth replaced with solid silver plugs. At the very least, remember to look for these words for a good laugh: &quot;the fall of Rome&quot; and &quot;nonpayment.&quot; If you cannot see the humorous implications of these situations, you probably ought to stay away from &quot;The Policy.&quot;As far as I can tell, the reappearance of Eileen well into the story does nothing to propel the narrative in any meaningful way. Hunt never even meets his wife in Tucson.<br />The conclusion is more problematic than a few unfinished plot threads. Many of Little's books contain great build up, and then fade into banality in the end. The same problem plagues &quot;The Policy.&quot; The final confrontation between the main characters and the evil salesman's company fails to convey even a modicum of interest, and at one point Hunt gets the salesman to do something that is so extraordinarily unbelievable that I snorted aloud. Repeatedly, the characters fighting the insurance company discover answers out of nowhere. Are we really to believe that it's this easy to defeat an evil from time immemorial? Little unquestionably possesses a fine imagination and apt writing skills, but he must work harder on constructing conclusions worthy of his ideas. Future failures in this area could result in a significant loss of his fan base.<br />Despite a few difficulties with &quot;The Policy,&quot; the author still delivers several humorous situations. We've all dealt with smarmy insurance salesman and the rip offs associated with filing claims, but the people in this story face insurance problems firmly entrenched in the regions of the supernatural. Imagine discovering that an insurance company switched all of your household items with artwork depicting lewd imagery, numerous copies of Debbie Boone's &quot;You Light Up My Life,&quot; and grossly inappropriate furniture. Moreover, imagine an insurance agent performing a physical exam on your pregnant wife, or having your real teeth replaced with solid silver plugs. At the very least, remember to look for these words for a good laugh: &quot;the fall of Rome&quot; and &quot;nonpayment.&quot; If you cannot see the humorous implications of these situations, you probably ought to stay away from &quot;The Policy.&quot;	2003-09-17
977771:US	52012289	RX5FSBACKJR87	0195133544	101902922	The Power Elite	Books	5	171	177	N	N	Welcome to America, the Managed Society	C. Wright Mills's examination on the inner workings of the ruling structures of America, \\"The Power Elite,\\" had an enormous influence on the development of the New Left during the 1960s. This book became the bible of choice amongst the founders of the Students for a Democratic Society in the early 1960s, serving as one of the key components Tom Hayden borrowed from when he wrote \\"The Port Huron Statement,\\" the first credo issued by that group. It could be safely argued that a student of Leftism in twentieth century America couldn't even begin to grasp the ideology of that movement without looking at this book. C. Wright Mills died before seeing the effects the New Left would have on American society, but his book lives on in reprint after reprint.<br />\\"The Power Elite\\" begins its examination of the power structure in America by looking at local systems of elites. These microcosms of power, much more common in the earlier era of our country, constituted numerous bases of influence across the country. These people were the ones who owned the local mills, or worked as the local lawyer or doctor. They often owned land and saw themselves as the height of local society. But as America grew in size, these local elites gave way to a nationalized power structure that overrode the old, regional ruling constructions. In the process of showing how regional elites eventually formed a national system, Mills examines the old moneyed classes in the United States, how the powerful and wealthy set up networks of influence through elite schools, and how the power elites recruited new members through such institutions as corporations and government service. If I had to sum up the first few sections of this book, I would say that Mills is trying to show how scattered the power elite was in the earlier stages of this country's history.<br />The first part of this book tends to move slowly, and isn't nearly as interesting as the second half when Mills discusses the rise of the military, government, and corporate hierarchies. According to Mills, these three institutions now form a contiguous whole as far as managing the country goes. Moreover, people inhabiting any of these three structures often move between them with seeming ease. Isn't it funny that Colin Powell, a lifelong military officer, suddenly finds himself in the political world as Secretary of State? Or how Dick Cheney, Condoleeza Rice, and Donald Rumsfeld move between the corporate and political worlds with such simplicity? I'm not picking on the current administration, as EVERY administration regardless of political stripe does this, but these specific examples are indicative of what Mills argues in this book: that the three hierarchies of power in the United States are interlocking, and that the people at the highest levels of these institutions look after one another and do each other favors because they share the same experiences, backgrounds, and aspirations. They all share the same attitudes, the same sense of \\"sound judgment\\" necessary to manage society.<br />As if this thesis isn't chilling enough, Mills includes a couple of chapters about the role of society. In this section of the book, the author concerns himself with the concept of masses versus publics. A mass is essentially a population that receives opinions from elites through controlled communication systems instead of expressing their own ideas. In a mass society, the mass \\"has no autonomy from institutions,\\" which further inhibits opinion. A public, on the other hand, is the exact opposite of a mass. Opinions are not received through media systems, but arise from open debate through open communications systems. Institutions do not excessively restrict the autonomy of a public, either, because the public doesn't need to rely heavily on institutions to lead them.<br />I think anyone with an iota of common sense knows where we stand today in terms of Mills's definitions. The United States, that great, immutable bulwark of freedom, is instead a mass of some 260 million souls effectively controlled through the corporate media systems. Sure, one can argue that the people vote officials out of political office, but has that really changed anything? And sure, the Internet does allow nearly anyone with access to a computer a forum for virtually any topic, but it will take more than a few e-mails tacked on to the end of every news opinion program on the media outlets to convince me that we do not essentially receive our opinions. Besides, leaders tell us nearly every day that we are cattle: every time you hear the word \\"democracy\\" fall out of an elite's mouth, just remember that democracy means \\"mob rule,\\" in this case, the American mob ruled by the power elites.<br />So what do we do? That's one of the great failings in Mills's analysis of the power hierarchies: he never provides any solutions to the problems of a managed society. There is a reference to the idea that bureaucracies ought to be run by individuals who rise through merit instead of through elite appointment, but that's about the only recommendation the author makes. I am suspicious of bureaucracies anyway, so Mills's idea on this topic fails to satisfy me. The New Left did try to use the information contained in \\"The Power Elite\\" to affect change, ultimately failing due to a clash of egos and a useless foray into communism. There is one word that may solve the problem, a word many will reject outright: revolution. Mills never calls for it, and that may be the biggest disappointment concerning his analysis. Anyway, this is an illuminating book for readers on both sides of the political spectrum. It is disappointing to see so few reviews for such an insightful book.rk of freedom, is instead a mass of some 260 million souls effectively controlled through the corporate media systems. Sure, one can argue that the people vote officials out of political office, but has that really changed anything? And sure, the Internet does allow nearly anyone with access to a computer a forum for virtually any topic, but it will take more than a few e-mails tacked on to the end of every news opinion program on the media outlets to convince me that we do not essentially receive our opinions. Besides, leaders tell us nearly every day that we are cattle: every time you hear the word \\"democracy\\" fall out of an elite's mouth, just remember that democracy means \\"mob rule,\\" in this case, the American mob ruled by the power elites.<br />So what do we do? That's one of the great failings in Mills's analysis of the power hierarchies: he never provides any solutions to the problems of a managed society. There is a reference to the idea that bureaucracies ought to be run by individuals who rise through merit instead of through elite appointment, but that's about the only recommendation the author makes. I am suspicious of bureaucracies anyway, so Mills's idea on this topic fails to satisfy me. The New Left did try to use the information contained in \\"The Power Elite\\" to affect change, ultimately failing due to a clash of egos and a useless foray into communism. There is one word that may solve the problem, a word many will reject outright: revolution. Mills never calls for it, and that may be the biggest disappointment concerning his analysis. Anyway, this is an illuminating book for readers on both sides of the political spectrum. It is disappointing to see so few reviews for such an insightful book.	2003-09-13
992419:US	52012289	R1MGQ5GV0XACUB	078601430X	180638404	The Chosen	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Ed Delivers Another Gut Wrencher	You gotta love Edward Lee. I have said it before, and I will say it again: this guy writes the most sadistic horror/gore stories you will likely come across. Sure, there are other writers who can get down and dirty just as well as Lee can, like Poppy Z. Brite or Brett Easton Ellis, but Ed does it with a brazenness all his own. I have been a fan since reading \\"The Bighead,\\" arguably his most disturbing book. Throw in his excellent collection of mind melting short stories, entitled \\"The Ushers,\\" and you will learn quickly that Ed Lee knows how to shock and disgust. I have an ironclad stomach and his stuff still makes me groan with regularity. With that in mind, I read one of Lee's early 1990's efforts, \\"The Chosen.\\" It is surprising this book is still in print since it first came out in 1993, but for Ed Lee fans that is a good deal. His stuff is usually quite difficult to find, and you will pay through the nose if you do find one of his books in the secondary market. Knowing the opinions of other knowledgeable horror fans, I went into \\"The Chosen\\" with low expectations. Imagine my surprise when I discovered that I actually enjoyed this gruesome story about a restaurant manager who accepts the job of a lifetime only to discover that her new employer is not what he seems.<br />Vera Abbot has a great life. She manages a wildly successful restaurant called \\"The Emerald Room,\\" a success for which she is largely responsible. She works with a stellar crew that includes Donna, a former alcoholic who successfully reformed herself and now manages the waitressing and bar duties; Dan B., a chef capable of whipping up the most scrumptious dishes in town; and Lee, a gruff, obese dishwasher whose loyalty to Vera knows no bounds. On top of a great job she loves with a passion, Vera has the ideal fianc&eacute; in Paul, a freelance journalist widely respected by the local newspapers and magazines. With a stable life like this, Vera doesn't expect things to get much better when Mr. Feldspar walks into her life. Feldspar is looking for a new manager to run the restaurant at a posh resort called Wroxton Hall some miles north of where Vera lives. This very wealthy guy offers Vera a hundred grand to take the job, and even lets her take the staff from the Emerald Room. Vera cannot believe her good fortune, but decides not to accept the job because it might affect Paul's career. Well, an extremely seedy incident concerning Paul results in Vera's sudden acceptance of the job offer, and she is off to bigger and better things.<br />Within a matter of days, things start to sour at Wroxton Hall. Vera discovers she plays second fiddle to Paul, the manager of the room service kitchen at the resort. She also finds out that Paul is a royal jerk who likes to brag about what a big shot he is at the hotel. Then Vera starts to suffer from highly erotic dreams, dreams that take a toll on her as the days turn into weeks. Eventually, the rest of her co-workers experience their own personal traumas at the new resort. When some of Vera's guests complain about strange noises at night, she begins to ask serious questions about her new situation. It definitely does not help matters when Vera discovers that Wroxton Hall was once the site of a mental institution where inhuman crimes of sickening depravity took place. As Vera puts the various pieces of the puzzle together, she discovers that Wroxton hides a new horror beyond the comprehension of mere mortals.<br />While I like \\"The Chosen,\\" I did have several problems with the story. Why everyone referred to the chef as \\"Dan B.\\" drove me to fits of distraction. Does a Dan A. or a Dan C. lurk somewhere near the deep fat fryers? Why not just call him \\"Dan\\" and be done with it? And why is it of such paramount importance to take a dishwasher to a resort? I can understand taking a chef along for the ride, but some guy who cleans dishes? C'mon, that is totally unbelievable. Moreover, Dan B. and Lee are uninteresting and uninspired characters who converse in pedestrian insults of the type commonly found on a grade school playground. While it is not difficult to imagine a couple of guys trading verbal jabs about the reputation of one's female family members, this is all these two men do and it grates quickly. \\"The Chosen\\" also contains a host of continuity errors too numerous to mention. It is sufficient to say that this is not one of Ed Lee's best books, but it is not entirely hopeless, either.<br />The best thing going for \\"The Chosen\\" is how Lee keeps the reader in the dark about what is really going on at the rebuilt Wroxton Hall. One thing is for certain: you will never guess how this book concludes until you get there. That you must wade through endless descriptions of sexually charged scenes in the process is a bit of a bummer, but I thought the payoff made up for some of the redundancy of the previous sections of the book. \\"The Chosen\\" contains many truly sickening scenes, which is exactly what I expect from an Ed Lee novel. I was often struck by the similarities between this book and his latest novel \\"Monstrosity,\\" with the insecure lead character and the sleazy eroticism. I liked \\"Monstrosity,\\" and I generally liked this book as well. For a great Ed Lee experience, I recommend \\"The Ushers,\\" but \\"The Chosen\\" should eventually follow at some point.ers who converse in pedestrian insults of the type commonly found on a grade school playground. While it is not difficult to imagine a couple of guys trading verbal jabs about the reputation of one's female family members, this is all these two men do and it grates quickly. \\"The Chosen\\" also contains a host of continuity errors too numerous to mention. It is sufficient to say that this is not one of Ed Lee's best books, but it is not entirely hopeless, either.<br />The best thing going for \\"The Chosen\\" is how Lee keeps the reader in the dark about what is really going on at the rebuilt Wroxton Hall. One thing is for certain: you will never guess how this book concludes until you get there. That you must wade through endless descriptions of sexually charged scenes in the process is a bit of a bummer, but I thought the payoff made up for some of the redundancy of the previous sections of the book. \\"The Chosen\\" contains many truly sickening scenes, which is exactly what I expect from an Ed Lee novel. I was often struck by the similarities between this book and his latest novel \\"Monstrosity,\\" with the insecure lead character and the sleazy eroticism. I liked \\"Monstrosity,\\" and I generally liked this book as well. For a great Ed Lee experience, I recommend \\"The Ushers,\\" but \\"The Chosen\\" should eventually follow at some point.	2003-09-01
994728:US	52012289	R1555S75S1LXIG	0843952474	819990108	Fireworks	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Cracking Good Tale	I already owned James Moore's &quot;Under the Overtree&quot; when I picked up his latest title, the aptly named &quot;Fireworks.&quot; While I haven't read &quot;Under the Overtree&quot; as of yet, something told me to dig into &quot;Fireworks&quot; right away. After a few initial worries in the first dozen pages, I am glad I decided to read this story about an eerie encounter with an alien spacecraft and the subsequent nightmare its arrival on earth brings to the citizens of the small town of Collier, Georgia. On the acknowledgements page, Moore offers his profound thanks to Stephen King and Dean Koontz for writing books about alien visitors. He writes that books like &quot;The Tommyknockers&quot; and &quot;Strangers&quot; provided the impetus to explore such an encounter from a perspective these two authors only slightly touched upon. While Moore is certainly no Stephen King or Dean Koontz, his novel does ultimately satisfy a reader interested in these sorts of things.<br />It is the Fourth of July in Collier, Georgia as the entire town buzzes with excitement over the annual fireworks display that takes place at Oldman's Lake, an event that also draws a significant number of tourists loaded with money to spend in town. The 1995 display promises to be extra special this year, although the crowds clogging the shoreline aren't aware of the added festivities until it's too late. In fact, many of these spectators won't live long enough to enjoy the memory of what they see arcing through the sky over Collier. Right in the middle of the display, a giant UFO smashes into the center of the lake, sending out a heat and shock wave that kills over one hundred people in the most gruesome ways imaginable. Many who survive will wish they hadn't as they deal with massive burns over their entire bodies and the repercussions of possible exposure to radiation from the spacecraft.<br />Even worse, this extraterrestrial disaster brings in an even more sinister danger in the form of ONYX, a top-secret black government agency assigned to deal with alien visitors. Within an hour these black suited, armed to the teeth government goons move into town, establishing a quarantine throughout the area and constructing a bogus story about a Palestinian terrorist armed with biological weapons in order to keep the media at bay. Collier gradually slides from confusion into outright hostility as the soldiers under the command of Colonel Mark Anderson implement increasingly totalitarian measures to insure secrecy regarding the crashed saucer. Secondary casualties start to mount as disaffected townspeople resort to violence after suffering through a declaration of martial law, confiscation of firearms, restricted access to their places of business and their injured family members, and a total media blackout in the town which includes restricted use of telephone service. As ONYX members turn up dead, the military fights back against the town by killing or arresting troublemakers. &quot;Fireworks&quot; is a carefully crafted account of the slow descent into anarchy by one town faced with an unthinkable situation. Throughout it all, the huge saucer looms in the lakebed: a silent, metallic behemoth unwilling to give up its secrets to either the townspeople or the ONYX agents.<br />&quot;Fireworks&quot; is more a character study than a story about extraterrestrial visitation. For most of the story, the saucer simply fades into the background as the various characters attempt to cope with meddlesome government interference in their daily lives. How would you act if the government declared martial law in your town? How would you cope with food shortages and stony-faced silence from government agents nervously fondling automatic assault rifles? Would you suffer a similar fear if government agents wearing detox suits entered your house in search of firearms? Moore walks his readers through the reactions of certain individuals in Collier by employing shifting perspectivesconcerning the calamity. The first part views the disaster in Collier through the eyes of police chief Frank Osborn, a man who tries to keep the peace between the townspeople and the soldiers even though he often feels rage about what happens in his town. The second section views the deteriorating conditions in town through Karen Donovan, a young divorcee working as a teacher in Collier. The final part of the book finds Moore utilizing one of the soldiers in ONYX to show how the game plays out. There are, of course, numerous other minor characters floating through the pages of &quot;Fireworks,&quot; but it is these three people's perceptions about Collier that tell the story.<br />Moore's book suffers from several noticeable problems. First, the author tends to write sentences that frequently hinder the story's flow. For example, and I'm just pulling this off the top of my head, he describes in detail that a &quot;Jurassic Park&quot; cup used to hold a drink came from a convenience store. Why? I don't know, since it has little to do with the situation. Second, there are a lot of errors in this book, editing errors that a little proofreading may have easily prevented. Finally, there are continuity errors in certain situations. Overall, I don't think these problems fatally mark the book, as &quot;Fireworks&quot; delivers with good character development, a healthy dose of violence, and a nifty ending. My opinion about this book definitely inspires me to read &quot;Under the Overtree&quot; soon, and any story that makes you wish to read other stuff from the same author can't be all that bad.es concerning the calamity. The first part views the disaster in Collier through the eyes of police chief Frank Osborn, a man who tries to keep the peace between the townspeople and the soldiers even though he often feels rage about what happens in his town. The second section views the deteriorating conditions in town through Karen Donovan, a young divorcee working as a teacher in Collier. The final part of the book finds Moore utilizing one of the soldiers in ONYX to show how the game plays out. There are, of course, numerous other minor characters floating through the pages of &quot;Fireworks,&quot; but it is these three people's perceptions about Collier that tell the story.<br />Moore's book suffers from several noticeable problems. First, the author tends to write sentences that frequently hinder the story's flow. For example, and I'm just pulling this off the top of my head, he describes in detail that a &quot;Jurassic Park&quot; cup used to hold a drink came from a convenience store. Why? I don't know, since it has little to do with the situation. Second, there are a lot of errors in this book, editing errors that a little proofreading may have easily prevented. Finally, there are continuity errors in certain situations. Overall, I don't think these problems fatally mark the book, as &quot;Fireworks&quot; delivers with good character development, a healthy dose of violence, and a nifty ending. My opinion about this book definitely inspires me to read &quot;Under the Overtree&quot; soon, and any story that makes you wish to read other stuff from the same author can't be all that bad.	2003-08-29
994793:US	52012289	R2CVEWRJ279ML0	0515117927	704778030	Arc Light	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Chilling Look at Post-Cold War Nuclear Dangers	The gradual dissolution of the dreaded Cold War atmosphere in no way translates into a permanent cessation from the dangers of nuclear warfare. In fact, for a brief period during the early 1990s, the threat of an atomic exchange between the United States and the Soviet Union seemed more possible than during the Cuban Missile Crisis of the early 1960s due to the collapse of the communist regime and subsequent coup by old Soviet hardliners. Literally tens of thousands of nuclear tipped missiles in silos and submarines throughout Russia and the world's oceans could have been launched by accident or on the orders of the coup plotters back in Moscow. The uncertainty of these incidents inspired Eric L. Harry to write \\"Arc Light,\\" a novel about a limited nuclear exchange between a non-communist Russia and the United States. Harry's sprawling nuclear epic will raise the hackles of any reader who remembers the bleak old days of doomsday planes, MAD policies, and May Day parades in Moscow's Red Square.<br />\\"Arc Light\\" takes place in a near future scenario where the former Soviet Union, now a federated Russian Republic, undergoes a series of military coups after civilian leadership fails to alleviate serious economic problems. Moreover, the Russians fight several wars with China over the mineral rich Siberian regions. These Sino/Russian conflicts bring in the United States, who sends military advisors to assist the Russians in their logistical operations. In other words, the Russians and the Americans form tentative bonds centered on placating the Chinese menace. All goes well between the two former enemies until the North Koreans launch a surprise attack in order to reunite the Korean peninsula. This invasion ties up American forces in Asia, but it also creates enough confusion to allow a rogue nationalist Russian general named Zorin to seize control of the Russian government. Things go from bad to worse when China manages to squeeze off a few nuclear warheads against Moscow. Zorin, with limited information at his fingertips, thinks the warheads are American missiles and issues orders for a retaliatory strike aimed at American military installations in the continental United States. Five to seven million Americans die in this terrible exchange, along with millions of Russians who perish in revenge strikes conducted by the American military. The rest of the book tracks the disintegrating situation between the two countries as both sides struggle through unprecedented death and destruction, a process made no easier by the fact that situations keep arising that promise further war.<br />Harry follows several characters and scenarios throughout the tribulations of a world at war. He takes us into the presidential aircraft when our leaders give the launch orders to wreak havoc on Russia. We see deep inside the Kremlin and we are privy to the battle plans of the Russian high command as they face down an American land invasion. We intimately walk side by side with National Security Advisor Greg Lambert as he witnesses the horrors of nuclear war and the death of his wife. Harry takes us into the world of the average civilian as he looks at Melissa and David Chandler, a couple looking forward to the birth of their first child when war calls David away to lead a tank battalion against the Russians. The reader even experiences life in a missile silo in Wyoming before and after the missiles fly. Throughout all of these places and through all of these characters, death stalks ever present in the background whether through open conventional warfare or the scurrilous effects of radioactive fallout. The game is afoot, and winning this game involves discovering a way to a lasting peace before a full nuclear exchange takes place, and with Russian submarines lying on the bottom of the ocean poised to launch missiles at America's cities the possibility of total destruction becomes a chilling likelihood.<br />According to the cover flap, Eric L. Harry speaks fluent Russian and works as a corporate lawyer and military affairs expert. I've never served in the military, but it does appear that the author understands how the military structure operates in times of crisis. There is a lot of military and governmental jargon in \\"Arc Light,\\" and Harry explains what it all means as he veers from tank battles on the plains of Russia, to the destruction of NORAD from nuclear weapons, to bombing runs on the Kronstadt naval base in Russia. This book may well be one of the most involved apocalyptic stories I've ever read. Especially noteworthy is the author's treatment of the Russian leadership. During the Cold War, our leadership painted the Russian military as sinister, slightly mad soldiers with fingers twitching on the button. Harry rejects this propaganda in favor of Russian generals who worry and fret over the implications of a nuclear war while practicing remarkable levels of prudent restraint.<br />\\"Arc Light\\" differs from other apocalyptic themed novels because it places the nuclear conflagration after the Cold War. Indeed, to this day thousands of nuclear tipped missiles still sit in silos throughout Russia and the United States, all of them certainly aimed at targets somewhere in the world. The problems in Russia continue unabated to this day, with a real possibility that conditions there will deteriorate into complete instability in the future. Perhaps those missiles will soar from the silos yet, and I for one hope I'm not alive to see that dark day.aks fluent Russian and works as a corporate lawyer and military affairs expert. I've never served in the military, but it does appear that the author understands how the military structure operates in times of crisis. There is a lot of military and governmental jargon in \\"Arc Light,\\" and Harry explains what it all means as he veers from tank battles on the plains of Russia, to the destruction of NORAD from nuclear weapons, to bombing runs on the Kronstadt naval base in Russia. This book may well be one of the most involved apocalyptic stories I've ever read. Especially noteworthy is the author's treatment of the Russian leadership. During the Cold War, our leadership painted the Russian military as sinister, slightly mad soldiers with fingers twitching on the button. Harry rejects this propaganda in favor of Russian generals who worry and fret over the implications of a nuclear war while practicing remarkable levels of prudent restraint.<br />\\"Arc Light\\" differs from other apocalyptic themed novels because it places the nuclear conflagration after the Cold War. Indeed, to this day thousands of nuclear tipped missiles still sit in silos throughout Russia and the United States, all of them certainly aimed at targets somewhere in the world. The problems in Russia continue unabated to this day, with a real possibility that conditions there will deteriorate into complete instability in the future. Perhaps those missiles will soar from the silos yet, and I for one hope I'm not alive to see that dark day.	2003-08-29
994859:US	52012289	R11Y0YHE3ILP4R	0385509456	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Memorable and Majestic	Thanks to the good advice of a person knowledgeable about great new fiction reads, I decided to pick up a copy of freshman author Mark Haddon's &quot;The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time.&quot; The author works as a creative writing instructor at Oxford with occasional forays into writing and illustrating children's literature. Most importantly, Haddon once worked with autistic individuals, a fact that certainly provided the foundation for this groundbreaking novel. Haddon is the author of the book, but the perspective the story takes comes directly from the mind of a fictional fifteen year old British autistic named Christopher Boone. This is Boone's story, and what a wonderful tale it is. &quot;The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time&quot; is nominally a murder mystery story, but it is really more than your typical whodunit. Instead, we get a story about life itself from a most unlikely source.<br />When Mrs. Shears's dog Wellington dies a violent death, next-door neighbor Christopher Boone realizes it is up to him to solve the homicide. There are numerous obstacles in Christopher's path: no one seems to care about Wellington's death, his father outright orders him to cease his investigations, and Christopher is an autistic. Christopher's inability to connect with people on an emotional level makes asking questions about the crime extraordinarily difficult. Even worse, young Boone cannot read facial expressions; he does not understand various shades of emotional states. This disability will cause serious problems with his investigation, but Christopher understands his liabilities and resolves to use his logical mind to unmask the murderer. As the story progresses, Christopher recognizes he must overcome many of his fears in order to accomplish his goals. His fear of the color yellow must not stop him from taking a trip on a train; his mania about crowds and excessive noise must not stop him from asking questions or moving around town; his ignorance about areas outside of his house and school must not stand in the way of a trip to London. As Christopher homes in on a solution to Wellington's death, he understands that a dog's untimely demise profoundly changes his own life in ways he never foresaw, especially in his relationships within his family.<br />I am not particularly familiar with the intricacies of autism, at least not beyond what I picked up through a few movies and several articles in the newspaper. From what I do understand about this medical condition, Haddon seems to conflate several different types of autism into one character. Christopher hates physical contact, possesses bizarre fears about colors (yellow and brown), cannot stand to have food touching on his plate, often drifts off into intricate mental exercises, possesses an amazing capacity for mathematics and numbers, and often groans or resorts to violent outbursts when overwhelmed with sensory input. I doubt whether one individual autistic could really contain all of these attributes, but like I said, I do not know enough about the condition to refute Christopher's character traits. I will say that allowing Christopher to possess all of these quirks makes for a more interesting novel. It also allows for several humorous sequences, such as when Boone lists &quot;Hating France&quot; as one of the reasons people consider him a behavioral problem. Another section that causes a few chuckles occurs when Chris lists the reasons why he despises brown and yellow. After reading this list, who can really argue against his points? Brown and yellow are weird, and you will think about Christopher's logic the next time you bite into a banana.<br />What impressed me the most about Haddon's story is how an enormously emotional and private family turmoil emerges through the eyes of an individual who simply cannot make complex emotional connections. Christopher's ultra logical mind never fully grasps the reasons for the fractures in his family life,but the reader does and it makes the emotion in the novel even more vivid. It's as though you want to reach into the story and shake Christopher into awareness, and the knowledge that you cannot reach him any more than those around him imbues the book with an awesome power. I am not at all surprised to see that many people cried at the end of the story; I must confess to a certain mistiness around my eyes and an inexplicable knot in my throat as I closed the cover for the last time. Haddon's book is powerful, and I frankly cannot imagine how this author will ever top the magisterial beauty of this book.<br />Since I finished Haddon's book I have mentioned it to several people I know. I even got my mom to read it (she thought it wonderful, too). I think word of mouth is how this book will become a classic, since it does not appear on any bestseller lists that I am aware of (maybe it is now). Run, do not walk, to the bookstore or library to get a copy of this novel. It may be a quick read, but it is a memorable read that promises to stay with you long after you finish reading it., but the reader does and it makes the emotion in the novel even more vivid. It's as though you want to reach into the story and shake Christopher into awareness, and the knowledge that you cannot reach him any more than those around him imbues the book with an awesome power. I am not at all surprised to see that many people cried at the end of the story; I must confess to a certain mistiness around my eyes and an inexplicable knot in my throat as I closed the cover for the last time. Haddon's book is powerful, and I frankly cannot imagine how this author will ever top the magisterial beauty of this book.<br />Since I finished Haddon's book I have mentioned it to several people I know. I even got my mom to read it (she thought it wonderful, too). I think word of mouth is how this book will become a classic, since it does not appear on any bestseller lists that I am aware of (maybe it is now). Run, do not walk, to the bookstore or library to get a copy of this novel. It may be a quick read, but it is a memorable read that promises to stay with you long after you finish reading it.	2003-08-29
995432:US	52012289	R2GHPHCENXECRJ	0312868332	351277423	The Tooth Fairy	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Brilliant, Poignant Tale of Childhood	A picture of author Graham Joyce adorns the rear flap of \\"The Tooth Fairy,\\" a photograph of a middle aged British guy laughing it up. After reading this magical, phenomenal coming of age story, this photo shows Joyce exactly the way I pictured him. Only someone with a fantastic sense of humor could pen such a wondrous novel. What surprised me most were the blurbs on the back cover of the book, including one from fellow traveler in weirdness Jonathan Lethem. I must state this is one of the only times I wholeheartedly agree with tag lines on a book jacket, as Lethem states that it is time for America to discover Graham Joyce. I couldn't agree more since this is easily one of the best books I've had the pleasure to read this year. In fact, I read \\"The Tooth Fairy\\" immediately after Lethem's \\"Gun, With Occasional Music,\\" which makes me a prime candidate for a one-way trip to the funny farm. Joyce's book falls completely within the bounds of bizarre fiction and is sure to entertain those who enjoy an offbeat read. But even if you don't necessarily like reading quirky stuff, Joyce's novel is still sure to amuse. It's that good.<br />\\"The Tooth Fairy\\" is a story about three British youths named Sam, Clive, and Terry growing up in Coventry, England. When we first meet this troublesome trio, they are wee lads barely out of the cradle. This is a book about the misadventures of these three boys, and the first event occurs at a local pond where young Terry loses two toes to a big pike. The pond is important in both a real and metaphorical sense, as it quickly becomes the place where the three boys hang out during the course of their childhood as well as a representation of their rapidly fading youth. As the story moves along, the boys grow up and suffer all of the trials and tribulations of youth. Clive is the smart one, sent to a special school for gifted students and allowed to sit for his exams ahead of his two friends. Terry is the athlete, a brawny kid who never seems to get a break in life. Sam is the main character of the story; a sort of misunderstood kid who is actually extremely intelligent but whom others think is slightly dense. Through Sam's eyes we see the fallout from a series of potentially harmful events, from two incidents of murder to vandalism to other illegal activities that kids sometimes get themselves involved in.<br />There is something else special about Sam, namely his association with a tooth fairy he once saw as a small child. This fairy is hardly a smiling waif prancing in the fields, but a rather brutish, androgynous creature who warns Sam about upcoming tragedies while simultaneously threatening to inflict harm on Sam's friends and family. Sam's mother worries about her son's odd behaviors, and sends him to a psychiatrist to straighten him out. The tooth fairy always returns, changing in appearance as Sam moves towards adulthood. If none of this seems particularly interesting or coherent, that's because it is hard to see where Joyce is going until well into the book. I read about half of the story before I knew exactly what I was reading and even then the story presents some difficulties concerning its character. It's not clear how to classify this book: is it a fairy tale? A coming of age story? A fantasy story? Horror? Humor? Well, it's all and none of these things at different times.<br />The cast of characters in \\"The Tooth Fairy\\" is an extraordinary collection of individuals who are interesting as stand alone types, but who create an explosive brew when mixed together. There are the boys, of course, who all have their own amusing peccadilloes. Terry's cousin Linda is an intriguing character as well, always standing in the background watching over the three to make sure they stay out of trouble (and failing miserably). The boys' parents are amusing in their own right, as is Skelton, the alcoholic Scottish shrink with whom Sam spends years discussing the tooth fairy without any concrete resolutions. Finally, there is Alice, a pretty girl who eventually attracts the attentions of Sam, Clive, and Terry. Joyce sculpts each of these characters with such depth that they seem like real people.<br />A word of warning: \\"The Tooth Fairy\\" is frank in its depictions of adolescent sexual escapades. Joyce pulls no punches when it comes to describing those slightly naughty activities young boys engage in, and once the Alice character arrives on the scene the libido factor soars off the charts. Some readers may find these situations slightly embarrassing or offensive, but don't let that stop you from dipping your beak into Joyce's homage to childhood. Really, you will like this engaging book from an author you've probably never heard of before. Besides, reading things off the beaten track provides a good boost to your state of mind if done in a proper manner.ally, there is Alice, a pretty girl who eventually attracts the attentions of Sam, Clive, and Terry. Joyce sculpts each of these characters with such depth that they seem like real people.<br />A word of warning: \\"The Tooth Fairy\\" is frank in its depictions of adolescent sexual escapades. Joyce pulls no punches when it comes to describing those slightly naughty activities young boys engage in, and once the Alice character arrives on the scene the libido factor soars off the charts. Some readers may find these situations slightly embarrassing or offensive, but don't let that stop you from dipping your beak into Joyce's homage to childhood. Really, you will like this engaging book from an author you've probably never heard of before. Besides, reading things off the beaten track provides a good boost to your state of mind if done in a proper manner.	2003-08-29
995466:US	52012289	R1VZD90EAZA2KT	0553271369	409895538	The Lords of Discipline	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Conroy's Homage to the Citadel	Author Pat Conroy borrowed heavily from his experiences as a cadet at the Citadel to pen this 1980 novel, \\"The Lords of Discipline.\\" Later made into a film version of the same name that played up the subplot of racism at the expense of the greater themes of friendship, loyalty, discipline, and southern atmosphere, this book is a penetrating insight into the rigors of life in a military college. Most readers are probably more familiar with Pat Conroy's novels \\"The Great Santini\\" and \\"The Prince of Tides,\\" and the two movies they spawned, but fans of those books shouldn't overlook this phenomenal effort.<br />Conroy's protagonist in \\"The Lords of Discipline\\" is one Will McLean, a cadet in the senior class at the Carolina Military Institute (referred to by everyone associated with it as \\"The Institute\\") in the late 1960s. It is easy to imagine that McLean is a symbolic Conroy, with his love of English and writing, his liberal ideas, and his sense of individuality within an institution that subscribes to total conformity. Born in Georgia, Will agreed to attend CMI when his father asked him to do so on his deathbed. It is only because of this promise that Will sticks it out through what ranks as one of the most degrading, brutal experiences a person will ever face. It is the freshman year at the Institute that really separates the wheat from the chaff, so to speak, as all incoming plebes (called knobs by upperclassmen) undergo hazing of astonishing, and illegal, levels. McLean survives the ordeal by making friends with Tradd St. Croix, a rich scion of one of Charleston's most prominent families; Dante Pignetti, a tough as nails northerner who lifts weights and possesses a most unusual affection for his girlfriend Theresa; and Mark Santoro, another northerner who matches Pignetti in physical prowess. The four friends latch on to one another during freshman year and then share the rest of their school days as roommates. The Institute's rigorous requirements create emotional bonds that go beyond mere friendship: these guys are like brothers, and they openly profess their love for one another without any sense of indecency.<br />Will might have cleared the final hurdles of his senior year and graduated in relative anonymity if several incidents didn't rise up to confront him. The first problem occurs when Colonel Berrineau, known as \\"Bear,\\" the gruff overseer and protector of the cadets, asks Will to protect the first black plebe in the school's history. Another crisis arises when Will meets a local girl, a well to do lass suffering from an unwanted pregnancy. These two incidents, along with Will's increasing sense of alienation from the Institute's mindless conformity, place McLean's standing at school in deep jeopardy. When a secret organization within the school called \\"The Ten\\" decides that the black cadet must go, Will finds himself in a moral dilemma that forces him to decide where his loyalties lie. McLean's ultimate choices cast doubts on the certitude of honor and the dangers of conformity.<br />Even this lengthy summary doesn't properly convey the numerous themes and memorable scenes spread throughout this story. Conroy is a fantastic writer, creating situation after situation of penetrating insights, moral and emotional predicaments, and youthful vigor. Not many writers can pull off a story like the one about Will's last basketball game at the Institute. Conroy perfectly captures the triumph and tragedy of a young man playing the last game of a sport he loves. Moreover, the author uses the game as a way to expose McLean's agonizing dilemma about the Institute. In many ways, Will despises what the Institute stands for, how it demeans and crushes the human spirit, but during the game he realizes how great it is to have the entire body of cadets pulling for him with all of their heart. It's this love/hate relationship with the CMI that makes Will's final decisions so achingly difficult.<br />Arguably the best part of \\"The Lordsof Discipline\\" involves Will's flashback concerning his freshman year experiences as a knob. I know nothing about life in a military institution, but the situations Will and his friends found themselves in are shocking and brutal. It all starts with \\"Hell Night,\\" where the cadets march the knobs to the parade ground and proceed to scream and bully until every new man is reduced to a quivering wreck. This night of torture is only the beginning of a long year of endless brutality and sadism. All suffer endlessly under the system, but cadets pay special attention to certain individuals who show any signs of weakness. In a process described as \\"taming,\\" a knob with an allergy to tomatoes resigns after cadets force him to drink glass after glass of tomato juice. I don't know if this type of behavior continues today, but it must have been the case when Conroy attended the Citadel. Personally, I do think this sort of weeding out process is a good idea, as discipline and toughness tend to be in short supply today. At the same time, some of the stuff Conroy describes in his novel is definitely in the region of pure illegality. It's just another example of the split personality of an institute that touts honor above all else while engaging in decidedly dishonorable activities.<br />Everything you can think of is in this book: romance, action, and drama all make appearances here. Conroy leaves little to the imagination as he sweeps his readers away through page after page of pure genius. I'll bet the Citadel never knew they had a brilliant artist strolling through their hallowed halls, but readers are better off that Conroy suffered the slings and arrows of a military institute. \\"The Lords of Discipline\\" is must read material.of Discipline\\" involves Will's flashback concerning his freshman year experiences as a knob. I know nothing about life in a military institution, but the situations Will and his friends found themselves in are shocking and brutal. It all starts with \\"Hell Night,\\" where the cadets march the knobs to the parade ground and proceed to scream and bully until every new man is reduced to a quivering wreck. This night of torture is only the beginning of a long year of endless brutality and sadism. All suffer endlessly under the system, but cadets pay special attention to certain individuals who show any signs of weakness. In a process described as \\"taming,\\" a knob with an allergy to tomatoes resigns after cadets force him to drink glass after glass of tomato juice. I don't know if this type of behavior continues today, but it must have been the case when Conroy attended the Citadel. Personally, I do think this sort of weeding out process is a good idea, as discipline and toughness tend to be in short supply today. At the same time, some of the stuff Conroy describes in his novel is definitely in the region of pure illegality. It's just another example of the split personality of an institute that touts honor above all else while engaging in decidedly dishonorable activities.<br />Everything you can think of is in this book: romance, action, and drama all make appearances here. Conroy leaves little to the imagination as he sweeps his readers away through page after page of pure genius. I'll bet the Citadel never knew they had a brilliant artist strolling through their hallowed halls, but readers are better off that Conroy suffered the slings and arrows of a military institute. \\"The Lords of Discipline\\" is must read material.	2003-08-29
1030599:US	52012289	R11ALHYQ820A2F	0451202910	876467674	Evil Whispers	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Gory Fun about a Voodoo Spirit	Owl Goingback doesn't have very many books to his credit, but already he has won a Bram Stoker Award for his novel &quot;Crota.&quot; I have only read two of his books, but I must say I like his voice. Owl is a Choctaw/Cherokee Indian, a background that sets him apart from the mass of writers who usually pen horror novels. Ever since I read &quot;Ghost Singer&quot; by Anna Lee Walters, I have wondered why more Indians aren't writing horror books. Nearly every Indian tribe has a distinct set of religious rituals and stories, and many of these tales recognize the evil side of the natural world as often as they encompass the good aspects of life. In &quot;Breed,&quot; Goingback wrote about an otherworldly creature called a Shiru set loose in a modern city. &quot;Evil Whispers&quot; tells about a visit to this world by another evil spirit, this one by a deceased voodoo practitioner named Mansa Du Paul.<br />&quot;Evil Whispers&quot; begins with a description of the demise of Mansa Du Paul, a man who built a village of ex-slaves out in the Florida boonies in the early part of the 19th century. Du Paul's appetite for warped rituals involving children leads him to kidnapping white and Indian youngsters in the area. The local band of Seminoles quickly tires of Du Paul's activities, and after the disappearance of the local chief's child the Indians launch a raid on the evil settlement. Du Paul's followers, those not killed outright, flee forever into the surrounding area. The Seminole warriors capture and execute Du Paul in a particularly painful way, then scatter his remains in an attempt to dissipate his power in the spirit world. Moreover, the Indians forever after post a man trained in the ways of medicine in the area as a sentinel against the return of this powerful voodoo priest.<br />Flash forward to the present day. The region once inhabited by Du Paul and his followers now houses a resort serving tourists and local fishermen. Robert and Janet Patterson, with daughter Krissy in tow, decide to stop off at the small resort in order to take in some of the local wildlife. The proprietors of the motel are friendly, river trips in canoes are fun, and with the exception of warnings about a bellicose Indian named Jimmy Cypress living in the area, it seems like a few days in the wild will do the family good before they set out for Disney World. It isn't long before Robert has a run in with Jimmy, who wants to keep people away from the site of Mansa Du Paul's old village. Then Krissy mysteriously disappears, sparking a huge manhunt and an increasingly dangerous series of encounters between this world and the realm of the spirits. Fortunately for the horror fan, bloody carnage ensues as Jimmy and Robert join forces in a race against time and a powerful evil spirit.<br />The standout scene in &quot;Evil Whispers&quot; isn't the background concerning Mansa Du Paul, or the disappearance of Krissy, or even the eventual emergence of the evil voodoo priest. The best sequence in this novel is the lengthy and enormously bloody massacre in the local tavern. Goingback strings this incident out for dozens of pages, and its great fun for gorehounds. One by one, bodies hit the floor as Du Paul wreaks havoc amongst the local population. There's a reason why so many minor characters die in this event, but it still seems delightfully gratuitous. This section of the novel must have been enormously fun to write, which probably explains why Goingback spends so much time wallowing in excess here. Ultimately, &quot;Evil Whispers&quot; is all done in good fun. It's not high literature by any means, just a good way to spend a few hours.r Krissy in tow, decide to stop off at the small resort in order to take in some of the local wildlife. The proprietors of the motel are friendly, river trips in canoes are fun, and with the exception of warnings about a bellicose Indian named Jimmy Cypress living in the area, it seems like a few days in the wild will do the family good before they set out for Disney World. It isn't long before Robert has a run in with Jimmy, who wants to keep people away from the site of Mansa Du Paul's old village. Then Krissy mysteriously disappears, sparking a huge manhunt and an increasingly dangerous series of encounters between this world and the realm of the spirits. Fortunately for the horror fan, bloody carnage ensues as Jimmy and Robert join forces in a race against time and a powerful evil spirit.<br />The standout scene in &quot;Evil Whispers&quot; isn't the background concerning Mansa Du Paul, or the disappearance of Krissy, or even the eventual emergence of the evil voodoo priest. The best sequence in this novel is the lengthy and enormously bloody massacre in the local tavern. Goingback strings this incident out for dozens of pages, and its great fun for gorehounds. One by one, bodies hit the floor as Du Paul wreaks havoc amongst the local population. There's a reason why so many minor characters die in this event, but it still seems delightfully gratuitous. This section of the novel must have been enormously fun to write, which probably explains why Goingback spends so much time wallowing in excess here. Ultimately, &quot;Evil Whispers&quot; is all done in good fun. It's not high literature by any means, just a good way to spend a few hours.	2003-07-29
1030791:US	52012289	R1T82UN2YORCTU	0375753850	157216052	Dreamland: Travels Inside the Secret World of Roswell and Area 51	Books	4	37	39	N	N	A History of Area 51	The section of the Nellis Air Force base in Nevada labeled \\"Area 51\\" continues to fascinate everyone from lovers of military aircraft to UFO buffs, from Cold War military historians to surveyors of the delightfully weird. The American government's dedication to intense secrecy regarding this \\"Dreamland\\" further stokes the curiosity of the public. What goes on at this secret research facility out in the middle of the desert? Why are there signs on the borders of the base stating that a person caught trespassing faces a stiff prison sentence and fine? Are there really strange, unexplained lights in the sky over the base or are these supposed sightings of UFOs just test flights for the next generation of high tech aircraft, like the stealth planes of the last two decades? Author Phil Patton decided to examine the aura of mystery surrounding a base that the American government actually denied existed for so many years. What Patton finds is an amazing blend of Cold War philosophy, pop culture, and UFO lore. The only thing stranger than what possibly goes on in the hangers of this base is what goes on outside the fences amongst a quirky collection of conspiracy theorists, UFO buffs, and aircraft enthusiasts.<br />\\"Dreamland\\" is first a history about the American military during the Cold War. Patton discusses in detail the atomic bomb tests in the Nevada desert and their effects on the residents in the area, the colossus of secrecy that emerged in these years surrounding military programs, and the developments of various secret aircraft that led to the construction of this air base in the Nevada wastelands. Several chapters intimately describe the Lockheed Skunk Works and its projects in the desert. The reader learns about the SR-71 spy planes, the U2 project and Gary Powers, and the stealth aircraft (which came about because of a footnote in an article written by a Soviet physicist). Patton introduces us to the test pilots who flew the planes over the desert, tough as nails aviators who often died or suffered serious injuries during the course of their work. We meet Kelly Johnson, the penny-pinching head of Skunk Works and the driving force behind several of America's greatest military aircraft. For readers who find a history of military aircraft as boring as I do, Patton spices up his accounts with amusing and intriguing anecdotes about the engineers and pilots who made American air supremacy a reality. The author's visits to various testing grounds, bases, and local towns lend the book an authenticity sorely lacking from many of the accounts concerning America's military secrets.<br />\\"Dreamland\\" doesn't skimp on the kooks, either. Patton knows Area 51 is more than a testing ground for military aircraft in the minds of many Americans, recognizing that for many in the business of UFOs, Dreamland is the Holy Grail of all alien encounters. The author discusses the background of the UFO phenomena, writing in depth analyses on George Adamski, Roswell, MJ-12, and Bob Lazar. In what I found to be one of the best parts of the books, Patton discusses how descriptions of extraterrestrial encounters often changed to reflect broader concerns in American society. For example, during the height of the Cold War in the 1950s, some saw UFOs and their alien pilots as harbingers of peace set to deliver America from the threat of nuclear annihilation. In the 1980s, an obsession with sex and the cult of the individual within the larger society brought stories of alien abductions to the fore. An abduction was special because it showed that the aliens chose one person over millions of others, an idea Patton sees as part of the pop psychological influence of talk shows. Overall, the author takes a strong neutral stance about some of the crazy stories floating around Area 51, only sinking to incredulity when the account is so over the top that it begs for ridicule. This makes perfect sense when one thinks about it, for anyone who believes in George Adamski's contactee nonsense has serious problems. Ultimately, \\"Dreamland\\" is less concerned about the existence of UFOs than with how these stories fit in with the larger themes of secrecy and the Cold War.<br />Patton does a clever thing with his book; he convincingly argues that Area 51 with all of its mysteries serves as a nexus for America's love of the unknown, its love of technology, and its suspicion of the federal government. Moreover, the author makes a case that the government's mania for classification and secrecy, all in the name of \\"black programs\\" and \\"national security,\\" is out of hand. The idea of \\"need to know\\" or \\"plausible deniability\\" are certainly not terms one would associate with an open, for the people by the people government we all want. Secrecy too often leads to an \\"us versus them\\" mentality incompatible with American ideals about government. I think this critique of the bureaucratization of the national security state is the best argument for reading this book. On a secondary level, the book also works for those interested in how our government constructed advanced aircraft in order to defeat the grim specter of world communism.i's contactee nonsense has serious problems. Ultimately, \\"Dreamland\\" is less concerned about the existence of UFOs than with how these stories fit in with the larger themes of secrecy and the Cold War.<br />Patton does a clever thing with his book; he convincingly argues that Area 51 with all of its mysteries serves as a nexus for America's love of the unknown, its love of technology, and its suspicion of the federal government. Moreover, the author makes a case that the government's mania for classification and secrecy, all in the name of \\"black programs\\" and \\"national security,\\" is out of hand. The idea of \\"need to know\\" or \\"plausible deniability\\" are certainly not terms one would associate with an open, for the people by the people government we all want. Secrecy too often leads to an \\"us versus them\\" mentality incompatible with American ideals about government. I think this critique of the bureaucratization of the national security state is the best argument for reading this book. On a secondary level, the book also works for those interested in how our government constructed advanced aircraft in order to defeat the grim specter of world communism.	2003-07-29
1031062:US	52012289	R21QLO78M6O1AA	0843949791	333386604	Grave Men (Priest & Lamarr)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great Revenge Tale with Great Atmosphere	Readers probably know the author of &quot;Grave Men,&quot; Tom Piccirilli, for his horror novels and short stories. As this western yarn proves, Piccirilli is a versatile writer capable of penning engaging tales in completely different genres. To be frank, after reading this book and a couple of Piccirilli's horror novels, I would rather read his westerns any day. I doubt whether readers interested in outlaws and gunfights would accept the fractured organizational schemas and confusing narratives found in &quot;The Night Class&quot; or &quot;The Deceased.&quot; I have read a short story from this author that was most intriguing and quite understandable, but his jaunts into the world of horror go completely over my head. It's not that Piccirilli is a bad writer, as nothing is further from the truth. In fact, this author can create scenes that are wonders to behold, scenes conveying whole spectrums of emotion. When it comes to forging this scenery into a coherent whole, at least with his horror novels, Piccirilli falls flat. In &quot;Grave Men,&quot; Piccirilli lands solidly on his feet with a great revenge story set in the Old West.<br />Within a few pages, the reader becomes instantly familiar with protagonist Priest McClaren. This young man has a whole host of problems in his life, from a pregnant sister who works as a bounty hunter, an aging grandfather whose mind is starting to go and who thinks he is an Apache Indian, an Irish singer who wants to marry him, and an ex-slave companion named Lamarr who gambles away the money McClaren needs to open a store in town. Complicating matters is the presence of Septemus Hart, a wealthy ex-Confederate Army officer who has both hands on the purse strings of Patience, the town where Priest lives. Moreover, Septemus and Lamarr share a secret that always makes Priest's life more difficult. Priest is trying to move beyond a terrible incident that occurred in his childhood, when two outlaws gunned down his mother and father in front of him and his sister. After years of attempting to drown the memories of this horrific event in a liquor bottle, McClaren finally sobers up and plans to make something of his life. He still harbors a burning hatred for Yuma Dean, the opium addicted killer who slew his family, but with his pregnant sister Molly on the way home for a visit Priest realizes he must seek out Yuma Dean himself in order to clear away the scorching memories of the past.<br />There are some great scenes in this book. Piccirilli's description of the town brothel and the thug who works there as the bartender/bouncer is aces, as is the history between Lamarr and Septemus. Even the opening of the story, with Priest McClaren watching his new store burn to the ground, works because it helps establish the essential character traits that constitute McClaren. He's a guy who can't escape his past, and until he resolves the issues surrounding the death of his parents he won't be able to move on with this life. Piccirilli describes in detail the unfortunate series of events that led to the death of Priest's parents, and this works too. Everything works in this book, and since the author knits everything into a coherent narrative, it's a pleasure to read.<br />I think the only problem I had with &quot;Grave Men&quot; revolved around the Lamarr character. My difficulties with this ex-slave had nothing to do with character development, as Piccirilli does a great job fleshing out this happy go lucky character who continually suffers from the slings and arrows of racism. My problem comes with putting a character like this in a western. It's anachronistic because there is no way an ex-slave would speak or act like Lamarr does in this book. You'd think the guy went to college with the way he slings big words around. Moreover, his behavior would get him killed in about ten seconds. He mouths off to people, goes to the brothel, and enters saloons where blacks are not welcome, all of which is highly improbable. I outright laughed when Lamarr kills three guys who attempt to lynch him. There is no way anyone would accept this type of behavior from an ex-slave in the late 19th century! Lamarr might be wily when it comes to his enemies, but reality dictates that the whole town would march to his house looking for blood if he really killed three men. I just don't buy Lamarr in this setting.<br />I'm glad I read &quot;Grave Men.&quot; I really haven't read too many westerns, but Piccirilli's book convinces me I should delve into the genre more often. I do know this author will release a sequel to &quot;Grave Men&quot; sometime next year, and I'll probably read it based on how much I enjoyed this story. I would definitely rather read Piccirilli's westerns than peruse any more of his horror novels. &quot;Grave Men&quot; is all around good fun.le. I outright laughed when Lamarr kills three guys who attempt to lynch him. There is no way anyone would accept this type of behavior from an ex-slave in the late 19th century! Lamarr might be wily when it comes to his enemies, but reality dictates that the whole town would march to his house looking for blood if he really killed three men. I just don't buy Lamarr in this setting.<br />I'm glad I read &quot;Grave Men.&quot; I really haven't read too many westerns, but Piccirilli's book convinces me I should delve into the genre more often. I do know this author will release a sequel to &quot;Grave Men&quot; sometime next year, and I'll probably read it based on how much I enjoyed this story. I would definitely rather read Piccirilli's westerns than peruse any more of his horror novels. &quot;Grave Men&quot; is all around good fun.	2003-07-29
1031072:US	52012289	RD4HNPF88223O	0812522079	855587331	The Burning	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Bizarre Plot, Gruesome Horror	What type of world do we live in when books like this are out of print? I ask that question often when I think about Graham Masterton's gripping horror novel, \\"The Burning.\\" Masterton is definitely one of the undervalued horror novelists in recent times, a slightly obscure writer who has written numerous spooky thrillers over the years that combine great gore sequences, engaging characters, and bizarre plotlines that would falter in anyone else's hands. This is only the third Masterton novel I've read in recent months, but I'd like to read all of his stuff at some point. The problem with doing so is that most of his books are out of print. It's not like publishing houses don't know who he is; his new books find mass-market release with regularity. What us horror fans need is for Leisure to start reprinting his back catalogue. I know I would snatch up every one of Masterton's old books.<br />\\"The Burning\\" builds itself around one of the strangest plots I've ever encountered in horror fiction. What's great is that Masterton makes it believable. What we have here is a story combining Richard Wagner's lost masterpiece \\"Junius,\\" ancient pagan rituals concerning immortality, the Third Reich, Native American spirituality, and reanimated humans called Salamanders who can burn people at will. Now does this book have potential or what? Even better, the author doesn't skimp on the Salamander's ability to set people on fire. There are numerous examples of people torched by these evil beings, told in intricate detail in page after page of cringe worthy descriptions. I don't find anything remotely amusing about people on fire in real life, as I can't think of anything as painful as suffering burns. But in a fictional horror novel where fire serves as a major plot point, the author in question better deliver the goods. Masterton goes above and beyond the call of duty in this department in \\"The Burning,\\" even torching a bus full of initiates who seek entry into the cult of the Salamanders.<br />The hero of the story is one Lloyd Denman, a restaurant owner who has everything in the world going for him. He has a successful business, a beautiful fianc&eacute;e, a wonderful house, and a nice car. Regrettably for Lloyd, tragedy strikes when his girlfriend self-immolates in a McDonald's parking lot. Lloyd is dumbfounded. Why should his beloved Celia do such a horrible thing to herself? She had a great life, with a successful career in music and a mutual happiness with Lloyd. Denman just can't bring himself to believe that Celia's death was suicide, and he begins looking around for clues to this tragic incident. It isn't too long before Lloyd finds some old sheet music stashed in Celia's piano, music that looks like an original work by Richard Wagner. This discovery, along with another one made at the scene of Celia's immolation, leads Lloyd directly to the tender mercies of Otto Mander and his stooge Helmwige. These two characters are strange, dangerous birds directly responsible for a lot of the weirdness going on. Through Mander, Denman learns that Celia's suicide is only the tip of an iceberg stretching back to pre-Christian Europe, and that in the present day a dark idea better left in the ashes of 1940s Europe is soon to attain resurrection through Mander and the Salamanders. It is up to Lloyd and a small band of oddball heroes to save the world from the evil actions of Otto Mander.<br />\\"The Burning\\" ultimately rests on its author's abilities, and Masterton possesses wonderful abilities that allow him to deliver in spades. The characters are interesting, especially the Nordic Helmwige and the bug eating Otto Mander. These two creepy characters only get weirder as the story progresses. Lloyd Denman is also believable as the slightly milquetoast businessman who rises to the occasion to fight an evil he doesn't comprehend. The conclusion blends Wagnerian opera, Nordic ritual, and reptilian monsters into a seamless, albeit slightly mystifying, ending. It all makes for a great, fun read. I'll continue to read Graham Masterton books as I come across them, as I've yet to suffer a disappointment at the hands of this horror master. I hope you give Masterton a whirl, too.It all makes for a great, fun read. I'll continue to read Graham Masterton books as I come across them, as I've yet to suffer a disappointment at the hands of this horror master. I hope you give Masterton a whirl, too.	2003-07-29
1031590:US	52012289	R13FOQBCTS3DQ9	0312858787	906123966	Gun, With Occasional Music: A Novel	Books	5	65	68	N	N	Noir, With Frequent Weirdness	\\"Gun, With Occasional Music\\" is my first Jonathan Lethem book, and it certainly won't be my last. Although reading just one of his books hardly ranks me as an expert on his career, I will say that this story about a private detective in a future, dystopian nightmare will probably be one of the most unusual experiences you'll ever have with a book (unless you make a habit of reading quirky, ultra bizarre fiction). Lethem must have been the product of a union between Raymond Chandler and William Burroughs, with genetic material donated by Dashiell Hammett and Aldous Huxley. That's the only way to describe this amazing blend of noir, science fiction, and political commentary. \\"Gun, With Occasional Music\\" is the type of book you introduce your friends to in order to see their reaction after they finish it.<br />Lethem's future is one in which I would not want to visit, let alone live in. For private investigator Conrad Metcalf, this nightmare is the only world he knows. What's so bad about this author's horrific visions? In the world of tomorrow, society is quite different from the world we know. For one thing, animals (rabbits, sheep, kangaroos, and cats) now walk upright, speak, commit crimes, and work. It's all a part of what authorities call \\"evolving,\\" and it isn't just about the animals. Human infants take part in the hijinks as well, since society decided that it takes too long for people to grow up. The result is \\"babyheads,\\" infants that speak, smoke, and drink thanks to massive infusions of growth hormones. As if that's not enough to cause you screaming fits, and apparently many of the people in this brave new world feel like screaming about it, the authorities provide \\"make,\\" a drug used to modify behavior. Moreover, people can make their own blends of the drug, adding such great substances as forgettol so they don't have to remember their miserable existence. Those brave souls who wish to challenge the system, or the innocents just caught in police nets, face the dread terror of the inquisitors. This secret police directorate possesses the power to ask questions, arrest people, and carry out sentences that include freezing people for years in a sort of cryogenic state. Conrad Metcalf is a private inquisitor, a former member of the secret police who struck out on his own after his disillusionment with the system led to an early retirement.<br />Now Metcalf has another case, one that promises to be a real doozy. After a doctor turns up dead in a seedy motel room, a client named Orton Angwine turns up on Metcalf's doorstep. Angwine claims he had nothing to do with the murder, and he wants Metcalf to clear him from the looming cloud of suspicion. Metcalf's subsequent investigation leads him through a labyrinth of underworld types, corrupt doctors, a jilted wife, a cranky babyhead, a kangaroo with a grudge, and inquisitors who would rather see this case disappear forever. Whatever happens in the end, Metcalf must tread a fine line during his investigation because if his personal karma drops to zero he will find himself facing a six year snooze in a cryogenic tank. As Conrad homes in on the murderer, he discovers his noirish wisecracks bring more trouble than answers. The future is a dangerous place, and Conrad Metcalf is right in the middle of it without an umbrella.<br />You really must love the dialogue in this book. It crackles with snappy comebacks and hooked barbs, all done in a grand tradition which states that detectives in crime noir stories must speak in clever metaphors and insults. What makes it so jarring here is when Metcalf trades verbal jabs with a gun-toting kangaroo named Joey Castle. In \\"Gun, With Occasional Music,\\" dialogue assumes an added dimension when you realize that the only people allowed to ask questions in the future are inquisitors, thus the reason that Conrad often frets over his inadequate responses when grilling someone for information. His stock and trade is not as a hired gun or bodyguard per se; it literally involves possessing the necessary verbal acumen to properly make inquiries and to look good while doing so. Lethem studied and mastered the style of the noir masters before writing this book, and it shows on virtually every page.<br />\\"Gun, With Occasional Music\\" is weirdness incarnate, but at the same time it is immensely amusing. The best recommendation I can give you is to pay close attention to the various characters Metcalf runs into during the course of his investigation. The twists and turns of the Angwine case are monumental, and easily lost track of amidst the strange scenery Lethem throws at you with unremitting frequency. This book really is one that requires a second reading because there is so much going on. The conclusion is an interesting one that wraps the plot up just as a good noir story should. Yep, all in all Lethem's little beast is a great way to spend a few days. For those unaccustomed to the joys of warped fiction, Jonathan Lethem exists to show you the way.er se; it literally involves possessing the necessary verbal acumen to properly make inquiries and to look good while doing so. Lethem studied and mastered the style of the noir masters before writing this book, and it shows on virtually every page.<br />\\"Gun, With Occasional Music\\" is weirdness incarnate, but at the same time it is immensely amusing. The best recommendation I can give you is to pay close attention to the various characters Metcalf runs into during the course of his investigation. The twists and turns of the Angwine case are monumental, and easily lost track of amidst the strange scenery Lethem throws at you with unremitting frequency. This book really is one that requires a second reading because there is so much going on. The conclusion is an interesting one that wraps the plot up just as a good noir story should. Yep, all in all Lethem's little beast is a great way to spend a few days. For those unaccustomed to the joys of warped fiction, Jonathan Lethem exists to show you the way.	2003-07-29
1043807:US	52012289	R2TUWMN9FX0WIC	1556520719	48128473	The Iron Heel (Rediscovered Classics)	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Socialism? Nah, but the story still entertains	I am certain most people have heard of Jack London before, probably due to his stories about nature and man's place in it. But London was also a hard-core socialist, a big name in a time when industrialism and its deleterious effects swept the country like a tidal wave. Upton Sinclair went so far as to refer to this offer, albeit obliquely, in his seminal 1905 novel THE JUNGLE. London's socialism emerged from his rough childhood in California and a period spent in a New York prison as a convict laborer. Through rigorous self-education, the author raised himself out of the squalor of the lowest classes and began to write stories and books. He became wildly popular, eventually becoming the highest paid writer of his time. London's own success hardly quelled his love for socialism. He spoke to workingmen across the country, touting socialist candidates for political office while scorning the plutocrats who ran the country. London eventually took his political views one step further, penning THE IRON HEEL in 1907 in order to express his views on how the capitalists and socialists would eventually lock horns. The result is a bleak novel about how capitalism will eventually resort to fascistic principles to protect the wealthy.<br />The structure of this novel takes the form of a diary, written by one Avis Everhard, the wife of socialist firebrand Ernest Everhard, in the early part of the twentieth century. The diary contains footnotes inserted 700 years after the events depicted in the novel, after the socialists won the battle against capitalism. The first part of Avis's account describes her first encounter with Ernest, at a dinner her famous physicist father threw to see how his capitalist friends would deal with a young socialist. Avis predictably falls in love with the virile, intelligent Ernest and quickly falls under his spell. The following chapters describe Avis's conversion to socialism under the tutelage of Ernest. She discovers that the law courts and print media are under the control of industrialists, and the universities and social organizations function as mere shills for big business. Avis's father soon converts as well, as does a bishop who originally opposed Ernest's brash ideas. Ernest continually preaches that the capitalist system will collapse, citing as proof Karl Marx's idea about surpluses. In short, according to Everhard, capitalist countries always produce too much. In order to get rid of this abundance of goods, corporations must move into underdeveloped countries and dump their products. This leads to rapid development and then a new surplus in this region that must then seek another area to develop. Eventually, capitalism will reach a finite limit as all areas of the globe attain development. This eventuality, according to Marx/London, will lead to socialism's triumph.<br />Of course, the collapse comes quickly when an economic downturn leads to widespread strikes. The plutocracy, which London refers to as the oligarchs, seize power using totalitarian tactics. Relying on laws passed through a corporate friendly congress, the oligarchs sends in troops to crush labor uprisings. The upper classes want all of the wealth, so they squeeze out the middle class in order to dominate everybody else through the creation of giant trusts. Threats soon lead to gunshots as the lower classes battle the rich for control of the country. With the power of the military and institutions on their side, the oligarchs gain control over most of the country and its citizens. The rest of the book describes the civil wars and rebellions that break out in America, with footnotes from the future describing how things eventually turned out. The book concludes with a grim chapter about an enormously bloody uprising in Chicago where the oligarchs and the socialist revolutionaries finally duke it out in large numbers.<br />The introduction explains that the Ernest character is actually a symbolic representation of London himself. Thismakes sense because Ernest Everhard is one of those perfect souls who can do no wrong. During the dinner at Avis's house, Ernest holds his own against a slew of highly educated individuals who simply cannot form a coherent argument against socialism. For Everhard, and by extension London, a man who uses \\"facts\\" always defeats those who do not. The facts here concern the realities of the working classes and the condition of the factories. Theories cannot and will not solve the problems of capitalist exploitation because these theories assume that business has little or no responsibility for the well being of humanity. I would simply ask Everhard one question: how will you solve the inevitable problem of motivation? That is, under socialism, how will you convince people not to strive for a higher social station? We know how the communist regimes in Russia, China, and Eastern Europe answered this dilemma; they simply killed off anyone who dared question the dictatorship of the proletariat (as if the proletariat ever had any influence whatsoever in any of these governments). In London's futuristic socialist world, one assumes there are no secret police directorates, no political intrigues, and no questioning of the system. Yeah, right. Like every human being will embrace one overarching political regime.<br />THE IRON HEEL contains copious amounts of action, espionage, political intrigue, and even a little romance. Although I don't agree with London's ideas, at least he knows how to write an appealing story. The book is difficult to classify since it embraces both dystopian and utopian ideas. London never leaves the reader in doubt as to ultimately wins the war for control of the world, and reading about it does provide a measure of amusement that makes THE IRON HEEL a worthy read for socialists and capitalists alike.makes sense because Ernest Everhard is one of those perfect souls who can do no wrong. During the dinner at Avis's house, Ernest holds his own against a slew of highly educated individuals who simply cannot form a coherent argument against socialism. For Everhard, and by extension London, a man who uses \\"facts\\" always defeats those who do not. The facts here concern the realities of the working classes and the condition of the factories. Theories cannot and will not solve the problems of capitalist exploitation because these theories assume that business has little or no responsibility for the well being of humanity. I would simply ask Everhard one question: how will you solve the inevitable problem of motivation? That is, under socialism, how will you convince people not to strive for a higher social station? We know how the communist regimes in Russia, China, and Eastern Europe answered this dilemma; they simply killed off anyone who dared question the dictatorship of the proletariat (as if the proletariat ever had any influence whatsoever in any of these governments). In London's futuristic socialist world, one assumes there are no secret police directorates, no political intrigues, and no questioning of the system. Yeah, right. Like every human being will embrace one overarching political regime. <br />THE IRON HEEL contains copious amounts of action, espionage, political intrigue, and even a little romance. Although I don't agree with London's ideas, at least he knows how to write an appealing story. The book is difficult to classify since it embraces both dystopian and utopian ideas. London never leaves the reader in doubt as to ultimately wins the war for control of the world, and reading about it does provide a measure of amusement that makes THE IRON HEEL a worthy read for socialists and capitalists alike.	2003-07-18
1047837:US	52012289	R1VC6F4JL5PMPO	0394700953	186740079	The Age of Reform	Books	4	47	60	N	N	Hofstadter: Crusader Against the Populists	Historians still consider the late Richard Hofstadter one of the great American historians of the 20th century. His voluminous output when he worked as a professor at Columbia continues to draw readers and researchers both inside and outside of academia. \\"The Age of Reform\\" is Hofstadter's analysis of Populism and Progressivism in American history, which the author defines as a period running roughly from 1890 to 1940. This historical treatment won the Pulitzer Prize for History in 1956, although it is difficult at times to see why. If we accept the idea that historians should always strive to lift themselves above their own biases and personal backgrounds, we must conclude that Richard Hofstadter was little more than a prejudiced city dweller who sought to tar American rural movements with an overarching label of anti-Semitism. Fortunately, new work concerning the Populists is available, work that patently refutes many of this author's scurrilous claims.<br />The author claims that Populism sought to reaffirm the American agrarian lifestyle in an age of increasing industrialization and urbanization. He attacks what he refers to as the \\"agrarian myth,\\" or the idea that the backbone of American society was the benevolent, hard working farmer; an idea once advocated by none other than Thomas Jefferson. Hofstadter scoffs at the Jeffersonian idea of democratic virtues imbued by working with the soil, going so far as to conclude that Populism, which was a political movement by farmers and their associates to challenge what they saw as hegemonic behavior directed against rural areas by the cities and governmental organs, was deeply and irrevocably devoted to anti-Semitism in its most virulent strains. \\"The Age of Reform\\" cites Populist leaders Mary Lease and Ignatius Donnelly as two of the more strident proponents of rural anti-Jewish discontent.<br />While it is obvious that there was an element of anti-Semitism swirling through parts of the Populist movement, this animosity in no way formed the foundation of rural discontent. Farmers' concerns encompassed a host of disturbing issues, including railroads, the banking industry, corruption in politics, and moral values. Hofstadter commits a grave error in claiming that racial motives constituted the sublime principle for the millions of farmers who harbored a beef with the political system. Author Peter Novick, in his superb treatment of American historians, unearthed a letter proving that Hofstadter admitted to greatly exaggerating his claims about anti-Semitism among America's rural population. If one takes this claim to its logical, and disturbing, conclusion, the author of \\"The Age of Reform\\" essentially misrepresented his evidence in order to support a theory. That this is an egregious crime worthy of professional exile has had little effect on the endless accolades accorded Richard Hofstadter over the years. If lesser mortals were to commit such an indiscretion, they would find themselves drummed out of the discipline with great haste.<br />The second part of this book concerns Progressivism. According to Hofstadter, the concern of the progressives didn't involve a disbelief in the system of American society and government, but rather their position in a world increasingly fraught with the tectonic changes of industrialism. Specifically, Progressive initiatives involved status, as diverse sections of the populace attempted to find a new role in a changing country. As an example, the author refers to the clergy as one of these classes threatened with change. In an increasingly secularized culture, and one in which social scientists and the industrialists rose to undreamt of heights in social influence, those who worked for the churches lost considerable clout. Those men of the cloth wise to the changes in America embraced the reform minded social gospel in order to regain influence over the masses. In short, the changes in American society during the turn of the century led to arestructuring among all classes, not merely the working class or farmers. When a response to industrialism became necessary, everybody responded to it in some manner in an attempt to preserve their social station.<br />In a way, I understand Hofstadter's concern about the dangers of mass political movements. Look at the author's ethnic background; he was a Jewish-American who worked closely with other Jewish-American scholars in post-WWII America. What Jew wouldn't look for the seeds of an anti-Semitic basis in any political movements with Hitler's final solution still looming large in the popular mind? Populism in its expressions never resembled the scenes in \\"Triumph of the Will,\\" but even a slender reed of anti-Jewish thought amongst the few was enough to set off alarm bells in the minds of Hofstadter, Daniel Bell, and others. \\"The Age of Reform\\" contributes an explanation of one facet of American Populism, but fails to convince me that anti-Jewish sentiment was the driving force of the movement. Hofstadter and company saw brown shirts instead of bib overalls, Nordic warriors instead of the Joads.<br />All is not lost with Richard Hofstadter, as there is plenty here and in his other works that sparkle with his easy prose style and all-encompassing eye for detail. One of the things I love about this author is how he discusses these obscure writings from various historical figures. In \\"The Age of Reform,\\" Hofstadter discusses in some depth Ignatius Donnelly's apocalyptic novel \\"Caesar's Column,\\" a discussion that made me instantly want to procure a copy. His observations on such literary obscurities are always a lot of fun, inspiring the reader to investigate these topics further. In short, when one reads Hofstadter, don't always take his word as gospel just because historians continue to adore him. \\"The Age of Reform\\" is an important work on Populism and Progressivism, but it certainly isn't the final analysis on these fascinating subjects.a restructuring among all classes, not merely the working class or farmers. When a response to industrialism became necessary, everybody responded to it in some manner in an attempt to preserve their social station.<br />In a way, I understand Hofstadter's concern about the dangers of mass political movements. Look at the author's ethnic background; he was a Jewish-American who worked closely with other Jewish-American scholars in post-WWII America. What Jew wouldn't look for the seeds of an anti-Semitic basis in any political movements with Hitler's final solution still looming large in the popular mind? Populism in its expressions never resembled the scenes in \\"Triumph of the Will,\\" but even a slender reed of anti-Jewish thought amongst the few was enough to set off alarm bells in the minds of Hofstadter, Daniel Bell, and others. \\"The Age of Reform\\" contributes an explanation of one facet of American Populism, but fails to convince me that anti-Jewish sentiment was the driving force of the movement. Hofstadter and company saw brown shirts instead of bib overalls, Nordic warriors instead of the Joads.<br />All is not lost with Richard Hofstadter, as there is plenty here and in his other works that sparkle with his easy prose style and all-encompassing eye for detail. One of the things I love about this author is how he discusses these obscure writings from various historical figures. In \\"The Age of Reform,\\" Hofstadter discusses in some depth Ignatius Donnelly's apocalyptic novel \\"Caesar's Column,\\" a discussion that made me instantly want to procure a copy. His observations on such literary obscurities are always a lot of fun, inspiring the reader to investigate these topics further. In short, when one reads Hofstadter, don't always take his word as gospel just because historians continue to adore him. \\"The Age of Reform\\" is an important work on Populism and Progressivism, but it certainly isn't the final analysis on these fascinating subjects.	2003-07-15
1059675:US	52012289	R2I1Z1JTA3OMGX	0375724621	190367208	UP at the Villa	Books	5	70	72	N	N	Short and Sublime	Under the rubric of \\"Praise for William Somerset Maugham\\" on the first page of \\"Up at the Villa,\\" none other than the New York Times calls this book \\"full of psychological and dramatic potentialities.\\" To a large extent, this comment has merit. Maugham was nothing if not a writer full of dramatic flair, economy of language, and a penetrating psychical gift that enabled him to peer deep into the inner machinations of the human soul in all of its various splendors. His \\"The Razor's Edge\\" was, in my opinion, one of the best books written in the last century. \\"Up at the Villa\\" is another beautiful work of art; it contains all of the recognizable Maugham hallmarks but displays them in a short novella. It's entirely possible to read \\"Up at the Villa\\" in a couple of hours if one is so inclined. The first thing I noticed with this book was how little time it took for the author to completely grab my attention. Within a few pages, my enthrallment with the character of Mary Panton was complete.<br />\\"Up at the Villa\\" takes place in Florence, Italy shortly before WWII breaks out. A thriving colony of British expatriates spends each day and night basking in the warmth of the climate and attending endless parties where they reinforce each other's social position. The main character is Mary Panton, a young widow drifting into her early thirties without a concrete sense of direction. There is a lot of pressure for Mary to marry again, as her ravishing beauty draws all sorts of suitors out of the woodwork. One of the men who wishes to corral Mary is Edgar Swift, a distinguished British diplomat and old family friend who now hopes to take Mary with him to a new appointment as Governor of Bengal. One of Edgar's competitors is Rowley Flint, a dissolute bloke with money to burn and a fierce reputation as a ladies man. Mary's indifference to these men is apparent from the start; she considers Edgar's proposal only because of his social position. As for Rowley, she hardly considers him at all. Mary's beauty always brings her much attention, but it also brings out her strident vanity. When Mary meets a young Austrian exile by the name of Karl Richter, her beauty causes all sorts of problems, one of which could result in a legal entanglement of scandalous proportions.<br />There are more moral quandaries in this novella than in the entire Old Testament. Not only does Mary need to decide whom she should marry, she must deal with the emotional fallout of a personal calamity brought about by her overweening sense of self. Maugham masterfully moves the reader through the treacherous pitfalls of Mary's Florence experiences, and he does it in astonishingly few words. As I floated through the final few pages of \\"Up at the Villa,\\" I remarked to myself that this prose style is the way I want to write myself: a clear, crisp style that conveys immense amounts of detail with precious few words. You won't find strings of compound verbs or unnecessary wanderings in this story. Within a few pages, you know the characters intimately, have a great sense of the surrounding atmosphere, and a profound understanding of Mary's situation.<br />I really have no idea why this book sat around the house so long before I finally read it. Since I have read Maugham before, I knew I had no reason to think I would not appreciate the story. Now that I got off my duff and read \\"Up at the Villa,\\" I urge you to do the same. If you have never read Maugham before, this is a great place to start. If you do know the joys of this extraordinary writer, spend a few hours brushing up on the wonders of this author's magnificent abilities.t all. Mary's beauty always brings her much attention, but it also brings out her strident vanity. When Mary meets a young Austrian exile by the name of Karl Richter, her beauty causes all sorts of problems, one of which could result in a legal entanglement of scandalous proportions.<br />There are more moral quandaries in this novella than in the entire Old Testament. Not only does Mary need to decide whom she should marry, she must deal with the emotional fallout of a personal calamity brought about by her overweening sense of self. Maugham masterfully moves the reader through the treacherous pitfalls of Mary's Florence experiences, and he does it in astonishingly few words. As I floated through the final few pages of \\"Up at the Villa,\\" I remarked to myself that this prose style is the way I want to write myself: a clear, crisp style that conveys immense amounts of detail with precious few words. You won't find strings of compound verbs or unnecessary wanderings in this story. Within a few pages, you know the characters intimately, have a great sense of the surrounding atmosphere, and a profound understanding of Mary's situation.<br />I really have no idea why this book sat around the house so long before I finally read it. Since I have read Maugham before, I knew I had no reason to think I would not appreciate the story. Now that I got off my duff and read \\"Up at the Villa,\\" I urge you to do the same. If you have never read Maugham before, this is a great place to start. If you do know the joys of this extraordinary writer, spend a few hours brushing up on the wonders of this author's magnificent abilities.	2003-07-06
1060570:US	52012289	R2N6C6CJVEEOAW	1891480030	87017958	The Ushers	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Lee is a Master!	I am an Edward Lee fan. Although I have only read a few of his novels, his smorgasbord of unsettling violence, intense erotica, and whiplash prose make his writings enormous fun for a dedicated horror fan. The biggest problem facing a reader is how to acquire many of his books and short stories. Nearly all of his mass-market efforts are out of print, many other novels and collections are available only through wallet crushing small press editions, and the subject matter of a majority of his tales virtually insures much of his work will remain in at least partial obscurity. In other words, I am an Ed Lee fan insofar as my meager funds allow. That is why I was very happy to stumble over a copy of \\"The Ushers,\\" a 1999 collection of Ed's short stories. A reasonable price permitted me to pick this one up, and I am glad I did! My opinion of Lee as a writer shot into the stratosphere after I explored the depths of this impressive anthology. In fact, I simply couldn't put this book down after I started reading it.<br />Lee is primarily a horror writer, but as \\"The Ushers\\" aptly proves, he can write as effectively in other genres as well. For example, \\"Grub Girl in the Prison of Dead Women\\" shows the author easily pulling off a plot that is as much science fiction as it is horror. Then there is \\"The Decortication Technician,\\" a groovy yarn about space exploration and a most unusual discovery found in an abandoned alien spacecraft. Again, this tale is just as effective as a sci-fi story. Another tale dealing with science fiction elements is \\"Secret Service,\\" a primer about the dangers of protecting a former president suffering from mental decline. After reading the stories in this book, I have few illusions that Ed can write just about anything he wants if he puts his mind to it.<br />Of course, horror is Lee's forte. \\"The Ushers\\" overflows with gruesome tidbits while offering personal revelations about why the author wrote a particular story. Fans of \\"The Bighead\\" or \\"Monstrosity\\" have recognized Lee's fascination with backwoods folk. Ed's the \\"redneck\\" guy, the horror author who frequently inserts rural yokels with a penchant for gory violence into his stories. In a personal note at the end of \\"The Man Who Loved Clich&eacute;s,\\" we finally discover why this author relies so heavily on these character types. According to Lee, James Dickey's novel \\"Deliverance\\" had a deleterious effect on him, as the book and subsequent film version reminded him of particular \\"outer elements\\" he recognized from his youth. Finally discovering the reasons for this author's love of country bumpkins is worth the price of the book alone. His statement that he will continue to write stories about hillbillies is great news for his fans. \\"Mr. Torso,\\" a Bram Stoker Award nominated story written in 1994 and containing one of these beloved rural types also makes an appearance in this collection.<br />Do you like reading about sociopaths, psychotics, and serial killers? Pull up a chair and get ready to read some crime thrillers. In \\"Hands,\\" we get a grim whodunit about a murderer who likes to collect trophies from his victims. This one is a gem of a yarn with a great big twist at the end that's sure to please. \\"Scriptures\\" delves into the world of a family plagued by sociopathy and is particularly forbidding in its mix of religion and violence. And don't forget to read \\"Please Let Me Out,\\" about an aging female lawyer and her seemingly foolproof plan to keep her young boyfriend from straying far from home. Ed Lee definitely has little aversion to writing a thriller once in awhile, although his versions always stray far from the mainstream with politically incorrect dialogue, over the top scenery, and wacky characters.<br />In my opinion, the absolute best story in the book is the one that describes why Lee writes horror. Split into two separate stories in this collection, Lee describes the horrors of everyday life in vivid detail, the shocking, sad, nauseating inhumanity man shows towards fellow man. The author's fascination with the dark side of reality informs his horror stories, which usually deal with the pettiness of mankind and the resulting disaster that befalls those who are vain, greedy, evil, and self-righteous. Ed Lee argues that there is a relevancy in studying the nether regions of the human spirit, and several of these stories accomplish that quite nicely. This story should have won a Bram Stoker Award.<br />If I seem overly enthusiastic about \\"The Ushers,\\" it is because these are entertaining stories from a maturing master in the horror genre. I'm still hoping most of Lee's works will find mass-market release soon, but even if they don't I am more inclined to shell out a few dollars more to get them after reading this collection. Yes, he is that good. Oh, I almost forgot: this book also includes an Ed Lee bibliography stretching back to his first stories and novels. It should go without saying how helpful this is to those fans who wish to obtain more books written by this author.y man shows towards fellow man. The author's fascination with the dark side of reality informs his horror stories, which usually deal with the pettiness of mankind and the resulting disaster that befalls those who are vain, greedy, evil, and self-righteous. Ed Lee argues that there is a relevancy in studying the nether regions of the human spirit, and several of these stories accomplish that quite nicely. This story should have won a Bram Stoker Award.<br />If I seem overly enthusiastic about \\"The Ushers,\\" it is because these are entertaining stories from a maturing master in the horror genre. I'm still hoping most of Lee's works will find mass-market release soon, but even if they don't I am more inclined to shell out a few dollars more to get them after reading this collection. Yes, he is that good. Oh, I almost forgot: this book also includes an Ed Lee bibliography stretching back to his first stories and novels. It should go without saying how helpful this is to those fans who wish to obtain more books written by this author.	2003-07-05
1060922:US	52012289	R5GHB0QWZPLZL	0451527704	887884219	An American Tragedy (Signet Classics)	Books	5	194	211	N	N	Long but Worthy	Theodore Dreiser (1871-1945) is one of the giants of American letters. His novel \\"Sister Carrie,\\" written in 1900, is a cathedral of naturalist literature. Almost as epic as his novels was the constant state of warfare that existed between Dreiser and publishers who consistently refused to publish his books because of the shocking themes the author wrote about. One of his biggest battles involved \\"An American Tragedy,\\" a sprawling book based on a real murder case that occurred in New York at the beginning of the 20th century. Dreiser used the Chester Gillette/Grace Brown episode as the basis for a story that strongly criticized America's infatuation with materialism and social status. In the Gillette case, a young dandy with an eye for the ladies impregnated a young woman and then drowned her in a lake when her condition threatened to put an end to his social life. During the subsequent trial of Chester Gillette, all of America readily soaked up the sordid details of the case. Gillette, vehemently denying that he had anything to do with Grace Brown's murder despite his conviction on a first-degree murder charge, died in the electric chair at Auburn State Prison on March 30, 1908. Dreiser went to such lengths investigating the case for his book that he even took his wife out on the lake where Gillette committed his crime, apparently worrying his spouse that he might recreate the crime.<br />In \\"An American Tragedy,\\" Chester Gillette becomes Clyde Griffiths, the son of itinerant evangelists who roam the country operating missions for the destitute. His parents often take Clyde and his siblings out on the streets of the city in order to sing hymns and hand out religious tracts. While in Kansas City, Clyde reaches the age of sixteen and decides to strike out on his own. Tired of the austere life led by his family, Clyde secures a job as a bellboy at a big hotel downtown. The money he earns and the friends he makes at the hotel quickly lead to Clyde's indoctrination into the fast life of fine clothes, fine food, and fast women. An unfortunate incident with a \\"borrowed\\" car leads to his hasty departure from Kansas City to points east.<br />After a few years of drifting from job to job under an assumed name, Clyde happens to run into a rich uncle at a hotel in Chicago. The uncle, moderately impressed with his nephew's appearance and attitude, offers the young man a job at his collar factory in Lycurgus, New York. Clyde jumps at the opportunity, picturing himself rising quickly at the factory into a world of wealth and privilege. The reality turns out to be quite the opposite. His uncle is indifferent to Clyde's presence, rarely inviting him out to the family estate and starting him at the lowest, dirtiest job in the factory. A cousin named Gilbert also proves troublesome to Clyde's aspirations. Gilbert sees his poor cousin as a real threat to his own position as heir apparent at the factory. Moreover, Gilbert and Clyde are astonishingly similar in appearance. Despite these obstacles, Clyde is optimistic that he will win over his cousin and uncle after a few months time. But he needs to move fast when he meets Sondra Finchley, the daughter of one of the richest families in Lycurgus. If only Clyde could woo this pretty girl and get a good position at the factory! All his dreams would come true!<br />Clyde's dreams nearly do reach fruition until he finds himself in a spectacularly scandalous position. For when Sondra finally decides to make a move for Clyde, she doesn't know about his involvement with a poor factory girl named Roberta Alden. The inevitable eventually happens: Clyde impregnates Roberta at a time when Sondra professes her love for him. Griffiths is in a real pickle now, for he must drop Roberta so he can position himself with Sondra. Clyde convinces Roberta to seek a way out of the pregnancy but various methods fail to work. All seems disaster until Clyde remembers an article in the paper about a drowning at a local lake,and an unthinkable plan begins to form.<br />The minute detail of Clyde's rise and eventual fall leaves no stone unturned. The chapters covering the defense and prosecution's questioning of Clyde during his murder trial cover some seventy pages. Sometimes the details are too much, such as a description of a car accident that takes up way too many pages. Dreiser's mania for detail may be the biggest failing of \\"An American Tragedy\\" because the reader quickly becomes impatient with the pace of the story as the narrative bogs down under a mass of minutiae. Moreover, the author's convoluted prose style leaves a lot to be desired. His language is often so dense that even H.L. Mencken commented on it in the introduction to the story.<br />BUT, and this is a big but, Dreiser's story is deeply affecting. It is well worth reading 850 pages to experience the mind blasting intensity of the story. This is truly a tragedy, as Clyde's crime ruins dozens of people's lives. And such a powerful conclusion! Clyde's march to the electric chair brought tears to my eyes, especially when his mother chucks all the religious chatter, grabs her son, and murmurs \\"my son, my baby.\\" Then note how Dreiser brings the story full circle after the execution. That is what the author does with this story: he makes you feel for nearly every character in the narrative. Ultimately, \\"An American Tragedy\\" is a great book with a few niggling problems. You will be glad you read it, though.and an unthinkable plan begins to form.<br />The minute detail of Clyde's rise and eventual fall leaves no stone unturned. The chapters covering the defense and prosecution's questioning of Clyde during his murder trial cover some seventy pages. Sometimes the details are too much, such as a description of a car accident that takes up way too many pages. Dreiser's mania for detail may be the biggest failing of \\"An American Tragedy\\" because the reader quickly becomes impatient with the pace of the story as the narrative bogs down under a mass of minutiae. Moreover, the author's convoluted prose style leaves a lot to be desired. His language is often so dense that even H.L. Mencken commented on it in the introduction to the story.<br />BUT, and this is a big but, Dreiser's story is deeply affecting. It is well worth reading 850 pages to experience the mind blasting intensity of the story. This is truly a tragedy, as Clyde's crime ruins dozens of people's lives. And such a powerful conclusion! Clyde's march to the electric chair brought tears to my eyes, especially when his mother chucks all the religious chatter, grabs her son, and murmurs \\"my son, my baby.\\" Then note how Dreiser brings the story full circle after the execution. That is what the author does with this story: he makes you feel for nearly every character in the narrative. Ultimately, \\"An American Tragedy\\" is a great book with a few niggling problems. You will be glad you read it, though.	2003-07-05
1061069:US	52012289	R38A8P5TZAK3M	1884365302	537609961	The Jungle: The Uncensored Original Edition	Books	5	72	86	N	N	A Bigger Version with More Kick	I first read Upton Sinclair's 1905 novel \\"The Jungle\\" about seven years ago. The author, a dedicated socialist during the turbulent times of industrial upheaval in America, wrote this novel to show the American public how bad the working conditions actually were in the packinghouses of Chicago. He also hoped to expose the poor treatment of immigrants and the shameless greed of big business. For all intensive purposes, Sinclair did succeed in raising awareness about the dangers of eating canned beef and other meat products that supposedly underwent rigorous government inspection and quality controls. \\"The Jungle\\" even inspired then President Theodore Roosevelt to institute stricter laws and greater administrative controls on the beef industry. Now, with the release of \\"The Jungle: The Uncensored Original Edition,\\" it is possible to discover that Sinclair not only wished to show exactly how bad the meat supply really was, but that his most important goal involved revelations about the plight of the working poor struggling under the crushing weight of laissez-faire capitalism.<br />Jurgis Rudkos is Sinclair's protagonist here, a recent Lithuanian immigrant alighting on the shores of Chicago in search of the American dream of wealth and prestige. Jurgis brings several relatives and his fianc&eacute;e with him, certain that with a new job in the city he will soon wed and raise a family. Rudkos and company soon learn the reality of their situation upon reaching Packingtown, the slums that surround the beef factories like concentric rings of misery that even Dante could not have foreseen. The Rudkos clan doesn't speak English, so they are at the mercy of nearly everyone around them. Jurgis and several of his relatives manage to land jobs at the factories, but soon discover that these jobs are nightmares of depravity involving insanely long working hours, cruel bosses, low pay barely adequate for basic human needs, and filthy conditions. At first, Jurgis doesn't care how bad it is; he knows if he and the members of his family work hard they may eventually afford to purchase a house. This they do, but soon discover that the costs of insurance, interest, and taxes will keep them in a constant state of turmoil. If even one person in the family loses their job, the whole clan faces eviction and eventual doom. As the years pass, Jurgis and those he loves face one calamity after another. Lost jobs, dishonest government and vendors, disease, crime, and debt all take a devastating toll. There is little happiness residing in the pages of this book.<br />Sinclair's purpose with this book is to tout the panacea of socialism in a world that many increasingly saw as controlled by rampant big business. The last half of the story is essentially a socialist pamphlet singing the praises of the working class and how the people need to take back their institutions by reining in corporations. The author rebuts standard arguments favoring capitalism while presenting socialism as salvation incarnate. Whether you agree with socialist dogma or not, it is not difficult to understand why people favored such a worldview in an era when government regulation was non-existent or nearly so. Not surprisingly, unions get a fair amount of support from Sinclair to the extent that they are about the only organization willing to oppose the greed of the meatpackers. In short, \\"The Jungle\\" takes business to task while championing the little guy.<br />This new edition culled Sinclair's original text from a socialist organ entitled \\"Appeal to Reason.\\" The author later tried to publish this version but ran into numerous obstacles from mainstream publishers who worried about lawsuits from the beef trust, the unsettling descriptions of factory life, and the author's unwavering support for immigrants. Sinclair eventually made the changes to the text in order to get the book published, figuring it was important to get some of the message out there then none at all. An introduction in this edition argues that the restored changes show how the author's focus was really on foreign workers, not necessarily the grotesque atmosphere of the slaughterhouses. Sinclair himself stated that he \\"aimed for the public's heart but hit them in the stomach instead.\\" After reading this version of \\"The Jungle,\\" it does seem as though the primary intention of the book was to emphasize the plight of Jurgis and the millions of other poor souls trapped in the insanity of a greedy industry. However, it is hard to read this book and not cringe over the lengthy passages outlining the disgusting practices that led to tainted meat and the spread of disease through such products as tinned beef. Arguably the most powerful section of the book discusses in depth the results of a strike in Chicago involving all of the meatpacking houses. Sinclair is at the height of his descriptive powers as he takes the reader on a tour of the factories locked in the throes of scab warfare and even more disgusting factory conditions. This is powerful stuff.<br />Nearly one hundred years after \\"The Jungle,\\" Upton Sinclair remains the best remembered muckraker of the era. Having read both versions available, I have to conclude that reading either edition is equally effective. I only read this new treatment because I like to read unabridged or uncontaminated copies of any book. The uncensored edition adds about five chapters to the story, but it doesn't really make it that much longer since the chapters are all relatively short. Upton Sinclair fans will most certainly want to acquire this edition of the book to see what they have been missing all these years.his edition argues that the restored changes show how the author's focus was really on foreign workers, not necessarily the grotesque atmosphere of the slaughterhouses. Sinclair himself stated that he \\"aimed for the public's heart but hit them in the stomach instead.\\" After reading this version of \\"The Jungle,\\" it does seem as though the primary intention of the book was to emphasize the plight of Jurgis and the millions of other poor souls trapped in the insanity of a greedy industry. However, it is hard to read this book and not cringe over the lengthy passages outlining the disgusting practices that led to tainted meat and the spread of disease through such products as tinned beef. Arguably the most powerful section of the book discusses in depth the results of a strike in Chicago involving all of the meatpacking houses. Sinclair is at the height of his descriptive powers as he takes the reader on a tour of the factories locked in the throes of scab warfare and even more disgusting factory conditions. This is powerful stuff.<br />Nearly one hundred years after \\"The Jungle,\\" Upton Sinclair remains the best remembered muckraker of the era. Having read both versions available, I have to conclude that reading either edition is equally effective. I only read this new treatment because I like to read unabridged or uncontaminated copies of any book. The uncensored edition adds about five chapters to the story, but it doesn't really make it that much longer since the chapters are all relatively short. Upton Sinclair fans will most certainly want to acquire this edition of the book to see what they have been missing all these years.	2003-07-05
1064443:US	52012289	R2O35M5PUOSF7B	0451205677	579741281	Breed	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Creepy and Effective	Owl Goingback's novel \\"Breed\\" whisks the reader away to the sunny city of St. Augustine, Florida where an ancient evil is about to wake up and stalk the citizens of the town. Three women devoted to all things spiritual decide to go to the old Tolomato cemetery in town, which stands on the site of an ancient Indian village, in order to call forth spirit guides and therefore increase their power. Instead, the three accidentally summon a Shiru, a mystical creature from an old race who once roamed the earth attempting to mate with the local Indian tribes. These tribes recognized the danger of the Shiru and hunted them down about the time the Spanish conquistadors appeared on the scene. Almost no one living in St. Augustine knows anything about the once powerful Shiru or the grim powers the creatures possess. And now with one on the loose in modern day St. Augustine the citizens of the city are absolutely helpless against this mysterious creature.<br />Fortunately for the human race, friendly Indian spirits on the other side are aware that this thing is loose in the world. When Ssabra Onih, a half Indian woman who works as a tour guide for the city suffers a haunting from one of these friendly spirits, she soon learns about the Shiru. This spirit, none other than Chief Tolomato, enlistments her to help hunt down the Shiru and return it to its rightful place. At the same time, Detective Jack Colvin of the city's police department works hard to track down the cause of a spate of grisly killings, all seemingly centered on the foreboding Tolomato cemetery. The victims' remains, what little there is to discover, points to either a very sick murderer or to something not of this world. As the killings increase, Colvin must work harder to find out who is responsible and put them out of business for good. Colvin soon meets up with Ssabra and the two pit their meager forces against a seemingly undefeatable evil from another time and place.<br />Owl Goingback is a Native American of Choctaw/Cherokee descent, something that appears to be a novelty in the horror genre. All I can say is that it is about time an Indian started writing horror stories. Native American belief systems are full of great stories and ideas that would naturally lend themselves to equally great stories of supernatural terror. Apparently, I am not the only reader to feel this way: Goingback won a Bram Stoker Award in 1996 for his novel \\"Crota.\\" It does not take too long to realize that \\"Breed\\" is an Indian story written by an Indian. The language and structure of the story has much in common with an Indian oral story. For those unfamiliar with Indian ways of storytelling, the language might appear stilted, redundant, and at times banal. But oral stories are different from written stories. They often involve formula and repetition because it makes it easier to remember and tell the story. I found \\"Breed\\" well written and generally well executed, especially with the many stories about the history and hauntings in the St. Augustine area. Goingback knows his history and it translates well in this horror tale. Additionally, the great amount of funny situations and dialogue in \\"Breed\\" should blow holes in the myth, a myth still surprisingly powerful today, that Indians do not have a sense of humor.<br />The Shiru is an interesting creature, a bleak presence that possesses the ability to assume the form of any of its victims. Therefore, the Shiru may appear as an old Spanish priest, various Indians, a man or a woman, or a Spanish soldier with equal ease. Goingback describes the real form of the beast as beyond madness, a tentacled creature of great power whose true form always shows itself in a mirror. Regrettably, we have to wait until the very end of the story before we see the Shiru in all of its disgusting glory, but when we do the payoff is great. The goal of this weird creature is to come back into the world and breed, to reproduce itself among the living. How a spirit cando this while Ssabra's spirit guide cannot is probably the greatest problem in the book. Regardless, the Shiru is a good villain and adequately nauseating.<br />I liked \\"Breed.\\" Goingback has an almost clinical writing style, a great sense of humor, and a scary monster all rolled into an entertaining story. While this tale certainly cannot compare with the great masters of the horror genre, it stands on its own as a creepy little yarn that gets under your skin and stays there.do this while Ssabra's spirit guide cannot is probably the greatest problem in the book. Regardless, the Shiru is a good villain and adequately nauseating. <br />I liked \\"Breed.\\" Goingback has an almost clinical writing style, a great sense of humor, and a scary monster all rolled into an entertaining story. While this tale certainly cannot compare with the great masters of the horror genre, it stands on its own as a creepy little yarn that gets under your skin and stays there.	2003-07-02
1068160:US	52012289	R3MISOPEM28HPU	0843951257	265201169	The Night Class	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Great Scenes but Problematic Structure	Tom Piccirilli's \\"The Night Class,\\" set in a university, begins with that age-old problem of every student who has ever walked through the hollowed halls of academia. Caleb Prentiss sits sulking in his 8:00 AM philosophy class watching Professor Yokver make a fool out of himself yet again. A majority of the students in Yok's class seem to enjoy the back flips, the nonsense chatter, and the idea that motion does not exist in a philosophical sense. But Cal finds it taxing in the extreme, especially when he wants nothing more than to idle away his hours in front of the television set or to spend time with girlfriend Jodi (who sits in Yokver's class as well) and his small group of friends. Predictably, the professor recognizes Cal's impatience and disdain for his class, often targeting Cal for special attention. On this fine morning Cal will have nothing of the sort, and he finally stands up to the professor, tells him off, and storms out of the class for the final time with only marginal concern about the consequences such an action will have on his GPA.<br />Cal does have other concerns than a nutty philosophy class. Jodi plans on enrolling in medical school where she hopes her lifelong love of learning will finally pay off. Cal isn't sure where he fits into her plans, but he recognizes her desire to escape a trailer trash background as he struggles with his own sense of ineptness. Cal's emotional state is further imperiled by the tenuous relationship between his friends Willy and Rose. But the real clincher comes when Cal realizes a murder took place in his room over the Christmas break. He begins to obsess over the identity of this young woman (named Sylvia Campbell), tracking down information about the crime from two sadistic campus security guards and locating her possessions stored in a building on the university grounds. As Cal's infatuation with the mysterious Sylvia grows, more questions than answers arise. Whose is Sylvia and why is her background so shrouded in mystery? Why do none of his friends realize a murder took place in his room? What role does the university play in the homicide? As Cal begins to write his senior thesis on this sad incident, his own sense of self and his relationships start to crumble.<br />\\"The Night Class\\" is not a conventional horror story. To begin with, there is little in the way of gore or overt scares found here. Piccirilli decides to take a cerebral tack instead, spending most of the story outlining Cal's psychological state and his troubled relations with other people. We discover that Cal has many problems, that he is a binge drinker who obsesses over witnessing the suicide of his sister many years before. He also has a problem of getting stigmata on his hands when someone close to him dies. Cryptic clues about where the story is going appear from time to time, such as references to Cal's eerie \\"acceptability\\" to the faculty and university. The reader is left in the dark about what all of this means until the end of the story, when the author rips down the curtains and we learn this is a tale about illusions and power, about how those individuals who hold real power in society and how they abuse authority. In this case, it is university administrators and professors who make or break students seeking entry into the professional world. Professors have the power of grades over their pupils, but in Piccirilli's world the power of grades also leads to the coercion of sexual favors from dedicated students.<br />\\"The Night Class\\" as a novel does not work as well as it could. The whole book resembles a series of scenes rather than a unified novel, and a reader quickly gets bogged down in the details without knowing where exactly this whole thing is going. Even the ending is a bit of a letdown, as Cal learns the real nature of what his university is about and tries to put a stop to the shenanigans. The idea of paying any price to gain admittance to the top tiers of society is a good one, butits execution suffers in \\"The Night Class.\\"<br />What does work well is the author's ability to construct a gripping scene. Arguably the best example of this talent concerns Cal's adventure to the strip club where his friend Willy spends most of his time. Cal not only visits with Willy, but also notices a girl he had a crush on from school is part of the stage show. Through pages of minute description, Piccirilli manages to convey the atmospheric tensions of such a place, the dynamic between the promise of beauty and the seedy nature of this profession. This scene also imparts an important clue to the story when Cal sees beyond the façade of his college crush, seeing the scars of injury and drug use underneath the makeup and suggestive outfit. In other words, there is corruption behind the face presented to the public. The university is the same way. It is many of these carefully crafted scenes that makes the book worth reading.<br />Tom Piccirilli won a Bram Stoker Award for this novel in 2002, but I felt as though the author was merely doodling his way through the book. A better structured novel with sufficient sign posts along the way so the reader knows where he or she is heading would make a more interesting read. Piccirilli can write, of that there is no doubt, but his organizational skills in \\"The Night Class\\" are sorely lacking.its execution suffers in \\"The Night Class.\\" <br />What does work well is the author's ability to construct a gripping scene. Arguably the best example of this talent concerns Cal's adventure to the strip club where his friend Willy spends most of his time. Cal not only visits with Willy, but also notices a girl he had a crush on from school is part of the stage show. Through pages of minute description, Piccirilli manages to convey the atmospheric tensions of such a place, the dynamic between the promise of beauty and the seedy nature of this profession. This scene also imparts an important clue to the story when Cal sees beyond the façade of his college crush, seeing the scars of injury and drug use underneath the makeup and suggestive outfit. In other words, there is corruption behind the face presented to the public. The university is the same way. It is many of these carefully crafted scenes that makes the book worth reading.<br />Tom Piccirilli won a Bram Stoker Award for this novel in 2002, but I felt as though the author was merely doodling his way through the book. A better structured novel with sufficient sign posts along the way so the reader knows where he or she is heading would make a more interesting read. Piccirilli can write, of that there is no doubt, but his organizational skills in \\"The Night Class\\" are sorely lacking.	2003-06-29
1079029:US	52012289	R3HGBDOYT71XMA	084394935X	14551897	Spirit	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Beautifully Written and Engaging	After reading just two of his novels, I am becoming immensely impressed with Graham Masterton. It is a darn shame most of the horror novels written by this guy are out of print. Masterton's prose, his insightful characters, and his quirky plots are wonderful contributions to the horror genre. This book, \\"Spirit,\\" is closely related to the other Masterton book I read recently, \\"The House that Jack Built.\\" Both of these stories deal with your typical haunted house/ghost story, but the author does not rely on the standard explanations about spirits and hauntings. In \\"The House that Jack Built,\\" Masterton argued that it is psychic vibrations and the nature of time and history that account for strange sightings of dead people. In \\"Spirit,\\" he creates an intensely sad story around the idea that the human imagination accounts for the presence of those who have moved on beyond the world of the living.<br /><br />\\"Spirit\\" is the epic story of the Buchanan family beginning in 1940's Connecticut. The real focus of the story is on Elizabeth and Laura Buchanan and their little sister Peggy. When we meet the family the three sisters are very young, spending their days lost in worlds of childish imagination. The sisters' favorite story is Hans Christian Andersen's \\"The Snow Queen,\\" and the three occasionally act out parts of the tale for their own amusement, especially young Peggy. But then tragedy strikes when Peggy accidentally falls through ice and drowns in the family swimming pool. Her death causes the Buchanan family to slowly disintegrate, leading to premature aging for the father and a nervous breakdown with intermittent stays in a mental facility for the mother. Elizabeth and Laura grow up and try to do the best they can with their lives, but the death of Peggy casts a permanent shadow over everyone's life. For most people who lose a member of the family, life does go on after such a sad incident, but not for the Buchanans.<br /><br />The problem comes when Elizabeth and Laura realize that Peggy hasn't gone gently into the good night. She returns as a spirit, a pale white shade dedicated to protecting her sisters from even the slightest dangers in life. When Laura has an improper relationship with the local preacher, Peggy is there to help clean up the mess in a particularly gruesome way. For over a decade, Peggy always shows up to deliver death, usually by using extreme cold as a weapon, to those who pose a threat to her sisters. It gets to the point where the two sisters feel they cannot even have a disagreement with another person without putting someone in harm's way. Then Elizabeth and Laura discover why Peggy acts in such an egregious manner. Peggy's actions in life, namely her imagination, have led to her return after death. After Elizabeth lives through an encounter with a terrifying creature invoked by Peggy, she knows she has to do something to get rid of her dead sister's influence.<br /><br />\\"Spirit\\" is a deeply atmospheric story loaded with pop culture references, great character development, and a great idea about why ghosts exist. There are also extremely touchy examinations of taboo subjects and great gore sequences (imagine the consequences of a body exposed to temperatures of 200 degrees below zero). The conclusion to the story, while seemingly rushed to some extent and not all that interesting, is not a happy, \\"we beat the monster!\\" ending. The sense of profound loss Elizabeth experiences in the end is only the final loss among many throughout the story. That may be the real theme of the story: loss and how we as living beings deal with it (or don't deal with it, as the case may be).<br /><br />A word to the wary: this book deals with very adult themes described in graphic detail. There is pederasty and a brutal rape scene that is sure to upset even the most jaded readers. Fortunately, these sickening scenes are not inserted into the story for mere sensationalism, but actually do add dimension to the Laura Buchanan character. At the same time, it also highlights a potential problem with the story. Elizabeth and Laura both pontificate on how they wish Peggy would leave them alone and let them take risks and decide how to live their own lives. With the descriptions of Laura's misfortunes, it is obvious that this girl does not know how to live her life. In fact, without the ultimate intervention of Peggy, Laura probably would have been in a world of hurt far beyond learning lessons about life. Despite this and a few other problems with \\"Spirit,\\" this Masterton book is highly readable and absolutely worth the day or two it takes to get through it.it also highlights a potential problem with the story. Elizabeth and Laura both pontificate on how they wish Peggy would leave them alone and let them take risks and decide how to live their own lives. With the descriptions of Laura's misfortunes, it is obvious that this girl does not know how to live her life. In fact, without the ultimate intervention of Peggy, Laura probably would have been in a world of hurt far beyond learning lessons about life. Despite this and a few other problems with \\"Spirit,\\" this Masterton book is highly readable and absolutely worth the day or two it takes to get through it.	2003-06-22
1079873:US	52012289	R1AMTW8CHOG0XK	0786013109	499896225	Eternity	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Nifty Story, Slight Problems	Eternity, California is definitely one of those places you would rather visit then live. Its isolation is the first problematic thing about it. High up in the mountains along treacherous roads, Eternity promises complete solitude for those who wish to hide away from the real world. At the same time, the remote location of the town virtually insures that serious dangers will also be kept from prying eyes. When Zach Tully, a Los Angeles police detective, decides to accept a job as sheriff of this inaccessible little niche in the mountains, he learns that isolation is not always the safest escape from the big city. Tully leaves LA after his wife and young son die at the hands of the Backdoor Man, a grotesque serial killer who the cop came within minutes of catching. Now Tully wants some peace and quiet, a place where he can go to do some fishing and where the extent of his policing duties are the occasional writing of a parking ticket or busting up a beer bash.<br />Imagine Tully's surprise when he discovers that Eternity has a sky-high homicide rate. Moreover, the last two men to hold the position of sheriff died horribly at the hands of a serial killer. To add insult to injury, the new sheriff finds himself at the mercy of the city council, a group of oddball characters with a lot of secrets to hide and short patience for an inquisitive cop. Then there is the assortment of escaped patients from the nearby asylum, strange lights in the mountains, a Stonehenge-like circle that emits weird energies, a local legend that Lemurians are hiding in the mountains, and more than one resident of the town resembles people who disappeared throughout time, like Ambrose Bierce, Amelia Earhart, and Jim Morrison. Rumor has it that the spate of serial killings in the area closely resembles those of the infamous Jack the Ripper. Sheriff Tully has his hands full right from the start, although he does strike up an acquaintance with beautiful Kate McPherson and her young son Josh. Overall, his stay in Eternity promises to be anything but mundane.<br />While \\"Eternity\\" contains elements of a classic suspense tale, there is a significant amount of horror here as well. I quit counting the number of deaths after awhile, as the townspeople literally drop like flies every few pages or so. The murders are gruesome, involving much more than simple shootings or stabbings. The book opens with the unpleasant description of Tully's predecessor moving into the afterlife, setting the tone right from the start that this story is not going to be without its moments of stomach churning scenes.<br />The characters are well done for books in this genre. Sheriff Tully receives the most attention since he is the main character. The author, Tamara Thorne, takes the reader into Tully's head quite often, especially when describing his dreams about the death of his family at the hands of the Backdoor Man and how he is bound and determined to not let this happen to Kate and Josh in Eternity. Tully is a tortured soul taking his first tentative steps back to normality, and the killings in Eternity stand squarely in his way. Other characters are not as well drawn, but should have been. For example, I would have liked to see more done with Carl Leland, Kate's domineering and manipulative ex-husband. This guy had great potential to cause a heap of trouble for our main characters, but Thorne allows him to barely make a ripple in the larger story.<br />Books that deal with people isolated from society always suffer several plot problems unless the author adequately explains them away. Thorne fails to do such here. The biggest question that loomed large in my mind as I read the story and saw the death toll mount was: Why has no one brought in authorities from the outside? Here is a serious spate of serial killings, everybody knows they are serial killings, everybody is afraid of becoming a victim of the killer, yet no one calls in the state police or the FBI. The excuse that the townfathers do not want to damage the tourism industry just does not explain away this problem. But once you recognize this plot hole and allow yourself to get past it, the story holds the reader's interest while providing some pretty cool explanations for missing persons, Stonehenge, and unexplained serial killings throughout the last 110 years or so. I thought Thorne really knew her stuff about these incidents and wove them well into the story. There are a few other problems, namely not enough detail about the Lemurians and the Stonehenge circle in the mountains, but the story works well without them.<br />Tamara Thorne's \\"Eternity\\" is an entertaining read. Despite a few unexplained threads, the story really works with its generous helpings of gore and suspense. I always enjoy a good yarn about Jack the Ripper, and this story makes him a major character. I also liked the way Tully discovers the identity of the killer. I would certainly read another Tamara Thorne book based solely on my experience with \\"Eternity.\\"fathers do not want to damage the tourism industry just does not explain away this problem. But once you recognize this plot hole and allow yourself to get past it, the story holds the reader's interest while providing some pretty cool explanations for missing persons, Stonehenge, and unexplained serial killings throughout the last 110 years or so. I thought Thorne really knew her stuff about these incidents and wove them well into the story. There are a few other problems, namely not enough detail about the Lemurians and the Stonehenge circle in the mountains, but the story works well without them.<br />Tamara Thorne's \\"Eternity\\" is an entertaining read. Despite a few unexplained threads, the story really works with its generous helpings of gore and suspense. I always enjoy a good yarn about Jack the Ripper, and this story makes him a major character. I also liked the way Tully discovers the identity of the killer. I would certainly read another Tamara Thorne book based solely on my experience with \\"Eternity.\\"	2003-06-21
1080544:US	52012289	R11NRNJ4IT4BRC	0843948817	429142947	The Beast That Was Max	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Three Wicked Tales of Weirdness	Gerard Houarner appears to be a bright new face in the horror genre. A quick search about him revealed some interesting tidbits about this author's life. His parents were Breton immigrants, and Houarner didn't speak much English until he went to school. His educational background is impressive, with a trip through CCNY where he took a writing class taught by Joseph Heller. Since he heard time and again that his writing didn't fit a particular classification, Houarner decided to get a real job and began working in the mental health profession. He spends his days dealing with methadone patients, and at night (apparently) writes gory horror stories steeped in esoteric religious themes and darkly erotic relationships. This book, \\"The Beast That Was Max,\\" consists of three tales about a government assassin/serial killer and his various misadventures through both the real world and the realms of the spiritual.<br />Max's existence is tenuous at best. His primary job is working as a highly trained killer for the government. Max has to live each day of his life with the knowledge that at any moment the government could put out a contract on his head. His wet work for the federales has taken Max around the world, from South America to Asia. Everywhere he goes he leaves behind a mound of corpses that serve as a grim testament to his killing abilities. Occasionally, Max works with Lee, another government agent as deep in blood as Max. Max kills for the government because it allows him to give vent to the powerful, screaming, bloody beast that lives inside of him. This beast, who never takes a definitely recognizable form in this set of stories but who appears to resemble a wolf-like creature of some sorts, constantly drives Max to further mayhem. Every second of the day and night finds Max wrestling with this inner demon in order to prevent non-stop carnage that could easily envelop even those he cares about. But in those times of need, when a mission presents a real danger to Max's well being, the beast roars forth with superhuman strength and a killing hunger. In short, Max is a tortured soul always teetering on the outer edges of sanity.<br />In the first story, entitled \\"To Dance Like Mist in Moonlight,\\" Max and Lee embark on a mission to protect a Cambodian woman from what turns out to be a sorcerer of sorts. Max is at first troubled to discover that this woman, named Mani, has the ability to get inside of his mind and stir up a mess of trouble with the beast. More trouble emerges when Max and Lee discover that this sorcerer, named Rithisak, has the ability to animate the dead and use them to attack his enemies. There is a fair amount of gore in this story, plentiful references to Eastern spiritual practices and rites, and good atmosphere in the \\"nowhere house.\\" I spent most of this story just trying to get a feel for the various characters and history of Max.<br />The second tale, \\"The Beast That Was Max,\\" introduces us to Max's twisted \\"nieces,\\" Alioune and Kueur. The product of a union between two supernatural entities, these twins share Max's appetite for violence. Max discovered them in France and has had a fondness for their strangeness ever since. This story also introduces us to the ghosts of Max's female victims as well as the \\"father\\" and \\"mother\\" of the twins. Houarner continues to rely on extreme gore and arcane religious themes here, this time Vietnamese and African tribal gods. Again, I had some difficulty at times following the story. I thought it would really help to read the earlier Max stories contained in the collection called \\"Painfreak\\" in order to better understand what exactly is going on until I found out that the stories here are the ones that appeared in \\"Painfreak.\\" Hopefully, Houarner will one day write a prequel to explain why Max is the way he is.<br />The final story is arguably the best one. Called \\"Truth and Consequences in the Heart of Destruction,\\" Max discovers he is pregnant (yes, pregnant) and must deal with the consequences of parenthood. Alioune and Kueur, now erotically tied to their dear \\"Tonton,\\" serve to protect Max from government agents interested in studying the assassin's unusual condition. They also call in a host of oddball spiritual advisors, from Navajo Indians to an African holy man, to help give Max relief and to deliver the baby. This story drips with obscure theological allusions mixed with gun battles, a knife fight, and an avenging angel who shatters bodies with the flick of his wrist. There is so much going on here it is difficult to keep track of it all. But at least by this time the reader has a familiarity with the characters and recognizes the offhand references to past events.<br />Overall, I rate this book better than average even though a few of the situations Max found himself in were ridiculous. \\"The Beast That Was Max\\" contains some intriguing ideas and good prose work, but at the same time the pacing is a bit slipshod and characters appear almost as if by magic throughout the stories, with little explanation for why they appear. Certain sections of these stories reminded me of Charlee Jacob's work, specifically the heavy reliance on non-western religious traditions as a basis for horrendous events. Ultimately, Gerard Houarner shows great promise with the grim trio of stories collected here. There is already another collection of Max stories, \\"Road to Hell,\\" with more supposedly on the way. For fans of extreme horror, Houarner fits the bill nicely.ust deal with the consequences of parenthood. Alioune and Kueur, now erotically tied to their dear \\"Tonton,\\" serve to protect Max from government agents interested in studying the assassin's unusual condition. They also call in a host of oddball spiritual advisors, from Navajo Indians to an African holy man, to help give Max relief and to deliver the baby. This story drips with obscure theological allusions mixed with gun battles, a knife fight, and an avenging angel who shatters bodies with the flick of his wrist. There is so much going on here it is difficult to keep track of it all. But at least by this time the reader has a familiarity with the characters and recognizes the offhand references to past events.<br />Overall, I rate this book better than average even though a few of the situations Max found himself in were ridiculous. \\"The Beast That Was Max\\" contains some intriguing ideas and good prose work, but at the same time the pacing is a bit slipshod and characters appear almost as if by magic throughout the stories, with little explanation for why they appear. Certain sections of these stories reminded me of Charlee Jacob's work, specifically the heavy reliance on non-western religious traditions as a basis for horrendous events. Ultimately, Gerard Houarner shows great promise with the grim trio of stories collected here. There is already another collection of Max stories, \\"Road to Hell,\\" with more supposedly on the way. For fans of extreme horror, Houarner fits the bill nicely.	2003-06-20
1082108:US	52012289	R1O19C1AJTHTL5	0843947462	410907005	The House That Jack Built	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Fabulous Twist on a Haunted House Tale	Craig and Effie Bellman are your typical upscale New Yorkers. Craig heads up his own law firm, specializing in international law with an emphasis on Japanese corporate clients. Effie works at a modern art gallery. Life is going well for this wealthy couple until horror descends on Craig one rainy March evening. While in route to an important meeting with one of his clients, Craig makes a tragic mistake by mouthing off to his cab driver. After being thrown out of the cab, Craig stupidly helps a young woman who claims one of her friends is being raped in an abandoned store. Big mistake. Craig just got set-up and takes the fall when two thugs associated with a local gang rob and mutilate him. Craig's sense of manhood is permanently shattered by these terrible events, and his relationship with his wife teeters on the brink of disaster until the Bellmans take a vacation in the Hudson River Valley. During the course of this stay away from home, Craig and Effie discover Valhalla, a decaying estate built by the famous business tycoon and gambler Jack Belias in the 1930s. The house is a disaster, with collapsed sections of roofing, decayed floors, shattered windows, and rodent infestations. Even worse, the locals believe evil spirits wander the halls of the house.<br />Although Effie takes an instant disliking to Valhalla, something about the estate calls to Craig through the depths of his depression. As he says several times during the course of the story, the house \\"is me,\\" that this money pit speaks to him on a fundamental level. Craig quickly decides he must have this house even though the restoration alone will cost several million dollars. He enlists the help of Norman Moriarty, a local man with a penchant for using the word \\"like\\" in every sentence and a whiz at restoring old properties, to help him refurbish the building. As Craig becomes increasingly involved in restoring the house, his personality and physical appearance begin to change. He becomes downright belligerent towards his wife and total strangers, eventually resorting to terrible outbursts of violence.<br />Effie is less than enthusiastic about the entire project. She wants to support Craig if it means helping him emerge from his tragedy, but the house completely spooks her at every turn. When one of the surveyors hired by Craig dies in a terribly disgusting way, Effie is even more anxious about the situation she finds herself in. She slowly comes to realize that the house is seriously amiss after hearing ghostly sobbing from an upstairs bedroom and spotting a mysterious figure running through the house. Effie soon enlists the aid of aging hippie Pepper Moriarty, Norman's mother and the owner of a psychic/herb/witchcraft store in town to help her discover what secrets the house holds. The answers are many and most are not pleasant. What seems to be a tale of a simple haunted house turns into, in author Graham Masterton's hands, a complex tale about coincident realities and bizarre theories about the nature of history and time.<br />Haunted house tales have the potential to fall back on stale conventions. Masterton's unique take on the old \\"ghost rattling the chains\\" idea is both enjoyable and exceptionally imaginative. Relying heavily on new age mumbo jumbo and quasi-physics, the author injects new life into an old genre. \\"The House that Jack Built\\" quickly turns into a gripping story, an \\"unputdownable\\" book that leaves the reader smiling over some of the clever twists and turns Masterton inserts into the story. It doesn't hurt at all that Valhalla has great atmosphere, with its eerie hallways, strange woodcarvings and murals, and cryptic inscriptions (\\"Gut ist der Schlaf, der Tod ist besser\\" and \\"Non omnis moriar\\"). The villain of the story, Jack Belias, is an interesting character and truly creepy. But the main character of the story is really Effie, as she struggles to understand why the creepy metamorphosis her husband undergoes and how she can reverse the odious influences of the house.<br />It was the gory scenes in the story that struck my fancy. There really isn't that much in the way of grue, but when it appears it makes you sit up and cheer. Probably the best incident involves the surveyor who suffers an appalling accident while wondering through the house. Masterton refuses to leave well enough alone, however, as he ratchets up the cringe factor. Let's just say that he had this reader moan out loud, \\"Oh no, not the rats!\\" Poor Morton Walker. At least he suffered one of the more interesting deaths I have recently read in my jaunts through the horror genre.<br />This is my first foray into the world of Graham Masterton, and it absolutely will not be my last. I like what he did with this haunted house tale, and if he is able to do the same thing with other horror standards, such as vampire stories, I look forward to exploring his other books. Despite a few slight problems, such as the highly implausible situation of Craig dumbly agreeing to help someone he doesn't know on the streets of New York (I don't even live there and I recognize how idiotic this is) and the difficulty in following Masterton's theories about why the house is doing what its doing, the book is an overall success. With great atmosphere, interesting characters, good gore, and an engaging plot, \\"The House that Jack Built\\" delivers the goods.ous influences of the house.<br />It was the gory scenes in the story that struck my fancy. There really isn't that much in the way of grue, but when it appears it makes you sit up and cheer. Probably the best incident involves the surveyor who suffers an appalling accident while wondering through the house. Masterton refuses to leave well enough alone, however, as he ratchets up the cringe factor. Let's just say that he had this reader moan out loud, \\"Oh no, not the rats!\\" Poor Morton Walker. At least he suffered one of the more interesting deaths I have recently read in my jaunts through the horror genre. <br />This is my first foray into the world of Graham Masterton, and it absolutely will not be my last. I like what he did with this haunted house tale, and if he is able to do the same thing with other horror standards, such as vampire stories, I look forward to exploring his other books. Despite a few slight problems, such as the highly implausible situation of Craig dumbly agreeing to help someone he doesn't know on the streets of New York (I don't even live there and I recognize how idiotic this is) and the difficulty in following Masterton's theories about why the house is doing what its doing, the book is an overall success. With great atmosphere, interesting characters, good gore, and an engaging plot, \\"The House that Jack Built\\" delivers the goods.	2003-06-19
1083984:US	52012289	R1MOBMPP2JZ0Q2	055358491X	243143871	With These Hands: Stories	Books	5	12	13	N	N	L'Amour isn't just about westerns	I bought \\"With These Hands\\" on a whim during a trip to a local store. For some time I have had the idea floating around the periphery of my mind to actually read something, anything, from Louis L'Amour. He is immensely popular through his western themed books, most of which are still in print. The back cover of this book says there are 270 million of his books floating around out there. Can you imagine? That blows most of the big boys out of the water. With that knowledge firmly embedded in my mind, I bought \\"With These Hands\\" and gave it a whirl. What surprised me about this collection of short stories is that only one is a western. The rest of the stories are highly charged action tales about boxing, crime noir, or WWII. It seems that L'Amour wrote most of these stories years ago for the pulp magazines at the start of his writing career.<br />The first thing to realize about these stories is that they are not complex tales with sophisticated character development or multi-leveled plots. That is not to say that the underlying ideas of the stories are crude or undeveloped because each story does flow from an interesting theme. What L'Amour gives his readers is unrelenting action delivered with crisp dialogue and a minimum of words. Action stalks through each of these stories like a beast on a rampage. Teeth rocket out of mouths, noses are pulped, gunfire crackles, and bodies fall like rain. Not surprisingly, the boxing stories contain the most descriptive passages of violence. But all of the stories deliver a maximum level of entertainment to those readers looking for action heavy fiction.<br />The most surprising realization with these stories is that L'Amour does an excellent job writing crime noir yarns. Arguably the best one included here is \\"Corpse on the Carpet.\\" In this slangy, gritty tale, an ex-boxer named Kipling Morgan happens to show up at a bar at the wrong (or right, depending on what perspective you take) time. He witnesses a smashingly beautiful woman decked out in expensive jewelry pick up a young guy and leave. Intrigued yet concerned that something isn't quite right with this scene, Kip follows the two across town. When our ex-boxer realizes it is a set-up to shake down the guy for money, he steps in and saves the guy from a serious beating. There is no happy ending at this point, as Kip continues to investigate the suspicious events concerning the woman. What follows is the discovery of a murder, a kidnapping, a gang of dangerous thugs on the lam, and fistfights and shootouts. \\"Corpse on the Carpet\\" is everything a great short story should be in this genre. It easily matches up with Dashiell Hammett's Continental Op stories.<br />The several boxing tales in this collection came about from L'Amour's own career as a boxer (!). There is always a little hook in each story to serve as background leading up to the showdown in the ring, such as a boxer seeking revenge (Gloves for a Tiger), or a boxer who sees his victories in a dream (Dream Fighter). The action is where it's at, though. L'Amour mimics a ringside announcer with his blow by blow descriptions of fighters beating each other into hamburger. But it is in these boxing tales that the biggest problem with this collection is most apparent: the author has the annoying tendency to use exclamation marks to the point of distraction. Nearly every sentence describing the fights has one at the end of the sentence, and it gives the story a sometimes irritatingly adolescent atmosphere.<br />Then there are the war stories, usually centered on an aviator or the captain of a supply ship. Whether dealing with pirates taking advantage of the war to ply their trade (Pirates of the Sky), or heading out on a secret mission in the heart of wartime Japan (Flight to Entebu), L'Amour always gives us a hero, with a glint in his eye and a jaw of steel, to win the day. Expect to see aerial combat, hand-to-hand combat, double-crossing treachery, and high body counts in these war tales.<br />The odd story out, and the one used for the title of this collection, is strikingly similar to something Jack London would write. In \\"With These Hands,\\" a plane crash in snow clogged mountains forces the lone surviving passenger, an oil company executive, to reassess his conceptions about life. This story is a real \\"man vs. nature\\" tale, with the executive forced to build shelter, hunt game, keep a fire going, and constantly be on the lookout for rescue planes while he tries to stay alive. \\"With These Hands\\" is definitely different from the other stories in the collections, but it is just as entertaining as the rest.<br />\\"With These Hands\\" is a fun collection of short stories that are great for passing a few hours. I expect to read a few more of these L'Amour books during the next few months since I do like to read action stories that don't require a lot of thought from time to time. L'Amour died in 1988, but these collections assembled by his family continue to appear with some regularity. Let's hope they keep finding more lost L'Amour treasures.tales. <br />The odd story out, and the one used for the title of this collection, is strikingly similar to something Jack London would write. In \\"With These Hands,\\" a plane crash in snow clogged mountains forces the lone surviving passenger, an oil company executive, to reassess his conceptions about life. This story is a real \\"man vs. nature\\" tale, with the executive forced to build shelter, hunt game, keep a fire going, and constantly be on the lookout for rescue planes while he tries to stay alive. \\"With These Hands\\" is definitely different from the other stories in the collections, but it is just as entertaining as the rest.<br />\\"With These Hands\\" is a fun collection of short stories that are great for passing a few hours. I expect to read a few more of these L'Amour books during the next few months since I do like to read action stories that don't require a lot of thought from time to time. L'Amour died in 1988, but these collections assembled by his family continue to appear with some regularity. Let's hope they keep finding more lost L'Amour treasures.	2003-06-18
1084183:US	52012289	R2G3E2GHEUU8GD	0786015039	680292351	The Red Church	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Promising Start	Whispering Pines, North Carolina has a grim secret in its past. During the painful throes of the American Civil War, local preacher Wendell McFall went stark raving mad. The good reverend took advantage of the high death toll among the local population to start launching jeremiads about how Jesus betrayed God by spreading venomous ideas about love and tolerance. Not content to leave well enough alone, McFall took his bizarre theology even further, claiming that another Son of God, a second son, would arrive to deliver the human race. This messiah wouldn't come preaching the kingdom of heaven, but the need for horrific sacrifice on the part of humanity. McFall went so over the top that he actually painted his church red and sacrificed a local child on the altar. The parishioners, fed up with McFall's increasingly weird beliefs, strung good old Wendell up on the branches of the dogwood tree in front of the church thus seeming to put an end to the madness once and for all.<br />Flash forward to the present, or four generations after the events of Wendell McFall's day. The red church, now used as a warehouse for hay, still stands as a mute reminder of the horrors of yesterday. Ronnie and Tim Day, the sons of Linda and David Day, run into a spot of trouble when they discover a horribly mutilated body in the graveyard near the church. What the two boys do not realize is that this forbidding discovery is the opening gambit of one Archer McFall, descendent of Wendell and himself a preacher returning home from a dark past in California. Archer plans to reopen the red church, to start the midnight services again in order to preach to the descendents of the families who lynched Wendell McFall. Throw in a local sheriff with a guilt complex over his dead brother Samuel, a hard-nosed female cop with no tolerance for supernatural beliefs, several grisly murders, a ranting old lady who claims she immaculately conceived a child, cannibalism, and a good old fashioned Bell Monster and you have the essential elements of this technically flawed but fascinating debut novel from Scott Nicholson.<br />\\"The Red Church\\" works on many levels. There are some great gore scenes in the book, as well as genuinely frightening moments when Ronnie and Tim take center stage. Moreover, character development, while hazy at times, works very well when Nicholson brings in Sheriff Frank Littlefield and his fellow officer Sergeant Sheila Storie. Littlefield forms one of the novel's core subplots, namely his brother Samuel and the guilt he has over his brother's death. The author further defines the sheriff by placing him in opposition to Storie, who believes none of the happenings in Whispering Pines involve Archer McFall or old spook stories about a haunted church. Her reliance on quantitative evidence brings sharper focus to Frank's knowledge about what is really going on in town. By the end of the story, Frank and Sheila start seeing eye to eye, which further develops both characters. Ronnie also receives much attention from the author, who uses the child as a platform for debating theological points about the nature of Jesus and God. The conclusion completely works, with many twists and turns constantly taking the reader by surprise.<br />This novel does have certain inherent flaws, mostly related to organizational and editing errors. For example, during the strange experiences that take place after Archer holds the first service in the reopened church the author tells us at least twice that dawn is ready to break on the horizon. This is an incredible statement because from the feel of the two events, both of which are widely separated in time, it should not even be close to dawn. Another continuity error occurs when Frank walks into the church during the final showdown with Archer, but amazingly walks inside again a few pages later without his having left after the first entrance. These are very minor quibbles because the pacing is fine and the conclusion is a slam-bang homerun.<br />I think this book got under my skin a bit more than other horror novels because when I was a kid stories floated around here about an old church sitting on a dirt road a few miles from my house. Between the resurrection of that old childhood fear and the ultra cool ending (which resembles Dean Koontz's \\"Phantoms\\" in more ways than one), I would say that Scott Nicholson is well on his way to a successful career in the horror genre. I see that he has a new novel coming out in September called \\"The Harvest.\\" Hopefully, that book will embrace many of the great ideas expressed in \\"The Red Church\\" while excising some of the abovementioned editing flaws.am-bang homerun.<br />I think this book got under my skin a bit more than other horror novels because when I was a kid stories floated around here about an old church sitting on a dirt road a few miles from my house. Between the resurrection of that old childhood fear and the ultra cool ending (which resembles Dean Koontz's \\"Phantoms\\" in more ways than one), I would say that Scott Nicholson is well on his way to a successful career in the horror genre. I see that he has a new novel coming out in September called \\"The Harvest.\\" Hopefully, that book will embrace many of the great ideas expressed in \\"The Red Church\\" while excising some of the abovementioned editing flaws.	2003-06-18
1085809:US	52012289	R38AXUQIBCYXP9	0375411305	482522807	Shroud	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Meet Axel Vander	Imagine my overwhelming surprise when I dug deep into John Banville's \\"Shroud\\" and discovered a book oozing with sumptuous prose stylings, beautifully shaped characters, sumptuous scenery, and a plot both wondrous and fulfilling. I really did not think there were writers who could sculpt a book like this anymore. Most modern \\"literature\\" consists of shallow characters, banal dialogue, and pedestrian plot lines. Not Banville, or at least not in this stupendous story about a retired university professor and literature critic named Axel Vander. \\"Shroud\\" blew away many of my dogmatic conceptions about what literature means in this era of waning attention spans and lazy readers. Perhaps it will do the same for you.<br />It is extremely difficult to like Axel Vander. He is a mean-spirited, misogynistic, malicious, petty jerk. Moreover, Vander would be the first to admit that he is a jerk. He simply doesn't care what other people think about him, at least not on the surface. And he lies, oh how he lies. He describes himself as a \\"virtuoso of lies\\" and admits he spent his entire career as an academic attacking others while building his own career on superficiality. He rarely read the things he attacked and read less of those things on which he built his reputation. Everyone in Vander's life suffered through his unbearable presence, especially his late wife Magda. Vander ignored Magda until a bout with Alzheimer's disease finally forced him to deal with her. Although Vander may be the biggest jerk in the history of literature, occasional phrases or thoughts he has hint at someone greater than the sum of his parts.<br />When we meet Vander, he is in a great dilemma. He recently received a letter from a young woman in Europe who discovered a grim secret in Vander's past, a secret that threatens to expose him and bring disgrace to his vaunted career. Vander feels he must meet this danger head on, so he goes to Turin, Italy, home of the sacred Shroud of Turin, to meet Cass Cleave. Vander is determined to savage this young rube in his characteristic way until he realizes that he is falling in love with the young Irish girl. In a deeply affecting sequence of events, Vander falls ill and relates the story of how he came to be who he is to Cass. Banville concludes \\"Shroud\\" with one surprise after another, keeping the reader constantly on his or her toes right to the very end.<br />There isn't one character in \\"Shroud\\" who is not deeply flawed or suffering in some grand way. Vander is an old, embittered alcoholic with no one left in the world but his own snarling rage. Cass Cleave suffers from a severe form of mental illness that induces seizures, makes her hear voices, and brings on thoughts of suicide. Vander's colleague and former flame Kristina Kovacs is slowly and painfully dying. Amongst all of these bleak valleys, Banville does hold out redemption to Vander, but it is a redemption fraught with immense peril for himself and those around him.<br />The backgrounds and situations painted by Banville here are simply marvelous. The first part of the book contains many symbolic scenes that emphasize the alienation and separation between people and how difficult it can be to overcome these vast differences. The author settles down a bit in the second and third parts of the story while managing to keep the story moving at a fevered pace. I have never been to Europe, but I feel like I have after reading this book. Yes, Banville's descriptive powers are that good.<br />The prose here is phenomenal. When I think of this book now, I keep returning to Banville's descriptions of pigeons. At one point, a flight of these birds taking off makes a sound like \\"derisive applause.\\" Another bird flying through the air looks like (paraphrase here) \\"a constantly shifting series of inkblots.\\" Who writes like this anymore? Well, apparently Axel Vander in his scholarly works, where he spent much time bending over dictionaries and other writing guides in order to shape his articles and books. One suspects this is a thinly veiled reference to Banville huddling around an Oxford English Dictionary while writing \\"Shroud.\\" Oddly enough, this is the second book I have read in the past month or so that uses the word \\"matutinal,\\" meaning something related to, or occurring, in the morning. The other author who freely bandied this word about was Nathaniel Hawthorne. Now if you are familiar with Hawthorne's work, you know his prose is fabulous. Banville's prose is just as spectacular as Hawthorne and his fellow 19th century authors.<br />\\"Shroud\\" is more than eye candy. It is an insightful gaze into the deepest recesses of what it means to be human. I must say I had a sinking feeling as I closed the book after finishing the final page, a feeling that told me I missed many of Banville's intricately crafted subplots. This thought was quickly followed by another: it doesn't matter if I missed some points of the story. What I got out of it was enough to justify a thousand times over the choice I made to read this gorgeous work of art.shape his articles and books. One suspects this is a thinly veiled reference to Banville huddling around an Oxford English Dictionary while writing \\"Shroud.\\" Oddly enough, this is the second book I have read in the past month or so that uses the word \\"matutinal,\\" meaning something related to, or occurring, in the morning. The other author who freely bandied this word about was Nathaniel Hawthorne. Now if you are familiar with Hawthorne's work, you know his prose is fabulous. Banville's prose is just as spectacular as Hawthorne and his fellow 19th century authors. <br />\\"Shroud\\" is more than eye candy. It is an insightful gaze into the deepest recesses of what it means to be human. I must say I had a sinking feeling as I closed the book after finishing the final page, a feeling that told me I missed many of Banville's intricately crafted subplots. This thought was quickly followed by another: it doesn't matter if I missed some points of the story. What I got out of it was enough to justify a thousand times over the choice I made to read this gorgeous work of art.	2003-06-16
1086276:US	52012289	RVERIQ7YI0SFQ	0743211375	124087136	From a Buick 8	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Great Characters, Great Horror	Way back in the old days all I ever read was Stephen King novels. I must have read nearly all of them over the years-until about four years ago. Moderately irritated with what I deemed an increasingly banal succession of books, I decided to abandon the horror master. I saw new King books come out in hardback and move on to paperback while I moved on to other authors and other genres. With the exception of \\"Dreamcatcher,\\" which I did like to some extent, my interest in Stephen King's new efforts precipitously waned. Then I picked up \\"From a Buick 8\\" on a whim, deciding to give it a chance and see if the king of horror still had any sparks left in him. Other reviews and general opinion certainly did not inspire me to read this book. Most disliked \\"From a Buick 8,\\" claiming that it was not scary enough. I am here to tell you I loved this book. I do not know if this great experience will cause me to rush out and read his other newer novels, but based solely on this book I say that King penned a winner.<br />\\"From a Buick 8\\" is a story about a state trooper's barracks in Pennsylvania. Troopers have come and gone over the years, but enough personnel remains to know the full story about the horror contained in Shed B behind the barracks. When Trooper Curt Wilcox died after being hit by a drunk driver, his son Ned begins to show up around the barracks looking for odd jobs. The cops recognize the boy is the spitting image of his father, so they befriend him and adopt him as a fixture of the station. But Ned is there for another reason, one recognized by the old timers who knew his father. For Curt's son, working with the troopers is a way of holding on to the memory of his departed dad. After the boy gets accepted to college, Commanding Sergeant Sandy Dearborn pulls some strings and finds Ned summer work as a dispatcher. It isn't long after that when Ned notices what is in Shed B and starts to ask questions. The book is a shifting narrative account of the horrible incidents leading up to Curt Wilcox's death.<br />What resides in this shed is a car, a Buick of old vintage. The troopers impounded the car in 1979 after a strange man abandoned it at a local gas station. The car is eerie, with a body impervious to damage and a steering wheel the size of tire. The engine isn't an engine in the normal sense, but a strange casing with \\"Buick 8\\" painted on the sides of it. The cops have a strange feeling about this car, with special interest shown by then Commanding Sergeant Tony Shoondist and Ned's father, rookie trooper Curt Wilcox. When the car lights up like a Christmas tree (referred to as a \\"lightquake\\"), the two take an even stronger interest in this weird object. This being a Stephen King book, the strangeness doesn't stop with unknown lights. Things start to emerge from the trunk of the car, things no human eyes have ever seen and likely will never see again in this world. The troopers quickly assume the role of caretakers and protectors, shielding the world from the potential horrors of the Buick. And believe me, despite the grumbling of some who have read this book, there are horrors aplenty in this gripping, character driven horror novel.<br />The reason many people probably do not like this book is because King buries the horrific elements under intensively drawn characters. The car takes second fiddle to Ned, Sandy, Curt, Tony, and the other major and minor characters in the story. At one point in the narrative, Sandy tries to emphasize to Ned how minor the car really was in the lives of the cops at the station. Ned doesn't want to here this, of course, because he is more interested in the story of the Buick and its effects on his father than listening to accounts about the personal lives of police officers. The car is important, but those readers who pay attention recognize that the Buick serves as the nexus for a constantly shifting cast of people, with all the aspirations and all the failings of life. Human tangibles such as family, friendship, and honor matter more in life than obsession with an object that has few if any answers.<br />As for those who complain that King doesn't take the easy route and give us answers about the car, wake up! He shows you what the car is and even has one of the characters witness the strange dimension linked to the automobile. Why do you need to know more than that? A few years ago there used to be a thing called imagination. It isn't Stephen King's problem if your ability to imagine no longer exists due to MTV and mindless television shows and movies. In the end it doesn't matter where the horror comes from. Evil is as evil does. King provides ample descriptions of the horrors of the Buick that this<br />reader is more than satisfied with the story.<br />Fans of Stephen King, myself included, really should not be as hard on the old boy as we have been in recent years. This guy really appreciates his fans and tries to please them whenever he can. I have heard that \\"From a Buick 8\\" might be his last effort. If it is, instead of just calling it quits here's a guy who is going ahead and finishing his Dark Tower series. He certainly doesn't have to do this, but he wants to conclude what he started because he knows his fans want closure. \\"From a Buick 8\\" would serve as an adequate swan song for a great author, but the book is so good I hope he sees fit to continue churning them out.mily, friendship, and honor matter more in life than obsession with an object that has few if any answers.<br />As for those who complain that King doesn't take the easy route and give us answers about the car, wake up! He shows you what the car is and even has one of the characters witness the strange dimension linked to the automobile. Why do you need to know more than that? A few years ago there used to be a thing called imagination. It isn't Stephen King's problem if your ability to imagine no longer exists due to MTV and mindless television shows and movies. In the end it doesn't matter where the horror comes from. Evil is as evil does. King provides ample descriptions of the horrors of the Buick that this <BR>reader is more than satisfied with the story.<br />Fans of Stephen King, myself included, really should not be as hard on the old boy as we have been in recent years. This guy really appreciates his fans and tries to please them whenever he can. I have heard that \\"From a Buick 8\\" might be his last effort. If it is, instead of just calling it quits here's a guy who is going ahead and finishing his Dark Tower series. He certainly doesn't have to do this, but he wants to conclude what he started because he knows his fans want closure. \\"From a Buick 8\\" would serve as an adequate swan song for a great author, but the book is so good I hope he sees fit to continue churning them out.	2003-06-16
1087472:US	52012289	RYF0NWKWX9AUK	0030206510	27637351	High-Rise	Books	5	110	118	N	N	Technology as the Ultimate Destroyer	J.G. Ballard's 1975 novel \\"High Rise\\" contains all of the qualities we have come to expect from this author: alarming psychological insights, a study of the profoundly disturbing connections between technology and the human condition, and an intriguing plot masterfully executed. Ballard, who wrote the tremendously troubling \\"Crash,\\" really knows how to dig deep into our troubling times in order to expose our tentative grasp of modernity. Some compare this book to William Golding's \\"Lord of the Flies,\\" and there are definite characteristics the two novels share. I would argue, however, that \\"High Rise\\" is more eloquent and more relevant than Golding's book. Unfortunately, this Ballard novel is out of print. Try and locate a copy at your local library because the payoff is well worth the effort.<br />\\"High Rise\\" centers around four major characters: Dr. Robert Laing, an instructor at a local medical school, Richard Wilder, a television documentary producer, Anthony Royal, an architect, and the high rise building all three live in with 2,000 other people. Throughout the story, Ballard switches back and forth between these three people, recording their thoughts and actions as they live their lives in the new high-rise apartment building. Ballard made sure to pick three separate people living on different floors of the forty floor building: Laing lives on the twenty fifth floor, Wilder lives on the second floor, and Royal lives in a penthouse on the fortieth floor (befitting his status as the designer of the building). Where you live in this structure will soon take on an importance beyond life itself.<br />At the beginning of the story, most of the people living in the building get along quite well. There are the usual nitpicky problems one would expect when 2,000 people are jammed together, but overall people move freely from the top to the bottom floors. A person living on the bottom floors can easily go to the observation deck on the top of the building to enjoy the view, or shop at the two banks of stores on the tenth and thirty-fifth floors. Children swim and play in the pools and playgrounds throughout the high rise without any interference. Despite the fact that well to do people live in the building, with celebrities and executives on the top floors, middle-class people on the middle floors, and airline pilots and the like on the bottom ten floors, everyone gets along reasonably well-at first.<br />Then things change. The gossip level increases among the residents, and parties held on different floors start to exclude people from other areas. In quick succession, objects start to land on balconies, dropped by residents on higher levels. Equipment failures, such as electrical outages, lead to mild assaults between residents. Cars parked close to the building are vandalized, and a jeweler living on the fortieth floor does a swan dive out of the window. Every incident leads to further acts of violence and increasing chaos in the lives of those in the building. People begin to take a greater interest in what's going on where they live than in outside activities and jobs. As the violence escalates, elevators and lobbies on each floor turn into armed camps as the residents attempt to block any encroachments on their territory. What starts out as a book about living in a technological marvel quickly morphs into a study of how technology can cause human beings to regress back into primitivism. Moreover, Ballard tries to draw a correlation between the technology of the building and this descent into a Stone Age mentality. He shows in detail how the residents of the apartments sink back into the morass, passing through a classical Marxist structure of bourgeoisie-proletariat, moving on to a clan/tribal system, to a system of stark individuality. In short, Ballard tries to equate our striving towards individuality through technology with how we started out in our evolution as hunter-gatherers, as individuals seeking individual gains.The promise that technology will liberate the individual is not the highest form of evolution, argues Ballard, but is actually a return to the lowest forms of human expression.<br />Within a few pages of the story, I thought this might turn out to be very similar to a Bentley Little book. Little, nominally a horror writer but often a social satirist, often takes a situation like this and shows how people collapse under the pressures of modern life. My belief was not born out, however, not because Ballard doesn't take certain situations over the top but because he imbues his work with a significant philosophical subtext that Little would never write about. Bentley Little is all about focusing on the over the top, outrageous incidents of humanity's decline, whereas Ballard is more interested in serving as a preacher on anti-humanistic technology, thundering out a jeremiad concerning where we might go if we do not take the time to think very carefully about the society we wish to create.<br />\\"High Rise\\" is a dark, forbidding tale of woe that is sure to get a reaction from anyone who reads it. There seem to be few out there who can deliver such devastating blows to our love of technology as Ballard does in his works. This author is often referred to as a science fiction writer, but \\"High Rise\\" works just as well on a horror level. So does \\"Crash,\\" when I think about it, although the cold, detached prose of that book is not present in \\"High Rise.\\" Whatever genre Ballard falls into, this book delivers on every level.. The promise that technology will liberate the individual is not the highest form of evolution, argues Ballard, but is actually a return to the lowest forms of human expression.<br />Within a few pages of the story, I thought this might turn out to be very similar to a Bentley Little book. Little, nominally a horror writer but often a social satirist, often takes a situation like this and shows how people collapse under the pressures of modern life. My belief was not born out, however, not because Ballard doesn't take certain situations over the top but because he imbues his work with a significant philosophical subtext that Little would never write about. Bentley Little is all about focusing on the over the top, outrageous incidents of humanity's decline, whereas Ballard is more interested in serving as a preacher on anti-humanistic technology, thundering out a jeremiad concerning where we might go if we do not take the time to think very carefully about the society we wish to create.<br />\\"High Rise\\" is a dark, forbidding tale of woe that is sure to get a reaction from anyone who reads it. There seem to be few out there who can deliver such devastating blows to our love of technology as Ballard does in his works. This author is often referred to as a science fiction writer, but \\"High Rise\\" works just as well on a horror level. So does \\"Crash,\\" when I think about it, although the cold, detached prose of that book is not present in \\"High Rise.\\" Whatever genre Ballard falls into, this book delivers on every level.	2003-06-15
1090590:US	52012289	R276ANQGS4YETH	0312878273	652735495	Nightmare At 20,000 Feet: Horror Stories By Richard Matheson	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Wonderfully Wicked and Entertaining Tales	In the introduction to this collection of classic Richard Matheson short stories, no less of a figure than Stephen King delivers oodles of praise to this author. According to King, Matheson emerged in a time (the 1950s and early 1960s) when the horror genre desperately needed a kick in the pants. King attributes his very existence as a horror writer to Matheson's influence. With that type of praise, the stories here need to live up to a tremendous standard, which they do easily. It should go without saying that Richard Matheson is the grandfather of modern horror; his stories created indelible impressions on millions of people when Hollywood translated \\"Nightmare at 20,000 Feet\\" and \\"Prey\\" into memorable television moments. But nothing beats going to the source to see how the original stacks up to the adaptation. You will not be disappointed with this collection, I assure you.<br />This compilation starts off with the slam-bang \\"Nightmare at 20,000 Feet,\\" a story made into an episode of \\"The Twilight Zone\\" with William Shatner staring as the nervous wreck of a lead character. An unbalanced traveler on a flight through a rainstorm sees something terrible on the wing of the plane, something no one else sees and which paints him as a potential troublemaker to the flight crew. This man immediately associates the thing he sees with a gremlin, or creatures that WWII pilots claimed they saw in the skies over Europe while on their bombing runs. Whatever this thing is, time is running out because this humanoid is tearing up exterior parts of the plane. Fortunately (or unfortunately, as the case may be), our neurotic hero has a gun on the plane. When he takes action everyone thinks he is nuts, but is he? And will people think him crazy when they eventually see the outside of the plane?<br />Then there is \\"Prey,\\" a story instantly familiar to anyone who ever saw Karen Black's performance in \\"The Trilogy of Terror.\\" In this tale, a young woman named Amelia is planning to go out on a big date. She even bought a present for her beau, a Zuni fetish doll. Then Amelia's overbearing mother steps in and insinuates that Amelia needs to cancel the date in order to spend time with her instead. This is regrettable for Amelia because she is now cut off from the help she will soon need to survive. The doll is no gag gift; it holds the spirit of a real African warrior, and when the charm holding back the spirit in the doll falls off it comes alive and attacks Amelia. The twist ending is nice and scary.<br />Other stories are not as good in terms of real chills and thrills, but still show Matheson's attempts to challenge conventional narrative techniques in order to create a foreboding sense of doom. \\"The Dress of White Silk\\" tells the story of a weird, deceased mother through the crude, rambling baby talk of her young daughter. \\"Through Channels\\" takes the form of a police interrogation, with the \\"swish\\" of the tape recorder reminding us of the atmosphere the characters are in. These stories work, not because they are overwhelmingly scary, but because they reveal how to rework stories that are usually tired and formulaic (such as the vampire genre) into something that has real potential.<br />My favorite story in this book was \\"Disappearing Act.\\" In this frightening description of a man not only losing his identity but also his very being, Matheson traces the increasingly eerie events that occur when a poor bloke realizes the people and places he has known for years either vanish completely or fail to recognize him as a corporeal reality. The chills come in the languid way Matheson unfolds the story, quietly escalating each new shocking realization towards a dreadfully wicked climax. The author never explains why or how this is happening, which makes it even more jarring. For what can be worse than losing your very existence while you are aware that it is occurring? The story makes you wonder how you would react in the same situation.<br />Nearly everytype of horror story is present in this collection. Vampire tales, ghost stories, haunted towns, plagues, and yarns about psychotics all appear throughout the book. Stephen King almost certainly borrowed the plot of \\"Needful Things\\" from the Matheson story \\"The Distributor,\\" a tale about a new neighbor who creates all sorts of problems for those living around him.  In short, nearly every story here shows Matheson's huge influence on succeeding generations of horror hacks. The stories included in \\"Nightmare at 20,000 Feet\\" makes me want to go out and pick up other classic Matheson collections, both his short stories and his novels. This author strikes quite a figure in the world of the horror fan, but he ought to be better known in the general population because his stories have a timeless quality to them that promise to entertain again and again.type of horror story is present in this collection. Vampire tales, ghost stories, haunted towns, plagues, and yarns about psychotics all appear throughout the book. Stephen King almost certainly borrowed the plot of \\"Needful Things\\" from the Matheson story \\"The Distributor,\\" a tale about a new neighbor who creates all sorts of problems for those living around him.  In short, nearly every story here shows Matheson's huge influence on succeeding generations of horror hacks. The stories included in \\"Nightmare at 20,000 Feet\\" makes me want to go out and pick up other classic Matheson collections, both his short stories and his novels. This author strikes quite a figure in the world of the horror fan, but he ought to be better known in the general population because his stories have a timeless quality to them that promise to entertain again and again.	2003-06-12
1091102:US	52012289	R1E4XLTNLJ4H4Y	0520081145	451795696	Civilization and Capitalism, 15th-18th Century, Vol. I: The Structure of Everyday Life	Books	5	69	72	N	N	Encyclopedic Examination of the Seemingly Mundane	Fernand Braudel is probably the most distinguished historian associated with the Annales School founded by Lucien Febvre and Marc Bloch. This Annales method attempted to revamp historical inquiry by enlarging the scope of analysis to include disparate places and through different times. Annalists were not content to research political institutions; they wanted to delve deeper into the past, to look at social and economic factors in order to reach a deeper, more comprehensive understanding of humanity. In order to be so inclusive, the Annalists looked at historical forces over great arcs of time, recognizing that many human factors change slowly and are not capable of discovery in snapshots of time. The title of this book, \\"The Structures of Everyday Life: Civilization and Capitalism, 15th to the 18th Century\\" captures well these two central tenets of the Annales School. \\"The Structures of Everyday Life\\" is the first volume in a three volume series.<br />When Braudel refers to everyday life, he means it in the strictest sense of the word. The topics covered in this encyclopedic volume are seemingly banal because they constitute the backgrounds of our lives: corn, wheat, rice, clothing, buildings, money, and other commonplace items that we take for granted in our day to day existence. Other sections deal with discerning the population of the world in a time when census records were crude or nonexistent, the development of heavy industry and its effect on the world, diseases, and shipping. The emphasis here is on economics and how the growth (or lack of) economies increases or decreases the growth of a society and how that society or region waxed or waned in prominence.<br />Much of the time, the greatness of Braudel's book is in a detail, or a turn of a phrase. For example, the author concludes that the massive pyramid structures and immense jungle cities of the Mesoamerican cultures resulted not from huge markets or an intrinsic need to construct enormous edifices. Instead, he traces their societal structure to agriculture, specifically the reliance on maize as the staple crop. In the warm climates of Central America, corn does not take much work to plant or maintain. This left the indigenous populations with plenty of time on their hands to build monuments and participate in elaborate religious rituals.<br />\\"Structures of Everyday Life\\" appears to be a huge book, and it is, but there are so many illustrations, maps, and charts that it does not take nearly as long to get through it as one might think. I read somewhere that Braudel traveled and worked abroad in places where he could obtain copies of primary historical documents, whether they were paintings, letters, financial statements, or other relevant documents. He gathered these by the thousands over the years and used them as the basis for his wide-ranging researches. You simply must admire a historian who notices someone picking food out of a bowl with his fingers and then compares this to another painting some years later where the figures are using utensils. Most people just do not think to look at things like this.<br />Braudel's book is a valuable contribution to historical studies, but I don't think I will read the other two volumes in the series. The amount of information in this volume is so overwhelming that I don't think I could assimilate the vast amount of facts in the other two books. As far as \\"Structures of Everyday Life\\" go, even reading one or two chapters is enough to get the gist of what Braudel is trying to say. Reading the whole thing is like reading an encyclopedia; it is fascinating but difficult.nstead, he traces their societal structure to agriculture, specifically the reliance on maize as the staple crop. In the warm climates of Central America, corn does not take much work to plant or maintain. This left the indigenous populations with plenty of time on their hands to build monuments and participate in elaborate religious rituals. <br />\\"Structures of Everyday Life\\" appears to be a huge book, and it is, but there are so many illustrations, maps, and charts that it does not take nearly as long to get through it as one might think. I read somewhere that Braudel traveled and worked abroad in places where he could obtain copies of primary historical documents, whether they were paintings, letters, financial statements, or other relevant documents. He gathered these by the thousands over the years and used them as the basis for his wide-ranging researches. You simply must admire a historian who notices someone picking food out of a bowl with his fingers and then compares this to another painting some years later where the figures are using utensils. Most people just do not think to look at things like this.<br />Braudel's book is a valuable contribution to historical studies, but I don't think I will read the other two volumes in the series. The amount of information in this volume is so overwhelming that I don't think I could assimilate the vast amount of facts in the other two books. As far as \\"Structures of Everyday Life\\" go, even reading one or two chapters is enough to get the gist of what Braudel is trying to say. Reading the whole thing is like reading an encyclopedia; it is fascinating but difficult.	2003-06-12
1091174:US	52012289	R2F37IPZ77OTRW	1840680059	654290238	Cows	Books	4	62	63	N	N	Gruesome Beyond Reason	Whooo Hoooo! This has got to be the most intense book I have ever read. I know I say that with the regularity of a chiming clock, but \\"Cows\\" by Matthew Stokoe really takes the cake. Creation Books apparently prints some other extreme titles, probably ones that may be even more visceral than this one, but Stokoe's devastating portrait of a man's need to belong is simply unforgettable. The author has another novel out, called \\"High Life,\\" that promises to be as unsettling as this story. It may be some time before I muster the necessary fortitude to read that one, though. Yes, \\"Cows\\" is that disturbing. There is a warning label on the back cover of the book, if that tells you anything.<br />\\"Boy meets Cow,\\" trumpets the back cover, but that is only part of the story. \\"Cows\\" relates the pathetic story of Steven, a down on his luck, alienated man living in a disheveled tenement building in England. Steve lives with his dear old mum, a woman so repulsive in appearance and manner that her son refers to her as the \\"Hagbeast.\\" Our protagonist despises this woman to such an extreme, with a mutual feeling on the part of his mother, that he spends his days and nights in bed with Dog (his crippled pet dog) plotting how to break free from her controlling influences. He is even convinced that his mother is trying to kill him through the obnoxious meals she forces him to eat everyday. There isn't much chance of this momma's boy shedding his chains, as he consistently caves in under his sick whims. The only options for eventual freedom arrives in the form of his new job at the packinghouse and through a potential love affair with Lucy, a girl who lives upstairs.<br />Problems with these hopes quickly emerge. Lucy is, well, completely insane. She spends her days obsessing about the poisons building up inside every human being. By watching videos of operations and through painful self-examinations, Lucy hopes to discover the location of these internal toxins in order to remove them from her own body. Steven recognizes Lucy's illnesses but fervently hopes that he can create a world where the two will live together, have a child, and mirror the perfect family world he sees on his television set every night. In the meantime, Steve will have to deal with his mother and work at the packinghouse so he can earn money to actualize his visions.<br />Then there is the job at the slaughterhouse. Steven quickly falls in with Cripps, the head supervisor in the room where they actually kill the cattle. This aberrant human being recognizes Steven's lack of character and starts to indoctrinate him with philosophies about how killing animals imbues men with power in all the other avenues of their lives. Adding to the general madness is the discovery by Steven of a rogue herd of talking cows living underneath the city. These cows escaped from the oily clutches of Cripps and his fellow thugs and are now seeking revenge against the evil men working on the killing floor. Which path will Steven choose? Will he accept Cripps's nauseating, fascistic visions or will he work with the talking cows and purge the world of an evil human being?<br />Turning a page in this book is like repeatedly dropping an anvil on your head. You are not certain of what you will find on the next page, but you soon discover that it will be so far over the top as to defy description. \\"Cows\\" encompasses nearly every anti-social behavior imaginable. There are scatological excesses galore, mind-blowing violence, weirdness on a metatectonic level, and stark examinations of power relationships. There is a message in \\"Cows,\\" but the crushing amount of gore nearly buries it under a mountain of ground beef.<br />This is a story about dreams and how environment can crush those gossamer longings. Steven wants to live; he wishes he had a caring mother, a beautiful and loving wife, a nice house, a child, and all the amenities of modern life. He sees the images on television depicting a perfect life and thinks he can achieve these things in his own existence. His difficulties in connecting to society in no way lessen his desire to do so. Steven's internal condition is so fragile and fragmented that he is an easy target for the likes of Cripps, who promises self-realization and authenticity through violence if Steven will only take the plunge. One problem comes when Steven thinks he can save Lucy as well as himself. When his visions of perfection come apart at the seams, when one action towards living the dream requires greater and more violent actions to sustain them, Steven disintegrates and becomes something worse than even Cripps and everything is lost. It does not help that Steven's ideals are built on an illusion anyway, namely the vacuous world of television. He is doomed from the start without even realizing it.<br />This book does not have a happy, fairy-tale ending. It is rather a series of painful, tentative steps by a man who desperately needs something to live for. I commend Stokoe for weaving such a penetrating vision in a quickly read story. I do not, however, have warm feelings for the passages that almost made me bolt for the bathroom. I have an iron stomach, but \\"Cows\\" nearly did me in. Only the stoutest souls need crack the cover on this book.thinks he can achieve these things in his own existence. His difficulties in connecting to society in no way lessen his desire to do so. Steven's internal condition is so fragile and fragmented that he is an easy target for the likes of Cripps, who promises self-realization and authenticity through violence if Steven will only take the plunge. One problem comes when Steven thinks he can save Lucy as well as himself. When his visions of perfection come apart at the seams, when one action towards living the dream requires greater and more violent actions to sustain them, Steven disintegrates and becomes something worse than even Cripps and everything is lost. It does not help that Steven's ideals are built on an illusion anyway, namely the vacuous world of television. He is doomed from the start without even realizing it.<br />This book does not have a happy, fairy-tale ending. It is rather a series of painful, tentative steps by a man who desperately needs something to live for. I commend Stokoe for weaving such a penetrating vision in a quickly read story. I do not, however, have warm feelings for the passages that almost made me bolt for the bathroom. I have an iron stomach, but \\"Cows\\" nearly did me in. Only the stoutest souls need crack the cover on this book.	2003-06-12
1094363:US	52012289	RQ7S8W1PIXPOU	067960250X	843633553	Sister Carrie (Modern Library)	Books	5	88	93	N	N	The Heights of Naturalism	It is no mystery why Frank Norris praised to high heaven Theodore Dreiser's 1900 novel \\"Sister Carrie.\\" Norris, one of America's great naturalist writers, saw in Dreiser's tale about a young woman on the make a reflection of the same bleak vistas he wrote about in \\"Vandover and the Brute,\\" \\"The Octopus,\\" and \\"McTeague.\\" When Dreiser submitted his book for publication, it was Norris who read the book and made a glowing recommendation to the publisher. There were immense problems with \\"Sister Carrie\\" from that point forward: the wife of the publisher hated the story and worked hard behind the scenes to prevent its release. With a contract already signed, Dreiser's book did become a reality but the publishing house refused to support it with any marketing. The story languished for years in a paper limbo before finally emerging to great success and acclaim. Thank goodness it did because this may be one of the most powerful books ever written about social climbing and the perils of bad morals. Dreiser went on to publish more novels (American Tragedy, The Financier) before dropping out of the literary scene and converting to communism before his death in 1945.<br />\\"Sister Carrie\\" doesn't promise much at the beginning. In fact, this is yet another story about a rural person arriving in the big city seeking fame and fortune. In this case, it is Carrie Meeber, a young woman moving to Chicago to live with her sister and her husband while she tries to find work. Carrie quickly discovers big city life is tough; her sister's home life bores her to death, the work she finds in a shoe factory is pure drudgery, and she doesn't have enough money to buy decent clothes because she has to pay her sister four dollars a week for rent. Carrie hates her base co-workers and spends most of her free time watching people pass on the street outside of her sister's apartment. When Carrie loses her job after an illness, it looks like she will have to return home to Columbia City and forget about her dreams in Chicago.<br />Enter George Drouet, a semi-successful salesman with a voracious appetite for the ladies. George finagled Carrie's address when he met her on the train into Chicago, and now the two meet again by chance. The results of this meeting shape the rest of the book. Carrie abandons her sister's lodgings and becomes \\"kept\\" by George. It is during this period that Carrie meets George Hurstwood, the wealthy manager of a fancy Chicago tavern and friend of Drouet. Through a series of misunderstandings about the marriage status of Carrie and Hurstwood, and serious lapses in moral judgments, Hurstwood and Carrie move on to bigger and better things in New York City.<br />It is at this point that Norris must have began enthusing, for Dreiser embarks on a harrowing tour through the destruction of a human being's body and soul. Just when you think a person could sink no lower, Dreiser yanks you back to reality and illustrates for you just how bad things can get before the inevitable occurs. When the author contrasts the utter humiliation of one character with the elevation in status of another, the tension becomes too much to bear. This novel is painful to read, but at the same time it is so riveting it is nearly impossible to put it down. We've all seen or known people who suffered the fates revealed in this story, or at least I have, and that makes it even more chillingly realistic. How Dreiser managed to capture the feel of his characters' lives is a mystery, but that is what makes this book great literature; it is timeless in its examination of the inner workings of the human soul.<br />\\"Sister Carrie\\" is classic literature, but that does not mean there are not problems with the story. Dreiser's prose takes some getting used to before it starts to flow. In fact, this may be the best book I have ever read where the prose is often mediocre. I told one person that the author's style reminded me of an intoxicated welder, and I still believe that to be thecase for most of the book. Dreiser has a tendency to jam his sentences together into an unwieldy mix of clauses and commas. After a few hundred pages this hardly seems to matter but it could provide a reason for someone just starting the book to quit reading it. Do not quit, however, because the story ends up being so good that the stylistic problems quickly fade into insignificance.<br />Another difficulty involves the middle portion of the story, when Carrie, Drouet, and Hurstwood vie for position with each other. These chapters appreciably drag while providing no clues about the goldmine that soon follows. Looking at the story as a whole, I understand now why these chapters were necessary but I didn't while I was reading them. Again, do not give up too soon lest you miss out on the extraordinary buildup to the soul shattering conclusion.<br />Ultimately, the messages conveyed by Dreiser outweigh the dual problems of prose and a few plodding chapters. The scandalous behavior the author wrote about angered many during his time because people believed that divorce, infidelity, loose morals, and social positioning were things better talked about privately than brought out in the open. The fact that Dreiser wrote such things without delivering a blistering rebuke about such behaviors also stunned society. Perhaps it is not too far off to say that Theodore Dreiser was the Jerry Springer of his generation, merely revealing things that everyone knew happened behind closed doors. Whatever the case may be, \\"Sister Carrie\\" is sheer brilliance. I was so fired up after reading this book that I went right out and got \\"American Tragedy.\\" I now understand why Frank Norris went into paroxysms of delight about Dreiser's book.e case for most of the book. Dreiser has a tendency to jam his sentences together into an unwieldy mix of clauses and commas. After a few hundred pages this hardly seems to matter but it could provide a reason for someone just starting the book to quit reading it. Do not quit, however, because the story ends up being so good that the stylistic problems quickly fade into insignificance.<br />Another difficulty involves the middle portion of the story, when Carrie, Drouet, and Hurstwood vie for position with each other. These chapters appreciably drag while providing no clues about the goldmine that soon follows. Looking at the story as a whole, I understand now why these chapters were necessary but I didn't while I was reading them. Again, do not give up too soon lest you miss out on the extraordinary buildup to the soul shattering conclusion.<br />Ultimately, the messages conveyed by Dreiser outweigh the dual problems of prose and a few plodding chapters. The scandalous behavior the author wrote about angered many during his time because people believed that divorce, infidelity, loose morals, and social positioning were things better talked about privately than brought out in the open. The fact that Dreiser wrote such things without delivering a blistering rebuke about such behaviors also stunned society. Perhaps it is not too far off to say that Theodore Dreiser was the Jerry Springer of his generation, merely revealing things that everyone knew happened behind closed doors. Whatever the case may be, \\"Sister Carrie\\" is sheer brilliance. I was so fired up after reading this book that I went right out and got \\"American Tragedy.\\" I now understand why Frank Norris went into paroxysms of delight about Dreiser's book.	2003-06-09
1095253:US	52012289	R2ORYVDL0MEGUR	0140443002	308407895	The Nun (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Diderot Blasts the Church Hierarchy	Denis Diderot (1713-1784) was a central figure in French intellectual circles in particular and in the Enlightenment in general. Diderot's crowning achievement was his role as editor of the \\"Encyclopedie,\\" an important reference work completed in 1773. A contemporary of such seminal figures as Rousseau and Voltaire, Diderot contributed to his times philosophical treatises and dialogues often imbued with anti-religious themes. He also wrote plays, art criticism, and works of fiction. Diderot's works include \\"D'Alembert's Dream,\\" \\"Rameau's Nephew,\\" and this book, \\"The Nun.\\" If this story concerning a young French girl's experiences and disdain for the convent is any indication, Diderot's other works would be well worth reading. \\"The Nun\\" is a brilliant and insightful effort that manages to be gripping while imparting the author's distaste for Church hierarchy and how an individual suffers under society's compulsory laws.<br />\\"The Nun\\" concerns Suzanne Simonin, a young, extraordinarily attractive French girl who, due to unfortunate family circumstances, finds herself caught up in a seemingly inescapable fate. Suzanne's family-mother, stepfather, and sisters-are all concerned with money and family duty. The family decides that the best option for Suzanne is to join a convent and live her life as a nun. Suzanne hates the idea, as she sees herself unfit and unwilling to give up her freedom for the rigors of religious life. Her family sees things differently, and after some dramatic fits and starts that find Suzanne making a public scene before taking her vows, she finally settles into a convent called Longchamps. The life of a nun is sheer drudgery, but Suzanne fulfills her duties and even sings in the choir while she plots to discover any possible avenue to get back home. For a time, Suzanne does discover some solace in the reverent figure of the mother superior, a devout persona who takes a distinct liking to Suzanne. After this woman dies, Suzanne's intensified efforts to leave enrage the new superior and the other nuns. What follows is a lengthy description of the indignities Suzanne suffers at the hands of her fellow nuns. They throw her in a dank cell, steal all of her accoutrements, scatter broken glass under her feet, and pronounce her a minion of Satan in an effort to force her to remain in the convent.<br />Suzanne soon escapes the barbarity of Longchamps when her lawyer, who is fighting for her release in civil court, manages to get her a transfer to another convent. At the new house, even more problems plague young Suzanne. The mother superior here turns out to have a distasteful peccadillo for a woman in such a position, and she targets Suzanne as a new conquest. Things continue to deteriorate for the young nun, and by the end of the story she is in a terrible position with no clear goals or hopes for the future. \\"The Nun\\" is indeed a depressing story full of moral quandaries and cynical observations about the Catholic Church's role in modern day society.<br />Diderot presents a picture of the convent houses as one of vicious human callousness and pettiness. He deftly deflates the image we all have of such places, namely places full of saintly figures in quiet reflection with God who benevolently sacrifice themselves in order to serve the needs of mankind. What we see instead is the reality that, like any other human enterprise, there exists the usual range of human emotions both good and bad. The problem comes about because Suzanne's place is a convent, and convents are supposed to be above such base emotions. Moreover, Diderot shows how convents can be even worse than other institutions because those who torment Suzanne easily fall back on God as an excuse for making contemptible accusations and as a justification for bad behavior. Who can argue with the will of God in such a matter? Surely those who serve a higher power know the best way to administer discipline to a woman who refuses to give herself fully to the calling. Not so, writes Diderot, and he makes you believe it through the force of his narrative and the realistic presentation of the characters. In short, even those who pursue the \\"religious life\\" suffer the same twists and turns found in every human endeavor.<br />Translator Leonard Tancock points out that \\"The Nun\\" emerged from a practical joke played on a faithful Catholic by Diderot and some of his salon friends. The gag was never meant to be malicious, and this shows up in Diderot's reworking of the joke into a story. Suzanne, as much as she despises the strictures of the convent, is in actuality a faithful Catholic. She prays fervently to God and carries out her duties in accordance with the laws of the convent. Suzanne's problems, and by extension Diderot's difficulty, is not with Catholic dogma but with hierarchy and the rigid laws created by imperfect humans which force people into unsuitable social roles.<br />At times humorous and scandalously shocking, \\"The Nun\\" is sure to raise an eyebrow or two in even our jaded times. Tancock seems to have done a great job translating this story into English, and he provides a good introduction explaining the background of the story with some of the key pluses and minuses of Diderot's tale. I am surprised there are so few reviews of this incredible story, as this tale is a must for lovers of French literature. Recommended for Francophiles and those who endured Catholic school.alling. Not so, writes Diderot, and he makes you believe it through the force of his narrative and the realistic presentation of the characters. In short, even those who pursue the \\"religious life\\" suffer the same twists and turns found in every human endeavor. <br />Translator Leonard Tancock points out that \\"The Nun\\" emerged from a practical joke played on a faithful Catholic by Diderot and some of his salon friends. The gag was never meant to be malicious, and this shows up in Diderot's reworking of the joke into a story. Suzanne, as much as she despises the strictures of the convent, is in actuality a faithful Catholic. She prays fervently to God and carries out her duties in accordance with the laws of the convent. Suzanne's problems, and by extension Diderot's difficulty, is not with Catholic dogma but with hierarchy and the rigid laws created by imperfect humans which force people into unsuitable social roles. <br />At times humorous and scandalously shocking, \\"The Nun\\" is sure to raise an eyebrow or two in even our jaded times. Tancock seems to have done a great job translating this story into English, and he provides a good introduction explaining the background of the story with some of the key pluses and minuses of Diderot's tale. I am surprised there are so few reviews of this incredible story, as this tale is a must for lovers of French literature. Recommended for Francophiles and those who endured Catholic school.	2003-06-09
1095345:US	52012289	R1ZFVDNZ693HAR	0451200152	728640065	The Town	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Not as Bad as People Think	If you have never visited the strangely warped worlds of Bentley Little, but avidly wish to do so, you might want to start somewhere else than \\"The Town.\\" Or, maybe you could start with this book; it might help you better appreciate his other books. For me, a Bentley Little completist, I cannot say this is his best effort to date. I also cannot claim that it is his worst novel, either. Many lambaste \\"The Town\\" for its forced and tepid dialogue, pancake flat characters, and a plodding plot. To some extent, many of the flaws found in \\"The Town\\" invidiously wind their way through most, if not all, of his other novels: subplots that go nowhere, unbelievable situations even for a horror novel, and unsatisfying conclusions. Yes, some of those flaws are here, but this tale is nowhere near as bad as many claim.<br />Gregory Tomasov and his family (wife Julia, daughters Teodosia and Sasha, and son Adam, along with Gregory's mother Agafia) should be riding as high as a balloon. Gregory won the California lottery and receives a cool $80,000 a year for the next few decades, which promises to make life very sweet and easy for a long time to come. Greg decides to take the money and literally run, from gang filled Southern California to his long forgotten childhood home of McGuane, Arizona. McGuane is a rat hole in the desert slowly dying out due to indifference and unemployment. But most importantly for Gregory and his mother, this little town still serves as a center for a Molokan population. Molokans are an obscure Christian sect from Russia that emigrated to the United States and Mexico to escape Tsarist persecution. Members of the congregation practice extreme pacifism with an almost mystical belief in the gospels and prayer. While Gregory and his wife are Molokans, their beliefs are at best extremely dubious and at worst lapsed. Their children have even less interest in the beliefs and rituals associated with the sect.<br />Things start to change quickly when the Tomasov clan arrives in McGuane. It turns out that the house they moved into was the scene of grisly murders and the rest of the town thinks the house is haunted. Then the killings start, gruesomely hideous crimes that set the town people on edge and stir up latent prejudice against the Molokans. Top that off with the slow disintegration of the Tomasov family, eerie supernatural events, and a 200 year old Russian prophet and you have the essentials of \\"The Town.\\"<br />Little indulges in some of his usual unbelievable events. Take the disaster at the coffee shop for starters. It is difficult to imagine this store is big enough to hold that much equipment or that the ceilings are high enough to cause that type of damage, especially in a small town. Moreover, what exactly is the population size of McGuane? The back cover says there are roughly 300 residents, but from the events in the story it seems as though there must be thousands of people. How else could there be a high school and a junior high school full of students? Some of the internal thoughts of the main characters also pose serious problems. Towards the end of the story, Agafia and Julia spend more time wondering why they do stupid things than in trying to do anything else. It seems as though Little is trying to cover plot problems when he has his characters indulge in these inner dialogues. Overall, these aren't fatal flaws, but they are noticeable.<br />At least the ending is better developed than some of Little's conclusions in other books. I saw somewhere that Little doesn't like to spend much time wrapping his stories up. This is a big problem for horror fans, who always want to see a cataclysmic ending with lots of explosions, gore, or startling revelations. Well, there are some of those characteristics at the end of \\"The Town,\\" and they do generally work well in the context of the story. Believe me when I say that \\"The Town\\" has a better ending than some of Little's other books. If you don't believe me, read \\"The Return.\\"<br />\\"The Town\\" isn't Little's best effort, but it is far from his worst. The introductory chapter to this story sets an eerie tone, many of the murders are well thought out and gruesome, and the usual Little theme of a family slowly falling apart under the duress of external evils is well done. For more entertaining Bentley Little stories, turn to \\"The Store,\\" and \\"The Mailman.\\" Those two books fuse social satire with horror and give much more to the reader than what is found in this tale. After reading \\"The Town,\\" I can safely say I am still a Bentley Little fan. I eagerly await his new novel arriving in stores later this year.he Return.\\"<br />\\"The Town\\" isn't Little's best effort, but it is far from his worst. The introductory chapter to this story sets an eerie tone, many of the murders are well thought out and gruesome, and the usual Little theme of a family slowly falling apart under the duress of external evils is well done. For more entertaining Bentley Little stories, turn to \\"The Store,\\" and \\"The Mailman.\\" Those two books fuse social satire with horror and give much more to the reader than what is found in this tale. After reading \\"The Town,\\" I can safely say I am still a Bentley Little fan. I eagerly await his new novel arriving in stores later this year.	2003-06-09
1096748:US	52012289	RIXO401IQEWI2	0299109348	650212783	Reflections On History and Historians	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Abandon Hope All Ye Who Enter Here!	Theodore Hamerow is a professor emeritus of German history at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. His academic specialty is German diplomatic and political history, specifically books on Bismarck and German Imperial history. This 1987 book, \\"Reflections on History and Historians,\\" differs markedly from his usual endeavors. Here, Hamerow examines the history profession and the scholarship involved in defining how historians write and research history.<br />Hamerow believes that the history profession is in a state of crisis, particularly an internal crisis and an external crisis. The low pay for those involved in the profession constitute the exterior problem, the interior crisis comes from a questioning of the value of historical research in a time when economics and corporate business dominate the university campuses. According to Hamerow, there seems to be no place for the historian anymore, especially when the discipline faces threats from other social sciences as well. The problem looms larger when academic historians face an increasingly hostile public fed up with endless footnotes longer than the actual text and esoteric jargon. Hamerow argues for a return to more accessible research that appeals to a wider audience, as is apparent from the last chapter in the book containing sympathetic interviews with several \\"popular\\" historians.<br />The author's treatment covers an immense amount of ground. Chapters outline the relevancy of history in the modern world, the process of earning advanced degrees in history, the life of the graduate student, finding a job in a tight market, the politics of the university system, teaching, research and its downward spiral into increasingly banal and ephemeral topics that only a pedant could love, the Old versus the New historians, and the corrosive effect of foundations and grant money on the profession. This sounds like an enormous collection of material, and it is, but Hamerow covers it succinctly and with great dexterity.<br />As a graduate student in the discipline, I found myself drawn to his discussions on the particularities of life as a grunt in a history department. One review I read about this book castigated the author for his unnecessarily bleak view of the graduate experience and subsequent drudge of the non-tenured professor. Hamerow's opinions are bleak; he argues that intelligence and brilliance are not a necessity in earning a doctoral degree in history, that it even helps to be a bit \\"dull\\" in order to withstand the sometimes blistering criticism of one's work. He calls a master's degree an \\"ornament,\\" and argues for the abolishment of the foreign language requirements (at least for American historians) that all students must go through to reach the level of doctoral candidate. The book hits a homerun when it claims that graduate students have a \\"blas&eacute;\\" attitude about their studies, although I would add, from personal experience, that a significant element of that carefree outlook includes a distinct sense of weariness. A student who reads Hamerow's harrowing descriptions of graduate school should be secure in their goals beforehand lest they allow this author to plant grave doubts into their heads about making a choice to pursue history as a profession.<br />In other areas, Hamerow really tells it like it is. His arguments about the essential uselessness of most historical research today has its points, as any student assigned a dense, nearly unreadable journal article discovers almost immediately. Far too often, academics equate jargon with scholarship, density with brilliance. The author draws the connection between this type of ham handed research and the disinterest of the general public with academic history. While the populace reads Barbara Tuchman and Edmund Morris, historians in the university sneer and continue to churn out research so specialized that the only audience with even a slight hope of understanding it is other academics in the same specialized area. To save our jobs and preserve the future, according to the author, academics must broaden their methods and strive to reach a greater audience. \\"Take history back to the people!\\" would surely be the Hamerow's battle cry.<br />\\"Reflections on History and Historians\\" has a world weary feel to it at times, as though we are seeing reflections from a tired professor nearing the end of a hard fought career in the profession. Despite this negative attitude, the book contains valuable information for those considering a career in this difficult field.rea. To save our jobs and preserve the future, according to the author, academics must broaden their methods and strive to reach a greater audience. \\"Take history back to the people!\\" would surely be the Hamerow's battle cry.<br />\\"Reflections on History and Historians\\" has a world weary feel to it at times, as though we are seeing reflections from a tired professor nearing the end of a hard fought career in the profession. Despite this negative attitude, the book contains valuable information for those considering a career in this difficult field.	2003-06-07
1099592:US	52012289	R2Q47VPS4JN54M	1560255021	528901183	Dreaming War: Blood for Oil and the Cheney-Bush Junta (Nation Books)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Witty but Iffy	Gore Vidal's recognition arises primarily from his literary work, specifically his contributions to the historical fiction genre. Through the publications of classics like \\"Burr,\\" \\"Lincoln,\\" and \\"Empire,\\" Vidal made our political predecessors and their epochs entertaining and familiar to the modern reader. Vidal has also written wider ranging works, from an apocalyptic tale (Kalki), to Roman history (Julian), and religion (Live from Golgotha). In \\"Dreaming War: Blood for Oil and the Cheney-Bush Junta,\\" Vidal invokes another aspect of his persona: political critic. \\"Dreaming War\\" is a collection of essays and articles outlining the author's belief that America, the Land of the Free, is in actuality an empire stretching across the globe. According to Vidal, not only is the United States an empire, it has been one since the end of the Second World War with the inauguration of what he calls \\"the national security state.\\"<br /><br />The title of the book is a bit of a misnomer. Only one or two essays deal with the present regime in Washington. According to these two essays, Bush and his cronies (Cheney, Rumsfeld, Rice) are shills for big business and oil interests. Vidal argues that the terrorist attacks of September 11th provided the impetus to seize Afghanistan and Iraq in order to fill lots of drums with oil. Moreover, our moves into the region will ultimately result in an attempt to grab the oil rich Caspian Sea region. The author questions why jet fighters were not sent up immediately on that fateful day, insinuating that the attack served to step up American elite grabs for further global economic control. The essays question the legitimacy of Bush's presidency by castigating the Supreme Court as a distant body uninterested in preserving the Constitution and Bill of Rights.<br /><br />The other essays are more interesting. Several serve as rebuttals to critics of Vidal, such as a scathing response to Louis Menand, author of \\"The Metaphysical Club\\" and sometimes contributor to the New York Review of Books over criticisms against Chomsky and Vidal. One essay assails the History Channel for showing a Vidal documentary about the presidency without giving the author a chance to sit with the discussion panel to defend his work. The author goes through his critics' claims and attempts to refute them piecemeal, with occasional success.<br /><br />The most interesting article in this collection is \\"The Last Empire,\\" a caustic critique of American foreign policy since the end of WWII. Vidal argues that the American people have been victims of media and corporate elites for over half a century. In the author's world, American foreign policy has repeatedly trampled on the sovereignty of other nations, promoted American corporate interests to the exclusion of freedom for third world peoples, and consistently and vigorously promoted \\"threats\\" that require a massive amount of tax dollars to combat while allowing the government to acquire ever greater powers over the American people. The collapse of the Soviet Union and European communism in general required our government to construct another bogey in order to fuel their grabs for power. Vidal suggests that China may fill this need nicely in another ten years or so, and that the Middle East is another area that will give power elites an excuse to rally the little people around the flag yet again.<br /><br />I really enjoyed reading this little collection of articles and essays, but not because I agree with all of his arguments. \\"Dreaming War\\" reminds me that I need to read some of Gore's novels soon. His acidic wit is always worth the price of admission, and it is here in abundance. I really, REALLY tried hard not to laugh over this book but found it impossible. For example, here is what Vidal says about the introduction of the Domino Theory (the idea that one country falling to communism will cause neighboring countries to topple as well, like a string of dominos) in 1950: \\"Thus, without shepards or even a napalm star, the domino theory was born in a humble State Department manger.\\" Now that is funny whether you agree or disagree with the author's claims about how every plan presented by our government is touted as holy gospel.<br /><br />The biggest problem with these essays is the almost total blackout on placing blame on the liberals. It amuses me to no end that reviews of this book shrilly denounce republicans without recognizing who shares the blame for the creation of a national security state and the subsequent imperialist empire Vidal so eloquently proclaims. Who presided over the post-war creation of imperial America? Liberals. Who involved us in Vietnam and then escalated it to unconscionable levels? Eisenhower had a hand, but it was the liberal troika of Truman, Kennedy, and Johnson who did the most damage. Who controlled Congress for forty years and funded the enormous expansion of nuclear weapons and police actions around the globe? Liberals. These facts seem to be lost on the author. He even goes so far as to wonder aloud if Clinton could oversee the destruction of the national security state, a laughable proposition when one remembers that Clinton sent troops to Haiti, Bosnia, started a war with Serbia, and bombed the Sudan and Afghanistan. If you subscribe to Gore Vidal's theories on our predicament, you cannot make a distinction between liberal and conservative. Guilt must descend on both political parties. If anything, the \\"Bush-Cheney Junta\\" is only the latest in a long series of imperialist maneuvers.<br /><br />I would read this collection again even though I am chary about many of the claims contained between the covers. \\"Dreaming War\\" does inspire me to again read other works by Gore Vidal. His wit is astonishing and well worth investigating even if you don't agree with his ideas.he domino theory was born in a humble State Department manger.\\" Now that is funny whether you agree or disagree with the author's claims about how every plan presented by our government is touted as holy gospel.    The biggest problem with these essays is the almost total blackout on placing blame on the liberals. It amuses me to no end that reviews of this book shrilly denounce republicans without recognizing who shares the blame for the creation of a national security state and the subsequent imperialist empire Vidal so eloquently proclaims. Who presided over the post-war creation of imperial America? Liberals. Who involved us in Vietnam and then escalated it to unconscionable levels? Eisenhower had a hand, but it was the liberal troika of Truman, Kennedy, and Johnson who did the most damage. Who controlled Congress for forty years and funded the enormous expansion of nuclear weapons and police actions around the globe? Liberals. These facts seem to be lost on the author. He even goes so far as to wonder aloud if Clinton could oversee the destruction of the national security state, a laughable proposition when one remembers that Clinton sent troops to Haiti, Bosnia, started a war with Serbia, and bombed the Sudan and Afghanistan. If you subscribe to Gore Vidal's theories on our predicament, you cannot make a distinction between liberal and conservative. Guilt must descend on both political parties. If anything, the \\"Bush-Cheney Junta\\" is only the latest in a long series of imperialist maneuvers.    I would read this collection again even though I am chary about many of the claims contained between the covers. \\"Dreaming War\\" does inspire me to again read other works by Gore Vidal. His wit is astonishing and well worth investigating even if you don't agree with his ideas.	2003-06-05
1099688:US	52012289	R25B2J6A764JIV	0684836270	628567784	Exquisite Corpse	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Icky	Poppy Z. Brite's 1996 gross out novel \\"Exquisite Corpse\\" must surely rank in the top tier of the most disturbing books ever written. The author, who gives the Marquis de Sade a run for his money, delves into nearly every anti-social activity imaginable in this tale about two serial killers embarking on a blood soaked alliance in New Orleans, Louisiana. The story, which blends southern atmosphere with extreme violence, will repeatedly offend those with easily riled sensibilities. Only fans of extreme horror need apply here.<br />\\"Exquisite Corpse\\" begins with the narrative of Andrew Compton. Andrew speaks to us from his prison cell in England, where he is currently serving life sentences for the murder of twenty-three men and boys. Compton revels in his notoriety as one of England's worst serial killers, but he hates staying in jail and cannot wait to get back out on the streets so he can return to his favorite hobbies. In due course, Andrew does get his chance to roam free again and do what he does best: stalk and murder innocent people. Of course, this killer recognizes he cannot stay in the United Kingdom any longer, so he escapes across the Atlantic Ocean to the United States, cleverly covering his tracks along the way. Compton's observations about other human beings and the blas&eacute; way he looks at what he does are both chilling and vulgar in the extreme. The story takes a turn for the worse when he eventually encounters Jay Byrne, a tormented soul mate with his own predilection for insane behavior. Not since the union of Henry Lee Lucas and Ottis Toole has such a couple wreaked so much havoc.<br />Byrne may even be more perverse than Compton. Descended from an old New Orleans family (with their own dark secrets that skipped a few generations to find expression in Jay), Byrne does not need to work due to inherited wealth. Living alone in a large house provides Jay with all the time in the world to imbibe in his grim pleasures: drugs, prowling for victims, and killing and dismembering bodies. And now Byrne has his eye on a young Asian man named Tran, a local drug dealer with his own problems. Tran used to date a famous writer named Luke, but Luke tested positive for HIV and has a big problem with drugs. In his haste to move beyond a failed relationship, Tran attempts to attract the attentions of Byrne. Jay knows he cannot lay a finger on Tran in the way he wants because Tran is a local boy with family and friends who will miss him. Most of the book deals with the relationship between these three characters as they move to a showdown that ranks about a ten on the gore meter.<br />I had a few problems with \\"Exquisite Corpse.\\" My disdain for this book has nothing to do with the fact that every major character is a homosexual, or with the shocking amounts of violence, or with the severity of that violence. Nor do I have a problem with Brite's prose, which is quite good considering the subject matter. The difficulty comes from Brite's use of stereotyping. The world of the homosexual presented here is one of endless drug use and reckless sexual behavior. The impression the reader gets from this book is that all homosexuals engage in these practices on a regular basis, which is definitely far from the truth. Moreover, Brite's rantings against AIDS and how no one in society cares falls flat when she has her characters living lives of immense risk for the disease. Acquiring any potentially fatal virus is a tragedy for anyone, but when people continue to engage in behaviors when they know what the consequences might be is a tragedy of another sort, namely one of sheer idiocy. And that is exactly what several of the characters here do when they overtly declare they do not care if they get sick.<br />\\"Exquisite Corpse\\" is still worth reading for the avid horror hound. Excellently drawn characters with great insights into their personalities mixed with jaw dropping scenes of explicit violence make this one a memorable experience. The locality of New Orleans works as well, providing just the right colorful background for the shenanigans committed by the characters. Brite ought to have a long career in the genre, and if this book is any indication, that career will shine for a long time.lity of New Orleans works as well, providing just the right colorful background for the shenanigans committed by the characters. Brite ought to have a long career in the genre, and if this book is any indication, that career will shine for a long time.	2003-06-05
1100288:US	52012289	R2XTQ25CID7NGC	1560252480	592035995	Requiem for a Dream: A Novel	Books	5	264	276	N	N	Intense and Heartrending	Hubert Selby's 1978 novel \\"Requiem for a Dream\\" must certainly rank as one of the most effective depictions of addiction ever written. A critically acclaimed film of the same name, released in 2000 and directed by Darren Aronofsky, has brought more attention to the novel. Although I have yet to see the film, I decided to read the book before watching the movie because I wanted to know what dark visions await me when I finally slide that DVD into the player. If the story is any indication, the film promises a devastating experience. This is not a sunshine and smiles book. It is an unflinching look at addiction and its consequences.<br />There are four central characters in \\"Requiem for a Dream.\\" There is Sara Goldfarb, a lonely widow who spends her days watching television, eating chocolate covered cherries, and pining for her late husband Seymour. Harry Goldfarb, Sara's black sheep of a son, is another main character. Harry's circle of acquaintances includes his girlfriend Marion, an intelligent, attractive young girl with a talent for painting but paralyzed with defeatist and self-loathing feelings. Harry's best friend is Tyrone C. Love, a young black man who grew up poor in Harlem but would like to escape from the harsh realities of the street. While minor characters come and go during the course of the story, Selby focuses on these four in an attempt to show the trajectory of doom associated with addiction.<br />Things do not seem to go very wrong throughout the first part of the book. It is summer in New York City and time for fun and sun. Harry, Tyrone, and Marion spend their time partying with their friends, listening to music, and enjoying each other's company. Sara watches her television shows and eats her candy in blissful peace, only occasionally worrying about what her son Harry is up to. Even better news lands in the laps of our four characters in short order. Sara receives a phone call from a company that finds contestants for game shows, promising her that all she need do is fill out a questionnaire and she will have the chance to appear on television. Sara is of course elated, and decides that if she really has a shot at winning some dough she should probably go on a diet and lose a few pounds in order to look her best. Meanwhile, Tyrone and Harry implement serious plans to obtain a pound of pure heroin so they can get rich and retire from street life. After putting in a grinding week working, the two earn enough money to purchase some drugs and begin dealing to people they know on the street. As the money flies in, Marion and Harry start making plans to someday open their own little business. Even though the three are users and breaking the law by dealing drugs, the future seems bright.<br />Then winter arrives. Things start to fall apart for Sara, Harry, Marion, and Tyrone. For Sara, an attempt at a diet found in a book does not have the expected payoff. At the recommendation of a neighbor, she goes to a local doctor who prescribes diet pills. Sara's cheery demeanor gradually erodes under the duress of non-reply from the game show company and the slavery of the pills. Harry, Marion, and Tyrone are no better off. Their heroin supply dries up, reducing the trio to scrounging for drugs just as their compulsion grows worse. The deterioration of the four protagonists quickly escalates into a bleak and depressing free fall of pain and degradation.<br />All four individuals suffer untold horrors by the end of the book, but I think the most pathetic account concerns Sara. Here is a lady who seems harmless, who only wants the best for her son and tries to get through lonely days laced with the pain of losing her husband. She fervently believes she will get on television if she can only muster enough self-control to quit overeating. Her naivet&eacute; about the dangers of diet pills leads to disaster merely because she has no conception that there are doctors who are quacks. Sara's innocence makes for a truly poignant story. I had less sympathy for the other three characters. Since none of them are idiots by any means, they knew the dangers of drugs but fell into the old trap of \\"that can't happen to me.\\" That does not lessen the message of the book, but it does make Sara stand apart.<br />The writing style of the author is quite unorthodox. There are no chapters, no quotation marks, and sentences that run on for miles. This does make it difficult at first to discern who is talking and to whom, but by the time a few dozen pages pass by it makes little difference in the flow of the story. Selby instills Tyrone with a noticeable street accent, and Sara is often alone when we see the sections dealing with her, so do not worry about the format of the novel.<br />You cannot escape the theme of addictions in this tale. But what is interesting about it is that Selby equates all excessive compulsions. Heroin usage is as damaging to the soul as is obsessive television viewing or overeating. All have the potential to lead to utter destruction whether you are a young kid roaming the streets or a middle-aged widow who rarely leaves the apartment.<br />In an introduction to this edition of the book, Selby writes a powerful statement about his tale. He says that \\"Requiem for a Dream\\" is about what happens when we concern ourselves more with getting than giving in life, and that the book is an examination of what happens when people chase the illusions of the dream of consumerism and materialism instead of following the truth in their hearts. For a powerful story, look no further than this tale.I had less sympathy for the other three characters. Since none of them are idiots by any means, they knew the dangers of drugs but fell into the old trap of \\"that can't happen to me.\\" That does not lessen the message of the book, but it does make Sara stand apart. <br />The writing style of the author is quite unorthodox. There are no chapters, no quotation marks, and sentences that run on for miles. This does make it difficult at first to discern who is talking and to whom, but by the time a few dozen pages pass by it makes little difference in the flow of the story. Selby instills Tyrone with a noticeable street accent, and Sara is often alone when we see the sections dealing with her, so do not worry about the format of the novel.<br />You cannot escape the theme of addictions in this tale. But what is interesting about it is that Selby equates all excessive compulsions. Heroin usage is as damaging to the soul as is obsessive television viewing or overeating. All have the potential to lead to utter destruction whether you are a young kid roaming the streets or a middle-aged widow who rarely leaves the apartment.<br />In an introduction to this edition of the book, Selby writes a powerful statement about his tale. He says that \\"Requiem for a Dream\\" is about what happens when we concern ourselves more with getting than giving in life, and that the book is an examination of what happens when people chase the illusions of the dream of consumerism and materialism instead of following the truth in their hearts. For a powerful story, look no further than this tale.	2003-06-04
1103461:US	52012289	R30UU83YZRUZV	0806117613	525051112	Fifty Years on the Old Frontier: As Cowboy, Hunter, Guide, Scout, and Ranchman	Books	4	6	6	N	N	One Man's Realities in the American Old West	James Cook's \\"Fifty Years on the Old Frontier\\" is an autobiographical narrative of his life experiences in the American West. Cook's endeavors during the latter part of the 19th century and early part of the 20th century encompassed a whole host of occupations: cattle drover, tour guide, hunter, rancher, and military scout. Cook eventually married into money and retired to a ranch near Agate, Nebraska where he consorted with Red Cloud and other old Sioux warriors. He also collaborated with several university professors on fossil digs located around his ranch, eventually becoming an amateur scientist in his own right. Cook's accounts of his adventures in the Old West provide a compelling insight about the realities and myths of America's movement across the North American continent. James Cook died in 1942.<br />The beginning chapters of the book outline the author's work as a cattle popper and drover along the old cattle trails through Texas and Kansas. The dangers that threatened the well being of these tough as nails trail hands constitutes the bulk of Cook's narrative. What quickly becomes apparent is that these guys were not the dapper dandies we see in films and fiction; they worked hard everyday to get those longhorns up to Kansas and to the railroad. Cook recounts the disagreements amongst drovers, an experience with hail and a tornado, stampedes, the threat of wild animals, and the dangers posed by Indians. A separate chapter discusses the fate of the wild mustangs, yet another sad chapter in the annals of the conquest of the West. Once the businessmen moved in and discovered a market for horses, they rounded up the mustangs by the thousands through crude trapping techniques and by depriving Indians of their stocks. Horses injured in the process were ruthlessly shot by the trappers. The picture that emerges from the author's narrative about trail life is one of greedy exploitation leading to environmental damage.<br />Relations with Indians are a central theme of the book. The movie image of tremendous battles between natives and American military forces does not find expression in this story. Instead, Cook portrays Indians as just another obstacle to the settlement of the West. Cattle drivers had to pay attention to Indian raiders who sought to steal horses and cattle, but it was more important to worry about weather and stampedes. In the last section of the book, Indians play a bigger role in the story. The author outlines in detail his relationship with the Sioux after they had been confined to the reservation. Another chapter deals with the Geronimo uprising in New Mexico, an incident Cook experienced first hand during his tenure as a ranch manager in the area. He takes the opportunity of the uprising to tell the truth about the Indians and the military forces during the campaign. According to the author, Geronimo and his Apache warriors did not fight the military head on, but relied on hit and run tactics with strategic retreats to Mexico to stay one step ahead of the law. The military relied heavily on scouts, often mixed blood Indians, in order to track down the rogue Indians. Geronimo eventually surrendered when an army officer talked him into giving himself up.<br />Cook's interest in the West is not a broad picture of western history, but rather groupings of anecdotes about his individual experiences in the area. The reader often has to read between the lines of these engaging stories in order to ascertain the reality of the situation on the frontier. For example, Cook discusses in depth the time the Sioux on the reservation asked him to be their government appointed agent. The author provides several letters of endorsement written on his behalf by politicians and bankers in Nebraska and Wyoming. The letters praise Cook as a man of the West on excellent terms with the local Indian population. A cynic can see the larger dynamic tensions between East and West in these letters. The locals want one of their own in the job because up to this point the position was always held by someone from back east. Moreover, a western agent could deliver lucrative supply contracts to western businesses and perform favors for western politicians. Why else would bankers take the time to write a recommendation letter to the government? It certainly had little to do with goodwill towards the Sioux Indians, especially since this wheedling went on at roughly the same time as the Ghost Dance fiasco.<br />I am astonished that no one else has reviewed this book. This is a great text for the Old West history buff or those interested in Indian/White relations during the late 19th century. James Cook's \\"Fifty Years on the Old Frontier\\" is an entertaining, yet at some times sad, account of the realities of our frontier days.in the job because up to this point the position was always held by someone from back east. Moreover, a western agent could deliver lucrative supply contracts to western businesses and perform favors for western politicians. Why else would bankers take the time to write a recommendation letter to the government? It certainly had little to do with goodwill towards the Sioux Indians, especially since this wheedling went on at roughly the same time as the Ghost Dance fiasco.<br />I am astonished that no one else has reviewed this book. This is a great text for the Old West history buff or those interested in Indian/White relations during the late 19th century. James Cook's \\"Fifty Years on the Old Frontier\\" is an entertaining, yet at some times sad, account of the realities of our frontier days.	2003-06-02
1104665:US	52012289	RVKLL357M1F1G	0140185852	677758129	We	Books	5	96	103	N	N	A Depressing Dystopian Future	Yevgeny Zamyatin, translator Clarence Brown tells us, had an enormous influence on George Orwell's seminal dystopian novel \\"1984.\\" \\"We,\\" written in 1924 as the turmoil of the Bolshevik revolution was in its final stages, definitely shares several similarities with Orwell's bleak novel. Most notable is the relationship between Zamyatin's protagonist, D-503, with a corrupting woman, a relationship that mirrors Orwell's Winston and Julia. But where Orwell was British, Zamyatin was Russian and writing in a time and place where dystopian visions were quickly becoming a reality. The author of \\"We\\" eventually left Russia forever (he actually wrote to Uncle Joe Stalin requesting permission to leave! What a brave soul!) and \\"We\\" did not appear in print in the Soviet Union until 1988. It is not difficult to see why: \\"We\\" is deeply subversive to totalitarian forms of government.<br />Zamyatin's novel, described in the Penguin edition as a \\"great prose poem,\\" takes place in the twenty-sixth century in a geographical place unknown to the reader. The narrator of the story, the previously mentioned D-503, is writing down his experiences as part of a grand scheme to launch a rocket ship into outer space. D-503 is the chief mathematician of this project, named INTEGRAL, and the goal of the mission is to find life on other planets in order to bring them \\"elevation\\" through totalitarian government. The narrator's journal will accompany the rocket ship along with poems, letters, and other propaganda singing the praises of \\"OneState,\\" which is the moniker of the ruling apparatus in D-503's world. OneState, with the mysterious \\"Benefactor\\" at the helm, rules with an iron fist through an intricate web of time management principles based on Frederick Winslow Taylor's contributions to the industrial revolution. At any given time of the day, millions perform the same functions at the same time. The only exceptions are sexual relations and a few hours of free time that D-503 hopes will one day be regimented as well. All of these activities take place behind the Green Wall, a barrier of glass that effectively separates the city from the countryside.<br />If you think Huxley and Orwell are bleak, Zamyatin's novel beats them hands down. The introduction to this version of \\"We\\" tries to stress that the book does have its humorous moments, but I found very little amusement in this story. People with numbers instead of names, uniforms as the only allowed apparel, the worship of technology not as a means of getting things done but as an example of desirable conformity, and death penalties for unplanned pregnancies all contributed to my sense of utter dread about the author's vision. This is a sad, dark tale about a possible future with little optimism. Zamyatin does include the obligatory revolutionary group, called MEPHI, personified in the form of a woman named I-330, who drinks alcohol, smokes cigarettes, and wears forbidden clothing on occasion. After a few encounters with I-330, D-503 becomes aware that he is suffering a \\"sickness,\\" the symptoms of which are dreams and the discovery that he suddenly has a \\"soul.\\" Regrettably, any hope offered by MEPHI and I-330 dissolves when the state takes the repressive measure of developing an operation that uses X-rays to melt imagination out of people's heads. By the time the conclusion of the story rolls around, hope is as distant as a ship on the horizon.<br />\\"We\\" is an unusual read. Things really start to take off when D-503 encounters the corrupt I-330. His awakening is often confusing to the reader. The ramblings of this mathematician make one wonder if he is really experiencing events or hallucinating them. I decided on the former because if his mind was not used to experiencing life outside of OneState it would follow that new sensations might produce a sense of bewilderment. It was enjoyable to see how the world came alive when D-503 experiences a bevy of colors and emotions; he starts to shout out his feelings, he cries, and he even daydreams on the job. While this sensory overload makes for difficult reading at times, it also makes for an engaging story.<br />Without this Russian pioneer's groundbreaking work, the dystopian genre may never have gotten off the ground. Zamyatin's \\"We\\" is not an easy book to read and understand, but it is an essential work that I should have read years ago instead of allowing it to languish on my bookshelf. Moreover, the author makes his narrator a cheerful advocate of OneState's authoritarian rule, a viewpoint that other dystopian novels fail to do and which makes \\"We\\" even more of a unique read. For fans of utopian and anti-utopian literature, Yevgeny Zamyatin's book is time well spent.ings, he cries, and he even daydreams on the job. While this sensory overload makes for difficult reading at times, it also makes for an engaging story. <br />Without this Russian pioneer's groundbreaking work, the dystopian genre may never have gotten off the ground. Zamyatin's \\"We\\" is not an easy book to read and understand, but it is an essential work that I should have read years ago instead of allowing it to languish on my bookshelf. Moreover, the author makes his narrator a cheerful advocate of OneState's authoritarian rule, a viewpoint that other dystopian novels fail to do and which makes \\"We\\" even more of a unique read. For fans of utopian and anti-utopian literature, Yevgeny Zamyatin's book is time well spent.	2003-05-31
1104789:US	52012289	R1AT1U06N8YF3H	0142180106	374207515	Captain Blood (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	104	106	N	N	Entertainment on Every Page	Rafael Sabatini struggled for years as a writer before striking it big with his fabulous historical fiction stories. His breakthrough, according to the elaborate introduction written by Gary Hoppenstand, came with \\"Scaramouche: A Romance of the French Revolution\\" in 1921. Immediately following this novel was \\"Captain Blood: An Odyssey.\\" These two books alone sealed Sabatini's success with an audience hungry for adventure tales. Hoppenstand argues that Sabatini's fictional endeavors fed an increasing appetite amongst low level industrial workers for stories that placed the little guy against the vested interests (in this case, a wronged man turns pirate and fights back against upper class nobles and landowners), but the story works just as well as an adventure story. Penguin Classics has graciously reprinted \\"Captain Blood\\" for the modern reader, and deserves a hearty round of applause for bringing this great yarn to our attention.<br />The only thing Irishman Peter Blood wants is to be left alone. A trained physician living in Bridgewater, England in the 17th century, Blood spends his days healing the sick, smoking his pipe, and reminiscing about his ten-year stint as an adventurer throughout Europe. When the Duke of Monmouth organizes a rebellion against the tyranny of James Stuart, the King of England, Blood refuses to have anything to do with it despite suffering the abuse of those locals who wholeheartedly support the campaign. Blood's undoing comes when he assists an injured rebel after the royal army crushes the upstarts. Blood sees no contradiction in offering aid to an injured man, but the English soldiers who arrest him insist he is a traitor to the Stuart monarchy. They charge Blood for his \\"crimes\\" and sentence him to death by hanging. After commuting the sentence to ten years of slavery on the island of Barbados, the English transport Blood and a few rebels into the hands of the treacherous Colonel Bishop, a sugar plantation owner and a ruthless thug who sees nothing wrong with using stocks, whips, and other threatening devices to control his slaves.<br />The story rapidly takes off from this point, as Blood escapes and embarks on a career as a pirate. He raids Spanish treasure ships in the Caribbean while pining for Bishop's pretty niece Arabella. Sabatini introduces us to a whole host of despicable characters, from Spanish Admiral Don Esteban, a French pirate named Lavasseur, and a French general named Rivarol who all present a threat to Peter at one time or another. Blood dupes them all through a series of adventures on sea and land. Through it all this Irish pirate never loses sight of his goals: to clear his name and return to England, and to woo Arabella Bishop.<br />The most notable aspect of this novel is the writing style employed by Sabatini. This guy really knows how to tell a tale, and his language is rich, ornate, and deeply descriptive. His technique seems more 19th century than early 20th. The texture of Sabatini's language adds considerably to the story without becoming too overweening. In a time when language became more functional and therefore less complex, Sabatini strove for authenticity by using older words and lengthier terminology. It works, and it works well in a chronicle about 17th century pirates by making the reader feel as though this story really is from another time.<br />Sabatini also wrote historical biographies about the Spanish Inquisition and Cesare Borgia, which give Sabatini the knowledge to place Blood in the proper historical context. The year 1688 makes an appearance towards the end of the story, and if you know anything about what happened in England at that time you can probably figure out what implications it had for Peter Blood. In short, this blending of the real and the imaginary continually shapes the events in the novel, thus making the story more realistic. The references to real life people also give the book a halo of respectability.<br />A few improbabilities mar the otherwise pristine veneer of \\"Captain Blood.\\" There are certain battles that take place on the high seas that would make it impossible for Blood to accomplish the sort of things he pulls off. The total evilness of the pirate captain's foes presents a few problems as well. The Spanish Admiral Don Esteban, for example, assumes a Captain Ahab like attitude towards Blood after the pirate repeatedly defies the Spanish fleet. It seems unlikely that Esteban would resort to blatant piracy himself to seek personal revenge against one criminal. Despite these few small problems, the story's great style, engaging adventures, and historical accuracy builds a yarn both fascinating and entertaining.<br />I was about half way through the book before I realized that this is my first pirate adventure novel. What a way to start! I enjoyed it thoroughly on a purely entertainment level, and after reading one book by Rafael Sabatini I would definitely read another. \\"Captain Blood\\" is a great way to pass a few hours and undeniably beats spending a like amount of time watching mindless sitcoms on television.ar the otherwise pristine veneer of \\"Captain Blood.\\" There are certain battles that take place on the high seas that would make it impossible for Blood to accomplish the sort of things he pulls off. The total evilness of the pirate captain's foes presents a few problems as well. The Spanish Admiral Don Esteban, for example, assumes a Captain Ahab like attitude towards Blood after the pirate repeatedly defies the Spanish fleet. It seems unlikely that Esteban would resort to blatant piracy himself to seek personal revenge against one criminal. Despite these few small problems, the story's great style, engaging adventures, and historical accuracy builds a yarn both fascinating and entertaining.<br />I was about half way through the book before I realized that this is my first pirate adventure novel. What a way to start! I enjoyed it thoroughly on a purely entertainment level, and after reading one book by Rafael Sabatini I would definitely read another. \\"Captain Blood\\" is a great way to pass a few hours and undeniably beats spending a like amount of time watching mindless sitcoms on television.	2003-05-31
1104862:US	52012289	RW5CODMSTJZ5I	0141180854	934445456	The Wonderful World of Oz: The Wizard of Oz, The Emerald City of Oz, Glinda of Oz (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Entertaining Stories for Adults and Children	Lyman Frank Baum (1856-1919) is best known today as the author of \\"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz,\\" a children's story written in 1900. But following the success of that book, Baum wrote thirteen other Oz stories before his death from a stroke in 1919. Moreover, Baum wrote dozens of other children's tales, plays, and general stories. He was extraordinarily prolific, churning out five books in the year 1907 alone. In addition to this immense body of work, Baum worked as a journalist, a printer, a chicken breeder, an actor, a theater manager, an oil salesman, a playwright, and many other equally esoteric occupations. Despite this litany of accomplishments, it is that one little story about a Kansas girl and her dog that people remember, and even that is due to the 1939 film adaptation with Judy Garland as Dorothy. This Penguin Classics volume compiles three of Baum's Oz stories, \\"The Wizard of Oz,\\" \\"The Emerald City of Oz,\\" and \\"Glinda of Oz.\\" With a dandy introduction by Jack Zipes, a bibliography of pertinent literature about Baum, and explanatory endnotes, this is an excellent introduction to a marvelous trio of stories written by an enormously talented individual.<br />The introduction outlines the highpoints of Baum's life as well as academic analyses on his Oz stories. According to Zipes, these stories reflect personal aspects of the author's life as well as social aspects of American society. Zipes's own analysis is that Oz represents a matriarchal utopia based on socialist principles. In Oz, women rule as witches and princesses while magic and good deeds serve the denizens without relying on capitalistic tendencies of competition and money. The introduction also refers to academics that saw \\"The Wizard of Oz\\" as a thinly veiled allegory concerning the Populist movement of the late 19th century, which was the reason I decided to read the stories. Regardless of academic analysis or cultural insights, these stories turned out to be a fascinating and entertaining read, full of puns, irony, and wacky creatures. I had fun reading these stories.<br />The first story in the collection, \\"The Wizard of Oz,\\" should be instantly recognizable to most people. It differs considerably from the film version, however. Dorothy and Toto do meet the Scarecrow, the Tin Man, and the Cowardly Lion just as they do in the movie, but there are more adventures in the book version. There are differences too: in the story, the winged monkeys only obey the wicked witch because she can summon them with a magic cap. The witch also holds Dorothy and the Cowardly Lion in bondage for a period of time. I understand why the movie made several changes in the tale, but reading the story is as much if not more fun than seeing the film.<br />\\"The Emerald City of Oz,\\" published in 1910, recounts several more adventures of Dorothy in the Land of Oz. Baum used this story to expand this mysterious realm by having Dorothy bring Uncle Henry and Aunt Em to live in Oz permanently after the bank forecloses on the Kansas farm. Young Dorothy then acts as a tour guide for her family, setting out on an exploration of unknown regions of Oz. The author throws in some great puns in this installment, little jokes that surprisingly made me laugh out loud. For example, Dorothy's adventure in Utensia (where she stands trial in a dwelling full of animated cutlery, pots and pans, and utensils), her trip to Bunbury (a town inhabited by living pastries, buns, breads, and rolls), and her meeting with the Fuddles (people who literally fall to pieces when surprised by outsiders; Dorothy and her companions have to put them back together like a puzzle) are amusing to read. The best scene in the story has to be the Flutterbudgets, a town full of people who worry incessantly about nonexistent dangers. All of these explorations take place against the backdrop of an invasion of Oz by the evil Nome King and his evil allies the Growleywogs, the Whimsies, and the Phanfasms. This Oz story is quite amusing and tremendously clever.<br />\\"Glinda of Oz,\\" released to the public in 1920 a year after Baum's death reunites nearly every character from the other Oz stories. Dorothy, now a princess of Oz, sets out with her friend and monarch Ozma to stop a war between the Flatheads and the Skeezers. When Dorothy and Ozma get trapped in the fighting, Glinda the Sorceress leads a ragtag group of characters to rescue the two. Along for the trip are the Wizard of Oz, who returned to Oz after the first book and is learning magic, the Tin Man, the Scarecrow, and the funniest character, Button Bright, a boy whose sole attribute is his ability to constantly get lost. Glinda and company step into the situation and bring it to a resolution. Arguably the most interesting theme in \\"Glinda of Oz\\" is the limitations Baum places on the uses of magic in Oz. There are different types of magic and no one character (The Wizard, Glinda, Ozma) has a grasp on infinite stores of magic. Moreover, magic can only be used to assist people, not to harm them. Ozma and Glinda punish anyone who uses magic as a weapon.<br />These are great stories whether you pay attention to the social and cultural subtexts or not. Fans of the MGM extravaganza will find much here to expand on their knowledge of Dorothy, Tin Man, Scarecrow, Lion, and Glinda. Moreover, the addition of scads of other characters adds a richness and depth to the fantasy world of Oz beyond the scope of the film. I enjoyed these three stories so much I am considering reading a few of the other Oz stories, and hopefully you will too.ing and tremendously clever.<br />\\"Glinda of Oz,\\" released to the public in 1920 a year after Baum's death reunites nearly every character from the other Oz stories. Dorothy, now a princess of Oz, sets out with her friend and monarch Ozma to stop a war between the Flatheads and the Skeezers. When Dorothy and Ozma get trapped in the fighting, Glinda the Sorceress leads a ragtag group of characters to rescue the two. Along for the trip are the Wizard of Oz, who returned to Oz after the first book and is learning magic, the Tin Man, the Scarecrow, and the funniest character, Button Bright, a boy whose sole attribute is his ability to constantly get lost. Glinda and company step into the situation and bring it to a resolution. Arguably the most interesting theme in \\"Glinda of Oz\\" is the limitations Baum places on the uses of magic in Oz. There are different types of magic and no one character (The Wizard, Glinda, Ozma) has a grasp on infinite stores of magic. Moreover, magic can only be used to assist people, not to harm them. Ozma and Glinda punish anyone who uses magic as a weapon.<br />These are great stories whether you pay attention to the social and cultural subtexts or not. Fans of the MGM extravaganza will find much here to expand on their knowledge of Dorothy, Tin Man, Scarecrow, Lion, and Glinda. Moreover, the addition of scads of other characters adds a richness and depth to the fantasy world of Oz beyond the scope of the film. I enjoyed these three stories so much I am considering reading a few of the other Oz stories, and hopefully you will too.	2003-05-31
1104909:US	52012289	R221UPEFNEJMW1	0451192583	284706036	The Ignored	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Funny and Horrific	A Bentley Little novel, whether you love or hate his style, always builds on an interesting idea. \\"The Ignored\\" is no different. Little usually assumes one of two positions in his novels: he either writes a story full of hilarious observations about organizations (retail stores, homeowner's associations, the postal service), or he creates a work of pure horror (vampires, walking zombies, haunted houses). This 1997 novel blends both of these narrative devices into an affecting tale about what happens when an everyday, average man falls through the cracks of our hectic, materialistic society.<br /><br />The narrator of the story is one Bob Jones. Bob hates his life, or at least starts to after he graduates from UC Brea with a degree in American Studies. His part-time job at Sears provides barely enough income for food and shelter, although his live-in girlfriend Jane works part-time too while she finishes her degree. After answering an advertisement for a position at the generic sounding Automated Interface, Inc., Bob lands a real job and assumes his place in the working world. Right from the start things go badly for young Bob. His bosses hate him, his co-workers outright avoid him or subtly despise him, and even his office mate cannot stand his presence. Slowly, Bob notices he no longer registers at all with his fellow employees, with an emphasis on \\"at all.\\" They literally do not see him even if he is standing right in front of their faces, or if they do see him, they forget about him immediately after they look away. This invisibility deeply troubles Bob and causes him to slowly drive away Jane, the one person who acknowledges his presence and actually cares for him. As time progresses and the drudgery of work and life weigh heavily on Bob, he realizes that he is one of \\"The Ignored,\\" a man whose existence goes without notice in society.<br /><br />But someone does notice Bob, and after Bob commits a terrible crime this man, named Philipe, initiates him into a group referred to by its members as \\"Terrorists for the Common Man.\\" The organization consists of other ignoreds angry at a world that barely acknowledges their existence. The group pulls off petty crimes at first, such as swiping free meals at restaurants and heckling public officials. Soon, Philipe tires of banal activities and starts to plan and execute bigger crimes that pose serious dangers to society. As the very real possibility of killing innocent people looms large, Bob must decide whether to stay with Philipe or strike out for a town of ignoreds somewhere in Arizona. Bob leaves Philipe and journeys to this strange town where an even greater threat to his survival appears. The conclusion of the book takes a horrific turn for the worse while reuniting Bob with old acquaintances.<br /><br />There are elements of the usual Little humor in \\"The Ignored.\\" When Bob begins to suspect he is bland and average, he peruses his CD collection and realizes everything he likes is strictly Top Ten, run of the mill music. He watches MASH and laughs at all the jokes embellished with a laugh track. In short, Bob embraces everything average, everything the common man should find amusing or pleasing. Moreover, the town of the ignoreds turns out to be one big joke firmly aimed at the solar plexus of consumerism and mass culture. Little seems to say that all of us will end up ignored in a society that preaches bland conformity through the homogenization of mass marketing.<br /><br />The horror, if you do not think being a cog in the wheels of capitalism is horrific enough, makes a strong showing towards the end of the book. Little references Arthur Machen's \\"The Great God Pan\\" when he shows Bob slipping into an even more horrifying condition than his status as an ignored. This section of the book is quite imaginative yet a bit strange for even Bentley Little. It works, though, and is great fun to read. Ultimately, this horror/social satire hybrid works better than other Little novels, when he usually chooses one of the two themes and runs with it.<br /><br />I am waiting with baited breath for Little's new novel that will arrive in bookstores later this year. Until then, \\"The Ignored\\" gave me a good dose of Bentley Little to tide me over. As great as Little's message is in \\"The Ignored\\" concerning the subject of consumption, be sure and check out his novel \\"The Store,\\" which does a better job of delivering a jeremiad against the rampant materialism currently overrunning every street corner in America.of the two themes and runs with it.    I am waiting with baited breath for Little's new novel that will arrive in bookstores later this year. Until then, \\"The Ignored\\" gave me a good dose of Bentley Little to tide me over. As great as Little's message is in \\"The Ignored\\" concerning the subject of consumption, be sure and check out his novel \\"The Store,\\" which does a better job of delivering a jeremiad against the rampant materialism currently overrunning every street corner in America.	2003-05-31
1105442:US	52012289	R11WQHJ1GMVN5G	1585010626	345109318	Dark Millennium : A Visionary Tale	Books	2	8	12	N	N	Dark Indeed	I always enjoy reading utopian or anti-utopian novels, and there are scads of them out there waiting to be read. In recent years, racists have added a few to the mix. Most notable is \\"The Turner Diaries\\" written by the late white supremacist and neo-Nazi William Pierce, a book that many think provided the blueprint for the attack on the Murrah building in Oklahoma City. Pierce's fascistic dream of the ultimate destruction of all non-white peoples along with the overthrow of the federal government is the extreme example. A less extreme example, but one just as racist, is \\"Dark Millennium,\\" a book written by Gerald James McManus. McManus, and the way he markets his book, is a bit of a mystery. The back cover argues that this is \\"A terrifying story of a President out of control,\\" and \\"A cautionary tale\\" about \\"Politics at its worst.\\" That certainly makes a potential reader think that the story will take a position opposing the abuses of political power. After reading the book, the opposite seems to be the case, as this is an overtly racist tract that glorifies the destruction of democracy in favor of a dictatorship that will rid the world of non-whites and the liberal establishment. A cursory search for McManus on the Internet turned up further proof that this book's claims on the back cover are false, as the author appears on a site loaded with hatred directed at ethnic minorities. The only conclusion I can deduce from this ostensible schizophrenia is that the author hopes to trick people into reading his book, figuring that once he hooks the reader with the taglines he can also trick them into buying into his far right, xenophobic story. Not likely.<br />\\"Dark Millennium\\" is the story of Alexander McGrail. Beginning when McGrail is sixteen years old in 1968 and ending in the year 2030 when McGrail dies of a massive brain aneurysm, McManus traces the rise and eventual fall of an American racist. Instilled with the idea that blacks are subservient to whites by his father, young McGrail quickly sees his destiny as one of cleansing America, and eventually the world, of non-white populations in order to allow the true glory of the white race to flourish. The author outlines McGrail's rise to prominence, from a stint as a decorated soldier in Vietnam, to a \\"moderate\\" Republican congressman from Massachusetts, to vice-president of the United States, to his role as president and conqueror of the world. Along the way McManus spices his tale with digressions on the criminality and low IQ of blacks and other ethnic minorities, the belief in white supremacy and white separatism, the idea that the white man's destiny lies in exploring space, and the relegation of women to sex objects and mere incubators of children. This book is a gospel for far right fanatics.<br />As more and more of Alex McGrail's psychology surfaces in the book, the reader fast recognizes that he is a psychopath at the very least, and at most a sociopath. McManus often italicizes McGrail's internal thoughts for the benefit of the reader, but the thoughts of the protagonist (and considering the book, maybe he should be the antagonist) reveal a picture of a diseased mind full of violence, perversion, and an inflated ego. The author attempts to blunt some of McGrail's more offensive ideas in order to make his extremist positions palatable to the uninitiated reader, such as a plan to quarantine the remaining black population in Florida where they are sterilized and allowed to live out their lives with government support. While this may not sound \\"moderate\\" at all, it is when compared to other racist utopian novels that call for the immediate annihilation of all non-white populations. But death is death, whether it is through sterilization or savage acts of violence. McManus, through the McGrail character, seeks to rid the world of what Hitler referred to as the \\"untermenschen.\\"<br />While blacks bear the brunt of the author's disdain, Jews are curiously absent from the listof McGrail's targets. As anyone familiar with far right ideology knows, Jews are THE overarching scapegoat of neo-Nazis, Klansmen, Christian Identity adherents, and other supremacist and separatist organizations. Make no mistake about it, McManus hates Jews even though he soft shoes around the topic. The author recognizes that overt calls for the eradication of the Jewish people will alienate likely converts. The goal is to draw people in through this \\"primer\\" and then gradually instill a hatred for Jews. Very few people who end up in these groups go directly from indifference to proclaiming Hitler a hero; they go through stages first, and McManus's book is an introductory text designed to bring `em in the door before indoctrinating sympathizers with even more extreme positions.<br />With great trepidation, I still recommend this book to those interested in the dystopian/utopian genre if for no other reason than to cover the entire ideological spectrum of the canon. Moreover, for students of the extreme right, \\"Dark Millennium\\" is as essential as \\"The Turner Diaries\\" in understanding the worldview of these people. For a far left perception on the ideal world, check out Ernest Callenbach's \\"Ecotopia,\\" a vision far removed from McManus's treatment but one that possesses its own sinister agenda.t of McGrail's targets. As anyone familiar with far right ideology knows, Jews are THE overarching scapegoat of neo-Nazis, Klansmen, Christian Identity adherents, and other supremacist and separatist organizations. Make no mistake about it, McManus hates Jews even though he soft shoes around the topic. The author recognizes that overt calls for the eradication of the Jewish people will alienate likely converts. The goal is to draw people in through this \\"primer\\" and then gradually instill a hatred for Jews. Very few people who end up in these groups go directly from indifference to proclaiming Hitler a hero; they go through stages first, and McManus's book is an introductory text designed to bring `em in the door before indoctrinating sympathizers with even more extreme positions.<br />With great trepidation, I still recommend this book to those interested in the dystopian/utopian genre if for no other reason than to cover the entire ideological spectrum of the canon. Moreover, for students of the extreme right, \\"Dark Millennium\\" is as essential as \\"The Turner Diaries\\" in understanding the worldview of these people. For a far left perception on the ideal world, check out Ernest Callenbach's \\"Ecotopia,\\" a vision far removed from McManus's treatment but one that possesses its own sinister agenda.	2003-05-31
1109318:US	52012289	R237L91MR4EGGV	0425181103	21671792	Phantoms	Books	5	142	147	N	N	The Best Type of Horror	I avoided Dean Koontz like the plague since the day some years ago when I attempted to read his novel \\"Mr. Murder.\\" I found that book so formulaic and tedious that I swore never to read another of his books. I did not even finish \\"Mr. Murder,\\" a rarity for me because I always strive to finish any book I pick up. When I recently decided to cast my nets a little wider into the vast seas of the horror genre, I looked for something by Koontz that other readers praised. Repeatedly, I found that his book \\"Phantoms\\" came highly recommended by nearly everyone who read it. So, with my sense of smell ready to detect the slightest hint of staleness or boredom, I dove right into this 1983 Koontz novel. My analysis: of the many horror novels I have read over the years, \\"Phantoms\\" may be the best of the batch, ranking right up there with Stephen King's \\"It\\" as one of my all-time favorites.<br />The author wastes little time getting right into the story. Dr. Jennifer Paige and her little sister Lisa are driving to Jennifer's house in Snowfield, California. Jenny was never close to her sister due to the rigorous demands of medical school and the headache of establishing a practice in the small town. When their mother dies suddenly, Jenny steps in to take care of Lisa. The poignancy of this action quickly shatters when the two arrive in Snowfield. The town appears to be completely uninhabited. Jenny and Lisa realize that no one is walking around town and that no cars are on the streets. An even ruder shock overwhelms the two women when they find Jennifer's housekeeper dead on the kitchen floor. Even eerier is the condition of the dead body, which has uniform bruising over every inch of the skin. At first Jenny surmises that a disease could be the culprit so the sisters decide to pay a visit to the neighbors, a visit that produces more questions than answers. Jenny and Lisa begin a mad dash through town, finding corpses everywhere they go. In some houses, they discover that the residents have simply disappeared without a trace. It quickly becomes apparent that something sinister has occurred in Snowfield, and it is up to Jennifer and Lisa to find out exactly what happened before they become victims themselves.<br />Enter the Sheriff's Department of Santa Mira, a town just down the road from Snowfield. Unaware of the unfolding terror in Snowfield, Sheriff Bryce Hammond and his deputy Talbert Whitman are questioning a murder suspect named Kale about a gruesome double homicide. Koontz uses the Kale interrogation to give us some background on Sheriff Hammond, revealing that this cop is a brilliant investigator and a great man in a crisis but that he lost his wife in an automobile accident and his son to a coma. Very quickly, Hammond gets a call from Jenny in Snowfield about the strange events in that doomed town. The sheriff sets off with a handful of deputies, most of whom Koontz describes in sufficient detail for the reader to care about what happens to them, and the book starts moving at breakneck speed. Eventually, an English academic named Timothy Flyte, the media, and a chemical weapons team from the federal government become involved in the unfolding events in Snowfield. Because whatever stalked the town is still very much present, as those unlucky enough to remain in Snowfield realize. The author masterfully blends these disparate elements together into a tale that is both suspenseful and horrific.<br />The first part of the novel works best, as Jennifer, Lisa, and the Santa Mira deputies slowly experience the horrors raging through Snowfield. Each scene of the book ratchets up the horror by revealing a little more information than the previous scene, which creates a growing sense of unease in the reader. The back-story involving Flyte and the \\"Ancient Enemy\\" explains the horrific incidents in Snowfield and is a welcome addition to the tale. The end of the story loses some of the excitement of the beginning, as once we understand what thesepeople are up against the suspense dies down appreciably. This in no way should prevent you from seeking this story out, since the tale is still great fun.<br />Koontz wrote an afterword in 2001 about his opinions on \\"Phantoms.\\" He avers that while he enjoyed writing the novel, he wished he never wrote it because it classified him as a horror writer when he prefers to see himself as a suspense author. The author mentions that \\"Phantoms\\" has never gone out of print since its 1983 release and has sold roughly six million copies. I think most authors could care less what label stuck to them if they could have that many sales! Regardless of Koontz's attitude towards his story, this is an excellent tale and a tremendous contribution to the horror genre.people are up against the suspense dies down appreciably. This in no way should prevent you from seeking this story out, since the tale is still great fun.<br />Koontz wrote an afterword in 2001 about his opinions on \\"Phantoms.\\" He avers that while he enjoyed writing the novel, he wished he never wrote it because it classified him as a horror writer when he prefers to see himself as a suspense author. The author mentions that \\"Phantoms\\" has never gone out of print since its 1983 release and has sold roughly six million copies. I think most authors could care less what label stuck to them if they could have that many sales! Regardless of Koontz's attitude towards his story, this is an excellent tale and a tremendous contribution to the horror genre.	2003-05-27
1111227:US	52012289	R1SHYQ8TIAPZKI	0140443150	161113842	Bel-Ami (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	90	92	N	N	Gorgeous Story on 19th Century French Society	Guy De Maupassant (1850-1893), if \\"Bel-Ami\\" is any indication, must rank as one of the best writers in the history of the western world. Born in Normandy in 1850, Maupassant became a disciple of the French author Flaubert early in life. Guy quit his job with the civil service after publishing his first short story, \\"Boule de Suif\\" in 1880. What followed was a phenomenal flurry of 250 short stories and six novels before his premature death from syphilis in 1893. During his short life, Maupassant helped to form the \\"groupe de Medan,\\" a loosely knit group of naturalist writers headed by Emile Zola. He also worked as a journalist, covering such important events as the French campaigns in Algeria and Tunisia. A hard worker when it came to writing, Maupassant also possessed a zest for life, including a love for the ladies that eventually killed him.<br />\\"Bel-Ami\\" is hardly an original premise. How many books written through the years discuss the idea of a rural man heading to the city to make it big? That is exactly what happens with this book in the form of main character Georges Duroy. After a five-year stint in the French army, Duroy moves to Paris to make his fortune. Regrettably, Duroy is languishing in a lowly job as a railroad clerk until he meets his old army buddy Forestier. From this point forward, Georges is on the fast track to success. Forestier gets him a job at a scandal rag named \\"La Vie Francaise\\" where Georges rapidly ascends the ranks from lowly reporter to chief editor. Along the way, Duroy engages in all sorts of amorous adventures with women both high and low on the Paris social register. By the time the story ends, Georges is within sight of the highest positions in French society, all accomplished through sheer cunning and social maneuvering.<br />There are so many themes running through this sordid tale of the decadent Third Republic that it is impossible to adequately describe them all here. The introduction to this Penguin edition, written by translator Douglas Parmee, does a good job of showing how incidents in Maupassant's life appear in the character of Georges Duroy. The protagonist's rural background, his experience in France's North African expeditions, his work as a reporter and the subsequent expose of the seediness of journalism, the numerous affairs, the social positioning, and the philosophical musings on death are all expressions of Maupassant's personality and activities. I do hope, however, that Maupassant was not as big of a cad as Georges Duroy because this character may be one of the biggest jerks in the history of literature.<br />You cannot help but hate Duroy. He has little self-control except when he realizes that holding off on a conquest might mean self-advancement. Georges takes his mistress to the same theater where he picks up prostitutes, takes money from people without paying them back, corrupts women of high moral standards, sleeps with his boss's wife, seduces his boss's daughter, and physically assaults his mistress. There is just no way to sympathize with this guy, and the fact that he gains riches and fame is particularly galling to anyone with any sense of decency. But that is the message De Maupassant is trying to convey; that the complete decadence of French society during this time allows the likes of Duroy to succeed, and to succeed with a smile. Witness the scene towards the end of the book when Walter, Duroy's boss, grudgingly accedes his daughter to Georges's slimy scheme. \\"He will go far,\\" says Walter, with more respect for Duroy's distasteful achievement than disdain for his lack of morals.<br />Another theme in the book, and one that runs through the pages like a 400-pound gorilla, is hypocrisy. The propensities for backstabbing, lying, and blatant disregard for self-realization in \\"Bel-Ami\\" is laugh out loud astonishing. These are shallow, manipulative people without a shred of decency, and Maupassant never passes up an opportunity to expose these despicable people. The hypocritical stance of the characters and situations often vie with powerfully descriptive passages of Paris and the French countryside, which are truly beautiful to read and have probably accounted for thousands of tourist trips to that country. The characters in \\"Bel-Ami\\" may be of no account morally, but they move and live in an environment of unsurpassed beauty.<br />Maupassant's knowledge of his own impending death weighs heavily in the story. Two sections highlight his musings on mortality: the monologue of the poet Norbert de Varenne and the death of Forestier. For the author, his slow deterioration from a disease made death a daily reality. What seemed to worry De Maupassant the most about death was not punishment from God but the idea of nothingness and being forgotten by the living. Of course, death makes no impression on Georges Duroy, who experiences only a moderate twinge over the passing of Forestier before making a play for that man's wife in order to improve his social position.<br />I am elated that I discovered this author. Guy De Maupassant is a brilliant writer whose early death robbed the world of a great talent. Although his short stories are considered some of the best ever written, do not pass by this novel. I have rarely seen an author who can write about mundane, daily situations with as much aplomb (see the scene about the fencing party as a prime example). De Maupassant's masterful abilities make this ordinary plot strikingly original and I will revisit this author again in the future. You should too.people. The hypocritical stance of the characters and situations often vie with powerfully descriptive passages of Paris and the French countryside, which are truly beautiful to read and have probably accounted for thousands of tourist trips to that country. The characters in \\"Bel-Ami\\" may be of no account morally, but they move and live in an environment of unsurpassed beauty. <br />Maupassant's knowledge of his own impending death weighs heavily in the story. Two sections highlight his musings on mortality: the monologue of the poet Norbert de Varenne and the death of Forestier. For the author, his slow deterioration from a disease made death a daily reality. What seemed to worry De Maupassant the most about death was not punishment from God but the idea of nothingness and being forgotten by the living. Of course, death makes no impression on Georges Duroy, who experiences only a moderate twinge over the passing of Forestier before making a play for that man's wife in order to improve his social position. <br />I am elated that I discovered this author. Guy De Maupassant is a brilliant writer whose early death robbed the world of a great talent. Although his short stories are considered some of the best ever written, do not pass by this novel. I have rarely seen an author who can write about mundane, daily situations with as much aplomb (see the scene about the fencing party as a prime example). De Maupassant's masterful abilities make this ordinary plot strikingly original and I will revisit this author again in the future. You should too.	2003-05-26
1111617:US	52012289	R1EUWO112Q07O9	0771098960	715283408	Grain (New Canadian Library)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Canadian Prairie Realism	Robert Stead (1880-1959) wrote \\"Grain\\" as an ode to the hardscrabble life of the western Canadian farmer. The author, born in Ontario, lived in the Canadian West before moving to Ottawa where he served in the government. Stead worked as a journalist during his time in Alberta and Manitoba, but his importance today comes from his career as a novelist and poet. His first collection of poetry appeared in 1908, his first novel in 1914. \\"Grain\\" came later, in 1926, and is his best known book. Once again, the New Canadian Library Series does a great job of bringing obscure works by Canadian authors to the attention of a wider, and sometimes American, audience.<br />Stead's book tells the story of William \\"Gander\\" Stake, a farmer working the land near Plainville, Manitoba. The author begins his tale with the birth of William, born in 1896 in the harsh conditions of a lightly civilized landscape. As Gander grows up, he learns the ins and outs of life on the farm, a life full of dangers as well as family and friends. Young William hunts, argues with his older brother Jackie, seeks to win the approval of his hard working father Jackson, and meets his life long sweetheart Jo Burge at the local schoolhouse. When Jackie eventually abandons the farm to seek out the city, Gander works even harder to help his father manage the farm. Success comes slowly until World War I breaks out, leading to sky high prices for wheat that allows the Stake family to buy an automobile, build a decent house, and expand their land holdings. Gander even gets to spend some time working on Bill Powers's threshing machine.<br />William Stake keeps an eye out for Jo too, although his refusal to join the army and fight in Europe leads to a rupture that ultimately results in Jo choosing another man as her husband. As the war progresses and a few locals die in the fighting, Gander throws himself with unusual vigor into the planting and harvesting of the wheat crop. Although the government acknowledges the importance of growing more food than the enemy, Gander undergoes a crisis of conscience about not enlisting. Jo's disapproving stance does nothing to remedy the situation. After the war, Gander continues to work the land while pining for his lost love. Even the introduction of an intriguing city girl and turmoil over a hired hand and his mysterious son are mere diversions in his devotion to Jo.<br />Gander may not be the brightest penny in the pocket, but he strives for solidity in his work and in his personal life. It isn't his fault people and events continually seek to upset his equilibrium. Jo and the war are the two biggest problems Gander faces, but others intrude as well. There is Bill, a farmhand with ideas that threaten to upset Gander's sensibilities. Then there is brother Jackie, the wayward older brother whose possible return could displace Gander in the hierarchy of the Stake farm. The lure of the city always lurks in the background, the urban life that sucks the vitality out of the countryside and subverts the values of rural life. All of these possibilities array themselves against Gander, and only his innate sense of nature and responsibility protect him. In a finale that may or may not be heroic, even the stoic Gander collapses under the lure of external pressures.<br />The appeal of \\"Grain\\" is the realism of Stead's story, referred to here as \\"prairie realism.\\" The intricate detail places the reader directly into the world of Gander Stake and his surroundings. Lush descriptions of the environment jockey with the crude vernacular of the residents of Plainville. An entire chapter describes in minute detail the workings of a threshing machine. The stacking of hay bundles becomes in Stead's hands a sort of architecture of the plains. By hewing as close to reality as possible, Stead's book serves as a testament to a way of life that, if not long gone, is at the very least quickly disappearing.<br />I have read four of these New Canadian Library books andhave yet to be disappointed with what I have found. These are great stories that deserve resurrection from the cloistered prison of dusty library bookshelves and the wastelands of stuffy academia. Hopefully, this Canadian Series will continue to publish more Stead novels in the near future.d have yet to be disappointed with what I have found. These are great stories that deserve resurrection from the cloistered prison of dusty library bookshelves and the wastelands of stuffy academia. Hopefully, this Canadian Series will continue to publish more Stead novels in the near future.	2003-05-26
1118742:US	52012289	R1SXDEABARRXU1	0679600477	775641653	The Death and Life of Great American Cities (Modern Library Series)	Books	5	297	305	N	N	A Constellation of Ideas About City Planning	This 1961 book by Jane Jacobs, a one-time writer for architectural magazines in New York City, turned the world of city planning on its head. The author, who possessed no formal training in architecture or city planning, relied on personal observations of her surroundings in Greenwich Village in New York City to supply ammunition for her charges against the grand muftis of the architectural profession. \\"The Death and Life of Great American Cities\\" consists mostly of common sense observations, but there is also a good amount of statistical information, economics, sociology, and some philosophy at the base of the author's arguments. This 1993 Modern Library reprint seeks to bring Jacobs's work to a whole new generation of readers, a necessity when one realizes that a majority of the problems plaguing cities in 1961 continue to be a problem today.<br />Jacobs begins her book with a brief history of where modern city planning came from. According to the author, the mess we call cities today emerged from Utopian visionaries from Europe and America beginning in the 19th century. Figures such as Ebenezer Howard, Lewis Mumford, Le Corbusier, and Daniel Burnham all had a significantly dreadful impact on how urban areas are built and rebuilt. These men all envisioned the city as a dreadful place, full of overcrowding, crime, disease, and ugliness. Howard wished to destroy big cities completely in order to replace them with small towns, or \\"Garden Cities,\\" made up of small populations. Similar in thought to Howard, Mumford argued for a decentralization of cities into thinned out areas resembling towns. Le Corbusier, says Jacobs, inaugurated yet another harmful plan for cities: the \\"Radiant City.\\" A radiant city consists of skyscrapers surrounded by wide swaths of parks where vast concentrations of people herded into one area could live and work. Burnham's contribution to planning was \\"City Monumental,\\" where all of the grand buildings (libraries, government buildings, concert halls, landmarks) of a city could be clustered in one agglomeration separated from the dirty, bad city. Jacobs writes that all of these ideas continue to exert influence on the modern city, and that all of these ideas do not work.<br />For Jacobs, the key to a successful city rests on one word: diversity. This is not specifically an ethnic diversity, although Jacobs does vaguely include this in her arguments. Rather, diversity means different buildings, different residences, different businesses, and different amounts of people in an area at different times. The antithesis of diversity is what we see today on a stroll through downtown: a bland uniformity of office buildings, apartment dwellings, and houses that stretch as far the eyes can see. In the author's view, this lack of diversification leads to economic stagnation, slums, crime, and a host of other horrors that are all too familiar to viewers of the evening news. Especially egregious to Jacobs is the tendency to isolate low-income people in towering projects surrounded by empty space. The lack of embedded businesses in these areas, along with closed in hallways and elevators (which Jacobs calls \\"interior sidewalks and streets\\") creates a breeding ground for criminal elements and bad morale among the residents. Cities that work best employ a wide range of diverse interests that attract, not repel, people. Unfortunately, bureaucrats and social planners always believe top down planning is better than bottom up initiative. Jacobs tries to show the fallacy of social planning.<br />The amount of ground covered in this book is amazing. The author examines the role and practicality of parks, sidewalks, business interests, city government, streets, automobiles versus pedestrians, and boundaries. Repeatedly, Jacobs discovered fatal errors in how planners build cities. She found parks placed in the sunless shadows of skyscrapers or at the end of dead end streets, narrow sidewalks incapable of carrying heavy foot traffic, city blocks so long that people avoided walking down them, and city governments too fragmented to carry on effective management. All of these things eventually led to abandonment and degradation. Even worse, when a planned section of the city failed the planners came back and razed it to the ground in order to replace it with yet more failure.<br />One of Jacobs's failings in the book is that she never seems to make the connection between urban planning and social control. The housing projects are a great example. By isolating the poor, blacks as well as whites and other ethnic minorities, the state practices an effective control over these people's lives. This book inspired me to check into the fate of Cabrini-Green, Chicago's notorious housing projects that served as a role model for the abject uselessness of urban planning. These projects are in the process of being razed and replaced by mixed-income houses that, if Jacobs is accurate, may thrive due to the nearby presence of shopping areas and businesses. Of course, the planners are still in the game because they are sending most of the poor residents to other areas of the city.<br />I am probably not the best person to judge the merits of this book because I have never been to one of Jacobs's \\"Great Cities.\\" I had difficulty imagining some of the layouts she mentioned in the book due to the simple fact that I have never seen them. Despite this small problem, there is still plenty of information in this book that does make perfect sense. You do not need to live in New York City or Philadelphia to recognize that parks with no sunlight will not be a big hit with the city denizens, or that older buildings are necessary to a neighborhood because they allow small businesses to exist with low overhead costs. \\"The Death and Life of Great Cities,\\" despite its age, is still a relevant book well worth reading.c, city blocks so long that people avoided walking down them, and city governments too fragmented to carry on effective management. All of these things eventually led to abandonment and degradation. Even worse, when a planned section of the city failed the planners came back and razed it to the ground in order to replace it with yet more failure.<br />One of Jacobs's failings in the book is that she never seems to make the connection between urban planning and social control. The housing projects are a great example. By isolating the poor, blacks as well as whites and other ethnic minorities, the state practices an effective control over these people's lives. This book inspired me to check into the fate of Cabrini-Green, Chicago's notorious housing projects that served as a role model for the abject uselessness of urban planning. These projects are in the process of being razed and replaced by mixed-income houses that, if Jacobs is accurate, may thrive due to the nearby presence of shopping areas and businesses. Of course, the planners are still in the game because they are sending most of the poor residents to other areas of the city.<br />I am probably not the best person to judge the merits of this book because I have never been to one of Jacobs's \\"Great Cities.\\" I had difficulty imagining some of the layouts she mentioned in the book due to the simple fact that I have never seen them. Despite this small problem, there is still plenty of information in this book that does make perfect sense. You do not need to live in New York City or Philadelphia to recognize that parks with no sunlight will not be a big hit with the city denizens, or that older buildings are necessary to a neighborhood because they allow small businesses to exist with low overhead costs. \\"The Death and Life of Great Cities,\\" despite its age, is still a relevant book well worth reading.	2003-05-19
1119798:US	52012289	R2KNUOR20GUIZ	0375756876	287583721	The House of the Seven Gables (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	125	134	N	N	Hawthorne's Supernatural Thriller, 19th Century Style	Nathaniel Hawthorne is probably one of the most despised figures in the American literary canon, at least in the minds of the millions of school children forced to read \\"The Scarlet Letter.\\" I will go so far as to admit I never finished that novel. I took one look through the book and laughed at the ridiculous idea of reading such a convoluted looking story. That was at age seventeen. Now, many years later I am able to go back and actually read some of these daunting novels. What is surprising is that they are not daunting at all, just written in an ornate style from a different age. The plots often deal with the same issues and concerns modern people fret about. For those uninterested in relationships and human dramas, there are also great old stories with supernatural elements, which is where this book comes in. This edition of the book includes an introduction by Mary Oliver and several commentaries on the work by Edwin Percy Whipple, Henry T. Tuckerman, F.O. Matthiessen, and Herman Melville. The Melville commentary is actually a letter the author of \\"Moby Dick\\" sent to Hawthorne where he concludes with a demand that Hawthorne \\"walk down one of these mornings and see me.\\" Pretty neat.<br />In \\"The House of the Seven Gables,\\" the author tells his reader the story is a romance. What he means by this terminology is not a cheap paperback that involves swooning hearts with Fabio on the cover, but \\"a legend prolonging itself, from an epoch now gray in the distance, down into our own broad daylight.\\" Hawthorne's specific goal is to show that the bad behavior of one generation devolves on future descendents. He accomplishes this by examining the Pyncheon family, a clan founded on America's shores by the stern Puritan Colonel Pyncheon, who used his considerable influence to inveigle prime real estate from one Matthew Maule in the 17th century. Pyncheon carried out this task by using the Salem witchcraft scare to secure Maule's execution. In his last moments, Maule laid a curse on the good Colonel and all of his descendents, telling him that God would give them blood to drink as a punishment for this evil injustice. Shortly after the Colonel builds his house with seven gables on Maule's property, he dies in a way that makes Maule's curse seem to be a reality. Rather than trace this terrible evil down through the ages in minute detail, Hawthorne only touches on a few important points before beginning his story in the middle of the 19th century.<br />The Pyncheon family is slowly moldering into extinction when Hawthorne introduces us to poor old Hepzibah Pyncheon. She lives alone in the ancient estate, reduced to near starvation because her brother Clifford is in prison and Jaffrey Pyncheon, a rich judge who lives in his own manor in the country, refuses to offer her assistance. The only way to survive for Hepzibah is to open a penny store in an old part of the decaying house. Just when things reach a nadir, another Pyncheon turns up to save the day. This is Phoebe, a vivacious young lady who lives in the country. This fetching lass is a blessing for Hepzibah; she runs the penny store, helps to lift the gloomy atmosphere in the house, and when Clifford returns from his long imprisonment, Phoebe entertains the doddering man with her multitude of charms. She even strikes up an acquaintance with Holgrave, a young boarder in the house. Things start to look up when yet another tragedy strikes the Pyncheon family, leading to the momentary evacuation of the ancestral estate by Hepzibah and Clifford before Hawthorne settles all accounts in an ending that is both quick and highly implausible.<br />The reputation this book has with many people is not good. They disparage the lengthy digressions, the massive amount of time Hawthorne takes to explore Hepzibah's dilemma over opening the penny store, the sentences that go on and on without seeming to make any point whatsoever, and the organization of the book as a whole. There is some foundation inthese charges. The chapters describing the penny store do seem interminable, especially when viewed in the context of the story as a whole. As for the descriptions of Hepzibah's scowling countenance and Clifford's puny mental state, we get the idea well before Hawthorne quits harping on them. Yes, there are flaws in \\"The House of the Seven Gables.\\"<br />However, I personally enjoyed the deeply rich 19th century prose. Hawthorne's command of the English language is impressive and, at times, as precise as a cruise missile. One need only read the chapter about Judge Jaffrey Pyncheon's unfortunate incident in the house to grasp the beauty of this author's style. As for the digressions, if people have a problem with chapters such as \\"Alice Pyncheon\\" and the introductory material setting down the history of the doomed family, it is really their loss. It is when Hawthorne writes about supernatural elements that he really managed to grab me. If this counts as a lengthy digression from the story, I will take more, please!<br />If I had to assign a Hawthorne novel to a group of slack jawed high school students, I would give them this one in place of \\"The Scarlet Letter.\\" At least with \\"The House of the Seven Gables,\\" someone might enjoy the eerie curse that united the Maules with the Pyncheons for two centuries. A letter sewn on clothing cannot stack up against ghosts, a disembodied hand, and mysterious deaths. The kids will still grumble, but not as much when they realize there are less \\"thees\\" and \\"thous\\" tossed around in this novel.these charges. The chapters describing the penny store do seem interminable, especially when viewed in the context of the story as a whole. As for the descriptions of Hepzibah's scowling countenance and Clifford's puny mental state, we get the idea well before Hawthorne quits harping on them. Yes, there are flaws in \\"The House of the Seven Gables.\\" <br />However, I personally enjoyed the deeply rich 19th century prose. Hawthorne's command of the English language is impressive and, at times, as precise as a cruise missile. One need only read the chapter about Judge Jaffrey Pyncheon's unfortunate incident in the house to grasp the beauty of this author's style. As for the digressions, if people have a problem with chapters such as \\"Alice Pyncheon\\" and the introductory material setting down the history of the doomed family, it is really their loss. It is when Hawthorne writes about supernatural elements that he really managed to grab me. If this counts as a lengthy digression from the story, I will take more, please!<br />If I had to assign a Hawthorne novel to a group of slack jawed high school students, I would give them this one in place of \\"The Scarlet Letter.\\" At least with \\"The House of the Seven Gables,\\" someone might enjoy the eerie curse that united the Maules with the Pyncheons for two centuries. A letter sewn on clothing cannot stack up against ghosts, a disembodied hand, and mysterious deaths. The kids will still grumble, but not as much when they realize there are less \\"thees\\" and \\"thous\\" tossed around in this novel.	2003-05-18
1121928:US	52012289	R2GI16I91UIMBY	0312136293	777694462	Zod Wallop	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Spencer's Sinister Fantasy World	I read William Browning Spencer's \\"Resume with Monsters\\" and was quite impressed. Here is an author who knows how to combine quirky plots, horrific elements, and great character development into a seamless blend of grand entertainment. Why this guy is not sitting on the bestseller's list is a mystery of the highest order. Several of his books are not even in print anymore, another crime that needs a remedy as quickly as possible. Fortunately, public libraries often save the day when one looks for out of print material. His books are magical in that once read, they stay with you forever. This may be due in part to Spencer's habit of pouring himself into his stories. The familiarity shown in both \\"Zod Wallop\\" and \\"Resume with Monsters\\" with psychological problems and the difficulties of coping in modern society give hints into the author's knowledge about such unpleasant incidents.<br />Harry Gainesborough wrote a book called Zod Wallop after the death of his daughter Amy. The tragedy of his daughter's demise sent Harry into a tailspin, requiring a short stay in a mental asylum. A psychologist in the institution recommended Harry continue writing as a means of therapy, so Harry continued to work on Zod Wallop during his hospital stay. But the book he wrote while incarcerated took on a much grimmer, more dangerous tone than your everyday children's story. The characters in the land of Zod Wallop began to resemble some of the other patients and doctors in the ward. There are characters that bear a striking resemblance to Harry's literary agent. The problem comes when there are real life people who resemble the evil characters in the book because Zod Wallop is more than a book; it has the potential to become reality.<br />Harry is now out of the hospital and living alone in an isolated cabin. Amy's death still troubles him greatly, but he manages to get through each day until a triumvirate of patients from the mental institution arrives on his doorstep. Led by the over exuberant Raymond Story, this gang of miscreants includes Rene, a troubled but beautiful young girl; Emily, Raymond's new wife and a total invalid; and Allan, a man plagued with fits of violent rage. Joined by Lord Arbus, a monkey, the group tries to involve Harry in their quest to go to Florida where a showdown with the evil Lord Draining awaits. As Harry and his literary agent take part in Raymond's seemingly delusional odyssey, reality starts to warp on an increasingly disturbing level.<br />There is a perfectly (well, maybe) rational explanation for the strange encounters endured by Harry and his friends. Two executives from rival pharmaceutical companies take a significant interest in these escaped asylum inmates. The reasons are best left unsaid here, but it is safe to say that it involves something both men want very badly for research and development. As it turns out, Harry and his friends shared something special, albeit slightly sinister, during their residence at the hospital. As the executives take up the hunt, they too end up becoming a part of the fantasy of Zod Wallop.<br />I enjoy how Spencer deftly blended reality with the looming world of Zod Wallop. The reader never knows what is coming down the pipeline in this book. One minute everything seems to be going great, the next minute brings an attack by a Ralewing. A mundane trip to a convenience store turns into a mind-blowing experience with the full force of Harry's past. The conclusion of the story witnesses startling revelations, total immersion in the world of Zod Wallop, and closure for Harry and his ex-wife.<br />Spencer's book is a real hoot. This guy has a phenomenal imagination along with the ability to write engaging prose. Again, it is difficult to imagine why he is not considered a preeminent author. Both \\"Resume with Monsters\\" and \\"Zod Wallop\\" is enough to place Spencer head and shoulders above most of the drivel passed off on the public today. For those seeking a whimsical romp throughthe realms of unreality, Spencer is the man.the realms of unreality, Spencer is the man.	2003-05-16
1122810:US	52012289	R1CZR4H6LSHIRD	0140043128	808414399	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest	Books	5	66	73	N	N	Simply Divine	Counterculture icon and author Ken Kesey (1935-2001) wrote his first novel, \\"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,\\" in 1960. The book was a response to the author's experiences testing mind-altering drugs for the federal government and his later tenure as a nurse's aide in the same facility. In the introduction to the novel, Robert Faggen places this seminal novel in its proper context, arguing that this book incorporates several themes of the 1950's: the Cold War, the plight of the Native Americans, the reliance on psychiatry as a cure all for social problems, and the vestigial remnants of McCarthyism. Even if you could care less about how Kesey's book fits into American cultural history, you could hardly fail to miss the overarching theme of his novel: the tensions between the individual and the state, between those trapped in an industrial society and those who wish to live in freedom. There is a film version of this book starring Jack Nicholson and Louise Fletcher that adequately captures Kesey's stark visions.<br />The author's tale takes place in a mental asylum at an unknown time. Perhaps this is because time has little importance to the inmates in the facility. The people in this particular ward of the hospital fall into categories of `acute' or `chronic,' depending on whether they have hope of recovery or are irrevocably ill. The days are full of drudgery, an endless round of medications interspersed with playing cards against the background of canned polka music. Everyday the acute patients meet for group therapy that really doubles as a McCarythyesque tattling session. The name of the game is acquiescence to the myriad rules and regulations of the institution. Those inmates who violate the rules earn a trip to the disturbed ward or a quick trip to the electroshock chamber. Repeated disobedience could lead to a lobotomy. Predictably, fear is the perpetual state in which most of the patients live. But with the appearance of a nonconformist named Randle McMurphy, fear starts to give way to a burgeoning hope that life will become better in this hospital.<br />The narrator of this story is Chief Bromden, a mixed blood Indian who is a patient in the ward. This man spends his days mopping and sweeping the floors while hearing and seeing everything that goes on around him. The Chief fears that something called the `Combine' controls the world. For him, the `Combine' is the machinery that fills the walls and floors of the hospital, constantly spying on and controlling the men in the ward. He believes that those who work in the asylum are actually full of cogs and gears, are part of this giant, controlling machine. Moreover, the staff and the patients believe that Bromden is a deaf mute. He isn't, but Kesey's choice of this Indian as the narrator of unfolding events is a stroke of brilliance. Since no one thinks the Chief can hear or speak, he becomes privy to every activity in the institution. The staff speaks freely around him because they feel they have nothing to worry about. His cleaning duties allow him full access to every area of the floor, including the room where the staff meets to discuss other inmates. You cannot help but like Bromden, and you quickly question whether his observations are truly the ramblings of a madman.<br />The central figure in Bromden's `Combine' theory is Nurse Ratched, sometimes referred to as `Big Nurse.' This seemingly grandmotherly woman personifies the Chief's fear of control and cold aloofness. Ratched runs the floor from her little glass booth, her hands on the levers of the machinery that controls the lights, the music, the group therapy sessions, and even most of the doctors. Her voice alone controls the destiny of the inmates. Ratched enforces the rules and regulations, and she decides who receives punishment or release. Big Nurse encourages stool pigeons and belittles the patients with implied threats and stony glares, often masked under an ersatz exterior of patience and cheerfulness.With the arrival of McMurphy, Ratched prepares for a battle of wills that by extension is a war between the individual and the state.<br />Randle McMurphy is a boisterous, tattooed, redheaded troublemaker ducking a sentence on a work farm by acting crazy. Right from the start, McMurphy undermines the rules and regulations of the hospital. He gambles for money, wonders the hall wearing nothing but towels, sings, and challenges Ratched's authority by going to the floor doctor to receive rule waivers. But far, far worse is McMurphy's effect on the other inmates in the institution. His breezy spirit and tenaciousness encourages others to demand changes in the daily routine. Randle is a subversive of the worst type, and Ratched will do anything in her power to slap down this upstart to her fascistic rule. The end of the story seems to mark a significant defeat for the concept of individualism, but if one reads closely it is apparent Kesey keeps the dream of freedom alive however ephemeral it may be.<br />Although I disagree strongly with Kesey's career as a counterculture mainstay, I loved this book. Everything about it is brilliant, from the characterization to the tight writing style. The Penguin edition even includes pencil sketches of people Kesey drew during his work as a nurse's aide. These haunting sketches add a special dimension to the text. Ultimately, the novel works because of its messages of freedom versus entrapment and the dangers of both conformity and nonconformity to the human soul. I recommend you run, not walk, to get this book.With the arrival of McMurphy, Ratched prepares for a battle of wills that by extension is a war between the individual and the state.<br />Randle McMurphy is a boisterous, tattooed, redheaded troublemaker ducking a sentence on a work farm by acting crazy. Right from the start, McMurphy undermines the rules and regulations of the hospital. He gambles for money, wonders the hall wearing nothing but towels, sings, and challenges Ratched's authority by going to the floor doctor to receive rule waivers. But far, far worse is McMurphy's effect on the other inmates in the institution. His breezy spirit and tenaciousness encourages others to demand changes in the daily routine. Randle is a subversive of the worst type, and Ratched will do anything in her power to slap down this upstart to her fascistic rule. The end of the story seems to mark a significant defeat for the concept of individualism, but if one reads closely it is apparent Kesey keeps the dream of freedom alive however ephemeral it may be. <br />Although I disagree strongly with Kesey's career as a counterculture mainstay, I loved this book. Everything about it is brilliant, from the characterization to the tight writing style. The Penguin edition even includes pencil sketches of people Kesey drew during his work as a nurse's aide. These haunting sketches add a special dimension to the text. Ultimately, the novel works because of its messages of freedom versus entrapment and the dangers of both conformity and nonconformity to the human soul. I recommend you run, not walk, to get this book.	2003-05-15
1122872:US	52012289	R1CV3BNZSCANX3	0843950757	540957532	Monstrosity	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Grindhouse Horror	Ed Lee's latest tour de force is \\"Monstrosity,\\" which is a significant departure from last year's \\"City Infernal.\\" With his newest book, Lee returns to ground he covered in \\"The Bighead,\\" one of the most unsettling horror books ever written. While this book does not engage in antics Bighead did, it still packs the usual Lee punch by providing generous amounts of queasiness, eroticism, and hillbillies. After reading this book, it appears Lee is moving towards a synthesis of sorts by supplying answers to some of the questions left over from \\"The Bighead.\\" This budding synthesis is not nearly as complex as Stephen King's grand \\"Dark Tower\\" series, but Lee does not have the number of novels King has, either. Having said that, \\"Monstrosity\\" works as a stand alone book that reads quickly while serving as a good introduction to the entertaining world of Edward Lee.<br /><br />The book opens with an archeological expedition in Florida, where a university professor and his mouthy graduate student unearth an extremely rare underground Indian temple. Several questions arise during this exploration: why are there mutilated remains of Indian priests near the altar? And what's up with that hand sticking out of an entrance to a lower level? Lee occasionally revisits this expedition throughout the course of the book, and cleverly ties it in with the larger story about a young, down on her luck woman who gets what seems to be the dream job of a lifetime.<br /><br />Clare Prentiss's life has gone steadily downhill since her dishonorable discharge from the United States Air Force. Shooed out on a trumped up charge in order to keep a possible scandal under the rug, Clare is now homeless. She makes money by working as a test subject for cosmetic products, ever hopeful that she will earn enough scratch to buy some food. In the meantime, her life is one miserable day after another with no hope in sight. Just when things seem to be at a nadir, Clare catches a lifeline thrown to her by Dellin Daniels, a scientist working at a top-secret military installation in Fort Alachua Park situated on the Florida coast. Dellin offers Clare a cake job as head of security at this laboratory. She gets a car, a big salary, start-up money, and a great house right on the shoreline if she accepts the job. Clare jumps at the chance and begins working right away. There are a few annoying problems to contend with: locals occasionally poach on the property, there is a huge stock of medical drugs to guard, and an obnoxious park ranger keeps turning up like a bad penny. Despite these drawbacks, Clare likes her job and quickly becomes friends with Dellin and her two exuberant co-workers, Joyce and Rick.<br /><br />Clare's biggest problem is that she cannot stop digging her nose into increasingly obvious problems on the site. Questions arise that have no easy answers: why does a hysterical local turn up claiming that monsters are chasing her through the area? What happened to the former head of security and why did she disappear so fast? Who is Dellin Daniels and what exactly does he do in this medical facility? Why are mutated animals turning up in the area? There are few satisfactory answers to these questions, and the answers that do emerge reek of danger. As Clare digs deeper and deeper into the mysteries of Fort Alachua, she discovers an unpleasant secret from her past come back to haunt her. In typical Lee style, the whole thing explodes into a raucous, frenzied free for all in the last forty or so pages.<br /><br />One of the problems I had with \\"Monstrosity\\" involved the flatness of the characters. Only Clare receives adequate attention from the author, and that is due to her importance as the main character. Maybe I expect too much from a horror novel, but once in awhile it is nice to see both major and minor characters with multidimensional personality traits. Some horror authors do a great job with this, especially Stephen King. King always spent a lot of time polishing minor characters, even if their only purpose was to die immediately in a horrible way. Oftentimes, the horror increases exponentially if the reader knows something about the victims because the empathy factor kicks in. Nobody experiences remorse over the death of a cardboard cutout.<br /><br />What does work well with Lee is his ability to create cringe worthy scenes, and \\"Monstrosity\\" is no exception. In fact, this book may contain one of the most \\"shudderific\\" incidents I have seen in this author's canon (at least those I have read). Witness the demise of the turtle egg poacher and you will understand what I am talking about. I literally had to put the book down after reading these excruciating pages. Good job, Mr. Lee! I suspect the author had a huge amount of fun writing some of the scenes in this book. The dedicated horror fan will have an equivalent amount of amusement reading them.<br /><br />While I don't think Ed Lee is the best writer in the horror field, it always surprises me how much I look forward to reading another one of his books. Let's hope that some of his older stuff finds a mass-market reprint soon. Hopefully, Leisure will acquire the rights to Lee's back catalog and start churning these babies out. Give it up for Ed!their only purpose was to die immediately in a horrible way. Oftentimes, the horror increases exponentially if the reader knows something about the victims because the empathy factor kicks in. Nobody experiences remorse over the death of a cardboard cutout.    What does work well with Lee is his ability to create cringe worthy scenes, and \\"Monstrosity\\" is no exception. In fact, this book may contain one of the most \\"shudderific\\" incidents I have seen in this author's canon (at least those I have read). Witness the demise of the turtle egg poacher and you will understand what I am talking about. I literally had to put the book down after reading these excruciating pages. Good job, Mr. Lee! I suspect the author had a huge amount of fun writing some of the scenes in this book. The dedicated horror fan will have an equivalent amount of amusement reading them.    While I don't think Ed Lee is the best writer in the horror field, it always surprises me how much I look forward to reading another one of his books. Let's hope that some of his older stuff finds a mass-market reprint soon. Hopefully, Leisure will acquire the rights to Lee's back catalog and start churning these babies out. Give it up for Ed!	2003-05-15
1123583:US	52012289	R2MS13JONJGABZ	0486229777	203162394	Best Ghost Stories of Algernon Blackwood (Dover Mystery, Detective, & Other Fiction)	Books	5	73	73	N	N	Bone Chilling Tales of the Strange	Algernon Blackwood writes some very creepy stories. Born in 1869 to a ruling class family in Kent, England, Blackwood failed to live up to the expectations of his ultra religious parents. After attending the University of Edinburgh, the young man headed to Canada, then a part of the British Empire. In Canada Blackwood failed at several different endeavors, including an attempt at journalism, running a milk farm, and managing a bar. Algernon then went to New York City where he lived in penniless isolation. It was here that the future novelist encountered the seedy side of humanity, including dangerous criminals, con men, and other assorted unsavory types. Most people, when confronted with such a bleak atmosphere, would give up in frustration. Blackwood did not; he caught a break when a wealthy individual hired him as a private secretary. His eventual return to England led to the start of his writing career, a career as the premier author of supernatural fiction.<br /><br />This compilation of Blackwood stories, compiled by E.F. Bleiler in the early 1970s, contains several of Blackwood's most lauded tales. The stories vary in length from fifty pages to less than ten pages. The title of Bleiler's collection, \\"Best Ghost Stories of Algernon Blackwood,\\" is more than a little misleading. There are only three stories dealing with spirits from beyond the grave here, and only one of those, \\"The Listener,\\" is truly creepy. The best stories in this book, without a doubt, are two of the lengthier contributions: \\"The Willows\\" and \\"The Wendigo,\\" which must rank as the eeriest stories ever written. Blackwood has the amazing ability to introduce not only deep sensations of terror, but to sustain and build that terror throughout the story. Every fan of horror must read Algernon Blackwood at some point.<br /><br />The first story, \\"The Willows,\\" sets the tone for the book. Two men sailing down the Danube River become trapped on an island during a flood. Immediately, strangeness rears its ugly head. The men sense that all is not right in their surroundings. Huge winds buffet the island, followed by unexplainable internal sensations of deep fear. Supplies start to disappear and the willow trees in the area seem to move of their own accord. A mysterious hole in the canoe means the men will have to stay on the island longer than planned. Blackwood never explains exactly what plagues the two travelers, but he does hint at dark forces that are attempting to force themselves into our world. This yarn ranks high on the shudder meter.<br /><br />The second story that makes this collection worth owning is \\"The Wendigo.\\" There are no ghosts rattling chains in this tale. Blackwood instead introduces the reader to a group of men on a hunting trip in the remoteness of backwoods Canada. Two of the men head out to a region that local Indians claim is haunted by a Wendigo, a creature who lifts men right off the ground and feeds off of them. This story is fantastic, arguably one of the best horror stories ever written. If you have ever gone out into the woods at night, far from the safety of home, you will instantly recognize the dark terror suffered by Simpson as he looks for the vanished guide Defago. I get chills just thinking about this story.<br /><br />A third story worth noting is \\"The Listener,\\" a ghost yarn set in a rundown house in London. A struggling writer rents a room in this old residence, but slowly realizes something is amiss in his new digs. He gets intense headaches, becomes aware of strange footsteps in the house, and notices that someone (or something) is watching him while he sleeps. There are great scenes in this story, and the final line uttered by one of this man's friends is about as unsettling as things get in this genre. For those who enjoy a great ghost story, \\"The Listener\\" promises to deliver the goods. Blackwood tells the story through journal entries jotted down by the protagonist, allowing the reader of the story to get a senseof passing time and increasing weirdness.<br /><br />These three stories are the best of the lot, but by no means the only effective chillers chosen for inclusion by Bleiler. For example, \\"Max Hensig\\" is about a murderer hunting down a journalist who had the gall to make disparaging comments about him in the city paper. There is nothing supernatural about \\"Max Hensig,\\" but it is a great story well worth reading. Other stories deal with nature run amuck or the appearance of devils and demons. There is something for everybody in this great book.<br /><br />Every story in the book starts the same way. One of the main characters quickly realizes that something is terribly wrong, usually through what we recognize as a \\"sixth sense\\" or a \\"gut feeling,\\" an extrasensory perception that tells us we are in big trouble. Having his characters recognize the \\"wrongness\\" of a situation is exactly what Blackwood set out to do. His interest was not in Wendigos or ghosts as much as it was in how man perceives these unknowns. Blackwood often ends his stories with no firm resolutions, with nothing more than speculation about what happened. This adds to the general sense of uneasiness.<br /><br />Blackwood must have influenced later writers like H.P. Lovecraft. Unfortunately, there are no clear successors to Algernon Blackwood alive today. Modern horror relies on gruesome scenes and neat plotlines that wrap up as neatly as a Christmas gift. Gore is not necessarily a bad thing, but when it is a substitute for suspense and clever writing there is a big hole that needs filling. This English author neatly closes that gap with great stories full of suspense and eeriness. More Blackwood, I say!eirdness.    These three stories are the best of the lot, but by no means the only effective chillers chosen for inclusion by Bleiler. For example, \\"Max Hensig\\" is about a murderer hunting down a journalist who had the gall to make disparaging comments about him in the city paper. There is nothing supernatural about \\"Max Hensig,\\" but it is a great story well worth reading. Other stories deal with nature run amuck or the appearance of devils and demons. There is something for everybody in this great book.    Every story in the book starts the same way. One of the main characters quickly realizes that something is terribly wrong, usually through what we recognize as a \\"sixth sense\\" or a \\"gut feeling,\\" an extrasensory perception that tells us we are in big trouble. Having his characters recognize the \\"wrongness\\" of a situation is exactly what Blackwood set out to do. His interest was not in Wendigos or ghosts as much as it was in how man perceives these unknowns. Blackwood often ends his stories with no firm resolutions, with nothing more than speculation about what happened. This adds to the general sense of uneasiness.     Blackwood must have influenced later writers like H.P. Lovecraft. Unfortunately, there are no clear successors to Algernon Blackwood alive today. Modern horror relies on gruesome scenes and neat plotlines that wrap up as neatly as a Christmas gift. Gore is not necessarily a bad thing, but when it is a substitute for suspense and clever writing there is a big hole that needs filling. This English author neatly closes that gap with great stories full of suspense and eeriness. More Blackwood, I say!	2003-05-15
1123597:US	52012289	R30GMI61WQ0PFW	1587670321	604565224	The Deaths of the Cold War Kings: The Assassinations of Diem & JFK	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Nothing Earth Shaking Here	Investigative reporter Bradley O'Leary and horror author Edward Lee teamed up to contribute their own convoluted theory as to who orchestrated and carried out the assassination of President John F. Kennedy with this book, \\"The Deaths of the Cold War Kings.\\" According to the two authors, recently declassified government documents and recent interviews cast doubt on previous theories implicating the old standbys: the Soviet Union, the military-industrial complex, disgruntled anti-Castroites angered over the Bay of Pigs fiasco, the Cuban government, and rogue American government agents. This book argues that the assassins pulling the triggers on November 22, 1963 had ties to the South Vietnamese regime of the recently deceased Ngo Dinh Diem, his brother Ngo Dinh Nhu, heroin smugglers, and the Marseilles Mafia. The authors track a heroin syndicate operating under the protection of the Diem regime in South Vietnam to Marseilles, France. In short, the argument here is that heroin killed our 35th president.<br />Central to this theory on the assassination was the role Kennedy played in overthrowing the Diem administration. The authors feel that the South Vietnamese government's repressive policies against the Buddhist population, indirectly assisted with massive U.S. aid packages, threatened to undermine Kennedy's credibility with the American public. With a presidential race coming up in 1964, Kennedy did not want questions about self-immolating monks to throw a cloud on his reelection prospects. Numerous documents in the book attempt to prove Kennedy's complicity in the regime change, a change that O'Leary and Lee argue led to permanent instability in South Vietnam that created problems later in the Vietnam War. Furthermore, the authors charge that the South Vietnamese knew about the planned coup and took their own measures to prevent it. These plans revolved around setting up a plot against Kennedy by using muscle from the French heroin traffickers because these drug smugglers knew that a change in government could be very costly to their lucrative business.<br />The key name associated with this theory is a shadowy figure named Jean Rene Souetre, a former French military officer who was a member in the OAS. This acronym stands for `Organisation de l'Armee Secrete,' a group of French military officers who resisted Charles DeGaulle's measures to remove French influence in Algeria. The OAS resorted to covert assassinations, forgery, and outright rebellion in an attempt to overthrow DeGaulle's government, thereby hoping to insure support for the war against Algerian insurgents. An alliance between the French intelligence agency (SDECE) and the French mafia crushed the OAS, sending its members into exile or jail. A document exists, recently declassified, that seems to prove Souetre was in Texas at the time of the assassination. Moreover, the government deported Souetre within days of the killing without interrogating him even though the feds seemed to be aware of his background because of a French request to our government concerning his whereabouts. An American dentist mentioned in the Souetre memo granted an interview to a researcher years later, claiming that he knew Souetre and that the FBI questioned him about this knowledge but never turned the information over to the Warren Commission.<br />Assassination solved, right? Nope. The two authors claim that the real Souetre may not have committed the crime. Instead, they point the finger at Michel Mertz, a heroin trafficker who possibly traveled under the name of Jean Rene Souetre. The two Frenchman met in prison during the OAS debacle when Mertz was one of the undercover mafia hoods that worked for SDECE. Further evidence of a Souetre/Mertz connection appears in the memo, where one of Souetre's aliases was, *gasp*, Michel Mertz. In an interview conducted in the late 1990s, Souetre claimed he knew Mertz and believed it highly possible that this mafia thug traveled under his name. What a surprise.<br />I had many problems with this book, the biggest one being the introductory chapter full of laudatory praise for the Kennedy administration. Falling for the bait many others have swallowed about the Kennedy years, the authors present a glowing picture of our esteemed 35th president. Reality is often more painful. Kennedy's civil rights legislation was not an outpouring of warmth for the plight of American blacks, but a political measure Kennedy took because of intense pressure. On their own, the Kennedy brothers would never have proposed serious legislation concerning civil rights. Moreover, Kennedy's failure to follow through on the Bay of Pigs led to the Cuban Missile Crisis and the removal of our missiles from Turkey at a critical moment in our war against world wide communism. The family background, Joseph Kennedy's vote buying scheme in Illinois, and numerous amorous encounters in the White House should also serve as reasons why Kennedy was not a great president. The media, even then, was too busy standing around with stars in their eyes to notice any of these shenanigans. If I cannot trust the authors' claims about the Kennedy presidency, how can I trust their subsequent investigations?<br />An avid reader of Kennedy conspiracy theories will probably want to read this book. Whether or not the arguments presented here hold water I'll leave to those better informed about the various assassination theories. I do think the authors make some huge leaps of faith with some of their claims, but with the assassination quickly fading into the dim recesses of history this is probably unavoidable. What interests me most about the Kennedy killing is how many sordid characters hovered on the periphery of Dallas at that exact time and date. At the very least, \\"The Death of the Cold War Kings\\" adds a few more unsavory souls to the long list.t a surprise.<br />I had many problems with this book, the biggest one being the introductory chapter full of laudatory praise for the Kennedy administration. Falling for the bait many others have swallowed about the Kennedy years, the authors present a glowing picture of our esteemed 35th president. Reality is often more painful. Kennedy's civil rights legislation was not an outpouring of warmth for the plight of American blacks, but a political measure Kennedy took because of intense pressure. On their own, the Kennedy brothers would never have proposed serious legislation concerning civil rights. Moreover, Kennedy's failure to follow through on the Bay of Pigs led to the Cuban Missile Crisis and the removal of our missiles from Turkey at a critical moment in our war against world wide communism. The family background, Joseph Kennedy's vote buying scheme in Illinois, and numerous amorous encounters in the White House should also serve as reasons why Kennedy was not a great president. The media, even then, was too busy standing around with stars in their eyes to notice any of these shenanigans. If I cannot trust the authors' claims about the Kennedy presidency, how can I trust their subsequent investigations?<br />An avid reader of Kennedy conspiracy theories will probably want to read this book. Whether or not the arguments presented here hold water I'll leave to those better informed about the various assassination theories. I do think the authors make some huge leaps of faith with some of their claims, but with the assassination quickly fading into the dim recesses of history this is probably unavoidable. What interests me most about the Kennedy killing is how many sordid characters hovered on the periphery of Dallas at that exact time and date. At the very least, \\"The Death of the Cold War Kings\\" adds a few more unsavory souls to the long list.	2003-05-15
1127287:US	52012289	R39X3IF2OQ4XWP	0786702826	980528467	The House on the Borderland	Books	4	26	29	N	N	Seminal Work in the Horror Genre	Is William Hope Hodgson's \\"The House on the Borderland\\" the creepiest, eeriest story ever written? It is sometimes described that way, although I cannot confirm it because I have yet to read every creepy or eerie story ever written. I have read a fair amount of H.P. Lovecraft, some Robert E. Howard, and many modern mass-market horror novels. Hodgson probably ranks somewhere in between those two regions. Written in the early part of the 20th century, this author's novel is an attempt to blend together horror, science fiction, and fantasy. Unfortunately, Hodgson later died in WWI, forever silencing a splendid talent. Without a doubt, Hodgson influenced later horror and fantasy authors with this jaunt through the spectral reaches of space and time.<br /><br />The story begins when two men make a fishing expedition into the hinterlands of Ireland. Near a tiny hamlet called Kraighten, the two encounter some of the strange local people who speak an unknown language. Further strangeness ensues when they realize that much of this area does not appear on any map. The two men explore the surrounding area, stumbling over an old garden near a yawning abyss. Then they discover the ruins of a large house on an outcropping of rock. While exploring these remains, one of the men discovers a damaged manuscript in the wreckage. Taking the book with them, the two travelers head back to camp, but not before experiencing some serious reservations about the area. A bubbling lake nearby scares them, as does unsettling sounds coming from somewhere in the vicinity. After hightailing it back to camp, they begin to read this mysterious journal. What follows constitutes the bulk of Hodgson's book, a deeply disturbing tale about an anonymous man who lived in the house and who experienced a series of events unexplainable by any rational means of discourse.<br /><br />Some years before, this man lived in the house with his loyal dog and his spinster sister. He was a loner, more interested in spending his time reading books or rambling around his large gardens than throwing parties or hanging out with the local population. One night while lounging in his study, the man undergoes a strange out of body experience. He is transported to another dimension, where he finds an exact replica of his own house on a vast plain surrounded by enormous statues of deities, scary creatures who look like pigs, and a luminous mist of unknown origin. While this might be enough to scare any sane person out of his or her wits, our man continues to stay in the house after his astral experience.<br /><br />More eeriness ensues: the nasty pig creatures crawl out of the abyss forming near the house and attempt to invade the premises. Closely following this horror is an inexplicable episode, which makes up most of the book, where the owner of the house experiences a breakdown of the very fabric of space and time. Hodgson writes about these events in minute detail, outlining every aspect of this fabulous trip beyond the limits of sensory perception. \\"The House on the Borderland\\" ends with no fixed answers about the creepy manuscript. Moreover, the author makes sure to have the manuscript trail off in the middle of a horrible event, leaving the reader guessing as to the conclusions of this strange tale.<br /><br />It is not difficult to see how this story influenced several big names in the horror business. Lovecraft definitely borrowed some of the themes here to create his Cthulhu mythos. The detached method of having the horrors told to us through a strange manuscript also finds expression in several other supernatural tales written well after Hodgson's book. In this respect, \\"House on the Borderland\\" is a groundbreaking work worthy of continued reprinting. Any fan of Lovecraft, Blackwood, or any of the other godfathers of horror needs to read this book if for no other reason than to get a glimpse into where their favorite authors cribbed ideas from. This tale is not as scary as certain better known horror stories, but it does occasionally deliver some effective shocks to even the most jaded horror aficionado.<br /><br />One of the book's failings was the author's attempt to depict the breakdown of time. This section reminded me of H.G. Wells. Moreover, this part of the story seemed to run on forever. I wanted the story to get back to the scariness of otherworldly beings and supernatural horrors.<br /><br />Hodgson's book is a necessary read. Do not go in expecting straight horror, but acknowledge that you are about to read a great mix of several genres. Without William Hope Hodgson, who knows where the horror novel would be today.ut it does occasionally deliver some effective shocks to even the most jaded horror aficionado.    One of the book's failings was the author's attempt to depict the breakdown of time. This section reminded me of H.G. Wells. Moreover, this part of the story seemed to run on forever. I wanted the story to get back to the scariness of otherworldly beings and supernatural horrors.     Hodgson's book is a necessary read. Do not go in expecting straight horror, but acknowledge that you are about to read a great mix of several genres. Without William Hope Hodgson, who knows where the horror novel would be today.	2003-05-12
1127511:US	52012289	R34F0NDNIS1AKE	1843910241	546148623	Mademoiselle de Scuderi (Hesperus Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Hoffmann's Little Murder Mystery	E.T.A. Hoffmann (1776-1822) was an early exponent of stories imbued with a supernatural twist. His career encompassed several significant endeavors, from music and painting to practicing law. While working in the Prussian civil service, Hoffmann continued to work as a musical instructor. Eventually, he left the service to pursue his first love, working as a music critic, director, and conductor (he changed one of his names to Amadeus in tribute to the famous composer). When Hoffmann realized he would never create great works of music he turned to writing. Within a short time, his short stories gained much attention, eventually influencing later writers such as Edgar Allan Poe, Franz Kafka, and Robert Louis Stevenson. Tchaikovsky's 'The Nutcracker' is based on one of Hoffmann's stories.<br />This Hoffmann story issued by Hesperus Press, entitled 'Mademoiselle de Scuderi,' does not contain an overtly supernatural theme. Instead, the reader finds within these pages a cracking good murder mystery set in Paris during the reign of Louis XIV. A knock at the door of the Scuderi residence in the middle of the night serves as the impetus for an investigation into a series of murders occurring within the city limits. The murders involve some of the wealthiest people of the time, and the king himself is eager to find out who is responsible for the crimes. Moreover, the murderer is stealing jewelry from the victims, jewelry made by one of the top craftsmen in the country named Rene Cardillac. This jeweler is one odd duck, a man who possesses a fierce jealously about all of the ornaments he creates. As more and more people fall victim to the unknown killer (or killers), Louis creates a special commission called the `chambre ardente' to investigate this blatant crime spree. Will the people responsible be brought to justice or will the killings continue unabated? What will happen if an innocent man is unjustly accused of the crime?<br />Enter Mlle. de Scuderi, an aging woman who moves in the top circles of Parisian society. The aforementioned knock on her door brings her into the center of the intrigue. This good lady who writes novels and poetry that even the king enjoys immensely finds herself approached by Olivier Brusson, an apprentice to Cardillac who has a strange story to tell. For Brusson, Mlle. de Scuderi is the only hope he has if he wishes to remain among the living. What seems to be a simple case of murder and greed soon blossoms into a tragic love story that will require the assistance of none other than Louis XIV if it is to survive.<br />The foreword to this version of the story, written by Gilbert Adair, argues that Hoffmann's little tale of murder constitutes the first detective story in western literature, predating Edgar Allan Poe's `The Murders in the Rue Morgue' by many years. The problem with this claim involves the role of Mlle. de Scuderi. Adair attempts to invest this figure with shrewd deductive powers, even comparing her with Agatha Christie's Miss Marple. Regrettably, the story does not bear this argument out. Mlle. de Scuderi does little in the way of concrete investigation. Rather, people come to her in order to relate events because of the influence she carries with Louis. More than once she is not even sure who is guilty or innocent. In short, it would seem that Poe's reputation is safe.<br />Since the story is only eighty-two pages long, further divulgence of plot points or characters will probably ruin the story. If you have any interest in reading Hoffmann's work, buy a collection of his stories so you get more bang for your buck.ves in the top circles of Parisian society. The aforementioned knock on her door brings her into the center of the intrigue. This good lady who writes novels and poetry that even the king enjoys immensely finds herself approached by Olivier Brusson, an apprentice to Cardillac who has a strange story to tell. For Brusson, Mlle. de Scuderi is the only hope he has if he wishes to remain among the living. What seems to be a simple case of murder and greed soon blossoms into a tragic love story that will require the assistance of none other than Louis XIV if it is to survive.<br />The foreword to this version of the story, written by Gilbert Adair, argues that Hoffmann's little tale of murder constitutes the first detective story in western literature, predating Edgar Allan Poe's `The Murders in the Rue Morgue' by many years. The problem with this claim involves the role of Mlle. de Scuderi. Adair attempts to invest this figure with shrewd deductive powers, even comparing her with Agatha Christie's Miss Marple. Regrettably, the story does not bear this argument out. Mlle. de Scuderi does little in the way of concrete investigation. Rather, people come to her in order to relate events because of the influence she carries with Louis. More than once she is not even sure who is guilty or innocent. In short, it would seem that Poe's reputation is safe.<br />Since the story is only eighty-two pages long, further divulgence of plot points or characters will probably ruin the story. If you have any interest in reading Hoffmann's work, buy a collection of his stories so you get more bang for your buck.	2003-05-12
1134445:US	52012289	R22ITUPJK5WF1K	0394705122	784873233	The Historian's Craft: Reflections on the Nature and Uses of History and the Techniques and Methods of Those Who Write It.	Books	4	96	103	N	N	History IS a Craft	Historian Marc Bloch was Jewish. Under normal conditions this would not be a problem. But Bloch lived in France when World War II started; when the Nazis invaded and began to round up every Jew they could get their hands on. After refusing to leave France, Bloch joined the French Resistance to drive the occupiers out of the country. The Germans eventually captured Bloch and after a lengthy detention that involved torture, executed him. Bloch was a well known historian who wrote several studies on French medievalism, most notably `La Societe Feodale.' His importance, other than this book, revolves around his association with the Annales School of historical inquiry, a school that also included historians Lucien Febvre and Fernand Braudel. `The Historian's Craft,' written while Bloch was imprisoned and never completed, has become a staple in the study of history since its publication.<br />`The Historian's Craft' transcends any specific field of historical study. This is not an examination of French medievalism or Russia in the 19th century; it is not about the history of the American West or African slavery. Instead, the author looks at the techniques of historical inquiry. He tries to help the beginning researcher and writer of history develop a mindset of questions and tactics that would be helpful in studying the past. Any history student who reads this book at first does not understand why the book is such a big deal. `I know all of this already,' is probably a common response to Bloch's book. Then you realize that the reason you know this is due to the importance of what the author wrote. You absorbed it from professors who learned it from reading this book.<br />This French historian deals with a massive amount of information useful to the budding historian. Sections on perspective, sources, statistics, criticism, and analysis contain page after page of wise, insightful information. When discussing fraud and error in historical sources, for example, Bloch points out how historians too often accept at face value government documents or legal sources. Any student of history worth his salt should always question his sources not only to discover their veracity but also to uncover possible motivations for falsehood when the document turns out to be a forgery. If this sounds like detective work, it is. One of the most important things a historian will ever do is work out every angle in his research. This is not always possible, of course, but the best historians generally tend to be the ones who ask the most nuanced questions about their sources.<br />The most serious drawback to this book is the uneven translation. Some sections are the height of clarity; others are cloudy and nearly unreadable. The best example of haziness is in the part about statistical study. I strongly feel that the translator did not understand what the author attempted to say in the original French. I reread this part at least twice and still am not sure what it meant. It is time for a new translation. A lesser problem concerns Bloch's citations of French historians. If you have never heard of Thiers, Mabillon, or Fustel de Coulanges, you should probably look them up in an online encyclopedia and read about them. These arcane references are certainly not the fault of Bloch; he is only citing historians he was familiar with in the course of his own work. For American students, some of these guys are extremely obscure.<br />This book, despite the limitations placed upon it by a poor translation, is an absolute must read for serious students of history. At the very least, one must recognize this man's name so that they do not look like an ... when it comes up in conversation. Bloch has performed a great service to the study of history, and he richly deserves his position in posterity.s out how historians too often accept at face value government documents or legal sources. Any student of history worth his salt should always question his sources not only to discover their veracity but also to uncover possible motivations for falsehood when the document turns out to be a forgery. If this sounds like detective work, it is. One of the most important things a historian will ever do is work out every angle in his research. This is not always possible, of course, but the best historians generally tend to be the ones who ask the most nuanced questions about their sources.<br />The most serious drawback to this book is the uneven translation. Some sections are the height of clarity; others are cloudy and nearly unreadable. The best example of haziness is in the part about statistical study. I strongly feel that the translator did not understand what the author attempted to say in the original French. I reread this part at least twice and still am not sure what it meant. It is time for a new translation. A lesser problem concerns Bloch's citations of French historians. If you have never heard of Thiers, Mabillon, or Fustel de Coulanges, you should probably look them up in an online encyclopedia and read about them. These arcane references are certainly not the fault of Bloch; he is only citing historians he was familiar with in the course of his own work. For American students, some of these guys are extremely obscure.<br />This book, despite the limitations placed upon it by a poor translation, is an absolute must read for serious students of history. At the very least, one must recognize this man's name so that they do not look like an ... when it comes up in conversation. Bloch has performed a great service to the study of history, and he richly deserves his position in posterity.	2003-05-05
1138774:US	52012289	R3BZED8GQYOKKF	0743244249	195828381	Cosmopolis: A Novel	Books	3	70	78	N	N	Great Prose but Pretty Dry	I should profess that I have never read a novel by Don DeLillo before diving into \\"Cosmopolis.\\" Sure, I have heard of \\"White Noise,\\" \\"Underworld,\\" and \\"Libra\\" before, but decided to start with this new, short novel about a billionaire stock tycoon and his trip through the wilds of New York City. DeLillo seems to possess many fans in the literary world, rabid readers who devour everything this guy decides to pass off on the public. I usually see him associated with people like Pynchon or Gaddis, post-modern writers who create sprawling works of endless complexity and dubious quality. Since my experiences with the post-modern genre are slight at best, all I have to go on is my experiences with this book.<br />The plot seems simple enough. Eric Packer, a twenty eight year old Wall Street whiz, decides he wants to get a haircut. Moreover, he sets out on his excursion in a giant, cork lined white limousine with his bodyguards, advisors, doctors, and drivers in tow. Along the way, Packer undergoes a physical examination of a most personal nature, runs into his new wife at various places, witnesses an anarchist protest, gets attacked with a cream pie, becomes emotional about a rapper's funeral, and discovers someone is stalking him with a view to causing serious injury. There is little that ties these events and encounters together, as even the quest for a haircut often drops into the background when Packer bogs down in New York City traffic. Surrounded by computers and an endless flow of information, the billionaire spends most of his time waxing philosophic about the state of the world, the state of his mind, and the state of his attempt to make a killing off the Japanese yen. Ultimately, that is all this novel seems to do: throw out endless noodlings about the emptiness of life in the high tech, over stimulated information age.<br />DeLillo's writing style is the best thing going for \\"Cosmopolis.\\" Infused with deep cynicism and a measurable detachment, it still crackles with crisp, short sentences that convey much with little ado. The problem comes when the language puts too much out there, when the reader starts to bog down under the endless litany of Packer's mental ramblings. Although this book is extremely short and can be finished in a day, it still seems too long at times. If there is any point to this tale, or at least where the point seems to assume clarity, it is when Packer and his \\"advisor on theory\\" discuss the meaning of the ticker boards with their endless scroll of information and the implications of self-immolating oneself to protest capitalism. Eric's accumulation of information threatens to overwhelm his existence because all he possesses is random bits of information. He cannot seem to tie it all together into any relevant meaning other than making money. There seems to be a germ of hope for him towards the end of the story, but most of the book is merely cerebral gymnastics.<br />The message of \\"Cosmopolis,\\" about a man who has everything but wilts under his own inflated ego and goes off on a rampage, is definitely familiar. Bret Easton Ellis did something similar in \\"American Psycho,\\" and he did it better. Eric Packer and Patrick Bateman are blood brothers, albeit relatives separated by about twenty years. When will these Wall Street archetypes' meltdowns have finality to them? Probably when the capitalist system finally collapses. In the meantime, we have people like Ellis and DeLillo dutifully reporting the carnage of undreamt of riches on the souls of humanity.<br />Many people out there are quite knowledgeable about DeLillo's body of work and the philosophy that powers them. I can draw no firm conclusions about this author from reading just one of his books. But I strongly suggest thinking twice before plunging into \\"Cosmopolis.\\" It takes too much effort for too little return.s with crisp, short sentences that convey much with little ado. The problem comes when the language puts too much out there, when the reader starts to bog down under the endless litany of Packer's mental ramblings. Although this book is extremely short and can be finished in a day, it still seems too long at times. If there is any point to this tale, or at least where the point seems to assume clarity, it is when Packer and his \\"advisor on theory\\" discuss the meaning of the ticker boards with their endless scroll of information and the implications of self-immolating oneself to protest capitalism. Eric's accumulation of information threatens to overwhelm his existence because all he possesses is random bits of information. He cannot seem to tie it all together into any relevant meaning other than making money. There seems to be a germ of hope for him towards the end of the story, but most of the book is merely cerebral gymnastics.<br />The message of \\"Cosmopolis,\\" about a man who has everything but wilts under his own inflated ego and goes off on a rampage, is definitely familiar. Bret Easton Ellis did something similar in \\"American Psycho,\\" and he did it better. Eric Packer and Patrick Bateman are blood brothers, albeit relatives separated by about twenty years. When will these Wall Street archetypes' meltdowns have finality to them? Probably when the capitalist system finally collapses. In the meantime, we have people like Ellis and DeLillo dutifully reporting the carnage of undreamt of riches on the souls of humanity.<br />Many people out there are quite knowledgeable about DeLillo's body of work and the philosophy that powers them. I can draw no firm conclusions about this author from reading just one of his books. But I strongly suggest thinking twice before plunging into \\"Cosmopolis.\\" It takes too much effort for too little return.	2003-05-01
1141519:US	52012289	R25WK6Q9UQL5CR	0385507593	548424525	Jennifer Government: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	'No Taxes' Might Not Be A Good Thing	I always enjoy taking a stroll through the madcap adventures of nihilistic, over the top, futuristic dream worlds. Whether it is anti-utopias or dystopias does not matter in the least to me. Give me a world teetering on the brink of collapse and I am there. Having said that, Max Barry's `Jennifer Government' ought to bring a smile to my face and a spring to my step. Alas, `tis not so, although this stroll through a future world where corporations control ninety percent of the world should have done the trick.<br />The map on the back cover of the book gives you some idea of where you are about to go. Most of the globe is slathered in green, which means these areas are members of the United States Federated Economic Blocs. Is it a time when the American Empire has finally come to fruition? Well, yes and no. Barry, an Australian living in the comfy confines of `Down Under,' has merely taken the present trends in economic globalization and extended them to their logical conclusions. In other words, while the United States government is still around, shoe companies, fast food joints, and advertising agencies are now in charge. Wearing cheap suits, working out of rundown office buildings, and needing to shake down victims in order to get money to track down criminals, the government cannot even collect taxes anymore. They still have a few go getters, such as agent Jennifer Government, a lady with a shady corporate past who sports a bar code tattoo under her eye. Working with her partner Calvin while trying to raise her daughter Kate, Jennifer keeps busy by tracking down bad guys. A recent fiasco at the mall, where some teenagers took a dive while trying to pick up a pair of the latest trendy shoes, has Jen boiling mad.<br />During the course of the investigation, Jennifer hooks up with Buy Mitsui, an unsettled stockbroker and potential love interest. Throw in Billy NRA, a guy who loves to ski but never seems to get anywhere, a ruthless executive named John who wants to rule the corporate world, and Hack and Violet, a couple who give a new meaning to the word `incompatible,' and you have the essence of Barry's world. Every character accepts without question the world they live in, a world where everything from roads to medical services carry a stiff price due to ubiquitous free markets. Corporations run the show, and they are not about to let anyone get in the way of their plans, which includes the movement towards a sort of super monopoly based on a customer bonus buy program.<br />`Jennifer Government' is enjoyable, but I discovered several problems that left a bad taste in my mouth. One was the continuity errors in the book. I have no idea why I even noticed them, but there they were for all to see. Example: someone already sitting on a bed suddenly sits down on the same bed a few lines later. Now, I suppose this is metaphysically possible but something tells me this isn't the case here. A knottier problem occurs with the relationship between Buy and Jennifer. Does anyone buy (no pun intended), for one second, that a man who wants to take his own life suddenly finds himself entrusted with a little girl while Mom goes out of town? The snort of derision I made after reading this section shook the rafters. These problems do not plague the whole book, but they stuck out like a sore thumb whenever they appeared.<br />Still, Max Barry writes an entertaining story that has some good scenery even if it does come at the cost of character development. I would have liked to see some background on how the world got to this sorry state, but the author keeps his secrets close to his vest (or in a jar of vegamite?). Ultimately, `Jennifer Government' is a moderately satisfying and quick read, a good way to pass a Saturday afternoon when you have nothing else to do. Perhaps this book will make a better movie. I think four stars is acceptable for this cantankerous Aussie's second outing.ule the corporate world, and Hack and Violet, a couple who give a new meaning to the word `incompatible,' and you have the essence of Barry's world. Every character accepts without question the world they live in, a world where everything from roads to medical services carry a stiff price due to ubiquitous free markets. Corporations run the show, and they are not about to let anyone get in the way of their plans, which includes the movement towards a sort of super monopoly based on a customer bonus buy program.<br />`Jennifer Government' is enjoyable, but I discovered several problems that left a bad taste in my mouth. One was the continuity errors in the book. I have no idea why I even noticed them, but there they were for all to see. Example: someone already sitting on a bed suddenly sits down on the same bed a few lines later. Now, I suppose this is metaphysically possible but something tells me this isn't the case here. A knottier problem occurs with the relationship between Buy and Jennifer. Does anyone buy (no pun intended), for one second, that a man who wants to take his own life suddenly finds himself entrusted with a little girl while Mom goes out of town? The snort of derision I made after reading this section shook the rafters. These problems do not plague the whole book, but they stuck out like a sore thumb whenever they appeared.<br />Still, Max Barry writes an entertaining story that has some good scenery even if it does come at the cost of character development. I would have liked to see some background on how the world got to this sorry state, but the author keeps his secrets close to his vest (or in a jar of vegamite?). Ultimately, `Jennifer Government' is a moderately satisfying and quick read, a good way to pass a Saturday afternoon when you have nothing else to do. Perhaps this book will make a better movie. I think four stars is acceptable for this cantankerous Aussie's second outing.	2003-04-29
1158959:US	52012289	RZF7EKN48PJRF	0771099916	182919255	Barometer Rising (New Canadian Library)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Brilliantly Conceived, Flawlessly Executed	Another entry from the Canadian New Library Series, another homerun for Canadian literature. That must necessarily be the ruling on this immensely engaging 1941 freshman effort from Hugh MacLennan, for \\"Barometer Rising\\" is a taut, intensely character driven novel from one of Canada's great essayists. MacLennan went on to write several other novels, more essays, and even some travelogues, history, and poetry. He is nothing if not versatile. If only more people knew about the wealth of literary gems from the Great White North awaiting their pleasure in the libraries and bookstores. For those interested in exploring the brilliance of Canadian literature, Hugh MacLennan is a great place to start. Hugh MacLennan died in 1990.<br />\\"Barometer Rising\\" takes place in Halifax, Nova Scotia during 1917. The war in Europe continues to grind away, chewing up young men from around the world in its trenches and no man's lands. Nearly every passing day sees troopships exiting Halifax harbor bound for the bloodbath, and nearly every day they pass supply and munitions ships entering the port on their way to and from Europe. The city is full of foreign sailors and soldiers from every point of the compass. The war is a big deal, and since Canada serves as Britain's whipping boy, Halifax provides a safe harbor beyond the reach of German U-boats. But disaster lurks in the waters off Halifax: a munitions ship loaded with 500,000 pounds of trinitrotoluol sails into the harbor and collides with another ship. The resulting explosion is nearly nuclear in its destructiveness. Thousands die as major sections of the city explode and burn. The author shrewdly sets up his novel in countdown form, beginning on the Sunday before the explosion and ending the tale the following Monday, a few days after the disaster. MacLennan makes this Nova Scotian city the major character in his book, showing the reader the wartime changes while allowing us to take an occasional glimpse behind the curtain to see the way the city was before the war.<br />A cast of characters parades through the streets of Halifax for our perusal. The Wain family is central to the story. There is Penelope \\"Penny\\" Wain, a brilliant woman who designs boats for the war effort while withstanding the barbs from jealous male co-workers. Her father, Colonel Wain, is an old pro-English patriarch who cannot stand the fact that he remains in Halifax while the war rages in Europe. He wishes to return to battle and seek some glory, but his first tour of duty ended in disaster. For this disgrace, Wain blames his nephew Neil Macrae. Now Neil roams the streets of Halifax, seeking redemption for a tragedy on the fields of Europe. The reemergence of Neil places Major Angus Murray in a moral quandary; he realizes the return of Wain's nephew will upset his plans for the future. The reader must decide for themselves if the choices the characters make are the correct ones.<br />An afterword (the Canadians are polite; they do not put spoilers at the beginning of the book as we do in the United States) written by Alistair MacLeod provides some personal anecdotes about the explosion, followed by a critique of the story. To MacLeod, the story deftly reveals the big town/small town differences between some of the characters, between those born and raised in Halifax versus those who hail from Cape Breton. For me, the most interesting theme of the book was MacLennan's political views about Canada and its relationship to the United States and England. To the author, Canada will emerge from the war as the keystone of the world, a bridge between barbaric Europe lost in its destructive wars and the emerging power of the United States. He deplores the second-class status of Canada, its relegation as second fiddle to the United Kingdom. Several times throughout the story, the characters step back from their activities and wax philosophic about the position of Canada and Nova Scotia in relation to the rest of the world. To callMacLennan a Canadian nationalist would not be too extreme of a statement.<br />I did not know what to expect from this book when I opened its covers. I do like Canadian literature, so that is never a problem. \\"Barometer Rising\\" is only 219 pages long, so it is necessary that the author grabs you fast and makes you care about his creation. He succeeds in spades because he brings his characters to life through carefully crafted scenes of introspection, clinical descriptions of the city, and the dramatic countdown to the explosion. The reader cares about what happens to these people, and hopes that the author will bring everything to a tidy resolution in the end. For a quick read that is hugely entertaining and leaves you hungry for more, seek out this book.MacLennan a Canadian nationalist would not be too extreme of a statement.<br />I did not know what to expect from this book when I opened its covers. I do like Canadian literature, so that is never a problem. \\"Barometer Rising\\" is only 219 pages long, so it is necessary that the author grabs you fast and makes you care about his creation. He succeeds in spades because he brings his characters to life through carefully crafted scenes of introspection, clinical descriptions of the city, and the dramatic countdown to the explosion. The reader cares about what happens to these people, and hopes that the author will bring everything to a tidy resolution in the end. For a quick read that is hugely entertaining and leaves you hungry for more, seek out this book.	2003-04-14
1167203:US	52012289	R1DQFS5BWZBSBX	0813332893	568367162	001: The Gulag Archipelago, 1918-1956: An Experiment in Literary Investigation (Volume One)	Books	5	186	220	N	N	Death to Communism!	It is a rare occurrence in the history of the human race when a truly great man rises up from the masses and passes on to the rest of us an eternal truth or knowledge that will serve as a testament against the forces of evil. Alexander Solzhenitsyn must certainly rank as one of these great men. All people who live in freedom should speak his name with reverence, and all should read the unabridged edition of \\"The Gulag Archipelago,\\" the author's indictment against the most evil creation mankind ever fashioned: Marxist-Leninist Communism.<br /><br />Like other great men, Solzhenitsyn's early life gave little indication of the monumental importance he would one day achieve. But one day, while serving as an officer in the Soviet army during WWII, something happened to our author that happened to so many others under the Soviet regime: Solzhenitsyn was arrested for insubordination, sentenced to eight years, and thrown into the gaping maw of the Gulag prison system. Unfortunately for the memory of the \\"Great Father\\" (read Joey Stalin), this obscure army officer lived to tell the tale of all he saw and heard during his imprisonment. The result is the voluminous three volume series presented here in translation. \\"The Gulag Archipelago\\" serves as both an indictment of the evil Soviet regime and as a memorial for the untold millions who died in the camps.<br /><br />The overarching theme of this book is the process, from start to finish, of internment in the Gulag system. Starting with the dreaded \\"knock in the middle of the night,\\" the author traces the nightmare of incarceration through the interrogation, the sentencing, the transportation to the prison camps, the grinding work conditions of the camps, and the eventual release into eternal exile or tentative freedom. Solzhenitsyn repeatedly delves into historical analysis, biography, journalism, philosophical musings, and literature to present his account. What emerges is page after page of heartrending suffering that is nearly incomprehensible to any sane human mind. The endless accounts of cruelty sicken the soul and should strike anyone who thinks communism is a great system of government deaf and dumb.<br /><br />Volume one begins the harrowing odyssey into madness, outlining Solzhenitsyn's own arrest, the endless waves of people that fed the prison system, the interrogation procedures used to elicit false confessions to meaningless crimes, the dreaded Soviet criminal code containing the notorious \\"Article 58\\" under which millions went to jail as political prisoners, the disintegration of the Soviet legal system to what basically amounted to a rubber stamp type of sentencing, and the transportation of prisoners via train to the eastern reaches of the Soviet empire.<br /><br />Volume two deals mainly with camp life, with all of the trials and travails a person faced and how people struggled to survive. It is here we learn about Stalin's canal building projects and the thousands who died to fulfill the sick dreams of a ruthless sociopath. We see the horrible rations prisoners were forced to survive upon while having their ears filled with disgusting propaganda about how their work was important in helping to create the worker's paradise. The second volume also contains a history about how the gulag system emerged and how it spread, a discussion about loyal communists who so internalized the party belief system that they refused to believe Stalin sold them out, and chapters about the different types of people confined to the gulag (trusties, thieves, kids, women, and politicals).<br /><br />Volume three focuses mostly on prisoner defiance of the terrible conditions in the prisons, discussing escape attempts (especially Georgi Tenno, a hero to the human race and indefatigable in his disobedience of the Soviet authorities), and outright prison revolts where the entire population of a prison banded together against the common evil. We then see Solzhenitsyn's release into exile and his ultimate \\"rehabilitation\\" after the death of Stalin and the rise of Khrushchev and his \\"moderate\\" reforms. The series ends with a call for more investigations into Soviet atrocities committed in the gulags.<br /><br />No summary could completely outline the scope of this book; so enormous is the amount of detail held in these pages. The reader is tirelessly assailed with the names of those butchered under the hammer and sickle. Predictably, most of the blame for these murders falls on Comrade Stalin, author of the kulakization pogroms, the endless political purges, and the continuous sufferings inflicted on the various peoples under his control. Always referring to this beast in the most insolent and sarcastic tones imaginable, Solzhenitsyn rightly calls Stalin \\"Satan.\\" Hitler was a mere schoolboy when held up to the unholy terror of the \\"great\\" Dzhugashvili.<br /><br />Still, one gets the sense of the majesty and power of the great Russian people in these accounts. Nothing will keep these people down for long. Everything the camps threw at these many of these wondrous creatures failed to break their spirit. They figured out how to lessen the back breaking labor of the camps, learned how to stay alive on rations barely fit for a dog, struggled to escape the chains that bound them to the death camps. Although the author laments the docility of those serving sentences, there are enough tales of bravery and defiance to warm the most cynical heart.<br /><br />I highly recommend reading the unabridged version of \\"The Gulag Archipelago.\\" There used to be an abridged version of some 900 pages floating around, but only the 2000-page edition brings home the full scope of the evils of communism. Accessibility is a problem, but stare into the eyes of Yelizaveta Yevgenyevna Anichkova on page 488 in the first volume and tell me her memory does not deserve an effort on your part to read every page of one of the most important books ever written.of Stalin and the rise of Khrushchev and his \\"moderate\\" reforms. The series ends with a call for more investigations into Soviet atrocities committed in the gulags.    No summary could completely outline the scope of this book; so enormous is the amount of detail held in these pages. The reader is tirelessly assailed with the names of those butchered under the hammer and sickle. Predictably, most of the blame for these murders falls on Comrade Stalin, author of the kulakization pogroms, the endless political purges, and the continuous sufferings inflicted on the various peoples under his control. Always referring to this beast in the most insolent and sarcastic tones imaginable, Solzhenitsyn rightly calls Stalin \\"Satan.\\" Hitler was a mere schoolboy when held up to the unholy terror of the \\"great\\" Dzhugashvili.    Still, one gets the sense of the majesty and power of the great Russian people in these accounts. Nothing will keep these people down for long. Everything the camps threw at these many of these wondrous creatures failed to break their spirit. They figured out how to lessen the back breaking labor of the camps, learned how to stay alive on rations barely fit for a dog, struggled to escape the chains that bound them to the death camps. Although the author laments the docility of those serving sentences, there are enough tales of bravery and defiance to warm the most cynical heart.    I highly recommend reading the unabridged version of \\"The Gulag Archipelago.\\" There used to be an abridged version of some 900 pages floating around, but only the 2000-page edition brings home the full scope of the evils of communism. Accessibility is a problem, but stare into the eyes of Yelizaveta Yevgenyevna Anichkova on page 488 in the first volume and tell me her memory does not deserve an effort on your part to read every page of one of the most important books ever written.	2003-04-07
1171745:US	52012289	R2GI32C3H64NH6	0674766911	568753247	The Return of Martin Guerre	Books	4	94	96	N	N	Prime Example of the New History	Natalie Zemon Davis was a history professor at Princeton University when two French screenwriters, Jean-Claude Carriere and Daniel Vigne, asked her to act as a consultant on a film version of the infamous 16th century case of Martin Guerre. This project served as the impetus for Davis to research and write this immensely readable account of the Guerre event, a case of impersonation that caused an uproar in parts of France for years to come. The film version Davis consulted on starred Gerard Depardieu as the fake Martin Guerre, and a later American version, entitled \\"Somersby,\\" placed events during the American Civil War and starred Richard Gere and Jodie Foster.<br />Any way you look at the situation, the Martin Guerre case is just plain strange. Davis traces the case back to the year 1527, when the Daguerre family left their Basque homeland in France and moved to the village of Artigat in the Languedoc region. The Daguerre family changed their name to Guerre in an effort to fit into the local community. The Guerre's quickly rose in prominence, although son Martin tended to enjoy acrobatics and swordplay in lieu of hard work.<br />Martin soon married Bertrande de Rols, the daughter of a prominent local family. After some initial problems conceiving children, attributed to a dangerous curse by many in the community, Martin and Bertrande finally had a son. But things did not go well for Martin; his father accused Martin of stealing some grain, an accusation that, coupled with Martin's desire to avoid family squabbles over inheritance issues, resulted in Martin's sudden departure from his family and home. With Martin gone off to various adventures in Spain and parts unknown, Bertrande was in quite a spot. Hope was on the way, however, when a man shows up claiming to be the missing Martin. This man quickly ingratiated himself into the household, claiming Martin's son and wife as well as the inheritance of his deceased father. Eventually, problems emerged between this new Martin and his uncle Pierre Guerre. The result was two trials and the eventual exposure of the new Martin as a fraud.<br />Davis's historical treatment of this case is a prime example of \\"microhistory,\\" or a branch of the larger movement in historical study known as the New History. Whereas the Old History focused on the deeds of high-class elites, the New History studied the lower classes, oftentimes employing analytical methods borrowed from sociology and psychology. Microhistory seeks to analyze a specific event or person in history to shed light on the larger aspects of their environment. In the case of Martin Guerre, Davis exposes the greater themes of peasant life in 16th century France, the French legal system, the struggle between Catholics and Protestants, and the role of women in that period.<br />Two men left written accounts of the Martin Guerre incident: one, Guillaume Le Sueur, is a little known figure and therefore does not receive much attention from Davis. Instead, the focus is on the other author, Jean de Coras, one of the trial judges in the Guerre case and a famous French legal scholar. Davis attempts to psychologically penetrate the mind of Coras, giving the reader copious background information on Coras and his accomplishments. What emerges is a portrait of a really remarkable and likeable fellow, a man who sympathized with the fake Martin Guerre because of the mental ability this \\"Martin\\" showed during his interrogations.<br />\\"The Return of Martin Guerre\\" often reads like an engaging story rather than a dry as dust history. You get to know these people, especially Jean de Coras, and you come to like them. Simultaneously, it is sometimes difficult to accept this book as solid history. While Davis scrutinized endless reams of archival records and other source materials, some of her conclusions and observations stray from the evidence, especially some of the psychological insights. But that is the value of this book: by reading it, a student of history begins to understand the larger conflicts between historical schools of methodology. For those who could care less about historical debate, the author's book is a cracking good yarn full of lies, dangerous liaisons, and courtroom antics.<br />Sometimes truth is stranger than fiction, and that is nowhere more apparent than in the case of Martin Guerre. After reading this book, be sure to check out the film version starring Gerard Depardieu; it is a great version of the story, and Depardieu never looked so thin!of history begins to understand the larger conflicts between historical schools of methodology. For those who could care less about historical debate, the author's book is a cracking good yarn full of lies, dangerous liaisons, and courtroom antics.<br />Sometimes truth is stranger than fiction, and that is nowhere more apparent than in the case of Martin Guerre. After reading this book, be sure to check out the film version starring Gerard Depardieu; it is a great version of the story, and Depardieu never looked so thin!	2003-04-03
1183450:US	52012289	R3F8NFSFH6HABM	0595264549	423703325	Conquest Of Paradise: An End-times Nano-Thriller	Books	4	36	39	N	N	Not With A Bang, But With Nanotechnology	Apocalyptic literature always fascinates me. The rich congeries of differing scenarios makes reading nearly any entry in this voluminous genre immensely entertaining. Some writers choose to write from a fundamentalist Christian view, using the Book of Revelations as a checklist of doom and gloom. Others infect the world with killer viruses, nasty alien invaders, or earth-shattering natural disasters. A few stories incorporate several of these themes into a depressing account of our ultimate demise. Britt Gillette's \\"Conquest of Paradise\\" falls firmly in the latter category, a story that fuses Christianity with science. In this author's nightmare scenario, the bogey of molecular nanotechnology skillfully welded with biblical prophecy produces a frightening scenario of death and destruction.<br />Throughout this 300-page book, Gillette manages to juggle numerous characters and storylines with great &eacute;lan. The opening chapters of the book introduce us to characters that will play significant roles throughout the story. There is Garrison Nance, a young man from Atlanta heading to Chiapas, Mexico to work for a Christian mission. Nance meets Poyner and Raphael Vicente during his stay there, where the three become involved in a peasant revolution against the Mexican government. As the book progresses, Islamic terrorists, a sinister Frenchman, a dangerous Chinese agent, and other characters big and small emerge to play their part in the unfolding dilemma.<br />From these lengthy introductory chapters, in which Gillette reveals much about Raphael's background, each chapter jumps ahead in time. Raphael becomes a significant figure on the world stage, first as a champion of the third world poor, then as a Nobel Prize winner, to his eventual assumption of the presidency of United Europe. Raphael's sole goal in life is to instill democracy and human rights throughout the world, and he will do anything within his power to realize that actuality. But in the course of trying to be the world's champion, he runs the risk of plunging the globe into eternal chaos.<br />The 400-pound gorilla in this story is the assembler breakthrough, a development that threatens to change the world as we know it forever. What assemblers are and their potential to restructure the world is best left unrevealed here. It is sufficient to say that this technology, as elucidated in Gillette's book, is both awesome and fearsome. In an author's note at the end of the book, Gillette explains that molecular nanotechnology (MNT) is real and imminent; he believes that by the end of this decade MNT will arrive whether we want it or not. The author wrote this book to expose the inherent dangers of this new technology, a technology that offers a promise of nearly infinite good, but also a danger beyond reckoning if it falls into the wrong hands. Gillette lists several website addresses for those who wish to discover further information about this potentially dangerous technological development.<br />What spooked me the most about this book was reading it during the countdown to the invasion of Iraq. Gillette made sure to keep his story up to date, so references to Saddam Hussein, the terrorist attacks of September 11th, and the threat of radical Islamic terrorism added a significant dimension of immediacy to the story.<br />I think the overarching theme Gillette is searching for here was best expressed by Benjamin Franklin, who once wrote, \\"Those who would give up essential liberty, to purchase a little temporary safety, deserve neither liberty nor safety.\\" In order to make the world \\"safe\\" for Raphael's democratic dream, everyone must eventually give up his or her liberty. Raphael's quest against Islamic fanaticism leads to a dangerous fanaticism about democracy. In other words, absolutes, whatever their stripe, will always resort to totalitarianism in order to succeed.<br />\\"Conquest of Paradise,\\" whether its message of out of control technology is true or not, shouldfind a place on the shelf of anyone interested in the apocalypse genre. The first third of the book moves slowly, but by the time you pass page 100, the story starts to zoom. Books like this one justify the \\"publish it yourself\\" industry.place on the shelf of anyone interested in the apocalypse genre. The first third of the book moves slowly, but by the time you pass page 100, the story starts to zoom. Books like this one justify the \\"publish it yourself\\" industry.	2003-03-24
1184146:US	52012289	R2C2JSMTGGVZ58	2035422620	425407063	Larousse Advanced Dictionary, Grand Dictionnaire French/English English/French (French Edition)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Mon Dieu, this is a huge book!	Learning languages in a classroom is hard work. Just think how many problems you had grinding through diagramming English sentences in the 8th grade, and, if you are like me, English is your primary language. Now envision yourself in college, faced with two years of French, German, Russian, or Spanish. You spend, at most, five to six hours per week going over phonetics, grammar, vocabulary, and idioms of a language at lightening speed, without any means of significant outside reinforcement. What is worse, after one year of dipping your toe into the swamp that is a foreign language, the second year instructors expect you to speak, write, and read that language. Like most people, I started out studying French with a lot of vigor, flipping through flashcards faster than a gambler drops quarters in a slot machine. By the time I got to the second year, my early efforts rarely paid off: flashcards and random reading did help me to navigate written French fairly well, but speaking and listening to the language was still an excruciating task.<br />Unless you are majoring in a foreign language or have the means to live in a foreign country for at least six months, it is best to accept the fact that you will not speak a foreign language. What you can focus on is learning to read that language because it is much easier to recognize words on a written page than it is to pluck them from your brain in the course of a conversation. This is where a great dictionary comes into the picture. Not only will an excellent lexicon help get you through those daunting two years, it will also help you impress people when you read Baudelaire in the original. Certainly, you can be a cheapskate and pick up a five-dollar piece of crud that will get you through an introductory class. If you are like me, however, and love to use a sledgehammer when a tack hammer will do the job, welcome to the LaRousse Grand Dictionnaire. Sure, it is pricey, and you have a better chance of fitting a corpse in your backpack then this hernia inducing book, but if you want to actually use the scraps of French you learned in class (and even improve your reading skills) this is the dictionary for you.<br />I love this dictionary! First off, there are some great color maps of the world in here, with every place name clearly marked in French. Then it takes countries and breaks them down into \\"administrative districts\\" (read: states) and gives you those in French as well. But that's not all! Then we get maps of \\"patrimoine,\\" or national heritage. Where the heck is \\"Mur d'Hadrien,\\" you ask? Why, it is Hadrian's Wall, located in England! And as we all know, the Romans built Hadrian's Wall to keep obnoxious French waiters out of the empire. LaRousse even has a map of gay old Paris included, in case you want to see where all those protestors are marching. Seriously though-this dictionary has some great stuff between its covers.<br />Since this is an advanced dictionary, you will find many words that cruddy little paperback dictionaries do not include. Even better, after the phonetics and definition comes many helpful phrases that word appears in. A great example is the verb savoir, meaning \\"to know or to be aware of.\\" What follows is an entire page of possible uses of savoir, such as \\"Je sais un moyen d'y parvenir,\\" which translates as \\"I know a way to do it.\\" The entries for common French words, such as etre, avoir, and faire, are just as comprehensive.<br />Also included is a table of 116 conjugated French verbs, which isn't too bad, although that number falls far short of what you would need to really read the language. As an added bonus, apparently for complete incompetents, is a list of irregular English verbs. Yep, this is a great dictionary.<br />I cracked a few jokes in this review about the French, but this really is a great addition to your library. This \\"Grand Dictionnaire\\" will speed you on the way to reading the language of a culture that produced some of the greatest literature, art, and cuisine in the history of the world. This dictionary will not only help you translate the words in a sentence, but also helps you achieve insight into what you are reading. There is no greater joy than getting the emotion behind the words (\\"Hey, not only do I know what that means, but the author is being sarcastic!\\"). LaRousse is the way to go.ture, art, and cuisine in the history of the world. This dictionary will not only help you translate the words in a sentence, but also helps you achieve insight into what you are reading. There is no greater joy than getting the emotion behind the words (\\"Hey, not only do I know what that means, but the author is being sarcastic!\\"). LaRousse is the way to go.	2003-03-23
1197361:US	52012289	R2QR78IOHCIZW1	1565049136	167541617	Resume with Monsters	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Brilliant Adaptation of Lovecraft	H.P. Lovecraft always intended his Cthulu mythos to live through other authors' pens. If Lovecraft were alive today he would certainly find William Spencer Browning's treatment most entertaining. In \\"Resume with Monsters,\\" Browning artfully welds together the infinite horrors of Lovecraft's Old Ones with the modern banalities of life in the corporate world. The result is a book loaded with hilarious dialogue, humorous scenes, and a good deal of light horror.<br />Philip has a big problem. He sees monsters at work, behind every filing cabinet, around every corner, in the eyes of his fellow co-workers, and in motivational pamphlets handed out in his paycheck envelope. In order to maintain his slipping sanity, Philip spends his free time constantly rewriting his sprawling 2000 page book called \\"The Despicable Quest,\\" a Lovecraftian tome full of references to Azathoth, Yog-Sathoth, and other unpleasant beings from beyond space and time. Philip is aware that spouting off about monsters from dimensions beyond our own tends to alarm people, which brings in Lily, an aging psychologist who promises Philip she can help him through his troubles.<br />Philip probably would not have many problems with his demons if he gave up trying to save his ex-girlfriend Amelia. Philip's relentless quest to expose the monsters coupled with the undying devotion to his book infuriated Amelia, spurring a rancorous split. When she moves to Texas Philip follows her, desperate to convince Amelia that he once saved her from eternal doom when the two worked at MicroMeg, a giant international corporation (the details of which can be found in the section of the book hilariously entitled, \\"The Doom that Came to MicroMeg). Philip drifts from one low paying job to another, always on the lookout for the reemergence of the evil ones. Not only does Philip see potential evil at his own jobs, there seems to be something seriously astray at Pelidyne, a big company where Amelia just started a new job. It looks like Philip will have to return once again into the belly of the beast.<br />Spencer really has a grasp of Lovecraft's horrific intentions. His style does not reflect Lovecraft's ornate use of the English language, but many of the adventures Philip embarks on mirror a trip through a Lovecraft novel: the weird bending of time and space, the strange rituals of the Old Ones, and the feeling of helplessness one gets when confronting an evil beyond the comprehension of the human mind.<br />I suspect there is a lot of the author in this story. My copy has a painting on the front cover of a man who looks suspiciously like the picture of Browning on the back cover. The detailed descriptions of corporate stupidity and the shrieking mindlessness of working a low paying job tell me that the author spent many years working in the same type of jobs as Philip does in the novel. Anyone who has ever worked in a boring job with high pressure jerks as bosses will recognize and sympathize with Philip's plight. Ultimately, that is the greatest horror in \\"Resume with Monsters\\": the pressures of a job in today's world are worse than seeing monsters with dripping scales falling out of a time rip in the ceiling.<br />The comical aspects of the book abound throughout the story. Everything from Philip's confessions about the evil ones to the motivational pamphlets is gut bustingly funny. Be sure and pay attention to the group sessions during Philip's stay in the mental hospital. These scenes are some of the funniest in the book.<br />\\"Resume with Monsters\\" is essential reading for Lovecraft fans. Those who are unfamiliar with Lovecraft may want to read at least one collection of his stories before settling into this book because the references to particular entities are meaningless unless you understand the mythos. I am placing Spencer's book in my top five list of books read this year, and I hope you will too.like Philip will have to return once again into the belly of the beast.<br />Spencer really has a grasp of Lovecraft's horrific intentions. His style does not reflect Lovecraft's ornate use of the English language, but many of the adventures Philip embarks on mirror a trip through a Lovecraft novel: the weird bending of time and space, the strange rituals of the Old Ones, and the feeling of helplessness one gets when confronting an evil beyond the comprehension of the human mind. <br />I suspect there is a lot of the author in this story. My copy has a painting on the front cover of a man who looks suspiciously like the picture of Browning on the back cover. The detailed descriptions of corporate stupidity and the shrieking mindlessness of working a low paying job tell me that the author spent many years working in the same type of jobs as Philip does in the novel. Anyone who has ever worked in a boring job with high pressure jerks as bosses will recognize and sympathize with Philip's plight. Ultimately, that is the greatest horror in \\"Resume with Monsters\\": the pressures of a job in today's world are worse than seeing monsters with dripping scales falling out of a time rip in the ceiling.<br />The comical aspects of the book abound throughout the story. Everything from Philip's confessions about the evil ones to the motivational pamphlets is gut bustingly funny. Be sure and pay attention to the group sessions during Philip's stay in the mental hospital. These scenes are some of the funniest in the book.<br />\\"Resume with Monsters\\" is essential reading for Lovecraft fans. Those who are unfamiliar with Lovecraft may want to read at least one collection of his stories before settling into this book because the references to particular entities are meaningless unless you understand the mythos. I am placing Spencer's book in my top five list of books read this year, and I hope you will too.	2003-03-12
1202757:US	52012289	R32XWOWEXTNR59	0771098502	54772128	Tay John (New Canadian Library)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	VERY Hard to Describe	Howard O'Hagan is, with great regret, an obscurity floating against the distant shores of the literary canon. The first strike against him may be that he was Canadian. Canadian authors always seem segregated from the rest of literature, relegated to the dim recesses of academia or a dusty shelf at the local library. The only Canadian authors who receive some recognition are Margaret Atwood and Alice Munro, and even they are hardly household names. Perhaps this ignorance towards Canadian literature stems from Canada's position in respect to the United States, that Canada just does not have as much to offer the world because of its location next to a global entertainment powerhouse. I am writing to tell you this is not the case: Canadians produced, and continue to produce, a richly diverse body of literature. O'Hagan's novel \\"Tay John\\" stands as proof of this wonderful richness. Set in late 19th and early 20th century Canada, \\"Tay John\\" tells the story of an Indian messiah of enigmatic origins as he moves through the vastness of the Canadian West.<br />The novel breaks down into three parts: the first reads like an Indian story, outlining the birth and destiny of Tay John (an anglicized name taken from Tete Jaune, or Yellow Head, referring to Tay John's mane of yellow hair). In this section, O'Hagan explains that Tay John is the offspring of Red Rorty, a white trapper on a religious crusade, and Hanni, a Shuswap Indian he beds while living among the tribe. The result of this union is Kumkleseem (Tay John), a yellow haired youth destined to become a leader who will lead the Shuswaps to a promised land of great plenty.<br />O'Hagan makes a jarring transformation with the second and third sections of the book, bringing in narrator Jack Denham, a wanderer who tells any one who listens about this strange character named Tay John. Denham relates a tale about watching Tay John fight a grizzly bear, about a card game gone horribly wrong, a couple trekking into the mountains of the West with Tay John as guide, and a story about a developer building a resort along the expanding railway system. Tay John is the central character in all of these anecdotes even though he has little dialogue in any of them. That is the beauty of this book: O'Hagan lets events speak for themselves through action.<br />This minimalist approach fits in with the landscape of the novel. The author introduces the reader to the rugged terrains of Western Canada, where mountains, rivers, and wide spaces serve not just as background but also as characters in the sweep of the story. Against this awesome backdrop move the human characters, living out their lives in the shadow of mother earth. O'Hagan makes you feel the smallness of humanity by elevating every mundane action into an act of overwhelming importance. This makes the story severely realistic, as people living in a land where humans are scare would tend to treat interactions with others as larger than life events.<br />The afterword by Michael Onjaatje is of great assistance in understanding O'Hagan's book. Onjaatje explains that \\"Tay John\\" was one of the first examples of mythic realism in Canadian literature. The story, explains Onjaatje, shows how a myth of an Indian messiah is made into a legend in the real world. Looking at the book with a view of Canadian history, I did not notice the myth/legend aspects as much as I noticed the parade of archetypal figures through the Canadian West: first the Indians, then some white travelers, then the railroad and a developer. You can trace the history of Western Canada just by reading this book.<br />Ultimately, words fail to describe this deeply philosophical piece of literature. The only way to fathom the beauty and majesty of this book is to sit down and read it. Regrettably, Howard O'Hagan only wrote two other books and an autobiography before his death. After reading \\"Tay John,\\" it is obvious that he had the talent to do more work. This is one of those books thatwill stay with you long after you read it. Hopefully, it will receive more attention in the future.t will stay with you long after you read it. Hopefully, it will receive more attention in the future.	2003-03-07
1211539:US	52012289	R2YOO4YP7VQ3MG	0679405666	463707544	Vanity Fair (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	192	196	N	N	Vanitas Vanitatum	Many consider William Makepeace Thackeray (1811-1863) a minor novelist who wrote in a time when George Eliot, Charles Dickens, and Anthony Trollope ruled the roost of British literature. Out of all of his works, \\"Vanity Fair\\" is the most recognizable in literary circles, although Stanley Kubrick immortalized Thackeray's \\"Barry Lyndon\\" in a film of the same name. \\"Vanity Fair\\" appeared in serial form in 1847-48, a process of publishing used to great success by Charles Dickens. The introduction to this Everyman's Library edition, written by Catherine Peters, says that the title of the book came from John Bunyan's \\"The Pilgrim's Progress,\\" an immensely popular work in circulation at the time.<br />\\"Vanity Fair\\" centers on the exploits of two British women, Rebecca Sharp and Amelia Sedley, beginning roughly at the time of the Battle of Waterloo and ending at some time in the 1830's. The two women are polar opposites: Becky is a conniving, domineering, sometimes insensate woman who constantly attempts to secure a position in high society. Amelia is a rather plain, simple girl who trusts people too often and ends up getting her heart stomped on repeatedly. The two women are ostensibly friends, spending their youth together at a finishing school and occasionally running into each other throughout their lives. Thackeray often likes to place the two in opposition to one another: when Amelia falls into a crisis, Becky is moving in the highest circles of society. When Amelia comes into luck, Becky's fortunes plummet. This see-sawing action helps move the novel through a series of intricately detailed scenes showing off Thackeray's sense of humor, his caustic critiques of English society, and his insightful commentary into the human condition.<br />Arrayed around these two figures is a veritable constellation of major and minor characters, all with their own foibles that Thackeray exposes in minute detail. There is Joseph Sedley, Amelia's obese and selfish brother who nearly marries Becky in the beginning of the book. George Osborne appears through part of the book as Amelia's fianc&eacute;e and eventual husband, a vain man with an eye for the ladies and a spendthrift attitude. George's friend William Dobbin also figures prominently in the story. Dobbin is an admirable man, marred by his inability to come to terms with the feelings he has for Amelia. Other characters appear and disappear rapidly, too many to outline here. It is sufficient to say that Thackeray does not worry about overburdening the reader with too many cast members, and with nearly 900 pages in the book, he definitely has the time to adequately describe numerous scenes and people.<br />I do not know much about literary tags, but I will say that Thackeray must certainly fall into the category of a realist writer. His goal with \\"Vanity Fair\\" was to write a story that went against the romantic hero/heroine novels of his day. The subtitle to this book, \\"A Novel Without a Hero,\\" clearly outlines the author's intentions to oppose unrealistic, feel good literature that failed to properly reflect genuine life. In this respect, Thackeray succeeds admirably by creating characters that exhibit both good and bad traits during their lives. For example, Becky steals and schemes her way through life but performs an amazingly beautiful service for Amelia at the end of the book. Does this make Becky a heroine? Hardly, as Becky does not change her ways after this event. Thackeray constantly sets us up to see a heroic act, only to dash our hopes a few pages later.<br />One of the most enjoyable aspects of the novel is Thackeray's acidulous wit. Everyone comes in for a drubbing here, from the aristocracy to the common man. Names often reflect the author's scorn: nobles carry such embarrassing monikers as Lord Binkie, Lady Bareacres, and Lord Steyne. Sharp is an effective name for Becky, exposing her character and incisive wit. \\"Vanity Fair\\" is full of backstabbing, lying, adultery, stealing,pride and general rowdiness, and no one is above these base behaviors.<br />A slight problem with the story concerns the numerous narrative digressions that wax philosophic about relationships, women and their roles in society, and bad behavior. These insertions do become taxing at times even though they often help move the story along. Thackeray wants to make sure you know what he is trying to accomplish; he wants you to see yourself and your friends and family in these character sketches.<br />A bigger problem for me concerned this particular edition of the story. There were no footnotes or endnotes in the Everyman's Library version to help explain the jargon or place names of Thackeray's England. While the author's use of language never approaches the level of Walter Scott's Scottish vernacular, to cite an extreme example, it is still a problem at times. I recommend picking up the Penguin Classics version of \\"Vanity Fair,\\" since Penguin editions usually employ explanatory notes.<br />\\"Vanity Fair\\" is a long yet worthwhile read. The book is hardly unreadable, an unfair label often attached to this agreeable story. If you enjoy reading 18th century English literature, you must read \\"Vanity Fair.\\"de and general rowdiness, and no one is above these base behaviors.<br />A slight problem with the story concerns the numerous narrative digressions that wax philosophic about relationships, women and their roles in society, and bad behavior. These insertions do become taxing at times even though they often help move the story along. Thackeray wants to make sure you know what he is trying to accomplish; he wants you to see yourself and your friends and family in these character sketches.<br />A bigger problem for me concerned this particular edition of the story. There were no footnotes or endnotes in the Everyman's Library version to help explain the jargon or place names of Thackeray's England. While the author's use of language never approaches the level of Walter Scott's Scottish vernacular, to cite an extreme example, it is still a problem at times. I recommend picking up the Penguin Classics version of \\"Vanity Fair,\\" since Penguin editions usually employ explanatory notes.<br />\\"Vanity Fair\\" is a long yet worthwhile read. The book is hardly unreadable, an unfair label often attached to this agreeable story. If you enjoy reading 18th century English literature, you must read \\"Vanity Fair.\\"	2003-02-28
1213507:US	52012289	R2WMTEZ833HHC0	0771099843	785214844	Sunshine Sketches of a Little Town (New Canadian Library)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	It Soothes the Soul	There is at least one author who may remind you of Stephen Leacock, namely Garrison Keillor of Lake Wobegon fame, but Leacock should be recognized as the ultimate master of quaint, bucolic humor. Leacock, who died in 1944, became arguably the most prominent Canadian humorist of his day (and probably of all time). What is ironic about that claim is that Leacock worked for most of his life as a professor of economics. We do not usually equate economics with humor, preferring to think of that profession as one of bow ties and supply and demand charts. Throw that presumption out the window and pick up a copy of \\"Sunshine Sketches of a Little Town,\\" Leacock's best known work available through the New Canadian Library series.<br />For me, one of the funniest sections of the book was the introduction written by Leacock, where he gives you some background about himself and his profession. This short piece of writing quickly gives you an idea of the type of humor you will find in the actual sketches: a very sly, very quiet and clever type of humor that often takes a while to sink in. Leacock does not rely on rim shot jokes or manic posturing in his writings. Instead, he creates the fictional Canadian town of Mariposa and populates it with small town archetypes that are wonders to behold.<br />All of the characters are hilarious in their own way: Mr. Smith, the proprietor of the local hotel and bar, full of schemes to earn money while trying to get his liquor license back. Then there is Jefferson Thorpe, the barber involved in financial schemes that may put him on the level of the Morgans and the Rockefellers. The Reverend Mr. Drone presides over the local Church of England in Mariposa, a man who reads Greek as easy as can be but laments his lack of knowledge about logarithms and balancing the financial books of the church. Peter Pupkin, the teller at the local bank, has a secret he wants no one to know about, but which eventually comes out while he is courting the daughter of the town judge. All of these characters, and several others, interact throughout the sketches.<br />Leacock has the ability to turn a story, to make it take a crazy, unexpected twist even when you are looking for such a maneuver. That he accomplishes this in stories that rarely run longer than twenty pages is certainly a sign of great talent. By the time you reach the end of the book, you know these people as though you lived in the town yourself, and you know what makes them tick.<br />Despite all of the crazy antics in Mariposa, Leacock never lets the reader lose sight of the fact that these are basically good people living good lives. There seems to be a lot of feeling for the citizens of Mariposa on the part of Leacock, which comes to a head in the final sketch in the collection, \\"L'Envoi. The Train to Mariposa,\\" where he recounts traveling back to the town after being away for years, with all of the attendant emotions that brings as recognizable landmarks come into view and the traveler realizes that his little town is the same as when he left it years before.<br />I suspect there is a historical importance to \\"Sunshine Sketches of a Little Town.\\" These writings first appeared in 1912, a time when many people living in the bigger Canadian cities still remembered life in a small town. In addition to the humorous aspects of the book, the author includes many descriptive passages concerning the atmosphere and layout of Mariposa, something instantly recognizable to anyone who grew up in such a place. Nostalgia for the simpler life of the small town probably played a significant role in the book's success.<br />I look forward to reading more Stephen Leacock. While much of the humor in the book is not belly laugh funny, it does provide one with a deep satisfaction of reading clever humor from an author who knows how to tickle the funny bone. You do not need to be Canadian to enjoy this wonderful book.f the town judge. All of these characters, and several others, interact throughout the sketches.<br />Leacock has the ability to turn a story, to make it take a crazy, unexpected twist even when you are looking for such a maneuver. That he accomplishes this in stories that rarely run longer than twenty pages is certainly a sign of great talent. By the time you reach the end of the book, you know these people as though you lived in the town yourself, and you know what makes them tick. <br />Despite all of the crazy antics in Mariposa, Leacock never lets the reader lose sight of the fact that these are basically good people living good lives. There seems to be a lot of feeling for the citizens of Mariposa on the part of Leacock, which comes to a head in the final sketch in the collection, \\"L'Envoi. The Train to Mariposa,\\" where he recounts traveling back to the town after being away for years, with all of the attendant emotions that brings as recognizable landmarks come into view and the traveler realizes that his little town is the same as when he left it years before.<br />I suspect there is a historical importance to \\"Sunshine Sketches of a Little Town.\\" These writings first appeared in 1912, a time when many people living in the bigger Canadian cities still remembered life in a small town. In addition to the humorous aspects of the book, the author includes many descriptive passages concerning the atmosphere and layout of Mariposa, something instantly recognizable to anyone who grew up in such a place. Nostalgia for the simpler life of the small town probably played a significant role in the book's success.<br />I look forward to reading more Stephen Leacock. While much of the humor in the book is not belly laugh funny, it does provide one with a deep satisfaction of reading clever humor from an author who knows how to tickle the funny bone. You do not need to be Canadian to enjoy this wonderful book.	2003-02-27
1220288:US	52012289	R3GC1UJP0B03GB	0141186690	610656641	The Bell (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	56	61	N	N	A Universe of Wonder	Iris Murdoch (1919-1999) spent most of her life working as a philosophy teacher at St. Anne's College, Oxford. During this presumably busy occupation, she wrote 26 novels, five plays, a collection of poetry, and five philosophical texts. I need to remember this the next time I have trouble getting out of bed because I am feeling a little tired. Just imagine writing 26 novels! And these are not simple tales banged out and published with a quick proofing. Murdoch wrote intricate, deeply emotional novels examining the psychological and philosophical implications of this crazy ride we call life. Murdoch's character driven writings work themselves out within carefully constructed, highly symbolic atmospheres full of intense sights and sounds. I once described Murdoch as a creator of universes, and that is exactly what she accomplishes in this highly acclaimed 1958 novel, \\"The Bell.\\" Unfortunately, Penguin got A.S. Byatt to do the introduction to the book. Byatt may be a highly regarded author, but her introductions are excruciating exercises in literary criticism that tax the hardiest souls. Skip the intro and dive right in.<br />\\"The Bell\\" is a story about a group of very unhappy people living in a sort of quasi-religious support group home, called Imber Court, outside of Imber Abbey. The abbey is the home of a group of cloistered nuns who avoid having outsiders enter the abbey grounds. The big event for the abbey and the residents of Imber Court is the installation of a spanking new bell at the abbey. The bell will take the place of the long missing medieval bell lost in the mists of time. As the important event draws ever closer, Murdoch describes several of the residents of Imber Court in minute detail, leaving almost nothing to the imagination in her descriptions of the these fatally flawed yet likeable people.<br />Several of the characters receive such loving attention from Murdoch that it is difficult to discern who is the main character. It is probably Dora Greenfield, as Murdoch opens and closes the novel with this seemingly shallow yet complex character. Dora goes to Imber to renew her relationship with Paul, her scholar husband who is staying at Imber Court in order to do research on manuscripts at the abbey. Paul is a jerk, a jealous, controlling twit who seeks to dominate every aspect of Dora's life. Dora likes to live the free life of the city, but oscillates between romantic affairs and the discipline she feels she needs from Paul. When Dora nervously arrives at Imber, she quickly becomes acquainted with some of the other lost souls rambling around the grounds. Arguably, the most important figure is Michael Meade, the leader of the community who has more problems than some of the people in his charge. A constant source of irritation to Michael is the presence of Nick, a man who Michael had an affair with years before. This affair resulted in Michael's expulsion from the teaching profession and a serious setback to his hopes of becoming a priest. Other characters fill the pages of \\"The Bell,\\" such as Catherine, Nick's sister who is in training to enter the abbey; James Tayper Pace, a jovial chap and potential rival to Michael's leadership; and Toby, a young lad doing service at Imber before he enters Oxford.<br />While we go far into the heads of a few characters, Murdoch refuses to reveal to us the inner workings of other characters. This is not as frustrating as it sounds, for the depth of psychological insight we get into Dora and Michael more than makes up for the absence of other character analyses. Murdoch has a real flair for the workings of the human mind, and she makes her probing examinations so effortless that they leave the reader in absolute wonder at her abilities. You come to know these people better than they know themselves, seeing all of their awkward, painful foibles and the inevitable collisions they face in the future.<br />Imber is a created universe, with Murdoch as all-knowing deity. The descriptive passages concerning the grounds of Imber are brilliantly detailed, putting the reader directly in the characters' world. Murdoch's creation is of such vivid totality that the occasional trips the characters take outside the grounds reveal a world of dullness and emptiness. Only when the characters return to Imber does comfort return. I cannot recall an author who has created this effect to such an amazing degree. It makes \\"The Bell\\" a fascinating book, more of an experience than a mundane read.<br />Imber itself (meaning the grounds, the lake, the house, and the abbey) seem to me to be a microcosm of the world and the heavens. Imber Court represents the world, full of imperfect, lowly creatures yearning for salvation. The abbey is heaven, barely approachable except through occasional visits to a sealed prayer room and the rare glimpse of one of the nuns. Those that do go inside are quickly ushered out again, as though their imperfections prevent them from staying there for long. When carefully looked for, all sorts of religious symbolisms appear (the bell takes a dip in the lake before entering the abbey: is it in need of a sort of baptism before it can enter the abbey? The fact that part of the bridge crossing the lake from the house to the abbey was severed at one time is interesting.). Remember, Murdoch creates universes.<br />Ultimately, only one character seems to find redemption at the conclusion of the story. Perhaps Murdoch is showing us that few among us ever find solace in this world. Whatever she is saying, it is worth reading \\"The Bell\\" in an attempt to seek it out. Murdoch is not for everyone, but everyone should make an effort to read one Murdoch book. This novel will stay in your head for a long time afterwards.scriptive passages concerning the grounds of Imber are brilliantly detailed, putting the reader directly in the characters' world. Murdoch's creation is of such vivid totality that the occasional trips the characters take outside the grounds reveal a world of dullness and emptiness. Only when the characters return to Imber does comfort return. I cannot recall an author who has created this effect to such an amazing degree. It makes \\"The Bell\\" a fascinating book, more of an experience than a mundane read.<br />Imber itself (meaning the grounds, the lake, the house, and the abbey) seem to me to be a microcosm of the world and the heavens. Imber Court represents the world, full of imperfect, lowly creatures yearning for salvation. The abbey is heaven, barely approachable except through occasional visits to a sealed prayer room and the rare glimpse of one of the nuns. Those that do go inside are quickly ushered out again, as though their imperfections prevent them from staying there for long. When carefully looked for, all sorts of religious symbolisms appear (the bell takes a dip in the lake before entering the abbey: is it in need of a sort of baptism before it can enter the abbey? The fact that part of the bridge crossing the lake from the house to the abbey was severed at one time is interesting.). Remember, Murdoch creates universes. <br />Ultimately, only one character seems to find redemption at the conclusion of the story. Perhaps Murdoch is showing us that few among us ever find solace in this world. Whatever she is saying, it is worth reading \\"The Bell\\" in an attempt to seek it out. Murdoch is not for everyone, but everyone should make an effort to read one Murdoch book. This novel will stay in your head for a long time afterwards.	2003-02-21
1220327:US	52012289	R27NROO53PVJB2	084395096X	342935137	Haunter	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Full Tilt Boogie, Charlee Jacob Style	\\"Haunter\\" is Charlee Jacob's second novel, following the her gruesome freshman effort \\"This Symbiotic Fascination.\\" I do not think there is anyone in the horror genre today who writes like Charlee Jacob; she elevates gore and grue to an entirely undreamt of level. Just when you think the pages and pages of sickening descriptions cannot get any worse, the author drags you kicking and screaming into even deeper levels of carnage and mayhem. \\"Haunter\\" continues this tradition, delving into every type of horrible perversion imaginable (and some unimaginable).<br /><br />After reading \\"This Symbiotic Fascination,\\" I wondered aloud about Arcan Tyler's brother Harry. He appeared only briefly in that book, leaving behind him more questions than answers. Fortunately, \\"Haunter\\" fills in many of the gaps concerning the weird relationships in the Tyler family. You see, the Tylers are not like most typical American families: Deborah Tyler, the matriarch of the clan, is a shape-shifting beast. Her offspring, Arcan, Harry, and Elliot all have serious physical and psychological problems. Arcan's story is at the center of \\"This Symbiotic Fascination.\\" Harry and Elliot are the main characters in \\"Haunter.\\"<br /><br />Something strange is going on in Asia. Street urchins in Bangkok suddenly turn into glowing zombies, sitting in stupors with beatific grins and colorful halos around their heads. A local drug dealer, Mr. Tak, wishes to discover the amazing chemical that has wrought such a startling transformation in these castaway kids. After interrogating the man responsible for giving the kids this drug (called Soma, of all things), Tak discovers that the village of Phnom Yhop in Cambodia is the source of not only the drug, but also a town full of war cripples purporting to worship an incarnation of the god Shiva. Tak hires a mercenary army led by Saab Gestetner, a degenerate who likes to make sculptures out of human flesh. One of Gestetner's soldiers is none other than Elliot Tyler, hiding out as a soldier for hire because of his discovery of his horrible ability to reflect the misery of others in his face (literally). All of the other mercenaries in Gestetner's employ have horrible secrets to share, appearing to the reader in one grindingly grotesque chapter after another.<br /><br />Brother Harry gets a significant amount of face time here too. The bizarre transformation of Harry first described in \\"This Symbiotic Fascination\\" finds elaboration here. Harry suffers from many afflictions, but the one that gets him in the most trouble is a raging case of priapism. Harry's efforts to relieve this \\"pressure\\" backfires on him one day when his squad of soldiers is wandering around the countryside during the war. They encounter a strange creature; a hermaphrodite that passes something on to Harry that changes him permanently.<br /><br />Along the way, Jacob exposes the reader to endless descriptive passages outlining the sickening effects of Soma, a drug that drags the user through an ungodly vision of hell before they achieve nirvana, and graphic descriptions of painful and gory deaths by gun, saw blade, and other equally unpleasant ways of slipping out of this life. It is easy to find other books that go into great depth with the gore, but Jacob does it in a style that is difficult to replicate. The scenes in this book are often intensely upsetting, yet at the same time they are beautiful to read. That is what makes Jacob such an effective writer. One gets the feeling she could write romance novels or travelogues and be just as successful as she is here.<br /><br />\\"Haunter\\" shares some faults with Jacob's first book, namely a plot that does not always gel and a few subplots that do not go much beyond the embryonic stage. For example, the sudden locale switch from Southeast Asia to Texas is jarring and forced. Moreover, the book at times seems episodic, more a series of grue filled vignettes than a novel. There are also parts of the book that mystifies the reader, something that happens often in a Jacob story.<br /><br />This is an excellent read for horror fans and people who enjoy beautiful prose. I found the style kept drawing me back to the book when the plot line started to drag a bit. I admire the dynamic tension of Jacob's writing ability, the opposition created between soul shattering content and literary prowess. I am not sure if Jacob is planning to write more books based on the Tyler family and their unfortunate circumstances, but if she does I await another book with baited breath.often in a Jacob story.    This is an excellent read for horror fans and people who enjoy beautiful prose. I found the style kept drawing me back to the book when the plot line started to drag a bit. I admire the dynamic tension of Jacob's writing ability, the opposition created between soul shattering content and literary prowess. I am not sure if Jacob is planning to write more books based on the Tyler family and their unfortunate circumstances, but if she does I await another book with baited breath.	2003-02-21
1239642:US	52012289	R2SMP91X81EHW6	0679733590	114096233	The Good Society	Books	4	31	46	N	N	They won't reach a wide audience	\\"The Good Society\\" is a thick book brought to us from the same people who wrote \\"Habits of the Heart.\\" I never read that book, but if it is anything like \\"The Good Society,\\" I think I will take a pass on it. Maybe my slightly negative opinion of this book is due to the fact that it was required reading for a class. Assigned reading often leads to disappointment and disillusionment. I avoided reading literature for years because of the Gestapo-like tactics of high school English teachers. What is surprising is that this book covers topics I am usually interested in learning about. I guess we can't win them all.<br />The main thesis of \\"The Good Society\\" is simple: we, meaning American society, are no longer in control of our institutions. The authors define institutions in a broad sweep, encompassing economic, political, religious, educational, law, and international organizations and bodies (while curiously ignoring the media, the most egregious institution of them all because they help prop up all of the other ones). Only by regaining control over institutions, by making them responsive to democratic ideals, can we achieve what the authors refer to as a \\"good society.\\" An introductory chapter introduces the reader to several individuals involved in daily life, from a woman working for a company facing a merger to a couple attempting to help the poor in an underdeveloped urban area to an economist forced to make cost-benefit analyses with people's lives. Each of these people understands there is something wrong with the way they do things and the results of their actions. The authors point out that this is because people no longer challenge, let alone recognize, the underlying institutions responsible for our lives. For example, the woman facing problems from the company merger does not think to question the underlying economic system that reduces her to a mere number on a piece of paper. In short, people consider institutions as fixed, permanent entities impervious to change.<br />Central to this theme of institutional chaos is an examination of John Locke's belief in the rugged individual determining his own future in the social and economic realm. The authors argue that this old belief is no longer valid in today's world even though people still cling to those ideas. Through an examination of the economic history of the United States, \\"The Good Society\\" shows how the emergence of huge capitalist enterprises at the end of the 19th century effectively blunted any hopes that an individual could control his destiny. Even more dangerous to the Lockean ideal as it appears in the modern consciousness is the realization that corporations are not subject to democratic restrictions. Unfortunately, many institutions imitate or act as a support system (again, the media being the most rabid supporter) to corporations in today's society, with a concomitant resiliency to the type of public responsibility required in a healthy democratic state.<br />All of this high falutin' talk sounds interesting to those who live and breath politics or believe that corporations are out to run the world. But the book goes beyond mere political discourse to include analyses on education, religion, and law. Time and time again, the authors discover a sense of powerlessness among citizens when it comes to dealing with public institutions. A chapter on education shows how students who should come away with a broad area of knowledge end up as stooges for the business world. The section on religion reveals very little about deep theological discussion but much about how to cope in a world run by elites operating with the agendas of profit and politics. What ultimately emerges is how little effect real people are having on any social system existing today. The individual is dead, replaced by Howard Beale's humanoids, creatures that look human but are not as we gamely try to keep abreast of our chaotic, soulless institutions.<br />The book concludes with some recommendations about how to restore sanity. I do not really want to insult the authors, but these points for the recovery of our institutions are about as useless as Saddam Hussein running for president of the United States in 2004. For any type of sweeping change to work in this society, a devoted and dedicated populace is paramount. Instead, we have some 200 million couch potatoes, work dodgers, and celebrity worshippers. As long as the ballgame is on television, the mall is open, and the car is in the garage most people are content to let things ride.<br />The biggest problem I had with this book was the dense language. It seemed as though the authors had a problem paring their ideas down to a manageable length. I personally do not have a problem reading a big book with difficult prose, but if the authors wished to stay true to their goal of informing the public about institutional problems they failed miserably. \\"The Good Society\\" is just not accessible to the general population. Many people I know would read roughly one page of the text and put it down in a hurry. How are you going to solve the problems of unresponsive institutions when people will not turn off the television long enough to realize they need to become a force for change?<br />\\"The Good Society\\" covers interesting ground, but the treatment needs some serious editing in order to reach a wider audience.commendations about how to restore sanity. I do not really want to insult the authors, but these points for the recovery of our institutions are about as useless as Saddam Hussein running for president of the United States in 2004. For any type of sweeping change to work in this society, a devoted and dedicated populace is paramount. Instead, we have some 200 million couch potatoes, work dodgers, and celebrity worshippers. As long as the ballgame is on television, the mall is open, and the car is in the garage most people are content to let things ride.<br />The biggest problem I had with this book was the dense language. It seemed as though the authors had a problem paring their ideas down to a manageable length. I personally do not have a problem reading a big book with difficult prose, but if the authors wished to stay true to their goal of informing the public about institutional problems they failed miserably. \\"The Good Society\\" is just not accessible to the general population. Many people I know would read roughly one page of the text and put it down in a hurry. How are you going to solve the problems of unresponsive institutions when people will not turn off the television long enough to realize they need to become a force for change?<br />\\"The Good Society\\" covers interesting ground, but the treatment needs some serious editing in order to reach a wider audience.	2003-02-05
1241141:US	52012289	R3KWXQJDI7ZXZP	1889186287	494407550	Quest for Sex, Truth & Reality	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Lee's Upsetting Quest	Ed Lee is best known for spectacularly gruesome books like \\"The Bighead,\\" or sick short stories like \\"Header.\\" This little chapbook, entitled \\"Quest for Sex, Truth, and Reality\\" marks a significant departure for Lee. While the three stories included here still contain Lee's usual warped outlook on modern day society, the stories are much deeper than mere blood and guts tales. The three stories in this booklet are not easy to decipher, but in that respect they mirror our own individual search for truth and reality.<br />The first story, \\"Goddess of the New Dark Age,\\" concerns a washed up writer dying of cancer and his attempt to seek the meaning of reality. He goes to the usual sources one would consider in such a quest, heading down to the university to talk to a philosophy professor. The professor gives him a long, academic rant that is neither illuminating nor coherent. The author turns to sex, finding nothing lurking there that reveals reality. Only when he recognizes that the reality of our time is horror heaped upon horror, the reality of man's cruelty and endless heartbreak, does he discover what is real.<br />Lee moves down darker trails in \\"The Seeker,\\" a tale even more obscure than the previous story. A writer wonders into a strange town, encountering several weird people in a local bar while the army searches for something strange in the surrounding environs. A few stomach churning scenes later finds the writer encountering what the army is looking for. What it is and what it means is unclear, but the man discovers the object has bigger plans than corrupting the local townspeople. Lee writes that the symbolism of this story is that the things we seek out because we believe it is the truth often turn out to be something completely different. Hmmm.<br />\\"Pay Me\\" unavoidably deals with the quest for sex. In this pornographic yarn, a man named Smith runs across Lisa, an old school chum, in a seedy bar. She is even more attractive than he remembers, and the two make small talk over drinks for a time. Regrettably for Smith, he soon sees what her job is in this type of bar. The descriptions here are graphic in a tone that suggests certain magazines available only to those over eighteen. Smith and Lisa do spend the night together, resulting in Smith's incorporation into the stage show at the bar. Lee claims this story deals with the biggest fear of the 1980's, namely the shroud of sexual terror that descended over the country due to the AIDS virus.<br />Ed Lee fans will want to pick this slim book up quickly, since small press stuff tends to quickly fade from view. I do not pretend to understand these mysterious stories, but they are quite different from the usual Ed Lee fare. For instance, I do not remember any rednecks or hillbillies turning up in any of the stories, definitely a rare and noticeable occurrence for this author. Ultimately, it is nice to see a writer in the grue genre attempt to stretch his talents now and again even if he does not necessarily pull it off.o make small talk over drinks for a time. Regrettably for Smith, he soon sees what her job is in this type of bar. The descriptions here are graphic in a tone that suggests certain magazines available only to those over eighteen. Smith and Lisa do spend the night together, resulting in Smith's incorporation into the stage show at the bar. Lee claims this story deals with the biggest fear of the 1980's, namely the shroud of sexual terror that descended over the country due to the AIDS virus.<br />Ed Lee fans will want to pick this slim book up quickly, since small press stuff tends to quickly fade from view. I do not pretend to understand these mysterious stories, but they are quite different from the usual Ed Lee fare. For instance, I do not remember any rednecks or hillbillies turning up in any of the stories, definitely a rare and noticeable occurrence for this author. Ultimately, it is nice to see a writer in the grue genre attempt to stretch his talents now and again even if he does not necessarily pull it off.	2003-02-04
1241302:US	52012289	RUVI10C64BVZB	1889186198	688525076	Tangy Bonanza	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What Happens When You Eat Paint Chips	One sublime question forces itself on your brain with sledgehammer subtlety after reading \\"Tangy Bonanza\\" and \\"Tryptophan,\\" the two stories contained in this book: Who the heck is Doc Solammen? Then another cosmic question follows: What type of chap is capable of writing such screamingly bizarre fiction? The first question may never have a satisfactory answer (Is Doc Solammen the pseudonym of a well known underground author? Who knows!). The second question also begs a response (Did the old Doc inhale too many exhaust fumes as a child?). All I can say is that Doc Solammen needs to write some more of these cleverly constructed stories, and do it soon. Fans of small press publishing houses hunger for the astute pop culture laden dialogue and snaky plotlines Solammen delivers here in spades. This is one weird duck, folks. Perhaps Solammen is the result of a union between Hunter Thompson and David Lynch. Whatever the case, the best advice before setting out on this strange trip is to keep an open mind and try not to die laughing.<br />In \\"Tangy Bonanza,\\" Solammen embarks on an odd tale about two strange birds, Scottie Scirocco and his lawyer pal Jonny. Quickly added to the story is Bro, a talking dog with a cranky attitude. How Scottie hooks up with this articulate pooch forms a central part of the story, as does a drug fueled trip around Seattle, an unpleasant trip to a pancake joint, a trip to Mexico, and an ending that is both completely original and completely insane. Along the way, Scirocco and company opens a Polish themed restaurant called Sirocco's Tacos. The story concludes with a bloody showdown between Bro, Scottie and some Jehovah's Witnesses. Tangy Bonanza is the result of this chaotic descent into madness. The final pages of this story contain a dream sequence that would make the most devout prophet commit hara-kiri.<br />In \\"Tryptophan,\\" Solammen takes a decidedly different tack. The story starts out with several completely unrelated storylines. The fun comes when you realize Solammen is bringing them all together into a grand finale at an opera entitled \\"Gomorra.\\" The story threads include sheep, an airplane out of control, two priests with a lot of problems on their hands, a man who gains godlike powers, Jesus Christ (I think), and other bizarre characters too weird to mention. \\"Tryptophan\\" is the lesser of the two stories, although that does not mean it lacks its own sense of quirky, obscene charm. Again, Solammen manages to insert stream of consciousness atmosphere that makes the mouth gape with mind shattering wonderment.<br />It is difficult, to the point of impossibility, to read any type of deep meaning into these two stories. Maybe Solammen is attempting a statement about the madness of modern day life in America. Maybe he is on unemployment and has to show his caseworker he is trying to make some money. Maybe Solammen needs a CAT scan. Regardless of his situation, all we can hope is that this author is furiously churning out more irrelevant madness in a bunker somewhere.<br />Solammen does go overboard with the icy daggers he shoots at organized religion. It is definitely acceptable to take a few shots at religion (let's face it, some of the evangelist types go out of their way to make themselves targets of ridicule), but Solammen carries his assaults WAY too far. Even if you accept and laugh about the author's heavy-handed attacks on Christianity, it should be apparent that scoffing at the Christians is hardly original in these decadent days. The author might consider throttling back on the prayer bashing next time around.<br />What really sold me on this book was the cover art. I still pull the book off the shelf occasionally in order to marvel at the glaring colors and wacky taglines. I hate to cave in to blatant marketing, but I simply had no choice in the matter when my eyes fell on this odd book. That the stories under the cover are entertaining, sick, and totally off the wall is icing on the cake.<br />Expect to find yourself waking up in a fetal position after plowing through this collection. Also expect to find yourself yearning for more antics from Doc Solammen. If you order the book now you stand a good chance of getting an autographed and numbered copy. Of course, if the police or the homeland security types find this in your house, you will probably end up staying with Osama Bin Laden for a time until the heat blows over.r />Expect to find yourself waking up in a fetal position after plowing through this collection. Also expect to find yourself yearning for more antics from Doc Solammen. If you order the book now you stand a good chance of getting an autographed and numbered copy. Of course, if the police or the homeland security types find this in your house, you will probably end up staying with Osama Bin Laden for a time until the heat blows over.	2003-02-04
1241874:US	52012289	R10LYCU3BAPLIM	0515134279	176741903	Straw Men	Books	5	2	6	N	N	It Grabs You	One thing is absolutely certain about Michael Marshall's novel \\"The Straw Men\\": once you begin reading this suspenseful psychological thriller, you will not be able to put it down. Job, school, and family all fade into insignificance with the turn of a page in this awesome novel. Even categorizing \\"The Straw Men\\" as a suspense novel probably does not do it justice, as Marshall throws in copious amounts of horror and action to make a pungent stew that will have your stomach churning and your pulse racing. Books such as this make surfing the Internet worthwhile because that is how I stumbled over this little known, downbeat novel.<br />Marshall begins his dismal story by telling us about three seemingly unrelated events. The first occurs at a fast food restaurant out in the sticks, where two heavily armed thugs mow down dozens of people in cold blood. The second incident takes place in Montana, when Ward Hopkins returns home to wrap up things after his parents die in an auto accident. A note found in his father's favorite easy chair leads Ward to believe that his parents are not dead, sending Ward on a convoluted investigation that casts doubt on his own life as well as the lives of his parents. The third situation deals with the abduction of a teenage girl in California by a sicko known as \\"The Upright Man.\\" In a writing style that is both smooth and taut, Marshall brings all of these disparate elements together as the reader discovers the shrieking terror of the Straw Men's underground world.<br />As the madness unfolds, Marshall introduces us to his characters. There is Ward Hopkins, a former CIA employee drifting through life until he receives word of the death of his parents. When Ward finds a strange video in his late father's house, he brings in Bobby Nygard. Nygard is an agency spook with intimate knowledge about the Internet, firearms, and an ability to find people. Together Ward and Bobby attempt to track down a shadowy group known as the Straw Men. Their efforts uncover terrible secrets, trigger-happy people anxious to kill them, and enough twists and turns to make an ice skater dizzy.<br />As the tale progresses, Ward and Bobby run into FBI agent named Nina and former Los Angeles homicide detective John Zandt. Zandt and Nina are investigating the disappearance of Sarah Becker, a young girl abducted in California by a serial killer who escaped the clutches of Zandt years before. Known as \\"The Upright Man,\\" this killer likes to abduct girls and then leave a sweater on the doorsteps of the missing girl's family. The killer weaves the names of his victims into the sweaters with human hair. The four realize they are working on the same case from different angles and decide to team up, resulting in an explosive showdown loaded with violent death and the answers to some ominous secrets.<br />The pacing in this book is phenomenal. Marshall bounces back and forth from unfolding horror to fast paced action with little difficulty. Repeatedly, the author delivers shock after shock to the unsuspecting reader. Most effective is how Marshall makes you sympathize with Ward Hopkins. Ward really is not the nicest guy in the world; he is self-serving, slightly corrupt, and narcissistic. But when the chips are down, he never backs away from a fight and follows leads with the tenacity of a bulldog. Marshall brings Ward to life by using narrative in the first person to tell Hopkins's story. Ward as a character works so well that the Nina/Zandt storyline seems less interesting by comparison.<br />The conclusion to the story is ambiguous, but does not detract in any way from the enjoyment of getting there. \\"The Straw Men\\" is an immensely enjoyable read, with enough bloody violence to draw in the horror fan without sacrificing a detailed plot that suspense and mystery readers always enjoy so much. I am hoping to see another suspense thriller from Michael Marshall; he has a real flair for the written language and a sharp eye for detail. \\"TheStraw Men\\" is an early pick for my favorite mass-market paperback of 2003.Straw Men\\" is an early pick for my favorite mass-market paperback of 2003.	2003-02-03
1244859:US	52012289	RW405P67TO9YZ	0963339729	713197310	The Girl Next Door	Books	5	241	260	N	N	A Grinding Morality Play	\\"The Girl Next Door\\" is probably Jack Ketchum's most sought after book. I scrambled to pick up a copy when it briefly appeared back in print because buying a used copy requires a second mortgage on the house, signing an agreement to turn over your first born son, and swearing to never resell your copy for less than Bolivia's gross national product. When I finally clutched a fresh new copy in my grimy hands, I was struck with a sudden shudder of fear: is this book worth all the heartache of acquiring a copy? Is it as gruesome as everyone says it is? No, the book is not worth shelling out an insane amount of money for a used copy, but it is an unsettling, gruesome, and soul shattering read.<br />Jack Ketchum has a tendency to fictionalize real life crime stories. He accomplished this in \\"Off Season,\\" \\"Joyride,\\" and here in \\"The Girl Next Door.\\" In 1960's Indiana, Sylvia Likens and her little sister moved in with Gertrude Baniszewski while their parents went out of town. Baniszewski, her children, and several neighborhood children tortured and eventually murdered Likens over a period of months. At the trial, the children involved in the crime got off with an insignificant punishment, leading to outbursts of rage among the community and anyone with an ounce of moral fiber. In what must surely rank as one of our justice system's lowest moments, Gertrude herself was eventually released from prison, dying peacefully several years later somewhere in Iowa. This case serves as the loose outline for Ketchum's diabolical novel.<br />Set in the seemingly bucolic era of 1950's America, \\"The Girl Next Door\\" starts in the present day with our narrator, David, setting the stage for a flashback to that peaceful time in American history when Ike was in the White House, McCarthy chased Commies out of the State Department, and the biggest fear for most people was the realization that the USSR had the bomb. For David, there is a worse fear from that time, something buried deep in his heart and in his mind that needs telling before it drives him over the brink of sanity. David's childhood was marred by a horrific event, made even more horrific by the fact that he stood by and watched it happen without doing anything to stop the nightmare.<br />When David was a child, he lived next door to Ruth and her three sons. Everyone in the neighborhood loved to hang out at Ruth's house, even though the father of the children no longer lived there. Ruth allowed the boys who came over to drink some beer, watch TV, and generally goof off. Ruth treated the kids like adults, which impressed David to no end because his own parents do not get along whatsoever. Going to Ruth's is a great way to blow off some steam if you can put up with Ruth's occasional tirades about her worthless ex-husband.<br />This is Ketchum, so the story gradually moves into realms of unspeakable evil. The trouble starts when Meg Loughlin and her crippled sister Sarah move in with Ruth. Meg and Sarah's parents died in a car accident, and Ruth is the only family they have left. Life is fine at first, but David realizes gradually that Meg is having big problems with Ruth. Ruth gets nasty with Meg, meting out harsh punishments for innocuous behavior. Then Meg and Sarah begin to suffer verbal assaults from Ruth, often times in front of David and other boys in the neighborhood. Ruth's rants begin to take on an insanity and incoherency that frightens David. Ultimately, Meg ends up locked in a bomb shelter in the basement, where the real pain begins. All of the kids in the area participate in the torture and debasement of Meg, overseen by Ruth. The final indignity committed against Ruth is so horrible I refuse to refer to it here.<br />The violence in the book is horrible and stomach churning, but the cruelty takes a back seat to the moral lessons Ketchum is trying to convey. While reading this book, Hannah Arendt's phrase \\"the banality of evil\\" repeatedly came to mind. These people are not monsters springing out of closets or hostile aliens invading the earth. Ruth and the children involved are everyday people caught up in an unexplainable web of heartless and devastating malevolence. Even David is caught up in the unfolding events, although he does not take part in the actual deeds. It is safe to argue that David's role is worse than those who commit the crimes because he knows it is wrong and does nothing to stop them until it is too late. \\"The Girl Next Door\\" is not a horror novel per se; it is a morality play. Ketchum draws us into this warped world and forces us to condemn David while at the same time recognizing that we very well might do the same thing if it was us in his shoes.<br />You will not soon forget this grim and unsettling novel. Ketchum penetrates depths here that he rarely plumbs in his other books. It is a darn shame \\"The Girl Next Door\\" is not available in a mass-market paperback edition. Many people want to read it, and an introduction by none other than Stephen King lends a stamp of credibility to the book. Look around for a copy, but think long and hard before shelling out large amounts of dough.pringing out of closets or hostile aliens invading the earth. Ruth and the children involved are everyday people caught up in an unexplainable web of heartless and devastating malevolence. Even David is caught up in the unfolding events, although he does not take part in the actual deeds. It is safe to argue that David's role is worse than those who commit the crimes because he knows it is wrong and does nothing to stop them until it is too late. \\"The Girl Next Door\\" is not a horror novel per se; it is a morality play. Ketchum draws us into this warped world and forces us to condemn David while at the same time recognizing that we very well might do the same thing if it was us in his shoes.<br />You will not soon forget this grim and unsettling novel. Ketchum penetrates depths here that he rarely plumbs in his other books. It is a darn shame \\"The Girl Next Door\\" is not available in a mass-market paperback edition. Many people want to read it, and an introduction by none other than Stephen King lends a stamp of credibility to the book. Look around for a copy, but think long and hard before shelling out large amounts of dough.	2003-02-01
1245840:US	52012289	R125J48QDFZD5L	0451183908	189956969	University	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Little's Gory Little Novel	\\"University,\\" Bentley Little's 1995 effort, is the archetypical Little novel. Loaded with lots of humor, gore, and oddball observations about a normal American institution gone amuck, Little delivers his usual wallop to the stomach with this effective shocker about a university gone mad. It is important to classify Little's novels into two categories: the first is social satire, the second straight horror. \\"University\\" falls into satire, firmly ensconced with \\"The Mailman\\" and \\"The Store.\\" For Little's straight horror novels, check out \\"The Walking\\" or \\"The Return.\\" While \\"University\\" is not as gripping as Little's other satirical novels, it still offers the casual reader or diehard Little fan plenty of fun landscapes to traipse through.<br />The University of California at Brea seems to be your normal run of the mill university. With an enrollment of roughly 25,000 students, UC Brea serves the needs of students of all types, including ethnic minorities and the physically disabled. Like other universities around the country, UC Brea occasionally has some problems with violence, rape, or theft on campus. But something sinister is occurring at UC Brea, something that at first appears unexplainable. Why are rapes gradually increasing on campus? Why are the students in Ian Emerson's literature courses more apathetic than usual? And what in the heck is happening on the sixth floor of the university library?<br />Gradually, UC Brea is becoming psychotic. You see, UC Brea is alive, inhabited by a living organism slowly growing more powerful with each passing semester. The university feeds off its students, gaining greater strength as the students become crazier. Students start disappearing, either inexplicably or due to \\"experiments\\" conducted by faculty and staff. Minorities begin to experience disturbing episodes of blatant racism, especially when elections for student president result in a race riot. Finally, sickening murders and suicides become the norm as the university prepares to \\"graduate\\" with its students. UC Brea is one huge, raving madhouse with only a few stalwart souls wandering the tree shrouded campus and the hallowed halls of learning.<br />As is par for the course in a Little novel, we meet the few good people struggling against an unfathomable evil. There is Ian Emerson, a burned out professor trying to forget his ex-wife's infidelity while forging a new relationship with girlfriend Eleanor. Ian's only real friend in the English department is Buckley, a rambunctious Chaucer scholar with a fondness for drink and dirty movies. As the madness increases in danger and intensity, Jim and Faith join the fight. Jim is the editor of the school paper and has a front row seat to the bloody carnage unfolding on campus. Faith, Jim's girlfriend, does work study in the library while trying to avoid her dysfunctional family life. Finally, there is Gifford Stevens, a former professor on a crusade across the country to hunt down evil springing to life in our nation's institutions of higher learning. Stevens acts as the catalyst for our heroes, bringing them together to fight UC Brea's burgeoning horrors.<br />Little always loves inserting gore scenes in his novels, but \\"University\\" may be his most brutal novel to date. In an effort to satirize America's university system, Little injects his violence with a huge dose of steroids. The book contains scenes of animal murder, violence directed against ethnic minorities, and nauseating scenes of sadistic torture. I understand what Little is trying to accomplish here, but that knowledge does not make reading this book easy. On a lighter note, the story contains what is arguably the funniest (and grossest) description of a body falling off a roof ever captured on paper. Overall, for those with weak stomachs, be aware that \\"University\\" is chock full of sickening scenes.<br />In terms of style, \\"University\\" has its ups and its downs. There is a coherency in this book missing in many of Little's works, as all the story threads reach resolution and the conclusion is fully developed and lengthy (something not seen in many of Little's books). Even the characters attain greater likeability here than in his other stories, although they still are one-dimensional at times.<br />Regrettably, the editing job in this book is poor. At one point, the word `perpetuated' appears in the place of `perpetrated.' Even more egregious is the extensive padding in the book. For long stretches of the story, Little inserts repetitive statements where none should be. This complaint appears elsewhere, and those statements are essentially correct. I suspect that the story was not long enough, so the editor sent the manuscript back for beefing up. Instead of extending the storyline, Little threw in tons of dependent clauses. These revisions are unnecessary and annoying.<br />Despite a few glaring flaws, \\"University\\" is a prime candidate for inclusion into the top five books produced by Bentley Little. The plot ideas are entertaining, the characters are engaging (to some extent), and the conclusion works. This book is not as entertaining as \\"The Store,\\" but newcomers to Little should definitely pick this one up.le's works, as all the story threads reach resolution and the conclusion is fully developed and lengthy (something not seen in many of Little's books). Even the characters attain greater likeability here than in his other stories, although they still are one-dimensional at times.<br />Regrettably, the editing job in this book is poor. At one point, the word `perpetuated' appears in the place of `perpetrated.' Even more egregious is the extensive padding in the book. For long stretches of the story, Little inserts repetitive statements where none should be. This complaint appears elsewhere, and those statements are essentially correct. I suspect that the story was not long enough, so the editor sent the manuscript back for beefing up. Instead of extending the storyline, Little threw in tons of dependent clauses. These revisions are unnecessary and annoying.<br />Despite a few glaring flaws, \\"University\\" is a prime candidate for inclusion into the top five books produced by Bentley Little. The plot ideas are entertaining, the characters are engaging (to some extent), and the conclusion works. This book is not as entertaining as \\"The Store,\\" but newcomers to Little should definitely pick this one up.	2003-01-31
1258640:US	52012289	RTQAJ3MTD2X3Z	0553271105	923574652	Shane	Books	5	109	113	N	N	Intense and Beautiful	The film version of Jack Schaefer's 1949 novel \\"Shane\\" is one of those touchstone movies of childhood, along the lines of the unforgettable tearjerker \\"Old Yeller.\\" The last scenes of the film are sure to bring a lump to the throat of the most stalwart among us. With memories of the film firmly etched in my mind, I decided to read Schaefer's novel, to go to the source itself and see whether the book is better than the movie. I have to say Shane as a novel is a must read, even more important than watching the film version.<br />The plot should be familiar to many people. The Starrett family is working some land in Wyoming, trying to cut a living out of the rugged landscape. Several other families are staking claims in the area even though Fletcher, the big rancher in the region, hates their presence and is working behind the scenes to drive them out. The homesteaders look to Joe Starrett to protect their interests in the face of this intimidation, a battle Joe is slowly losing until the arrival of Shane.<br />When Shane arrives, he quickly takes up residence with the Starrett family, working as a hand around the place. Within a short period of time Shane finds himself sucked into the feud between Fletcher and the homesteaders. Ranch hands goad Shane into several violent fistfights, although Shane goes out of his way to avoid trouble. As the level of conflict escalates and the dangerous qualities of Shane emerge, Fletcher brings in a hired gun from the outside to deal with the troublesome homesteaders for the last time. The final scenes of the novel balance gripping action with the heartrending departure of Shane back into the wilderness from which he came.<br />Schaefer pulls off a triumph of epic proportions with this short novel. Not only is the story told in a sparse, no nonsense style, Schaefer makes Joe Starrett's son Bob the narrator of the story. Through this touchingly innocent narration, Bob manages to convey the mysterious qualities of Shane while still revealing adult themes. For example, a rather platonic love emerges between Shane and Marion, Bob's mother. Joe knows about the love springing up between the two but chooses to keep it in perspective. The beauty of this incident is how Bob relates it; he discusses it just as a child would, without really understanding the implications of the situation while the reader understands perfectly what is happening. Brilliant, just brilliant!<br />Shane is the main character of the novel even though we do not learn much about him. Shane is an enigma clad in dark clothing, riding in off the land like some mysterious omen of doom. Schaefer tells us nothing about Shane's past, although it is obvious he is a master with a pistol and that he has a checkered past involving trouble of some sort. Whatever trouble Shane is in, he is what we would call \\"good people.\\" Shane wants to avoid conflict, but he will never back down from a fight or fail to help people who treat him as a friend. His past haunts his actions, making him reluctant to rely on his seemingly vast reservoirs of strength. When pushed to the wall, Shane lashes out with a terrible violence usually kept in check because he knows what he is capable of doing to a man.<br />There are several themes arcing their way through this book. One deals with fate and how it is impossible to escape your past. Another involves violence; not reckless violence of the type employed by Fletcher and his goons, but a measured violence used to solve a seemingly insolvable situation. Schaefer shows us that no matter what our intentions in this life, there are going to be times when violence in the name of a cause is the only answer to those who are incapable of relying on any method other than intimidation to get what they want out of life.<br />This is an excellent read for any type of reader both young and old, although that does not make it a necessarily easy book. The bare bones writing style makes it very easy to gloss over important themesand symbolisms. In other words, \\"Shane\\" is a book to think about both when reading it and after finishing the story. Reading the story more than once may not be a bad idea, as more themes are sure to emerge from this fascinating character study. Schaefer dedicated \\"Shane,\\" his first book, to his first son. What a beautiful and wondrous tribute.and symbolisms. In other words, \\"Shane\\" is a book to think about both when reading it and after finishing the story. Reading the story more than once may not be a bad idea, as more themes are sure to emerge from this fascinating character study. Schaefer dedicated \\"Shane,\\" his first book, to his first son. What a beautiful and wondrous tribute.	2003-01-21
1260384:US	52012289	R3FHC7CXNT73OG	0843950404	759078711	Red	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Ketchum Does It Again	Any fan of horror novels quickly recognizes the name Jack Ketchum. Ketchum's most notable work to date is probably \\"The Girl Next Door,\\" a bleak novel about the torture-murder of a young girl. Also worth mentioning is \\"Ladies Night,\\" a graphic story about a chemical spill and its subsequent effects on the female population. Ketchum is a master of graphic gore, but his recent books are seeing a receding of the red stuff in favor of suspenseful, character driven stories. \\"Red\\" is an excellent example of a kindler, gentler Ketchum (if that is possible!). Oh sure, there is still an unpleasant event at the center of the story that allows a few other unpleasant events to unfold, but \\"Red\\"' does not come close to approaching the nihilistic insanity Ketchum usually creates as a matter of habit.<br />\\"Red\\" tells the story of Avery Ludlow, an elderly country gent who runs a little store out in the sticks while living with his trusty dog Red. Avery's wife has long passed away and his daughter lives far away, allowing Avery to do whatever he feels like doing in his spare time. One of his favorite pastimes is fishing, which is where we encounter Avery as the story begins. Unfortunately for Avery, even an activity as mundane as fishing has its own dangers. When three young toughs pay a visit to Avery's fishing hole, an attempted robbery leads to the shotgun killing of Red. What the three kids do not know is that Avery is a Korean War vet with an unpleasant family tragedy that has made him as tough as nails. He is not about to roll over for three snot-nosed punks, and the consequences of his stand slowly escalate tensions between Avery and the family of two of the boys. What starts with veiled threats quickly moves into the realm of broken windows, broken ribs, and armed confrontation with a predictable elegiac outcome.<br />\\"Red\\" is a sad story. Anyone who owns a pet will cringe when Red dies a violent, needless death. In fact, Ketchum is probably counting on this event to instill a killing rage in the reader. Are there any pet owners who would not feel Avery warranted in his quest for justice, any type of justice, for his dead dog? Ketchum wants us to sympathize with Avery right from the start, something that is easy to do when we meet the father of the boys who killed Red. Ketchum garners further sympathy from the reader when Avery's attempt to get redress through legal channels comes to nothing. Even a story about Red on the local news fails to remedy the situation. Ketchum fishes for our empathy at every turn of the story as Avery seeks restitution for the death of Red.<br />About the only unbelievable element of the story is Avery's relationship with a loud-mouthed New Yorker serving time as a reporter at the local television station. This relationship seems to come out of nowhere, apparently as a means for Avery to tell the reader about the family tragedy that claimed his wife and two sons.<br />The McCormack family, Avery's nemesis throughout the story (two of the boys are members of the family), suffers from a lack of detailed development. Ketchum continually hints at evil doings within the family but we never see anything concrete until the final showdown between the McCormack clan and Avery. For example, the McCormack's maid has a maimed hand, implying that the McCormack's had something to do with her injury. Regrettably, this chance for an excellent flashback story never appears. Perhaps a longer version of \\"Red\\" (it is currently 211 pages in mass market form) would shed light on this aspect of the McCormack family.<br />Purchasing this copy of \\"Red\\" treats you to a bonus short story, entitled \\"The Passenger.\\" This grim tale of a murderous crime spree and bloody revenge should remind most readers of the Ketchum they know and love.<br />Janet is a young lawyer defending a scumbag in a murder case. Janet is a little angry that her sometime boyfriend Alan fools around on her every chance he gets. Her personal life quickly becomes insignificant when her car breaks down on the way home, where she gets a lift from Marion, an old high school acquaintance who turns out to be a complete wacko after suffering years of abuse from bad boyfriends. When the two hook up with a trio of vicious thugs on the run from the law the story descends into murder, madness, and mayhem.<br />Ketchum weaves several independent story threads into a seamless voyage into the dark underbelly of American life. This story should remind Ketchumites of his novel \\"Joyride,\\" another tale of murder on the highway. The big difference here is the coldly calculated revenge Janet wreaks on her tormentors at the end of the story. The inclusion of this story here is much appreciated, as Ketchum's writings in any form are sometimes difficult to find.<br />What we find in this mass-market paperback is both the old and the new Jack Ketchum. Prepare yourself for suspense and bloody horror with the purchase of this book. Pick up this edition of \\"Red\\" before it goes out of print with the concomitant rise in price that will entail.significant when her car breaks down on the way home, where she gets a lift from Marion, an old high school acquaintance who turns out to be a complete wacko after suffering years of abuse from bad boyfriends. When the two hook up with a trio of vicious thugs on the run from the law the story descends into murder, madness, and mayhem.<br />Ketchum weaves several independent story threads into a seamless voyage into the dark underbelly of American life. This story should remind Ketchumites of his novel \\"Joyride,\\" another tale of murder on the highway. The big difference here is the coldly calculated revenge Janet wreaks on her tormentors at the end of the story. The inclusion of this story here is much appreciated, as Ketchum's writings in any form are sometimes difficult to find.<br />What we find in this mass-market paperback is both the old and the new Jack Ketchum. Prepare yourself for suspense and bloody horror with the purchase of this book. Pick up this edition of \\"Red\\" before it goes out of print with the concomitant rise in price that will entail.	2003-01-20
1276754:US	52012289	R59KPU9WNRWL8	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	373	383	N	N	War Stinks	Erich Maria Remarque (1898-1970) served in World War I, where he received wounds five times in battle. The searing images of trench warfare left indelible scars on Remarque, who then attempted to exorcize his demons through the writing of literature. \\"All Quiet on the Western Front\\" is Remarque's most memorable book, although he wrote nine others dealing with the miseries of war.<br />\\"All Quiet on the Western Front\\" is the story of Paul Baumer, a young German soldier serving in the trenches in France. Baumer's story is not a pleasant one; he volunteered for the war when his instructor in school, Kantorek, urged the class to join up for the glory of Germany. After a rigorous period of military training (where Paul and his buddies meet the hated drill instructor Himmelstoss, a recurring character throughout the book), Baumer and his friends go to the front as infantrymen. Filled with glorious ideas about war by authority figures back home, Baumer quickly discovers that the blood-drenched trenches of the Western Front are a quagmire of misery and violent death. As soon as the first shells explode in the mud Paul and his friends realize everyone back home is a liar, that war is not the glorious transformation of boys into men but rather the systematic destruction of all that is decent and healthy. As Paul's friends slip away one by one through death, desertion, and injury, Paul begins to wonder about his own life and whether he will survive not only the war but also a world without war.<br />Remarque's book exposes all of the insanities of war. The incongruities of violent battle versus long periods of boredom repeatedly appear throughout the book. On one day, Paul and his friends sit around discussing mundane topics; the next day they are bashing French skulls during an offensive. It is these extremes that caused so many problems with the psychological disposition of the men. In one chapter of the book, Paul and several new recruits, hunkered down in a dugout, withstand hour upon hour of continuous shellfire until one of the green recruits snaps and tries to make a run for freedom. Where else but in a war could one walk through a sea of corpses while enjoying the sunshine and the gentle cadences of the birds in the trees? That such an unnatural activity as mass murder takes place surrounded by the natural beauty of the world is a theme found in many World War I authors and poets. Remarque's book is noteworthy because he does a better job of showing this strange duality than other writers.<br />Also of interest is that this book views the war from the German side. From what I read recently, the Germans had a tough time throughout the war with rations, troop rotations away from the front, and supplies. This is apparent in Remarque's treatment of the German war effort, especially toward the end of the book when Germany begins to retreat in the face of overwhelming American military power. Paul's remarks about the evil presence of tanks are an interesting insight into the effect those iron behemoths had on the ill-equipped and exhausted Germans.<br />The cover of this edition trumpets this as \\"the greatest war novel of all time.\\" And so it is, but not in the way some people might think. This is the greatest war novel ever because Remarque's book is anti-war. Those that read \\"All Quiet on the Western Front\\" will see warfare stripped of its flag waving, parades, and John Wayne glory. War is death, with the glory going to the few who survive. Remarque makes a brilliant contribution to world literature with this riveting novel.nd hour upon hour of continuous shellfire until one of the green recruits snaps and tries to make a run for freedom. Where else but in a war could one walk through a sea of corpses while enjoying the sunshine and the gentle cadences of the birds in the trees? That such an unnatural activity as mass murder takes place surrounded by the natural beauty of the world is a theme found in many World War I authors and poets. Remarque's book is noteworthy because he does a better job of showing this strange duality than other writers.<br />Also of interest is that this book views the war from the German side. From what I read recently, the Germans had a tough time throughout the war with rations, troop rotations away from the front, and supplies. This is apparent in Remarque's treatment of the German war effort, especially toward the end of the book when Germany begins to retreat in the face of overwhelming American military power. Paul's remarks about the evil presence of tanks are an interesting insight into the effect those iron behemoths had on the ill-equipped and exhausted Germans.<br />The cover of this edition trumpets this as \\"the greatest war novel of all time.\\" And so it is, but not in the way some people might think. This is the greatest war novel ever because Remarque's book is anti-war. Those that read \\"All Quiet on the Western Front\\" will see warfare stripped of its flag waving, parades, and John Wayne glory. War is death, with the glory going to the few who survive. Remarque makes a brilliant contribution to world literature with this riveting novel.	2003-01-07
1276789:US	52012289	R3OFZIK56SKEFB	0895261464	690499814	Invasion: How America Still Welcomes Terrorists Criminals & Other Foreign Menaces to Our Shores	Books	4	29	33	N	N	If We Don't Want More Terror Attacks...	\\"Invasion: How America Still Welcomes Terrorists, Criminals, and Other Foreign Menaces to Our Shores\\" is the first book from conservative columnist Michelle Malkin. Malkin, who occasionally appears on various television news programs as the token conservative in a sea of shiny liberals and leftists, is a first generation American; her parents came here from the Philippines and gained their citizenship in the 1980s. This fact is important to remember when outraged readers, who cannot tolerate any questioning of America's immigration policy, attempt to portray this book as racist pap. Malkin is no racist; she never criticizes the majority of immigrants who come here through legal channels.<br /><br />The September 11th terrorist attacks on Washington, D.C. and New York City sent shock waves through every aspect of American society--or did they? According to Malkin, at least one government agency, the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), seems completely unconcerned with the 3,000 Americans killed in the attacks. Ominously, the INS acts as though the attacks never occurred. \\"Invasion\\" is a 200+ page indictment of the ineffectiveness of the INS to keep out of our country people who dedicate their lives to our destruction. Malkin, through both statistical information and blood chilling stories, tries to open the eyes of the American public to the dangers we face if the INS is not reformed. If even half of what Malkin presents here is true, we can expect more destructive terrorist attacks very soon.<br /><br />Malkin spends a great deal of time discussing the various loopholes in our immigration policies. Foreigners on international flights into the United States face little challenge at the airport terminal, and only need a temporary visa to come into the country. Once here, they vanish into the population with little risk of deportation. There is no worry about appearing on a security database because these highly touted security systems rarely work or the government agencies do not use them. Once here, the would be terrorist may secure a driver's license without proof of residency in several states, or get a tax number from the government in lieu of a social security card. If seeking out these documents is too much trouble, the criminal can always register for classes at a university and then never show up. There are so many ways to thwart immigration laws that it makes one sick to read about it. Only sweeping, massive reforms have any chance of curing the problem (and even then, it is probably unlikely unless further terrorist attacks occur).<br /><br />Malkin is most effective exposing the ineffectiveness of the INS during the Angel Resendiz fiasco. Resendiz is a Mexican national with a rap sheet the size of a phone book. After committing a crime in the United States, he would return to Mexico and then revisit the United States to commit more crimes. He quickly added murder to his routine, eventually killing twelve people on his cross border excursions. During this time, the INS failed to enter his name into security databases, allowing Resendiz to commit more murders.  Even worse, Resendiz was in custody several times before returning to Mexico. If the INS had entered Resendiz's name in their computers, agents would have known about him and could have held him; instead, Resendiz went free and committed more murders. Of course, none of the INS officials responsible for this fiasco were ever held responsible. At least Resendiz went to death row, but those that allowed him to roam free continue to work in positions dealing with our border security.<br /><br />The Resendiz case is bad, but Malkin also provides a list of other criminals currently living the good life in the land of the free. These include an Ethiopian secret policeman who tortured women during his tenure in Africa, two El Salvadorans responsible for death squad work during the civil war in that country, two Haitian responsible for thousands of cases of torture and murder, a Cuban known in his homeland as \\"El Enfermero,\\" a security officer who tortured people by applying electric shocks to their bodies. The list goes on and on, but what is important to know is that these people are not only an insult to our political ideals, their presence is an insult to members of their own communities who are here to make a decent life for their families. Oh, and these criminals are not just visiting; in many cases they received citizenship after they were identified as criminals!<br /><br />Malkin makes an effective argument about the burning need to change our immigration policies. Regrettably, her solutions usually involve enacting even more legislation to change prior legislation. Endless rounds of legislation will not solve the problem. What we need is an immigration policy approved by a national vote, as it is obvious we may no longer rely on our elected officials and unaccountable bureaucrats to protect our loved ones from violent death at the hands of terrorists.<br /><br />With the threat of violent death at the hands of international terrorists hanging over all of our heads, this book should find a wide audience among people of all political stripes. Even though the book takes part in a long journalistic tradition of bashing a government agency after the fact (remember the soaking the ATF took after Waco and Ruby Ridge?), the terrorist attacks on September 11th must not become an obscurity in our lives. Read this book and learn about the shenanigans your elected officials are doing in Washington.n his homeland as \\"El Enfermero,\\" a security officer who tortured people by applying electric shocks to their bodies. The list goes on and on, but what is important to know is that these people are not only an insult to our political ideals, their presence is an insult to members of their own communities who are here to make a decent life for their families. Oh, and these criminals are not just visiting; in many cases they received citizenship after they were identified as criminals!    Malkin makes an effective argument about the burning need to change our immigration policies. Regrettably, her solutions usually involve enacting even more legislation to change prior legislation. Endless rounds of legislation will not solve the problem. What we need is an immigration policy approved by a national vote, as it is obvious we may no longer rely on our elected officials and unaccountable bureaucrats to protect our loved ones from violent death at the hands of terrorists.    With the threat of violent death at the hands of international terrorists hanging over all of our heads, this book should find a wide audience among people of all political stripes. Even though the book takes part in a long journalistic tradition of bashing a government agency after the fact (remember the soaking the ATF took after Waco and Ruby Ridge?), the terrorist attacks on September 11th must not become an obscurity in our lives. Read this book and learn about the shenanigans your elected officials are doing in Washington.	2003-01-07
1278336:US	52012289	R1MGB77YGB6FAM	0801839475	13167130	Eye-Deep in Hell: Trench Warfare in World War I	Books	5	95	100	N	N	Non 'Dulce' Non 'et Decor'	John Ellis, a military historian, wrote \\"Eye Deep in Hell\\" to explain the daily routines of the fighting men of World War I. The title of the book comes from the poet Ezra Pound, who wrote an epitaph for the soldiers who survived and died on the mud caked battlefields. Pound's poem adequately reflects the true nature of trench warfare during this meat grinder of a war. WWI was not a glorious call to arms or a romantic charge on a horse between dashing young men; it was attrition warfare on a massive scale, killing millions with little movement on both sides. Unfortunately, WWI is largely forgotten today because most of the veterans are gone and the bigger death tolls of WWII overshadowed the millions killed during 1914-1918.<br />You will not find much here about the causes of WWI or detailed explanations about the movements of troops during battle. Ellis concerns himself with how the men survived on a day-to-day basis, in those times between the grinding offensives. What quickly emerges in Ellis's book is a vivid picture of the utter despair of life in the trenches, lives mired in rampant disease, hunger, violent death, misery, and inclement weather. How anyone survived this war with their sanity intact is a mystery for the ages.<br />Ellis covers every conceivable aspect of daily routine and life in the trenches by dividing his book into four sections. The first part of the book describes the type of trenches built along the front. The first trench line was where the soldiers charged the enemy when an offensive took place. Connected to this trench by shorter trenches were reserve lines where soldiers could retreat if necessary, and where supplies of ammunition, food, mail, and clothing where moved to the front. Attached to the front line trenches were saps, little trenches running out into no man's land where observers attempted to keep an eye on the enemy lines. Also built into the trenches were dugouts, or deep bunkers where the officers lived. The men slept either against the trench wall or in little dugouts along the trench lines. Of course, sleep was a luxury few could afford. When the men were not watching the enemy lines, they were putting up barbed wire in no man's land, helping to reinforce or dig trenches, or moving supplies. All of these activities often took place in deep mud, standing water, and piles of poorly buried corpses.<br />As if dealing with these conditions were not bad enough, there was the constant threat of violent death. Men died when shot by snipers, from shell fragments and stray bullets, from grenades tossed in the trenches, from chlorine and mustard gas shells (a horrible, lingering death), and trench cave-ins. There were a thousand ways to die in the trenches, and precious few ways to live.<br />Ellis's second section deals with combat conditions. Offensives were never non-stop operations, but usually had a lengthy buildup. Soldiers knew they were in trouble when the shelling started in earnest. The constant shelling was an attempt to soften up the trenches before sending the men across no man's land. Soldiers described the shelling in numerous ways, all of them unpleasant. Several people said the shelling was so intense that it actually took on physical solidity, a presence in the environment that many soldiers said they thought they could literally touch. After the shelling came the assault, a soul shattering experience for all involved. Most knew they would die, but for many of the men it was more embarrassing to expose oneself as a coward to his fellow soldiers; it was fear that drove the men over the tops of the trenches into the withering machine gun fire. The psychological pressures were unbelievable, often leading to cases of \\"shell shock,\\" where men lost their sanity and most likely never recovered from the pressures of war.<br />The third part of the book concerns \\"lighter\\" topics. A big part of this section deals with food supplies. Predictably, the food on the front was quite poor.Biscuits handed out to the soldiers were as hard as rocks, bread was stale, stews contained more fat than meat, and field kitchens rarely worked. The soldiers did receive alcoholic beverages, especially French and German troops who carried wine on a regular basis. It was not uncommon to give the boys a tot of gin before they went over the top to their deaths. Better food and supplies, as well as entertainment, were found during rest leave behind the lines.<br />The final segment of Ellis's book concerns the attitude of the troops. It is here that Ellis examines the mentality of the military elite towards the war. Incredibly, most generals and field marshals believed morale meant more on the battlefield than modern weaponry. The men who actually fought held a quite different view about combat, and accordingly despised the high commanders who rarely visited the battlefields but made decisions that cost millions of lives. At the same time, soldiers did respect line officers. They recognized that these officers often shared the same wretched conditions as the common soldier. A good line officer rarely had difficulty getting his men to follow orders.<br />Ellis's book covers just about every angle one could think of about World War I. There are plenty of pictures included in the book, some of which are quite gruesome but necessary in order to convey the absolute horror of trench warfare. Unfortunately, Ellis only covers the Western Front, so information about the war against Russia and Turkey is missing from the book. The book also suffers from a shabby editing job, with missing and misspelled words appearing throughout the book. Despite these problems, Ellis is a great place to start for those interested in the Great War.. Biscuits handed out to the soldiers were as hard as rocks, bread was stale, stews contained more fat than meat, and field kitchens rarely worked. The soldiers did receive alcoholic beverages, especially French and German troops who carried wine on a regular basis. It was not uncommon to give the boys a tot of gin before they went over the top to their deaths. Better food and supplies, as well as entertainment, were found during rest leave behind the lines. <br />The final segment of Ellis's book concerns the attitude of the troops. It is here that Ellis examines the mentality of the military elite towards the war. Incredibly, most generals and field marshals believed morale meant more on the battlefield than modern weaponry. The men who actually fought held a quite different view about combat, and accordingly despised the high commanders who rarely visited the battlefields but made decisions that cost millions of lives. At the same time, soldiers did respect line officers. They recognized that these officers often shared the same wretched conditions as the common soldier. A good line officer rarely had difficulty getting his men to follow orders.<br />Ellis's book covers just about every angle one could think of about World War I. There are plenty of pictures included in the book, some of which are quite gruesome but necessary in order to convey the absolute horror of trench warfare. Unfortunately, Ellis only covers the Western Front, so information about the war against Russia and Turkey is missing from the book. The book also suffers from a shabby editing job, with missing and misspelled words appearing throughout the book. Despite these problems, Ellis is a great place to start for those interested in the Great War.	2003-01-06
1281588:US	52012289	R3VYAZU37GZN1X	1892950138	801164265	The Bighead : Author's Preferred Version	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Eeewww!	If you are not familiar with Mr. Edward Lee and his weird, wacky brand of grue soaked fiction, \\"The Bighead\\" is an excellent book to cut your teeth on. The author of \\"City Infernal\\" and \\"Creekers\\" pulls out all the stops in this updated version of what must surely rank as one of the most disgusting, vile, and [disturbing] books of all time. There are certainly many [ugly] books out there in the market, but very few will prepare you for this nightmarish excursion into the backwoods of Appalachia. Where else will you see a drug addicted nymphomaniac, a Catholic priest with a love for unfiltered Lucky Strike cigarettes, booze, and a flair for spoken profanity, two hillbilly moonshiners who get their kicks violently torturing ... anyone who comes their way, and a hydrocephalic [person] whose never taken a bath, loves to eat human brains, and kills people in a most unpleasant way?<br />The plot of \\"The Bighead\\" is about as straightforward as they come (for extreme gore novels, that is). Charity, a young woman who is a student at the University of Maryland, decides to return home to Luntville, a little town [right] in the middle of redneck country. Charity left Luntville as a small child when her aunt could no longer afford to take care of her. After Aunt Annie comes into some money, she wants Charity to come and visit. Charity, needing a ride into the sticks, manages to hitch a ride with Jerrica, a newspaper reporter who is planning to write a story about hillbilly country. Jerrica has her own problems; she is a nymphomaniac and recovering drug addict who needs men like most people need food and water.<br />Unfortunately for Jerrica and Charity, Luntville has a few nasty secrets in store for them. Two killer rednecks, \\"Ricky\\" Caudill and Tritt Conner, are sweeping through the county on a crime spree that routinely involves ... unpleasant activities .... Then there are the constant references around town to the Bighead, a local myth about a hideously deformed [person] who stalks the countryside maiming and killing the local populace. Even Charity's Aunt Annie has a bizarre secret,...To top it all off, everybody starts having weird dreams about demons and long lost lovers. Luntville is definitely not the place for a relaxing break from city life.<br />Thrown into this chaotic mix is Father Tom Alexander, an unorthodox priest sent to the area to restore a local abbey shrouded in its own dark secrets. Father Alexander must uncover the secrets in the abbey while dealing with the attentions of Jerrica, who falls for the priest in a big way. When Alexander starts having sick dreams about two nuns with some weird fetishes, the abbey and its secrets take on a completely new light.<br />Then there is the Bighead, an unwashed seven-foot tall monstrosity with eating habits so disgusting they defy description here. Bighead, raised by an inbred hillbilly in the deep woods, is making a beeline for Luntville and a showdown with the other characters. The ending of the book takes so many weird twists and turns that one is left in open-mouthed awe. It is enough to say that the conclusion is not a happy one.<br />Lee goes in heavy for atmosphere in this puker of a story. His narratives concerning Ricky and Tritt, as well as Bighead, involve writing in hillbilly accent. This works to some extent, although it quickly moves into the realm of tiresome as the book progresses. There is only so many \\"hails!\\" and \\"I'ses\\" a reader can take before the eyes start to roll.<br />\\"The Bighead\\" is not for anyone with a weak stomach. The [abnormal] acts and ... violence will cause anyone not accustomed to such stuff to run full steam for the bathroom. Even the hardest stomachs will do a few acrobatics, especially during some of Ricky and Tritt's nighttime excursions. These two hillbilly murderers provide Lee with the opportunity to write his most graphic scenes, although the Bighead character also has his own ... moments in the sun.<br />For fans of small press horror, this is must have reading. ... Those not familiar with Ed Lee may want to start with some of his lighter fare, such as \\"City Infernal\\" before diving into this nightmarish bloodbath of a novel. Overall, \\"The Bighead\\" is effective in some of its gritty depictions of the dark side of human nature, but the misogynistic undertones of much of the violence significantly lowers the quality of the story.r, this is must have reading. ... Those not familiar with Ed Lee may want to start with some of his lighter fare, such as \\"City Infernal\\" before diving into this nightmarish bloodbath of a novel. Overall, \\"The Bighead\\" is effective in some of its gritty depictions of the dark side of human nature, but the misogynistic undertones of much of the violence significantly lowers the quality of the story.	2003-01-04
1290551:US	52012289	R6QXCLH0X5TS2	1853754706	538099493	A Melon for Ecstasy (Prion Humour Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Love Hurts!	Even hardcore readers will scratch their heads in wonderment at the sheer audacity of \\"A Melon for Ecstasy.\\" It is like nothing else floating around out there. Sure, there are plenty of offbeat black comedy books waiting to be found, but this book takes the cake. Written in the 1970's by two Brits, John Fortune and John Wells, \\"A Melon for Ecstasy\\" deals with a very special man and his love for the wilderness. While many of us love the countryside and all of its intimate charms, it is a safe bet to say that none of us take our affinity for nature as far as Humphrey Mackevoy, the main character of the book.<br />You see, dear old Humphrey has a different outlook on nature than most people. Humphrey loves trees, literally. It is the type of love that involves a drill and splinters in a very private area of the human anatomy. Climbing trees is not enough for good old Hump; he lives up to his name by making nightly excursions into the neighborhood or a nearby forest and getting to know oaks, maples, elms, and assorted other classifications of the old wood on a first name basis. Of course, whenever Humphrey rises to the occasion, he must watch carefully for his neighbors. One would not want to be caught with one's pants down when the local constabulary strolls by. Humphrey's biggest problem is not his proclivity for tree lovin'; it is the fact that the people in town are noticing his little hobby because Humphrey leaves evidence of his amorous adventures.<br />Fortune and Wells tell the story of Humphrey entirely through newspaper clippings, letters, and other sorts of two-way communications. This clinical detachment serves to bring out a lot of the humor in the situation. We not only see Humphrey's thoughts through his diary entries, but also the reaction of neighbors and townspeople to the rapidly increasing number of tree holes. Humphrey's activities sets off a whole chain of events, bringing in the local bird watching society, a conflict between two powerful members of the community, an oversexed teenager, and Humphrey's mother (one of the oddest birds to appear in the literary canon).<br />Initially, the police are dumbfounded over these seemingly random appearing holes. One inspector posits the theory that it must be an orangutan drilling the holes. The local bird watching society believes a rare woodpecker is responsible (and in a way, it is). When the town clerk begins to spray the local trees to keep the woodpecker away, he touches off a war with the entire town, especially with Alderman Strangeways. In a series of escalating confrontations, Humphrey's main squeeze is chopped down and the local beverage ends up with a rather unwelcome embellishment. Humphrey ends up going on a rampage and is caught in a compromising position. His subsequent arrest, trial, and conviction round out the book. The book does have a happy ending, although it is as strange as the rest of the story.<br />It is a tad difficult to read any type of deep meaning into \\"A Melon for Ecstasy.\\" At times, the book is so dark as to defy description. When Humphrey spends pages of his diary discussing every type of tree and his desires for them, J.G. Ballard's \\"Crash\\" swiftly comes to mind. If \\"Crash\\" attempted to reveal a future psychology, one where men and machine became united, \\"A Melon for Ecstasy\\" outlines a primitive psychology, where man and nature seek union. Then again, maybe that is just reading too much into the whole thing. It is classified as humor and there are certainly enough chuckles in the book to merit that moniker.<br />\\"A Melon for Ecstasy\\" is funny, although compared to heavyweight British humorists like Jerome K. Jerome, Fortune and Wells cannot compare. Rose Hopkins, the teenager with nothing but indecent thoughts on her mind, is always worth a chortle, as is the running battle between Smart and Strangeways. Especially noteworthy is the prison chaplain who attempts to reach his less educated flock by reworking the gospel narratives into a western novel (involving Sheriff Jesus and his posse) and a science fiction novel (an even more outlandish tale beginning with \\"Space Hostess Mary\\").<br />You need to be in the right mood for this slim book. Even if you do not pick up much of the humor, the book is still worth reading because it is so darn weird. Be sure and pass it along to friends; not only will they think the book is strange; they will look at you in a different light, and that can only be to the good.o a western novel (involving Sheriff Jesus and his posse) and a science fiction novel (an even more outlandish tale beginning with \\"Space Hostess Mary\\").<br />You need to be in the right mood for this slim book. Even if you do not pick up much of the humor, the book is still worth reading because it is so darn weird. Be sure and pass it along to friends; not only will they think the book is strange; they will look at you in a different light, and that can only be to the good.	2002-12-28
1290946:US	52012289	R61KZT6C16DKP	0394758285	849452523	The Big Sleep (A Philip Marlowe Novel)	Books	4	140	149	N	N	Meet Philip Marlowe	\\"The Big Sleep,\\" written in 1939, was Raymond Chandler's first Philip Marlowe novel. Chandler went on to write several other classic noir novels, like \\"Farewell, My Lovely,\\" \\"The High Window,\\" and \\"The Long Goodbye.\\" Chandler did not start writing his classic works until the age of forty-five, when he began submitting short stories to pulp magazines like Mask. Sadly, Chandler died in 1959, effectively depriving us of more classic Marlowe novels and stories. The shame of the whole thing is Chandler did not start writing until late in his life, although seeing how some great authors decline over the course of their careers perhaps it is best we only have a few novels from Raymond Chandler.<br />\\"The Big Sleep\\" finds Marlowe in the employ of General Sternwood, a wealthy but dying oil tycoon. Sternwood wants Marlowe to track down a blackmailer who is trying to bleed some money out of the old general. The problem is Sternwood's two daughters, Carmen and Vivian. Both women have major problems; Carmen is just plain weird, suffering from seizures and a penchant for sleeping around with scum of the earth types. Vivian is not much better; she is a heavy gambler who dates (and marries) mob types. In the course of working the case, Marlowe uncovers underground pornography shops, blackmailers, gambling dens, a couple of murders, and other seedy events in the growing town of Los Angeles. Like other Chandler novels, what we initially see is hardly the whole enchilada. While working the case, Marlowe stumbles on deeper and deeper mysteries involving a missing mobster and his abducted wife.<br />While \\"The Big Sleep\\" is Chandler's best known work, it is not his best novel. It seems that Chandler is still working out the style and form later expressed so gallantly in \\"The Long Goodbye.\\" \\"The Big Sleep\\" is classic Chandler; there is plenty of the gritty atmosphere, amusing wordplay and slang, and despicable characters found in Chandler's later novels. The problem with \\"The Big Sleep\\" is that the story does not hold together well. Far too often, I found myself wondering why things happened the way they did, or I had trouble following the twists and turns of the case.<br />Even a somewhat confusing story line does not cause much damage to the entertainment value of \\"The Big Sleep.\\" You still get the classic snappy dialogue between Marlowe and everyone he encounters, and that is always fun to read. Even more exciting is the realization that you are reading the first book length effort from a master of noir fiction. You can see how he develops his technique by comparing this book with his later novels.<br />What is also amusing is seeing how Chandler paints L.A. at the end of the 1930's. By that time, Los Angeles had yet experienced the enormous growth of the post World War II era. At one point, one of the characters in the book states that L.A. is still a growing town. You have to chuckle over Marlowe's discovery of a pornography shop operating with police protection-this in what is today the home of the pornography industry!<br />Any fans of Chandler will want to read \\"The Big Sleep\\" eventually, although I recommend starting with some of his later novels first. Nearly forty-five years after Chandler's death, there is still no one who can touch the master. That fact alone should convince anyone interested in crime novels to read everything Chandler ever wrote.is that the story does not hold together well. Far too often, I found myself wondering why things happened the way they did, or I had trouble following the twists and turns of the case.<br />Even a somewhat confusing story line does not cause much damage to the entertainment value of \\"The Big Sleep.\\" You still get the classic snappy dialogue between Marlowe and everyone he encounters, and that is always fun to read. Even more exciting is the realization that you are reading the first book length effort from a master of noir fiction. You can see how he develops his technique by comparing this book with his later novels.<br />What is also amusing is seeing how Chandler paints L.A. at the end of the 1930's. By that time, Los Angeles had yet experienced the enormous growth of the post World War II era. At one point, one of the characters in the book states that L.A. is still a growing town. You have to chuckle over Marlowe's discovery of a pornography shop operating with police protection-this in what is today the home of the pornography industry!<br />Any fans of Chandler will want to read \\"The Big Sleep\\" eventually, although I recommend starting with some of his later novels first. Nearly forty-five years after Chandler's death, there is still no one who can touch the master. That fact alone should convince anyone interested in crime novels to read everything Chandler ever wrote.	2002-12-28
1294118:US	52012289	R17GGMIL0LSWXH	0803299125	65853453	Standing in the Light: A Lakota Way of Seeing (American Indian Lives)	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Inside Lakota Culture	\\"Standing in the Light: A Lakota Way of Seeing\\" is a print version of conversations between R.D. Theisz, a college professor, and Severt Young Bear, a Lakota singer, historian, and cultural traditionalist. \\"Standing in the Light\\" is a cornucopia of cultural information about the Lakota people. The book begins with a discussion about Severt Young Bear's relatives and ancestors, followed by a very brief history of the Sioux people. Unfortunately, the book went to press about the time Severt Young Bear died, in 1993.<br />\\"Standing in the Light\\" has four parts. The first section deals with names in Indian culture. According to Severt, names are of central importance in Lakota culture. Young Bear explains how the people received their names and what names mean in Lakota (his own Lakota name is Hehaka Luzahan, or Swift Elk). Agency officials anglicized Lakota names in the 1880's for a census on the reservation and then applied these names to descendents in perpetuity. This bothers Severt because it means descendents in his family do not earn their name, an important part of the Lakota life process. \\"Young Bear\\" comes from Severt's grandfather, who received the name to reflect his accomplishments in battle; he was a fearless warrior who fought like a bear when cornered. The name \\"Severt\\" comes from his father's war experience, when Severt's father befriended a Swede and promised the man to name his son after him.<br />The second part of the book discusses oral traditions in Lakota culture. There are some great stories in this section, like the story about Sio Paha (translated as the Medicine Hill). This place received the name Medicine Hill because in prereservation days it was the site of a test between powerful medicine men. The medicine men would practice their magic on each other in order to discover who had the most powerful medicine. Whenever a man was felled by magic, he was out of the contest. Severt discusses one contest where a heyoka (a sacred clown, or someone whose role in the tribe was to make fun of everyone else) won by practicing medicine he learned from the bumblebee. There are more stories in this section, all of which are fascinating and informative.<br />The third section covers Severt's career as a musician and his days as a member of the Porcupine Singers, a Lakota drum group who toured powwows and other important Indian gatherings. There are all types of songs in the Lakota world, from honoring songs to dancing and social songs. Many of the social songs helped Indians get together back in the days when the government frowned on Indian gatherings. The Rabbit dance is a good example of a social song. Rabbit songs are quite simple lyrically, but young people used to gather in someone's house to dance to these songs. Of course, all these musical gatherings required musicians, and this is where Severt brings in the importance of the drum and its role in creating and expressing the music. He also discusses how life on the road for the successful Indian musician is just as stressful as it is for any type of musician: egos get large, cars break down, and arguments over money usually ensue.<br />The final section of the book is Severt's examination of what is wrong with Lakota society. Young Bear turns out to be quite conservative as he discusses the problems of the reservation world. His arguments for a return to personal responsibility, a healthy diet, respect for the elders, and responsible childrearing not only have lessons for Lakotas, but also are important for all cultures. Severt's involvement in the American Indian Movement (AIM) and its stand at Wounded Knee in the 1970's, covered in some depth in the book, further highlights his concern for cultural issues.<br />At the end of the book, Severt sums up his reasons for agreeing to create this book. Severt believes every powwow or gathering of Indians has four circles. The first circle is the one in which Indians are dancing and taking part in their culture. Asthe circles move outwards, one finds Indians who are not as aware of the cultural activities going on in the first circle. The last circle, the circle on the farthest reaches of the gathering, holds the lost Indians, those who are afraid of learning about their culture and so lose themselves in drugs, loose sex, or alcohol. Severt wants to bring all of the other circles into the first circle, into the \\"light,\\" so all the Lakotas may partake in their culture.<br />\\"Standing in the Light\\" is a powerful statement. For those who wish to learn about Indian culture, look no further than this book. I am surprised there are not more reviews of this amazing survey of Lakota cultural ideas.s the circles move outwards, one finds Indians who are not as aware of the cultural activities going on in the first circle. The last circle, the circle on the farthest reaches of the gathering, holds the lost Indians, those who are afraid of learning about their culture and so lose themselves in drugs, loose sex, or alcohol. Severt wants to bring all of the other circles into the first circle, into the \\"light,\\" so all the Lakotas may partake in their culture.<br />\\"Standing in the Light\\" is a powerful statement. For those who wish to learn about Indian culture, look no further than this book. I am surprised there are not more reviews of this amazing survey of Lakota cultural ideas.	2002-12-25
1300292:US	52012289	R1XEYWCO0JIF0H	0395683297	203612813	Silent Spring	Books	5	296	351	N	N	DDT Doesn't Taste Good	Rachel Carson sent tremors through American society with the publication of her 1962 book \\"Silent Spring.\\" Carson, a marine biologist who died two years after publication of the book, wrote \\"Silent Spring\\" when she received a letter from a concerned citizen lamenting the mass death of birds after a DDT spraying. Carson continues to serve as a touchstone for both mainline and radical environmental groups, from the Sierra Club to Earth First!. It is not difficult to see why; Carson's call for active involvement in our environment is still an absolute necessity today as the industrial system continues its rapid march across the landscape. If we do not want our children born with gills and fins, keeping Carson in mind is important.<br />Carson's analysis of DDT and other synthetic chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides resulted in a deeply ominous conclusion-pesticides destroy the environment and threaten everything within the ecological system. Carson examined the composition of pesticides, revealing that synthetic pesticides have the ability to not only kill their intended targets, but they also move right up the food chain, eventually reaching the human population. The pesticides then build up in the tissues of the body, rarely breaking down but often building in intensity through continued exposure or changing into forms that are even more toxic by interacting with other ingested chemicals. Even worse, these chemicals cause tremors, paralysis, cancer, and a host of other unpleasant ailments. Carson cites numerous stories about exposed people falling ill and dying shortly after spraying these toxic chemicals. Carson also shows the biological process these poisons take when they enter the body, when they cut off oxygen to the cells and raise the metabolic rate to unhealthy levels. Carson proves these chemicals move on to succeeding generations of offspring through mother's milk and other biological processes.<br />Most of the book deals with the effects of chemical spraying on wildlife in the environment. Separate chapters deal with birds, insects, fish, and plant life. Needless to say, the picture painted here is not pretty. Too often, spraying chemicals in the 1950's and 1960's brought into play the full ignorance of the human race. Carson's book shows how farmers applied pounds of poisons to their land, far exceeding the recommended application levels. Spray trucks moved through neighborhoods, hosing down the community with poison while the kiddies played outside in the yard. On several occasions, planes sprayed poison on cities. This reckless disregard for life in any form ruined landscapes, created mounds of animal corpses, and gave us tasty water that can melt your teeth.<br />What is surprising about Carson's book is that people knew all about the effects of these poisons. \\"Silent Spring\\" made a difference because it puts it all together, showing how a series of localized incidents is, in fact, a national problem. Carson also wrote her book in a style where even the densest yokels in the herd could figure out the dangers of the problem. Since I am a science idiot, I appreciated Carson's clear articulation of the problem without sacrificing the hard data behind the examples.<br />Carson delivers a stinging rebuke to our conception of mankind as the dominant force in the universe. If humanity truly rules the roost, so to speak, why are we such idiots about sustaining the very environment that feeds us? The ignorance of man in this book is astounding. Repeatedly, we destroy and destroy again even in the face of overwhelming evidence of the damage we are causing. Local governments kept spraying even when evidence showed it was a failure. Birds literally fell out of the sky while the trucks went out for another pass through the neighborhood. Dumb, dumb, dumb!<br />\\"Silent Spring\\" concludes with a call for sanity. Carson's answer to the insane escalation of chemical spraying is to seek out biological control methods. Many insects have natural enemies that, if introduced into a problem area, will keep down pest populations. Even localized spraying will work better than mass, indiscriminate spraying. Carson argues that biological control methods are increasingly important because insects are building up resistance to pesticides, requiring the creation of even more virulent poisons in a never-ending cycle where nobody wins.<br />\\"Silent Spring\\" is required reading for anyone concerned about the environment. Carson's book led to significant changes in environmental law (some would say not enough change) and resulted in the outright ban of DDT. My only problem with the book is the introduction written by Al Gore, as the publisher marketed the book with that fact in mind. Gore's name seems to merit equal billing with Carson's on the cover. One must remember Al Gore is a politician and is in league with the destroyers because he needs their money to run his expensive campaigns. Carson would be appalled.ave natural enemies that, if introduced into a problem area, will keep down pest populations. Even localized spraying will work better than mass, indiscriminate spraying. Carson argues that biological control methods are increasingly important because insects are building up resistance to pesticides, requiring the creation of even more virulent poisons in a never-ending cycle where nobody wins.<br />\\"Silent Spring\\" is required reading for anyone concerned about the environment. Carson's book led to significant changes in environmental law (some would say not enough change) and resulted in the outright ban of DDT. My only problem with the book is the introduction written by Al Gore, as the publisher marketed the book with that fact in mind. Gore's name seems to merit equal billing with Carson's on the cover. One must remember Al Gore is a politician and is in league with the destroyers because he needs their money to run his expensive campaigns. Carson would be appalled.	2002-12-18
1306569:US	52012289	R2BJKFUNVAY8CB	0060956445	571510645	Monkey Wrench Gang, The	Books	5	127	136	N	N	Abbey Delivers the Goods	Edward Abbey (1927-1989) is a touchstone for anyone involved in the radical environmental movement. Abbey, who looks like the product of a union between William James and John Muir, churned out numerous books and essays concerning the American Southwest and its wondrous natural beauty. His best known work is this novel, \\"The Monkey Wrench Gang,\\" a fictional tale about four nature lovers who decide to wage relentless war against America's manic desire to spread the industrial system into every corner of the country. Abbey apparently based some of the characters in the book on real people he knew during his life in the boonies. It is important to remember this while you read the book because it will scare the heck out of you that people like this actually exist.<br />Abbey does not waste much time introducing the reader to his main characters. There is Seldom Seen Smith, a jack Mormon and river rafter who rambles around the countryside when he's not visiting his three wives. Seldom Seen quickly hooks up with Bonnie Abbzug, a Brooklyn born beauty with a predilection for older men and geodesic domes. Abbzug's flame of the moment is Doc Sarvis, an aging surgeon with a propensity for spouting off about nature and history when he's not operating on a patient. Finally, there is the hero of the story, George Washington Hayduke, a Vietnam vet who returns to his home only to discover bulldozers raping his beloved country. When the four meet up on a river-rafting excursion, Doc throws his checkbook into the ring so the four can go on an environmental rampage of astonishing proportions. No bulldozer, bridge, or member of the area's Search and Rescue team (run by the nefarious Bishop Love) is safe from the monkeywrenching activities of these four ecoterrorists.<br />Abbey describes the destruction of industrial equipment in loving detail. The first excursion is at a construction site, in which the gang cuts wires, pours karo syrup in gas tanks, and pours sand in the engines. Subsequent missions involve driving equipment into lakes, pulling up survey stakes, destroying an oil drilling station, and rolling boulders over pick-up trucks. Whenever trouble shows up, the four melt into the rugged terrain of the Southwest, a land of desolate wastes interspersed with stunning plateaus, mountains, and rivers. Abbey's eye for beauty rarely fails in his descriptions of these haunting images. Even the most hardened soul will feel a real kinship with our vanishing wilderness after reading this novel.<br />This novel is a masterwork of complexity, as Abbey juggles several themes simultaneously without missing a beat. One of these themes is, of course, the ferocity of nature. I interpreted Hayduke to be nature personified. His gruff and grungy appearance, his ability to become one with his environment, and his unbridled fury at the evil unfolding around him seem to represent the forces of nature itself. Hayduke is unrelenting in his quest to stop the destruction, even willing to resort to violence against the perpetrators whenever he sees fit. The other three characters act as a restraint on Hayduke, at least to some extent, but they also represent the various stages of humanity removed from nature. Seldom Seen Smith takes part in some of George's wilder escapades because he is closer to the environment. Bonnie and Sarvis, since they live in the city, tend to oppose many of George's plans and methods. Abbey is saying, and I may be wrong, that the farther some of us get away from the wilderness the less we are willing to do whatever is necessary to prevent the rampant destruction of the environment.<br />There is no doubt that Abbey was an extremely intelligent man. His writing ability is amazingly brilliant, with numerous jokes, word plays, and multi-layered dialogue thrown in at breakneck speed. For those familiar with Ambrose Bierce or Mark Twain, Abbey will seem like an old friend. Like those two august figures of American letters, Abbey is an iconoclast, always willing to take painful swipes at any institution, accepted belief, or know-it-all jerks with absolutist values. Even environmentalists take a few shots on the chin in this book (For example, George never misses a chance to throw his beer cans out the window). Abbey's tendency to make politically incorrect comments and jokes is sure to anger many people who, in their quest to lecture us about their idea of a perfect world, accidentally left their sense of humor in the trunk of their brand new SUV. In short, when Abbey comes out swinging, be sure to duck.<br />\\"The Monkey Wrench Gang\\" is truly an American classic, embodying just the right amount of rugged individualism, distrust of authority figures, and old-fashioned violence Americans love so well. About the only problem with the book is some of the environmentalists go nuts and try to pull a Hayduke in their own backyards. Abbey was careful to make the violence a bit cartoonish at times, perhaps to cover his own back in case someone gets a little carried away. Still, this is an entertaining that also gives an inside view of the environmentalist mindset. If you like great scenery and great writing, you will enjoy this novel.t, always willing to take painful swipes at any institution, accepted belief, or know-it-all jerks with absolutist values. Even environmentalists take a few shots on the chin in this book (For example, George never misses a chance to throw his beer cans out the window). Abbey's tendency to make politically incorrect comments and jokes is sure to anger many people who, in their quest to lecture us about their idea of a perfect world, accidentally left their sense of humor in the trunk of their brand new SUV. In short, when Abbey comes out swinging, be sure to duck.<br />\\"The Monkey Wrench Gang\\" is truly an American classic, embodying just the right amount of rugged individualism, distrust of authority figures, and old-fashioned violence Americans love so well. About the only problem with the book is some of the environmentalists go nuts and try to pull a Hayduke in their own backyards. Abbey was careful to make the violence a bit cartoonish at times, perhaps to cover his own back in case someone gets a little carried away. Still, this is an entertaining that also gives an inside view of the environmentalist mindset. If you like great scenery and great writing, you will enjoy this novel.	2002-12-13
1315556:US	52012289	R2RDNDWKQ9350H	051788058X	928983827	Confessions of an Eco-Warrior	Books	3	12	23	N	N	Can Deep Ecology Save the World?	\\"Confessions of an Eco-Warrior\\" goes a long way towards describing the worldview of the radical environmentalist movement in the United States. Written by Earth First! cofounder Dave Foreman, the book is a sweeping indictment of industrial society and the damage this system is doing to our national parks, our water supply, and our wildlife. Foreman, who looks a lot like Grizzly Adams, is one American who is not going to take this destruction lying down. He is angry that damage to the environment continues without any let up, and he aims to reverse that damage by spreading the green gospel with this book.<br />Foreman begins with a detailed chronology of how he turned into a green radical. Foreman was a member of the Wilderness Society, one of the \\"Big Ten\\" environmental groups (others include the Sierra Club and the Audubon Society) working through political channels for wilderness protection. Foreman became disgruntled with these groups when he realized that legal means could not get the job done. A few other people shared Foreman's views, so they formed Earth First!, a group dedicated to using any means necessary to secure a bright future for the environment.<br />A central tenet of Earth First!'s manifesto is the philosophy of Deep Ecology. This philosophical outlook boils down to biocentrism, or a belief that the universe is not man-centered, but that mankind exists as part of a vast, interlocking chain of actions within the environment. Earth First! rejects dogmas such as communism, socialism, capitalism, or any other anthropocentric belief system, claiming that such systems are humanistic with little concern for the environment. Earth First! supports massive reductions in the human population, the rejection of rational systems of thought as the only credible way of thinking, and disdain for the unquestioning belief in progress and technology that most of us take for granted. As can be expected, many of Foreman's beliefs are not popular with significant majorities of the population. His attitudes about strict birth control methods across the globe, according to Foreman, continually bring outraged letters from leftists who cannot bear the thought of less people. But for Foreman, it is all a part of a better, greener planet. If humanity continues to grow as it has for the past century or so, the earth stands no chance of surviving into the future.<br />A significant part of the book deals with monkeywrenching, an action-oriented form of ecological terrorism designed to slow the growth of technology and progress in America's wilderness areas. Monkeywrenching became famous in environmental circles when Edward Abbey, a rabid environmentalist, wrote the novel \\"The Monkeywrenching Gang\\" in 1975. This form of terrorism often involves the destruction of construction sites or industrial equipment. Its most famous expression involves tree spiking, where metal nails and spikes driven into trees help save vast tracts of wilderness or destroy sawmill equipment when the spiked trees are cut for the market. Foreman is very careful about advocating such activities (probably due to his own arrest by the FBI for ecological terrorism), but goes on to give a full account of the pros and cons of taking part in monkeywrenching activities.<br />In Foreman's world, monkeywrenching becomes a necessity when the big corporations control the political process through bribes, campaign contributions, and intensive lobbying. With the political process closed to serious environmental reforms, the destruction of the environment continues at an unprecedented rate. In chapter after chapter, Foreman describes the destruction of our lands through careless grazing, overzealous logging, and government sponsored extermination campaigns against animals that prey on farming and cattle interests. As the litany of state sanctioned horrors unfold, Foreman's arguments for driving a few spikes in a tree look sensible.<br />Regrettably, making sense has little to do with many of Foreman's arguments. His ideas of a biocentric philosophy flies in the face of what seems to be a natural human inclination towards technological development. For the most part, people do not want to live in the world Foreman and his ilk hold up as a desirable goal. Foreman's claim that people were healthier and happier before industrialization stretches the truth to the breaking point. Industrialism certainly has its own problems, but the old days were far from perfect. Were people really \\"happier\\" in the old days when harsh conditions opened up communities to constant invasion, incurable diseases, and high mortality rates? If they were, why did \\"progress\\" and \\"technology\\" emerge as a viable system? Ultimately, I am uncomfortable with Foreman and his fellow radicals. Whenever radicals like this get into power, they always end up killing people.<br />\\"Confessions of an Eco-Warrior\\" does try and offer solutions to serious problems in our industrial based system. Unfortunately, the solutions are often worse than the problems. As a primer for learning about the radical environmental fringe, Foreman's book is probably one of the best. Concern for the environment is important and should be a priority for every living person on the planet, but Foreman and his fellow travelers take it way too far.h many of Foreman's arguments. His ideas of a biocentric philosophy flies in the face of what seems to be a natural human inclination towards technological development. For the most part, people do not want to live in the world Foreman and his ilk hold up as a desirable goal. Foreman's claim that people were healthier and happier before industrialization stretches the truth to the breaking point. Industrialism certainly has its own problems, but the old days were far from perfect. Were people really \\"happier\\" in the old days when harsh conditions opened up communities to constant invasion, incurable diseases, and high mortality rates? If they were, why did \\"progress\\" and \\"technology\\" emerge as a viable system? Ultimately, I am uncomfortable with Foreman and his fellow radicals. Whenever radicals like this get into power, they always end up killing people.<br />\\"Confessions of an Eco-Warrior\\" does try and offer solutions to serious problems in our industrial based system. Unfortunately, the solutions are often worse than the problems. As a primer for learning about the radical environmental fringe, Foreman's book is probably one of the best. Concern for the environment is important and should be a priority for every living person on the planet, but Foreman and his fellow travelers take it way too far.	2002-12-06
1318593:US	52012289	RUGVO7EXE749G	0873511964	107644003	Little Crow: Spokesman for the Sioux	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Seminal Work on Little Crow	Gary C. Anderson is an expert on Dakota/Sioux history. His doctoral dissertation, published under the title \\"Kinsmen of Another Kind,\\" discussed Dakota/White relations from the 17th to the 19th century. In \\"Through Dakota Eyes,\\" Anderson collected dozens of Indian narratives concerning the 1862 Dakota uprising in Southeastern Minnesota. This book, \\"Little Crow: Spokesman for the Sioux,\\" finds Anderson delving deep into the archives in order to present a better picture of that enigmatic Dakota chief Taoyateduta, known to history as Little Crow.<br />The main thesis of Anderson's \\"Kinsmen of Another Kind\\" was the importance of kinship ties within the Dakota tribes as well as with outsiders. Traders formed kinship ties with the Dakota because the ties allowed the traders to use the Dakotas to gather furs for them. Dakotas benefited from kinship ties because the ties involved gift giving. Whites had to give gifts to the Dakotas if they wanted to maintain trade and relations. As more and more whites moved into the region, kinship ties slowly disintegrated because whites no longer needed to deal with the Dakotas on an equal basis. It is important to understand these kinship ties when reading \\"Little Crow,\\" as Anderson again makes these relationships central to his study.<br />Anderson begins his biographical analysis of Little Crow with an overview of Dakota culture. According to Anderson, it is impossible to understand anything about Little Crow's life and actions unless we understand his cultural underpinnings. Anderson discusses hunting, gift giving, medicine sacks and medicine societies, Dakota religion, and the role of a chief in Dakota society (chiefs, according to Anderson, held little actual power over the warriors; it was the position of speaker that held greater power, something Little Crow found out when he led the Dakota warriors during the 1862 uprising).<br />Little Crow's life is truly fascinating. Anderson discusses in great depth the role of Little Crow's grandfather and father in their relations with the Americans at Fort Snelling. Little Crow's grandfather and father took an accommodationist stance towards white encroachment on Dakota lands, trying to toe the fine line between keeping the Dakota people happy while dealing with the whites. Anderson argues that Little Crow, despite the bad reputation he earned due to the uprising, was an accommodationist just like his father and grandfather. Time and time again, Little Crow worked with the white Indian agents and soldiers to try and benefit his people. Little Crow was intimately involved in signing several treaties with the government, worked hard to placate the government after the Inkpaduta affair of 1857, and tried to prevent war in 1862. That Little Crow failed in his dealings with the government and failed to stop the uprising is certainly a tragedy, but should not overshadow his attempts to do the right thing for his people. Ultimately, no Dakota leader could have prevented the coming doom.<br />Little Crow is best known for the destructive war against whites in 1862. Anderson covers the war and its aftermath in succinct detail. Actually, this may be the best account of the war I have read. Anderson discusses Little Crow's failure to successfully organize his warriors, his failure to gain support with mixed-blood and Upper Agency Indians, and his failure to form an Indian alliance during his exile in North Dakota and Canada. When Little Crow returned to Minnesota in 1863, he knew his time was short. Little Crow died from a gunshot wound while picking berries with his son. Little Crow's remains, horribly mutilated by angry whites, ended up on display at the Minnesota Historical Society until the 1970's, when they were finally given a proper burial.<br />Anderson claims that Little Crow was an opportunist, a scheming sort of politician who always helped out because he wanted to elevate his own position within Dakota society. Anderson cites as evidence newspaperinterviews with Little Crow which revealed Little Crow's propensity for pithy statements and his need for constant attention. That Little Crow had a knack for oratory should come as no surprise; he was a chief, and chiefs constantly debated issues with other leaders in the tribe. But is Little Crow a politician? I don't think so, at least not in the way we perceive the term. Is it possible that newspaper and other white accounts of the time framed Little Crow in terms whites understood? After all, documents show that many whites had no real conception about the true nature of Indians in the 19th century. White relations with Indians were based on a fundamental set of assumptions, most of them racist and false. To paint Little Crow as a sort of Huey Long type teeters dangerously close to error. After all, Dakota culture emphasized communitarian values, not the sort of individualistic elevation Anderson says Little Crow sought.<br />Anderson ends the book with an appendix discussing Little Crow's genealogy. This section is the most difficult part of the book due to the intricate relationships within Indian families and tribes. Terms like \\"father\\" and \\"cousin\\" do not carry the same connotation in Indian culture as they do in ours. A father's brothers can all be \\"fathers\\" to an Indian, and \\"cousins\\" are even more convoluted. A genealogical chart of Little Crow's family at the back of the book makes a medieval royal house look like a nuclear family. These genealogies are necessary to back up Anderson's claim that kinship is central to tribal life.<br />This is a scholarly book that manages to entertain while it teaches. It is definitely a must have for those seeking a deeper understanding of the Dakota tribes, or for those interested in the Minnesota uprising of 1862. If you don't come away with some sense of admiration for Little Crow, despite his failures, you did not read the same book I did.r interviews with Little Crow which revealed Little Crow's propensity for pithy statements and his need for constant attention. That Little Crow had a knack for oratory should come as no surprise; he was a chief, and chiefs constantly debated issues with other leaders in the tribe. But is Little Crow a politician? I don't think so, at least not in the way we perceive the term. Is it possible that newspaper and other white accounts of the time framed Little Crow in terms whites understood? After all, documents show that many whites had no real conception about the true nature of Indians in the 19th century. White relations with Indians were based on a fundamental set of assumptions, most of them racist and false. To paint Little Crow as a sort of Huey Long type teeters dangerously close to error. After all, Dakota culture emphasized communitarian values, not the sort of individualistic elevation Anderson says Little Crow sought.<br />Anderson ends the book with an appendix discussing Little Crow's genealogy. This section is the most difficult part of the book due to the intricate relationships within Indian families and tribes. Terms like \\"father\\" and \\"cousin\\" do not carry the same connotation in Indian culture as they do in ours. A father's brothers can all be \\"fathers\\" to an Indian, and \\"cousins\\" are even more convoluted. A genealogical chart of Little Crow's family at the back of the book makes a medieval royal house look like a nuclear family. These genealogies are necessary to back up Anderson's claim that kinship is central to tribal life.<br />This is a scholarly book that manages to entertain while it teaches. It is definitely a must have for those seeking a deeper understanding of the Dakota tribes, or for those interested in the Minnesota uprising of 1862. If you don't come away with some sense of admiration for Little Crow, despite his failures, you did not read the same book I did.	2002-12-03
1325449:US	52012289	R3JLR6PMPV2VNU	0231113129	479260494	An All-Consuming Century	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Consumerism Hurts	Anybody who thinks we do not live in a consumer society has either slept for the past fifty years or has something wrong with their heads. What many people do not realize is how ingratiating consumerism is, how it worms its invidious head into every facet of our existence. It is getting to the point where it seems we exist solely as receptacles for useless products. This is where Gary Cross's book, \\"An All-Consuming Century\\" comes into the picture. This is a truly eye-opening book, full of deep insights into this sickness currently ailing our society.<br />Cross's most cogent claim is that consumerism is the \\"ideology\\" that toppled all the other -isms of the 20th century. At the dawn of the new millennium, consumerism alone stands on the corpses of fascism, socialism, and communism. Even capitalism (or democracy, whichever you prefer) stumbles in the face of consumerism. It makes no difference which system stands up to consumerism; they all topple in the face of this colossus.<br />Cross attempts to prove his point by showing how, time and time again, consumerism always rises above adversity. In the early 20th century, America faced an enormous influx of immigrants from dozens of countries, all of them speaking dozens of different languages. No problem, as consumerism acted as an integrating system bringing all these people together. There may be a Yiddish speaker, a Frenchman, and a Pole in the same room without any recourse for conversation, but all three of them recognize that bottle of Coke sitting on the table. Cross argues that consumerism allowed disparate people to overcome linguistic, cultural, and class issues while making them Americans. Going even further, consumerism allowed people to define themselves in terms of products.<br />The Great Depression and World War II certainly offered a stiff blow to consumerism and its proponents. Or did it? Not according to Cross, who argues that the expansion of credit buying, installment plans, and advertising allowed consumerism to not only survive, but to learn how to expand its reach in lean times. World War II, which followed the Depression, also served to bolster consumerism. The use of rationing coupons contributed to a national sense of delayed gratification. Once the war was won, people would once again indulge in the sweet fruits of shopping. Moreover, the primary role of government began to move towards the promotion of consumerism by claiming that a multitude of goods were an important sign of the triumph of democracy and capitalism.<br />Even the 1960's counterculture movement, with its rabid mania for anti-consumerism, quickly became co-opted by consumerism. The Hippy lifestyle was a marketable commodity, as was the protest music culture. Those who promoted an individual lifestyle quickly discovered consumerism adjusting its herd marketing of the 1950's to the individual's taste. Niche marketing began appearing everywhere, as did products designed for individual use. In the 1950's, families used their products together, as a group. From the 1960's onward, Junior might watch TV in his room while sister Sally listened to records in her room on her brand new record player. Following this to its logical conclusion, the personal computer and Internet is the acme of this movement towards individual consumption. The implications of this type of consumerism should be clear to everyone: less participation in politics, less volunteering, and less activity within society.<br />According to Cross, consumerism rolls roughshod over every attempt to bring sanity to our buy crazy culture. Moral, intellectual, economic, and sociological arguments all failed to put the brakes on consumerism. All these arguments (Cross calls them jeremiads) failed because consumerism appeals to humanity's basest element, desire. People in a land of plenty do not want to curb their appetites. When the Joneses down the street pick up the latest model, they want one too.<br />About the only problem I had with this book concerns the chapter on Reagan. I am certainly no Reaganite, but it is obvious Cross is a liberal. His arguments about Reagan opening markets wide open while opposing the moral consequences of doing so are convincing, but his tone towards republicans grates. Leave the bias at the door, Mr. Cross!<br />This is a brilliantly conceived book, required reading for those who think sitting in front of the television set for eight hours a day is a good thing. I would like to make this required reading for everyone in America, but I do not think most people would put down their DVD's, Gameboys, and celebrity magazines in order to read the book. That, I fear, is a loss for all of us.ad with this book concerns the chapter on Reagan. I am certainly no Reaganite, but it is obvious Cross is a liberal. His arguments about Reagan opening markets wide open while opposing the moral consequences of doing so are convincing, but his tone towards republicans grates. Leave the bias at the door, Mr. Cross!<br />This is a brilliantly conceived book, required reading for those who think sitting in front of the television set for eight hours a day is a good thing. I would like to make this required reading for everyone in America, but I do not think most people would put down their DVD's, Gameboys, and celebrity magazines in order to read the book. That, I fear, is a loss for all of us.	2002-11-27
1326448:US	52012289	R36DFC6FJUZSA6	0879280190	491692413	Mary and I: Forty Years With the Sioux	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Christianity and the American Indian	Stephen Return Riggs (1812-1883) and his wife, Mary (1813-1869) are enormously significant figures in the history of the Dakota tribe. Originally published in 1880, \\"Mary and I: Forty Years with the Sioux,\\" is an account of the trials and tribulations of the Riggs's long career as Christian missionaries in the wilds of Minnesota, South Dakota, and Nebraska. Riggs's greatest contribution to the Dakota people does not concern his missionary work; it is his preservation of the Dakota language. Riggs translated significant portions of the Bible into Dakota, collected and catalogued thousands of Dakota words, and helped create a written language for the Dakota people. \\"Mary and I\\" is divided into two parts-the first is a narrative account of forty years of missionary work with the Dakota Indians. The second section is a series of monographs discussing various people who worked within the missionary field. An account of a Riggs family reunion concludes the book.<br />\\"Mary and I,\\" a title with a double meaning (referring to both Mary Riggs and Mary, the mother of Jesus) focuses mostly on Riggs's efforts to spread Christianity among native tribes. When Riggs first came to Minnesota in the 1830's, the only white people in the region were a few other missionaries and the soldiers at Fort Snelling. By the time Riggs retired from mission work, in the late 1870's, there existed a Dakota Presbytery spanning Minnesota, Nebraska, and present day South Dakota. These churches, staffed by Indian pastors, carried on the work of Riggs and others by continuing to gain converts and sending out their own missionaries to bring Christianity to Indian tribes in Canada.<br />Riggs spends much time in this book discussing his children. He eventually had eight of them, six of whom became missionaries in their own right. Several children continued their father's work with Indians while one went as far as China to bring Christianity to the native Chinese.<br />Riggs's book gives the reader a good idea of the difficulties inherent in spreading Christianity among people who have no conception of Christian doctrine. Riggs had to learn the language in order to preach to the Indians in terms they could understand. Many Indians did not want Christian ideas taught to the people, resulting in threats to Indians who attended church, the killing of mission cattle, and occasional vandalism to mission property. One thing history teaches is that such pesky things as uninterested natives do not put off Christian missionaries. With the patience of Job, these missionaries do not quit until they win the game. Riggs and his fellow missionaries won the game in this case, especially after the Dakota uprising of 1862, when Indians converted in droves during their stay in a military prison. Riggs sees this as a good thing, and maybe it is for a man who dedicated his life to spreading the gospel. For the Dakotas, converting to Christianity was a necessary survival technique after a disastrous military defeat at the hands of the American government. I am not trying to bash Christianity, but all too often (and it is apparent in this book) the \\"Good Book\\" extended to the Indians relied on the implied threat of violence and economic terrorism.<br />Alfred Riggs, one of Stephen's sons, provides an excellent account of how Christianity should work in reference to Native Americans. Alfred learned early in life that Indians were indolent, dirty heathens. Living among Indians who are not Christians, according to Alfred, inspires fear and disgust. Only through Christianity may this fear and disgust disappear. In Alfred's worldview (and it is a worldview he freely admits he inherited from his parents) the heathenism, wickedness, and darkness of the Indians strengthens Christianity because Christianity shines greatest when confronted by such darkness.<br />As bad as this sounds, missionaries worked hard to help Indians in everyday life. In one of the monographs at the end of the book, Stephen Riggs sings the praises of Thomas Williamson, one of the earliest Christian missionaries. Williamson used his medical skills to save many Indian lives, and also publicly stated he thought Indians were more honest than white people. The internal paradox within the missionary worldview is a difficult one incapable of resolution anytime soon (and certainly not solvable in this 1000 word essay!).<br />\\"Mary and I\\" is an essential read for those interested in frontier history, the missionary movement in America, or for those interested in discovering the truth about how the American government joined hands with Christian evangelizers to get what it wanted from the Indians. Some prior knowledge of the Dakota tribe is helpful before starting this book, but Riggs keeps his writing at a level where, for the most part, most people could follow along quite easily. \\"Mary and I\\" is an enjoyable (but at times disturbing) read.n Riggs sings the praises of Thomas Williamson, one of the earliest Christian missionaries. Williamson used his medical skills to save many Indian lives, and also publicly stated he thought Indians were more honest than white people. The internal paradox within the missionary worldview is a difficult one incapable of resolution anytime soon (and certainly not solvable in this 1000 word essay!). <br />\\"Mary and I\\" is an essential read for those interested in frontier history, the missionary movement in America, or for those interested in discovering the truth about how the American government joined hands with Christian evangelizers to get what it wanted from the Indians. Some prior knowledge of the Dakota tribe is helpful before starting this book, but Riggs keeps his writing at a level where, for the most part, most people could follow along quite easily. \\"Mary and I\\" is an enjoyable (but at times disturbing) read.	2002-11-26
1327297:US	52012289	R21C5RFBP3U1TH	0873512162	668246781	Through Dakota Eyes: Narrative Accounts Of The Minnesota Indian War Of 1862	Books	5	26	30	N	N	The Indian Side of the 1862 War	Historians discovered many years ago that oral history is a vibrant cornucopia of information. Even better, integrating oral history into traditional modes of inquiry opened up more chances for earning a Ph.D., or getting that career making book contract. In the case of \\"Through Dakota Eyes: Narrative Accounts of the Minnesota Indian War of 1862,\\" oral history is the only game in town. Every selection in the book is an oral story from Indians or mixed-blood Indians about the disastrous uprising that killed hundreds of soldiers, settlers, and Indians. One of the editors of \\"Through Dakota Eyes\\" is none other than Gary Clayton Anderson, the premier scholar on Dakota history. As usual, Anderson goes above and beyond the call of duty in researching the narratives, providing background color on the people involved (and also providing information about what happened to these people after the uprising, something I greatly appreciated).<br />For nearly a century after the uprising, articles and books concerning the 1862 war only used white narratives as sources of information. There is definitely nothing wrong with relying on these narratives; they are invaluable sources of information on the uprising. The white narratives also reveal the tragic dimensions of the conflict, showing how innocent men, women, and children died (or persevered) in especially brutal ways. With the addition of these Indian narratives, however, historians can now go inside the camps and meeting places of the Dakotas intimately involved in the conflict.<br />The narratives are lumped into distinct categories dealing with different stages of the uprising. Each category then provides a succinct description of that particular phase of the war. With each narrative, the editors provide a small capsule of information on the person telling the story, allowing the reader to understand that person's place in the overall scheme of things. It is recommended to read the endnotes for each narrative, as they provide excellent information on each narrative. Excellent maps and pictures of many of the people involved also help the reader to understand the accounts.<br />Some of the narratives are more helpful than others. A few are difficult to understand due to poor grammar or contradictory information. Several of the narratives appeared in newspaper articles or as testimony in a case against the government in 1901, and there is a possibility that someone altered or changed them as they saw fit. That does not mean there are not any \\"WOW!\\" moments found here. In Cecelia Campbell Stay's account of the attack on the Redwood Agency (also known as the Lower Agency, where the killing began in earnest on August 18th), Cecelia describes seeing the sunlight flashing on the bayonets of Captain Marsh's patrol as they headed to their doom at the ferry crossing. Another narrative, now widely used in accounts of the uprising, comes from Wowinape, the son of Little Crow (the leader of the warring Dakota). Battle narratives allow the reader to feel as though they are at Fort Ridgely, New Ulm, or Birch Coulee as the cannons roar and the bullets fly.<br />As the editors point out, many of the mixed-blood Indian narratives identify a central tension of the conflict, namely the division between Indians who adopted white modes of civilization (the farmer Indians) and those who stayed true to traditional Indian values (the blanket Indians). Many of the mixed-blood Indians worked closely with whites; they feared the war parties of the traditionals just as much as whites did. As the war began to wind down, it was the mixed-bloods along with some full-blooded Indians who confronted the warring Indians, forcing these hostile forces to turn over their white captives in an effort to make peace with the military forces sweeping into the area.<br />This is an absolutely essential book for anyone interested in the Minnesota 1862 uprising. Actually, anyone writing a paper on this conflict without using thisbook as a source could find themselves in hot water. Since the editors graciously organized the narratives in chronological order, there is no reason someone unfamiliar with the conflict and its principal figures would have any difficulty understanding the book. Gary Anderson and Alan Woolworth have made an important contribution to Indian scholarship with this impressive tome.book as a source could find themselves in hot water. Since the editors graciously organized the narratives in chronological order, there is no reason someone unfamiliar with the conflict and its principal figures would have any difficulty understanding the book. Gary Anderson and Alan Woolworth have made an important contribution to Indian scholarship with this impressive tome.	2002-11-26
1330083:US	52012289	RWC3KOT01KE4	0873513851	360292248	Honor the Grandmothers: Dakota and Lakota Women Tell Their Stories	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Not New Age Garbage	\\"Honoring the Grandmothers\\" is a slim book, barely bigger than your average sized pamphlet. Edited by Sarah Penman, a video and radio commentator living in Minnesota, the book is a collection of musings by four Dakota/Lakota grandmothers about traditional Indian knowledge and customs and how they relate to today's fast paced world. Penman captured the stories on tape over a period of years, working hard to overcome many obstacles to get the stories to us, the reader. There is little commentary on the stories; Penman allows them to speak for themselves. Two of the grandmothers have since passed away, but their words do continue to speak about maintaining dignity and culture in a world that likes to forget about the Indians and their way of life.<br />Celane Not Help Him is the first speaker presented in the book. Celane did not have an easy life; she lived in poverty for most of her life, with little formal education. Her family lost their property when the United States Air Force confiscated it during WWII for use as an artillery range. Celane is the granddaughter of Iron Hail, a Lakota who survived the Battle of Little Big Horn and the Wounded Knee massacre of 1890. Celane provides an oral history of Wounded Knee that is both enlightening in historical terms and depressing in an emotional sense. It is hard to read Celane's account, as her speaking skills do not land easily on an English-speaking ear. It is best to read the account straight through, and then think about it for a time. When this is done, Celane comes across as clear as a star in the sky.<br />The next set of stories comes from Stella Pretty Sounding Flute, a Wahpekute-Hunkpati Dakota. The Dakota people, like most Indians, had difficulties dealing with the burgeoning white population of America in the 19th century. After years of declining fortunes, an 1862 uprising in Minnesota brought down every bit of force the American government could muster on the Dakotas. The Dakota did not disappear, but scattered throughout Missouri, Nebraska, South Dakota, and Minnesota. Stella does not concern herself with these events as much as she does with the traditions she learned from her own grandparents. Her grandmother passed on skills and knowledge that no school can teach. Stella discusses the loss of the Black Hills, the traditions of pipe carrying, and spiritual beliefs.<br />The third storyteller is Cecilia Hernandez Montgomery. Cecilia is part Mexican, part Oglala Sioux, and part firecracker. This is one tough dame. Cecilia spent time in a Catholic school (back when they REALLY used the ruler), studied music, and worked herself dizzy at a series of low paying jobs. Cecilia really came into her own when she started a career as an activist in South Dakota, working hard to improve the living conditions of poor people (all poor people, not just Indians). She sits on many boards, committees, and still pounds the pavement when problems arise. She did all of this into her seventies and beyond, not only exploding the myth of the lazy Indian but also causing irreparable harm to the conception that old people cannot do anything of value.<br />The last narrative comes from Iola Columbus, a Sisseton-Wahpeton Dakota. Like many other Indians, Columbus spent time in an Indian boarding school, where military discipline combined with strict adherence to corporeal punishment attempted to erase the \\"Indian\\" from the Indians. Columbus's story is different from the others because she went on to become the first woman elected to tribal chair in the state of Minnesota. She later founded a grandmother's society, where women elders can gather to share traditional knowledge with new generations.<br />\\"Honoring the Grandmothers\\" is really a book about the elderly and their marginalized role in American society. This is occurring not only in white society but in Indian society as well. A couple of the grandmothers lament the fact that their knowledge is not passed on, but disappearing as older members of Indian tribes pass away. In short, the same mentality (of the doddering old fool who is well past his/her prime) that leads whites to toss the elderly into nursing homes happens in Indian society as well. The elderly are rich sources of knowledge and culture in every society. We ignore them at our own peril.embers of Indian tribes pass away. In short, the same mentality (of the doddering old fool who is well past his/her prime) that leads whites to toss the elderly into nursing homes happens in Indian society as well. The elderly are rich sources of knowledge and culture in every society. We ignore them at our own peril.	2002-11-23
1330518:US	52012289	R2KPE4X8EDYSVE	1582184100	842004567	Indian Massacre in Minnesota	Books	2	14	31	N	N	Racist Account of the Dakota 1862 Uprising	This edition of \\"Indian Massacre in Minnesota\\" is a reprint of an 1864 history on the Dakota uprising in southeastern Minnesota in 1862. Charles Bryant, the primary author, played a role in the uprising; he was a soldier at Fort Ridgley during the assaults launched on the fort by Little Crow and his Dakota followers. Bryant later served as a prosecutor with the Sioux Commission, seeking restitution from confiscated Indian annuity funds to help white victims of the uprising. The full title of the book is, \\"A History of the Great Massacre by the Sioux Indians In Minnesota Including the Personal Narratives of Many who Escaped.\\" You have to love those 19th century titles!<br />The book contains three sections. The first section outlines the various causes for the outbreak on the reservation followed by accounts of early battles and incidents. Bryant and Murch provide several cogent reasons for the troubles, including Indian starvation, a late annuity payment (which, in what is one of the great ironies of history, arrived at Fort Ridgely on the day of the uprising), and tensions between Indians who accepted white civilization programs (farmer Indians) and reactionaries who wished to remain true to Dakota ways (blanket Indians). These causes still find supporters in modern historical examinations.<br />Not content with exposing obvious causes of Dakota rebellion, Bryant and Murch reveal the presence of a racial conspiracy on the part of the Dakota. According to Bryant and Murch, Little Crow and the other leaders of the rebellion conspired to attack white settlers because that is what all lesser races do when confronted by the superior cultural influence of the white race. With what one assumes is a straight face, Bryant and Murch conclude that Indians are savage, indolent, rude little children incapable of any true ability to retain Christian values or civilizing practices administered by whites. Was the uprising really a conspiracy? Yes it was, in the sense that Indian leaders met in secret to decide their options. Even then, it was hardly monolithic; many Indians argued against war with the whites because they knew they would lose in the long run. Even Little Crow, the leader vilified by Bryant and Murch as the scourge of God, initially argued AGAINST fighting the whites. To label the 1862 uprising as a RACIAL conspiracy is ridiculous because Indians rarely looked at anything in a racial manner. In the early days of contact with Europeans, Dakotas always accepted whites who married their daughters as members of the family. The literature of the time is rife with references to \\"our white brothers and sisters,\\" making a racial conspiracy highly suspect as a viable methodology for examining Indian/White relations.<br />Closely tied with this conspiracy theory is the conception of Christianity and God. Bryant and Murch see the spread of white civilization as a divinely sanctioned mission to go forth and subdue the land. Since Indians do not do anything with land (except live off of it, but we'll ignore that pesky little fact in the interests of examining the claims of the authors), it is up to whites to develop the land while showing the natives the right way to live. This worldview finds expression through a document recording the words of one Major Thomas Galbraith. Who is Galbraith? He is the government agent in charge of the affairs of the Dakota reservation!<br />The second section of the book is a lengthy series of narrative accounts from white settlers involved in the uprising. These are truly heartrending accounts of murder, torture, and other hazardous conditions faced by those who survived the rebellion. Two things become apparent in this section. First, pioneer folk were hardy, industrious people. The Indians were not going to keep these people down for long. Most of the accounts are from women, discussing the deaths of their husbands and children, wandering around in the wilderness for weeks on end with little food and water, or carrying children for miles upon miles in rough weather and difficult terrain. These narratives show that tragedy descended on both Dakotas and settlers during the uprising.<br />Second, there is a total blackout on Indian or pro-Indian narratives about the conflict. A noticeably absent narrative is that of Sarah Wakefield, the white wife of an agency physician captured by Indians early in the conflict. This absence is probably due to Sarah's defense of Chaska, the Indian who protected Sarah during her captivity. After the war ended, Sarah fought tooth and nail to clear Chaska of any harmful accusations. She made such a nuisance of herself that whites began to darkly insinuate that she must be a \\"squaw,\\" and therefore someone who secretly supported the Indian agenda. As for Chaska, he ended up going to the gallows.<br />The final section discusses the end of the uprising, the trials and executions of Indians, and the campaigns of Generals Sibley and Sulley against the fleeing Dakotas. In ominously prescient words, Bryant and Murch discuss the need for total war against the outcast Dakotas and their Lakota relatives in the west.<br />Although the book contains glaring racism, shallow descriptions of many events (because it appeared while the repercussions of the uprising were still going on), and outright malarkey, there is still some value in reading this book. Information on the causes of the conflict is good, and many of the documents included in the narrative provided sharp insight into the people involved in the war. Any serious examination of the Dakota uprising of 1862 must take this book into account.ater, or carrying children for miles upon miles in rough weather and difficult terrain. These narratives show that tragedy descended on both Dakotas and settlers during the uprising.<br />Second, there is a total blackout on Indian or pro-Indian narratives about the conflict. A noticeably absent narrative is that of Sarah Wakefield, the white wife of an agency physician captured by Indians early in the conflict. This absence is probably due to Sarah's defense of Chaska, the Indian who protected Sarah during her captivity. After the war ended, Sarah fought tooth and nail to clear Chaska of any harmful accusations. She made such a nuisance of herself that whites began to darkly insinuate that she must be a \\"squaw,\\" and therefore someone who secretly supported the Indian agenda. As for Chaska, he ended up going to the gallows.<br />The final section discusses the end of the uprising, the trials and executions of Indians, and the campaigns of Generals Sibley and Sulley against the fleeing Dakotas. In ominously prescient words, Bryant and Murch discuss the need for total war against the outcast Dakotas and their Lakota relatives in the west.<br />Although the book contains glaring racism, shallow descriptions of many events (because it appeared while the repercussions of the uprising were still going on), and outright malarkey, there is still some value in reading this book. Information on the causes of the conflict is good, and many of the documents included in the narrative provided sharp insight into the people involved in the war. Any serious examination of the Dakota uprising of 1862 must take this book into account.	2002-11-22
1339052:US	52012289	R28ZDK0G71UXR6	0486280411	552921765	The Souls of Black Folk (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	192	204	N	N	Brilliant Essays on American Blacks	W.E.B. DuBois (1868-1963) was the first black man to receive a Ph.D. from Harvard University. This fact alone doesn't really mean much in today's world; there are many firsts occurring at a rapid pace. But DuBois accomplished his feat when America subscribed to Jim Crow segregation and openly espoused racism. Moreover, DuBois went on to a spectacular career of stunning accomplishments-he was, by turns, a sociologist, a historian, a cultural critic, and an accomplished essayist. In \\"The Souls of Black Folk,\\" DuBois wears all of these hats and a few more. Published in 1903, this collection of DuBois essays quickly became a cornerstone for future black progressives who wished to bring about changes in American society long promised since the days of the American Civil War. DuBois went on to help found the NAACP before disillusionment with the slow pace of change led him to leave the country. He died in Ghana in 1963.<br />Every essay in this collection is an absolute jewel of intellectual prowess, eloquent and captivating language, and groundbreaking insight into the conditions of America's black population. Time and time again, DuBois calls it like he sees it and does so without malice or hysterical claims. DuBois's writings are the archetype of calm, reasoned analysis. His goal is not to divide but to expose, not to create divisions but understanding. He differs radically from current race hustlers such as Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson, whose only concern is creating a perpetual black underclass with them as self-anointed leaders. One of DuBois's essays actually take aim at a black leader who, during DuBois's time, harmed black progress. This man was Booker T. Washington, founder of the Tuskegee Institute, believer in vocational education for all blacks (at the expense of a classical education necessary in training teachers to staff vocational schools), and orator of the \\"Atlanta Compromise\\" which promised black acceptance of segregation.<br />DuBois's concern in the essays rests with the concept of the \\"veil.\\" This veil is a symbol for the ignorance of America towards the problems of blacks. The veil blocks insight into the problems, as well as preventing blacks from taking their place in American society as full American citizens. Until the veil is removed, argues DuBois in carefully constructed essay after essay, the continuing schism between the two races will grow wider and wider.<br />Closely tied to the concept of the veil is that of \\"double consciousness,\\" or the process by which blacks have two identities within one body. At times, blacks are Americans; they take part in working, fighting, and dying so America may reach its full potential. At other times, blacks are Africans lacking the rights white Americans enjoy on a daily basis. According to DuBois, American blacks are conscious of this dual identity and must always be careful about their actions in public. DuBois argues it is this \\"two-ness\\" that causes many problems in the life of the American black.<br />Dubois knows travelogue as well. Two essays, \\"Of the Black Belt\\" and \\"Of the Quest of the Golden Fleece\\" examine the conditions of blacks in Dougherty County, Georgia. It is a sad tale of overwhelming debt, bleak futures, and segregated conditions. DuBois carefully examines the reasons for black failure in Georgia in these two chapters, discovering that the system is set up for black failure. Owning land is difficult for blacks, and the low literacy rate ensures that hustlers will cheat blacks out of money and crops. The extension of credit guarantees that blacks will continue to exist in a perpetual state of debt peonage. The need for education is great, says DuBois, as learning will allow blacks to push for greater gains in society while allowing poor blacks to understand their plight in relation to the rest of the country.<br />Education is a major theme in many of the essays. DuBois himself received a classical education and it shows on every page of this book. References to Greece and Rome vie with extensive religious themes. These references not only show that a black can benefit from education, but also shows how education will provide a common ground between black and white. However, DuBois does not believe every black should receive a classical education. He recognizes many are not up to the task (as many whites are not, either), but a \\"talented tenth\\" could receive this type of education. These blacks will then go out and spread education and culture within the black community.<br />The essays build up to the phenomenal \\"Of the Coming of John,\\" a short story incorporating almost every theme DuBois expresses throughout the book. This short story relates the tale of John, a poor Georgia black traveling north for an education. At first, John fails to fit in due to poor discipline and lack of interest. When faced with expulsion, John reaches inside himself and succeeds beyond expectations. He learns history, language, and mathematics while growing into manhood. When he finally goes out into the world, he runs smack into the veil; John is ejected from a classical music concert in New York because he is black, and when he goes home, both blacks and whites are wary of his cynical views about southern conditions. John takes a job as a teacher, but quickly loses the job when local whites feel threatened by the subjects he teaches. The story ends on a depressing note without resolving any of the problems John encounters as an educated black man in the American South.<br />This is an important American text, required reading for anyone interested in race relations and intellectual history. DuBois never saw the struggle for civil rights in the 1960's or its continuing legacy to this day. This book explains the underpinnings of that movement. Through intellectual examination, elegant prose, and an unswerving belief in what is right and wrong, DuBois's contributions continue to resonate in the present.ook. References to Greece and Rome vie with extensive religious themes. These references not only show that a black can benefit from education, but also shows how education will provide a common ground between black and white. However, DuBois does not believe every black should receive a classical education. He recognizes many are not up to the task (as many whites are not, either), but a \\"talented tenth\\" could receive this type of education. These blacks will then go out and spread education and culture within the black community.<br />The essays build up to the phenomenal \\"Of the Coming of John,\\" a short story incorporating almost every theme DuBois expresses throughout the book. This short story relates the tale of John, a poor Georgia black traveling north for an education. At first, John fails to fit in due to poor discipline and lack of interest. When faced with expulsion, John reaches inside himself and succeeds beyond expectations. He learns history, language, and mathematics while growing into manhood. When he finally goes out into the world, he runs smack into the veil; John is ejected from a classical music concert in New York because he is black, and when he goes home, both blacks and whites are wary of his cynical views about southern conditions. John takes a job as a teacher, but quickly loses the job when local whites feel threatened by the subjects he teaches. The story ends on a depressing note without resolving any of the problems John encounters as an educated black man in the American South. <br />This is an important American text, required reading for anyone interested in race relations and intellectual history. DuBois never saw the struggle for civil rights in the 1960's or its continuing legacy to this day. This book explains the underpinnings of that movement. Through intellectual examination, elegant prose, and an unswerving belief in what is right and wrong, DuBois's contributions continue to resonate in the present.	2002-11-15
1340021:US	52012289	R15GM2QMPBMWG8	1566633966	805962597	The Burden of Bad Ideas: How Modern Intellectuals Misshape Our Society	Books	5	66	89	N	N	Heather MacDonald, Apostle of Sanity	Of all the social critics lamenting the conditions of the welfare state-- such as Thomas Sowell, Michelle Malkin, Martin Gross, and Dinesh D'Souza-- it is Heather MacDonald who burns the brightest. This slim book, \\"The Burden of Bad Ideas,\\" is an erudite and scathing assault on all of the leftist sacred cows currently stampeding through our society. The picture of a giant lemon on the cover sets the tone right from the start. The book is a collection of essays MacDonald wrote for something called the \\"City Journal,\\" a New York publication concerning urban affairs and related issues.<br />What is so impressive about MacDonald's detailed expositions is her coverage of topics that do not appear often in other publications or books. MacDonald examines, by turns, the corrosive effect of leftist foundations on society, the elevation of poverty into sainthood, education colleges and their bubble head curriculum, the Smithsonian Institution's rabid devotion to identity politics and white guilt, the wackos inhabiting some of our elite law schools, the Amadou Diallo farce, and several other important topics ignored by our supposedly unbiased media systems. Several of the essays were so depressing I had to lie down and rest after reading them.<br />Even when MacDonald covers a familiar topic she does so from a different perspective, uncovering infinite layers of chicanery from those lovable leftists. For example, a discussion about the sorry state of our schools finds MacDonald analyzing the merits of a special school in New York that teaches ghetto culture as a serious academic discipline. Students learn how to improve their graffiti skills through in class study sessions. Whether these students eventually break the law by applying what they learn in real life situations is not the point; they are \\"artists\\" who aren't allowed to \\"express\\" themselves by the larger society. It is garbage, of course, and MacDonald pulls no punches revealing the warped minds behind the madness, minds devoted to racial hate of whites, derision towards western culture, and a total disregard for the concepts of private property and law. These three warped concepts emerge again and again in MacDonald's essays.<br />The essays are timeless, showing the progression of leftist ideas through both time and space. An essay on the \\"Hundred Neediest Cases\\" best expresses this point. In 1913, The New York Times began a run of Christmastime articles about the worst cases of poverty in the city. The emphasis at this time was on people in true need, those who worked hard but fell on bad times due to circumstances beyond their control. MacDonald follows the series through time, showing how leftist ideas about poverty began to dominate the series. By the 1960's, poverty cases no longer spent much time discussing the poor orphan or widowed mother. Instead, dope users, teen mothers, and other assorted losers lacking any concept of personal responsibility took the spotlight. Grousing about lack of funds for the poor began to appear, as did politically correct ideas about the nature of poverty. This essay alone proves, beyond any doubt, the rapid decline of our values and our country.<br />Bureaucracy is often found at the bottom of the leftist agenda. Safely ensconced in their cubicles beyond the reach of the voter, bureaucrats are the shock troops of leftist ideology. Bureaucrats constantly create new \\"services\\" to remedy problems created by previous \\"services.\\" It is a never-ending cycle, and one that creates more dependency, more drug and alcohol addiction, more unwanted children, and more taxes for those who live responsibly. Regrettably, MacDonald makes the mistake here that many social critics make, namely that changing administrations will solve the problems. The bureaucracy is here to stay, folks. Only a revolution will produce the sweeping changes needed to reverse the odious problems ailing our society.<br />The essays in this book are brilliant. \\"The Burden of Bad Ideas\\" is still available, just in time to stuff your favorite leftist's Christmas stocking. MacDonald has a new book coming out soon, and if it is anywhere near as brilliant as this book MacDonald will soon appear on a news channel near you.eas\\" is still available, just in time to stuff your favorite leftist's Christmas stocking. MacDonald has a new book coming out soon, and if it is anywhere near as brilliant as this book MacDonald will soon appear on a news channel near you.	2002-11-14
1342345:US	52012289	R3EOSCQOFI3QK1	0312070519	297599354	Over the Earth I Come: The Great Sioux Uprising of 1862	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Greek Tragedy in Minnesota, circa 1862	In \\"Over the Earth I Come,\\" military historian Duane Schultz writes a popular history of the infamous Dakota uprising of 1862. The title of the book comes from a Dakota chant of defiance, a fitting title for a book that describes the efforts of a people to cast off the heavy chains of hopelessness, starvation, and general depravation forged through contact with the American government and its Indian agents.<br />Schultz writes a gripping account of all aspects of the uprising and the aftereffects of the rebellion. The author weaves narratives of survivors with political and military events of the uprising into a seamless and compelling account of this unfortunate incident in American history. According to Schultz, some 500 to 2000 whites died in the uprising, many of them German settlers unaware of the danger they faced from the angry Dakotas. Hundreds of Dakotas died as well in the futile military campaigns launched against Fort Ridgley, New Ulm, and at the battle of Birch Coulee. The uprising was a tragedy for everyone involved, from the white women and children who died in astonishingly brutal ways, to the Indians who lost their freedom and lands as a result of the uprising, to President Abraham Lincoln who signed a death warrant for 38 Dakotas (Lincoln lessened the tragedy somewhat by commuting some 264 death sentences). Schultz conveys the tragedy with a heartfelt eloquence that brings tears to your eyes.<br />Early in the book, Schultz examines the causes of the uprising. Was the uprising inevitable? Schultz's answer is a resounding NO! The Dakotas rebelled against the government agents and white settlers due to starvation, a tardy annuity payment, and poor treatment by Indian agents and German settlers. Cultural factors also played a role, as the government played Indians off against each other by rewarding Indians who played by the rules (those who adopted white culture and farming methods), and withholding supplies from \\"blanket\\" Indians (those who refused to adopt an alien culture in order to preserve their ancient way of life). The Indians who refused to adopt white culture watched their converted kin collect supplies and food from government warehouses anytime they needed it, while the blanket Indians collected their food on a set schedule. The blanket Indians eventually formed a soldier's lodge and planned military action against the whites. A harmless incident over some eggs on a white farm escalated into the murder of a family of whites, and the war was on.<br />Schultz spends much time discussing Little Crow, the leader of the uprising. Little Crow, who initially opposed the uprising, eventually changed his mind and supported the revolt, a decision that doomed Little Crow and his people. After discussing Schultz's presentation of Little Crow with a friend, he asked if Schultz relied on the \\"noble savage\\" stereotype while discussing Little Crow. I don't think that is the case here, as Little Crow appears as a politically astute politician, saddened over the deaths of white children and white women while generally making the best of a situation rapidly spiraling beyond his control.<br />In a move sure to bring about howls of protest from the politically correct crowd who believe Indians can do no wrong, Schultz provides graphic details of the slaughter and torture of white settlers caught in the uprising. Through the use of narrative accounts, we see Indian braves on a murder spree of shocking proportions. Indians dashed the heads of children against trees, dropped rocks on people's heads, and tore limbs from still living children. Indians shook hands in a gesture of \\"friendship\\" with whites, and then shot them when they turned their backs. The list of atrocities goes on and on. As bad as these descriptions are, there are many worse ones found in this book. It is understandable that whites howled for blood when the uprising came to an end.<br />At the same time, Schultz shows us the many Indians disgusted at thebehavior of their fellow Indians. Just as people sheltered Jews during World War II, some Indians risked life and limb to protect innocent whites. These Indian men and women were truly saviors to many. But in keeping with the theme of tragedy, Schultz explains how a few innocent Indians died on the gallows; one of them was Chaska, an Indian who protected Sarah Wakefield, a white woman taken captive early in the uprising. Despite Sarah's protestations (or perhaps because of them; whites were not interested in letting any Indian off the hook), Chaska ended up on the gallows.<br />As a popular history, \\"Over the Earth I Come\\" does have its limitations. For example, in his discussion on the causes of the uprising, Schultz completely fails to mention the Spirit Lake massacre in 1857 and the withholding of annuity funds by the government in order to force the Indians to do what the government told them to do. Both of these events contributed to the uprising, and discussing them is essential in understanding the events that followed.<br />\\"Over the Earth I Come\\" is an excellent, well written introduction to this troubling event in American history. The book has all the trappings of a novel: dramatic battles, perilous escapes, mind blowing ironies and \\"what-ifs,\\" and touching stories of human kindness. Schultz conveys the multiple tragedies of this sad event with great sympathy and understanding.behavior of their fellow Indians. Just as people sheltered Jews during World War II, some Indians risked life and limb to protect innocent whites. These Indian men and women were truly saviors to many. But in keeping with the theme of tragedy, Schultz explains how a few innocent Indians died on the gallows; one of them was Chaska, an Indian who protected Sarah Wakefield, a white woman taken captive early in the uprising. Despite Sarah's protestations (or perhaps because of them; whites were not interested in letting any Indian off the hook), Chaska ended up on the gallows.<br />As a popular history, \\"Over the Earth I Come\\" does have its limitations. For example, in his discussion on the causes of the uprising, Schultz completely fails to mention the Spirit Lake massacre in 1857 and the withholding of annuity funds by the government in order to force the Indians to do what the government told them to do. Both of these events contributed to the uprising, and discussing them is essential in understanding the events that followed. <br />\\"Over the Earth I Come\\" is an excellent, well written introduction to this troubling event in American history. The book has all the trappings of a novel: dramatic battles, perilous escapes, mind blowing ironies and \\"what-ifs,\\" and touching stories of human kindness. Schultz conveys the multiple tragedies of this sad event with great sympathy and understanding.	2002-11-12
1347216:US	52012289	R19P118I6HSMZA	0345389387	958610164	The Lance and the Shield: The Life and Times of Sitting Bull	Books	4	38	41	N	N	Highly Readable	Robert Utley writes in his introduction to \\"The Lance and the Shield\\" that it was Stanley Vestal who wrote the definitive biography of Lakota statesman, medicine man, and warrior chief Sitting Bull. Vestal conducted field research in the 1930's, talking to Lakotas who actually knew and lived along side Sitting Bull before his death in 1890. Utley argues that his biography, which borrows heavily on Vestal's research, is necessary because Vestal failed to take into account Lakota culture and lifestyles when crafting his biography. Utley aims to remedy this deficiency with this readable account of Sitting Bull's life and times.<br /><br />The first chapters introduce Sitting Bull in the context of Lakota culture and lifestyle. According to Utley, there are four main virtues that every Lakota must embody in some form if they are to become productive members of their tribe. These virtues are generosity, fortitude, bravery, and wisdom. Sitting Bull showed unusually high competence in all of these traits at an exceptionally young age. Even more important, Utley shows the reader how Sitting Bull often exhibited these traits not to advance himself and his own interests, but to help others in his family and tribe. By the time Sitting Bull was a young man his reputation as an archetype Lakota led some to invoke his name as a battle cry in order to strike fear into the hearts of the enemy.<br /><br />After Utley lays down the cultural context of Sitting Bull and Lakota society, he embarks on a detailed history of Sitting Bull's activities during the chaotic years of the 1860s and 1870s, when the Lakotas faced increasing competition for land resources from whites and other Indian tribes. This is where Utley's theme of the \\"lance\\" and the \\"shield\\" come into play. At various times, Utley argues, Sitting Bull adopted a warlike stance towards his enemies (the lance); at other times he took a defensive position (the shield). What does become clear in Utley's book is that as time goes by, even conservatives like Sitting Bull recognized the lance was useless against the whites. Whites had guns and endless ammunition, cannons, and overwhelming numbers. This made it extremely difficult for the Lakotas to successfully withstand the encroachment of their lands. Even following the bison further west made no long-term difference in the problems the Lakotas faced because whites moved west with them.<br /><br />After the Battle of the Little Bighorn came the deluge, when a decision made at the highest levels of the American government led to an unrelenting war against the Lakota until they surrendered and moved onto reservations in South Dakota and Nebraska. Sitting Bull refused to move to a reservation. For him, the life of a sedentary reservation Indian spelled death for Lakota spiritual, cultural, and lifestyle ways. The government didn't share Sitting Bull's views; they hunted him and his bands relentlessly, eventually forcing Sitting Bull into Canada in order to escape the wrath of his old enemies in the United States Army. Sitting Bull's Canadian exile is discussed in great depth, with an emphasis on how Sitting Bull's presence in Canada strained relations between the United States and Canadian governments.<br /><br />The last part of the book concerns the warrior's eventual surrender to the American military, his stay in a military prison, and his life on the reservation. It was during his stay on the reservation that Sitting Bull met up with his nemesis, Indian agent James McLaughlin. A heated debate rages over McLaughlin's role in Sitting Bull's death, but what isn't debatable is the agent's dislike for Sitting Bull. In letters, notes, and memos McLaughlin tirelessly assails Sitting Bull as a stubborn, troublemaking, and recalcitrant Indian. Utley argues that the reverse is true, that Sitting Bull actually followed the ways of a reservation Indian. Sitting Bull lived in a house, planted crops, and supported sending Lakota children to local schools run by non-Lakotas. Sitting Bull did reject Christianity, preferring to remain loyal to Lakota spiritual ways, but overall Sitting Bull caused little trouble for the reservation authorities.<br /><br />This all changed when the ghost dance began. The increasing problems of reservation Indians lent itself to this eschatological movement. The ghost dance promised paradise and a return to the old ways, providing a much-needed reassurance to displaced Indians stuck on bleak reservations. Sitting Bull found himself caught up in this movement when the ghost dance arrived on his reservation. Utley argues Sitting Bull's actions towards the ghost dance reflected his role as a Lakota chief, in that he tried to find out more about the dancing and what it meant so he could advise his people about what actions they should take towards the phenomenon. The reservation agency headed by McLaughlin panicked about the ghost dance and worried about possible violence resulting from the activity. In an effort to stop the dancing, McLaughlin issued an order for the arrest of Sitting Bull, sending the reservation police to make the arrest. Unfortunately, this police force consisted of Indians, some of whom had beefs with Sitting Bull. In the midst of carrying out McLaughlin's order, Sitting Bull and several others died in a shootout.<br /><br />Utley casts a wide net with his sources, utilizing government documents, books, testimonials, and letters. This gives Utley's book greater balance, even if he does tend to stray into moral judgments that have no place in a history book. His inclusion of numerous maps also helps the reader navigate the endless references to rivers, forts, plains, and agencies referenced in the book.<br /><br />\\"The Lance and the Shield\\" is a book for both historians and the general reader. Even those with zero knowledge of Sitting Bull will learn many fascinating things about this Lakota war chief who dedicated his entire life in service to his people.Bull did reject Christianity, preferring to remain loyal to Lakota spiritual ways, but overall Sitting Bull caused little trouble for the reservation authorities.    This all changed when the ghost dance began. The increasing problems of reservation Indians lent itself to this eschatological movement. The ghost dance promised paradise and a return to the old ways, providing a much-needed reassurance to displaced Indians stuck on bleak reservations. Sitting Bull found himself caught up in this movement when the ghost dance arrived on his reservation. Utley argues Sitting Bull's actions towards the ghost dance reflected his role as a Lakota chief, in that he tried to find out more about the dancing and what it meant so he could advise his people about what actions they should take towards the phenomenon. The reservation agency headed by McLaughlin panicked about the ghost dance and worried about possible violence resulting from the activity. In an effort to stop the dancing, McLaughlin issued an order for the arrest of Sitting Bull, sending the reservation police to make the arrest. Unfortunately, this police force consisted of Indians, some of whom had beefs with Sitting Bull. In the midst of carrying out McLaughlin's order, Sitting Bull and several others died in a shootout.    Utley casts a wide net with his sources, utilizing government documents, books, testimonials, and letters. This gives Utley's book greater balance, even if he does tend to stray into moral judgments that have no place in a history book. His inclusion of numerous maps also helps the reader navigate the endless references to rivers, forts, plains, and agencies referenced in the book.    \\"The Lance and the Shield\\" is a book for both historians and the general reader. Even those with zero knowledge of Sitting Bull will learn many fascinating things about this Lakota war chief who dedicated his entire life in service to his people.	2002-11-08
1351714:US	52012289	R202NDYHPJ4TQ5	1889186163	995671435	Duet for the Devil	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Four Stars for Effort, but Geez...	The back cover of this book trumpets the statement, \\"Quite Possibly The Most Extreme Novel Ever Published.\\" There is even an introduction written by gross out king Ed Lee, who proclaims this book, \\"Grosser than anything I've ever written or ever read.\\" With a tagline and endorsement like that, \\"Duet for the Devil\\" has a high mountain to climb. How could this possibly be worse than anything the Marquis De Sade wrote? Well, it isn't. But that is not saying much. \\"Duet for the Devil\\" is still an obscene, disgusting, pornographic romp through a modern day America filled with serial killers, rapists, drug users, evil corporations, Satanists, and general freaks.<br />The book starts with almost fifteen pages of quotations and excerpts from the works of such diverse artists as Charles Baudelaire, Robert De Grimston (founder of the Process Church of the Final Judgment), Serial killer Henry Lee Lucas, David Berkowitz (the Son of Sam killer), Richard Ramirez (the L.A. Nightstalker), Zodiac, and Charles Manson. The inclusion of these quotes and statements is apparently supposed to set the tone of the book, and it does to some extent, even if it is a tone that will leave a taste akin to burning tires in your mouth.<br />It is a bit difficult to summarize the plot lines of this story because the two authors like to engage in numerous word plays, stream-of-consciousness constructions, and the use of \\"&\\" in place of \\"and.\\" On the surface, the story is about the Zodiac killer, the maniac who killed several people in California back in the 1970's. Unfortunately, Zodiac did not go away, but has been rambling about America for some twenty years killing scads of people along the way. Accompanied by a scuzzbag and his sociopathic prepubescent daughter, Zodiac likes to change his methods of killing to confound local police and mix up the madness a bit. We discover that Zodiac is a genius with a propensity towards fits of rage and frothing at the mouth diatribes that invoke satanic themes and other such nonsense. In a country full of sickos, Zodiac is the high priest of human detritus.<br />Hot on the trail of Zodiac is former FBI agent Warren \\"Frank\\" Hawkes and his faithful canine sidekick Elijah. Hawkes is obsessed with tracking Zodiac down and putting an end to his sick rampage once and for all. Frank roams the highways of America in his constant pursuit to track down a killer who makes Theodore Bundy look like Captain Kangaroo.<br />Also weaving a gruesome path through this story is Professor Punk (yes, that's his name), an old acidhead with a talent for mixing up new and exciting drugs. His most effective concoction is Blue Devil, a drug that allows the user to mentally connect to other people's minds. When one nasty thug (by the name of Slice) happens to overdose on the junk, he turns into a rather nasty sort of chap. Punk must then track down the metamorphosing Slice while trying to locate his old buddy Zodiac.<br />This is truly a taxing book to read, as even the most jaded horror fan begins to wear down under the sheer onslaught of pornographic violence, murder, and general mayhem found on every page of the book. It really isn't the graphic nature of the book that gets under your skin; it is the duration of the sickness that grates. Reading dozens and dozens of pages concerning the torture/murder of a young woman or a detailed account of sexual depravity just isn't fun. In fact, it is sick beyond belief. Not the type of people to leave well enough alone, the authors try to break down accepted boundaries and create something truly dreadful, but give me a break! It is hard not to read this and wonder, \\"What do the parents of these two guys think about what their sons do for a living?\\"<br />Having voiced some well-deserved displeasure over the gratuitousness of the whole thing, it should be said some parts of the book are clever and show the authors to be well read individuals with a flair for the English language. A section deciphering cluesZodiac left in his letters to the cops in San Francisco is fun to read as well. Regrettably, these sparks nearly sputter out due to the excessively brutal aspects of the book.<br />There are no heroes in this novel, as even Hawkes turns out to be a degenerate. Every character turns out to be deeply flawed; perhaps in an attempt to show that good in the world is nonexistent (The authors refer to humanity as \\"mancruel\\" versus \\"mankind,\\" emphasizing their beliefs about the true nature of our species). There are better ways to be nihilistic, however, and \\"Duet for the Devil\\" teeters precariously on the precipice of utter garbage. Still, serious gorehounds will want to add this to their library, even if it does become too much at times.Zodiac left in his letters to the cops in San Francisco is fun to read as well. Regrettably, these sparks nearly sputter out due to the excessively brutal aspects of the book.<br />There are no heroes in this novel, as even Hawkes turns out to be a degenerate. Every character turns out to be deeply flawed; perhaps in an attempt to show that good in the world is nonexistent (The authors refer to humanity as \\"mancruel\\" versus \\"mankind,\\" emphasizing their beliefs about the true nature of our species). There are better ways to be nihilistic, however, and \\"Duet for the Devil\\" teeters precariously on the precipice of utter garbage. Still, serious gorehounds will want to add this to their library, even if it does become too much at times.	2002-11-05
1355806:US	52012289	R2Y6SD4L4BT4SC	0960432019	591271681	Ecotopia	Books	4	41	54	N	N	A Greener Pasture?	Utopia novels are always a real hoot to read. Every fringe group with an axe to grind eventually churns out some idealistic novel about the way things ought to be. We have socialism represented in Edward Bellamy's \\"Looking Backward.\\" The racists weigh in with William Peirce's fascistic \\"The Turner Diaries.\\" Even feminists have a novel, Charlotte Perkins Gilman's \\"Herland.\\" Perhaps it was inevitable the environmentalists would put forth their own work, Ernest Callenbach's \\"Ecotopia.\\"<br />Ecotopia is a country made up of the states of Washington, Oregon, and a big chunk of California. After a period of political and economic turmoil, these states seceded from the United States circa 1980. They were able to do this because economic conditions in the United States were so bad (apparently Callenbach assumed the problems of the 1970's would continue to spiral us downwards) that the government could not mount an effective civil war to bring the states back into the fold. Further complicating the issue was the nuclear mines Ecotopian guerillas planted in Washington D.C. and other American cities. By the time \\"Ecotopia\\" starts, twenty years have passed since Ecotopia gained its independence.<br />\\"Ecotopia\\" tells the story of William Weston, a crack journalist for a big New York newspaper. Weston's mission, if he chooses to accept it, is to take a journey into the country of Ecotopia and report on what he finds there. Weston is your typical big city boy--arrogant, flighty, divorced, and always looking for a new bimbo to drape over his arm. The insights into Weston's character come from italicized \\"journal\\" entries placed directly before his official newspaper articles. Needless to say, Weston undergoes a sea change in attitude as he uncovers every aspect of Ecotopian life. He even hooks up with a tree-worshipping chickadee named Marissa, which allows Callenbach to throw in plenty of gratuitous sex scenes. Callenbach proves to us that a return to nature produces an oversexed population, a behavior Weston is more than willing to take part in.<br />Callenbach uses Weston's articles to reveal a wide array of Ecotopian modes of thought, creativity, and lifestyles. The most important of these aspects is the \\"stable-state\\" system, where Ecotopians direct all aspects of government, production, and lifestyle towards the idea of reusable commodities. Ecotopia avoids the use of heavy metals, unbiodegradable plastics, and internal combustion engines. They don't want to use anything that cannot be reused at some point, or anything that may put stress on the environment. Predictably, bicycles are widely used, population growth is discouraged, biodegradable materials are heavily used, and big cities are slowly giving way to smaller, tight knit communities. Pollution is a grave crime in Ecotopia, and many citizens agitate for military action against nations involved in reckless destruction of the environment.<br />Military action? From a peaceful, green state? Oh yes, Ecotopia does have a military branch, an intelligence apparatus, and a political structure that, at times, wields a heavy hand. Behind the all the hand holding and smiles lurk ominous communistic overtones that threaten to overthrow the world Callenbach attempts to create. At one point, secret police officers approach Weston after he meets with a group of disaffected Ecotopians who want to restore relations with the United States and ease the march towards a greener society. Ecotopians do not believe in being alone, either, as Weston discovers when told, \\"Here we try to arrange it so we are not lonely very often. That keeps us from making a lot of emotional mistakes.\\" It also prevents people from thinking dangerous thoughts about society and their position within that society, does it not?<br />It is society over the individual that concerns Callenbach's Ecotopians. Weston learns \\"We don't think in terms of things, there are no such things as a thing-there are only systems.\\" Weston realizes, at this point, that he is part of a system, that he is not a separate individual thing. Tell that to the individual who questions Ecotopia's emphasis on nature over humans. Of course, in Callenbach's utopia, no one seriously questions the underlying principle of environmental based political structures, but in the real world this would never happen. I shudder to think about what would happen to those who questioned this system too deeply. Perhaps a gulag system near Spokane or execution without trial might clear up these pesky problems.<br />\\"Ecotopia\\" isn't a lost cause. There are a few things within these pages that are agreeable and pleasing. The breakup of mass media systems within Ecotopia in favor of small, multiple outlets is a splendid idea. But overall, worrying darkness looms behind the smiling faces in Callenbach's utopian vision. \\"Ecotopia\\" proves that going too far to one extreme in a quest for ultimate happiness is never a good thing.izes, at this point, that he is part of a system, that he is not a separate individual thing. Tell that to the individual who questions Ecotopia's emphasis on nature over humans. Of course, in Callenbach's utopia, no one seriously questions the underlying principle of environmental based political structures, but in the real world this would never happen. I shudder to think about what would happen to those who questioned this system too deeply. Perhaps a gulag system near Spokane or execution without trial might clear up these pesky problems.<br />\\"Ecotopia\\" isn't a lost cause. There are a few things within these pages that are agreeable and pleasing. The breakup of mass media systems within Ecotopia in favor of small, multiple outlets is a splendid idea. But overall, worrying darkness looms behind the smiling faces in Callenbach's utopian vision. \\"Ecotopia\\" proves that going too far to one extreme in a quest for ultimate happiness is never a good thing.	2002-11-01
1356830:US	52012289	REIOT0XI90NGC	0486275639	397623101	Civil Disobedience and Other Essays (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	76	81	N	N	Arise, Ye Overworked Americans!	Henry David Thoreau (1817-1862) was an American philosopher, poet, and naturalist who moved in the same intellectual and social circles as Ralph Waldo Emerson. This Dover Thrift edition contains several important Thoreau tracts: Civil Disobedience, Slavery in Massachusetts, A Plea for Captain John Brown, Walking, and Life Without Principle. Thoreau also wrote the famous \\"Walden,\\" and several other influential pieces shaped by his sense of environment and his unwavering belief in the power of the individual.<br />In \\"Civil Disobedience,\\" Thoreau discusses the role of the individual in society and government. Starting off with his famous statement, \\"That government is best which governs not at all,\\" Thoreau waxes philosophic about the role of the United States government in the Mexican War and slavery. Thoreau argues that majorities in a democracy decide what the laws are because they are the strongest element in society. According to Thoreau, what is law is not necessarily right, and just because the majority decides an issue doesn't automatically make that issue palatable to a man's conscience. Individuals can, and sometimes should, oppose the majority, and they can be right even if they are in the minority. Ultimately, if laws are not reliable beacons of truth, one should appeal to one's conscience to decide what is right and wrong. However, merely deciding something is wrong is not enough if that decision is not followed by concrete action. Thoreau criticizes the voting process in this context, since anybody can vote for something. Without action following a decision, voting or supporting something is useless. This essay also contains Thoreau's account of his stay in jail for failure to pay a tax.<br />\\"A Plea for Captain John Brown\\" probably caused considerable controversy at the time of its writing. John Brown was the fire-breathing abolitionist who made the famous raid on Harper's Ferry in the 1850's. Brown eventually went to the gallows for his crimes while American citizens debated his actions. Most thought Brown a wacko, an extremely dangerous radical who threatened the social fabric of the country. Thoreau defends Brown in an essay both eloquent and naïve. This is really a panegyric to an unrealistic man who used questionable methods to attain his goal. When Thoreau refers to Brown as \\"an angel of light,\\" it is necessary for the reader to remember Brown killed many people in cold blood.<br />\\"Walking\\" is the centerpiece of this collection of essays. Thoreau starts his discussion by musing on the wonders of walking in the country (sans terre, or \\"sauntering\\"), and ends up discussing nature, the movements of mankind, work, and freedom. Thoreau feels we gave up something very special when we locked ourselves in our shops and devoted our days to long hours of work. Get out! Enjoy life! Admire the trees, a sunset, and the birds! Don't give up your freedom for a wage and dull toil! These are the things Thoreau urges upon us in this essay, and he certainly has a point. This is an amazing piece of writing because it is probably more relevant today than in Thoreau's time. At least in those days vast expanses of nature still existed. Today, we must climb into our little boxes with wheels and drive for miles before we see a small forest or some mountains, while elbowing our way through all the others doing the same thing. \\"Walking\\" is a beautiful testament to a bucolic life.<br />I find Thoreau's writings vastly superior to anything Emerson wrote. Thoreau is more accessible, cares more about concrete issues, and seems like a nicer person. Thoreau comes across as the type of guy you could shoot the breeze with for an hour or so, whereas Emerson seems aloof and esoteric. Thoreau as a person is from an era long dead, but his words continue to resonate deeply in our souls. I think I'll go take a walk.erican citizens debated his actions. Most thought Brown a wacko, an extremely dangerous radical who threatened the social fabric of the country. Thoreau defends Brown in an essay both eloquent and naïve. This is really a panegyric to an unrealistic man who used questionable methods to attain his goal. When Thoreau refers to Brown as \\"an angel of light,\\" it is necessary for the reader to remember Brown killed many people in cold blood.<br />\\"Walking\\" is the centerpiece of this collection of essays. Thoreau starts his discussion by musing on the wonders of walking in the country (sans terre, or \\"sauntering\\"), and ends up discussing nature, the movements of mankind, work, and freedom. Thoreau feels we gave up something very special when we locked ourselves in our shops and devoted our days to long hours of work. Get out! Enjoy life! Admire the trees, a sunset, and the birds! Don't give up your freedom for a wage and dull toil! These are the things Thoreau urges upon us in this essay, and he certainly has a point. This is an amazing piece of writing because it is probably more relevant today than in Thoreau's time. At least in those days vast expanses of nature still existed. Today, we must climb into our little boxes with wheels and drive for miles before we see a small forest or some mountains, while elbowing our way through all the others doing the same thing. \\"Walking\\" is a beautiful testament to a bucolic life.<br />I find Thoreau's writings vastly superior to anything Emerson wrote. Thoreau is more accessible, cares more about concrete issues, and seems like a nicer person. Thoreau comes across as the type of guy you could shoot the breeze with for an hour or so, whereas Emerson seems aloof and esoteric. Thoreau as a person is from an era long dead, but his words continue to resonate deeply in our souls. I think I'll go take a walk.	2002-10-31
1368762:US	52012289	RHYPFI67VP04J	0374528497	64824201	The Metaphysical Club: A Story of Ideas in America	Books	5	157	163	N	N	The Actualization of Ideas	\\"The Metaphysical Club\\" spent a whole lot of time on bestseller lists, and won a Pulitzer Prize for its author, Louis Menand. Its subtitle, \\"A Story of Ideas in America,\\" gives some indication on what the book is about, but until you actually read the book you cannot begin to grasp its depth and sheer brilliance. The biggest surprise is Menand's credentials; he is a professor of English at the City University in New York. That an English professor wrote an amazing synthesis of philosophy, sociology, and history is worthy of some type of prize.<br />This book involves the reader on so many different levels that a review is sure to leave lots of information untouched. In short (very short!), Menand argues that studying the philosophical works of Oliver Wendell Holmes, Charles Peirce, William James, and John Dewey will tell us about where America has been, and where it is now. Menand argues that these four people influenced the way we think and act today.<br />Oliver Wendell Holmes fought in the Civil War as a young man. Later in life, he became one of America's leading legal theorists as a justice of the Supreme Court. The war deeply scarred Holmes, calling into question his conceptions of life and truth. In his legal rulings and scholarly articles, Holmes subscribed to the view that \\"certitude leads to violence,\\" which means those with absolute ideas (like abolitionists and pro-slavery forces) won't compromise their belief systems. The result of this unwillingness to compromise is often bloody violence. Many of Holmes's rulings and writings support the belief that ideas, no matter how repugnant, should find full expression in society regardless of how unworthy they may be. Better to battle over a belief in socialism or communism through public debate then on the battlefield where thousands perish.<br />Charles Peirce was a philosopher and mathematician. While he is relegated to relative obscurity today, Menand argues that Peirce is tremendously significant in American philosophical history. Peirce worked as a statistician for the government, but in his off time he wrote intricate philosophical arguments concerning the nature of ideas and belief systems. The underpinning of all of Peirce's writings is the belief that human knowledge cannot rely on the observations of individuals. Peirce argued that humans have limited sensory perceptions that detect limited information. Just because we see something in front of us does not mean that it is an absolute. Even the law of gravity may not be absolute because we cannot see it in action everywhere that it exists. The best way, or at least the way with the least room for statistical error, to come to some form of \\"true\\" knowledge is to rely on the collected perceptions of the community. This idea can be extended to a \\"community over the individual\\" mentality, and it reached its greatest expression in the writings of John Dewey.<br />One of Peirce's ardent admirers was William James. James is best known today for the philosophy of Pragmatism (he is also the brother of novelist Henry James). Pragmatism is a method of philosophical inquiry that attempts to find a middle ground between absolute belief systems. It does not rely wholly on empirical based beliefs or theological based beliefs, as neither one of those systems provide an adequate explanation for why people believe the things that they do. According to James, ideas or beliefs that do not benefit humanity are irrelevant; discussion or debate about these inactive ideas is merely mental gymnastics. Only beliefs that may be actualized are worth believing in. In short, beliefs must have a \\"cash value,\\" they must WORK in everyday life. Only then do they assume the value of truth.<br />John Dewey also adopted the pragmatic method in his numerous philosophical investigations. Dewey's most significant contribution (depending on how you look at it) is to the modern educational system. While at the University of Chicago, Dewey took a pragmatic approach towards education by rejecting the rote memorization of intangible concepts in favor of a \\"hands on\\" education. Children didn't learn tables of measurements from a chart; they actualized measurements through cooking classes. What they did is DO; they took a belief (measurements) and made it real in everyday life. The children also worked together, embodying another important Dewey concept: the emphasis of community over the individual. Most people believe that there are individuals first and then they form a society, but Dewey believed that there is no individual without society. The distinction is a difficult one, but important when applied to education, politics, and other fields of human endeavor. It is not surprising modern conservatives despise Dewey.<br />What impressed me most about Menand's book is the importance of Charles Darwin to philosophy. It was Darwin's theories that defeated the pseudo-scientific racial theories of Louis Agassiz, Samuel Morton, and Josiah Nott. Darwin's greatest contribution was clearing a path through the theology based educational systems in 19th century America. After Darwin, empiricism gained ground rapidly in schools and in philosophical arguments. Some reactionaries attempted to weld religion and science together, but the damage was already done. Our modern, secularized society with its mania for technological innovation can be traced back to this groundbreaking figure.<br />Menand's book is an absolutely fascinating read. He does digress often, but these digressions are unbelievably entertaining (read about William James's father and see why) and necessary to the arguments of the book. By providing the background and the influences of these four individuals, we see them outside the vacuum-sealed world of their arguments. Louis Menand, you deserve your Pulitzer Prize.c approach towards education by rejecting the rote memorization of intangible concepts in favor of a \\"hands on\\" education. Children didn't learn tables of measurements from a chart; they actualized measurements through cooking classes. What they did is DO; they took a belief (measurements) and made it real in everyday life. The children also worked together, embodying another important Dewey concept: the emphasis of community over the individual. Most people believe that there are individuals first and then they form a society, but Dewey believed that there is no individual without society. The distinction is a difficult one, but important when applied to education, politics, and other fields of human endeavor. It is not surprising modern conservatives despise Dewey.<br />What impressed me most about Menand's book is the importance of Charles Darwin to philosophy. It was Darwin's theories that defeated the pseudo-scientific racial theories of Louis Agassiz, Samuel Morton, and Josiah Nott. Darwin's greatest contribution was clearing a path through the theology based educational systems in 19th century America. After Darwin, empiricism gained ground rapidly in schools and in philosophical arguments. Some reactionaries attempted to weld religion and science together, but the damage was already done. Our modern, secularized society with its mania for technological innovation can be traced back to this groundbreaking figure.<br />Menand's book is an absolutely fascinating read. He does digress often, but these digressions are unbelievably entertaining (read about William James's father and see why) and necessary to the arguments of the book. By providing the background and the influences of these four individuals, we see them outside the vacuum-sealed world of their arguments. Louis Menand, you deserve your Pulitzer Prize.	2002-10-21
1369136:US	52012289	R3UUM9SYWIFXE9	0451192257	685234959	The Revelation	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Bentley Little's First Novel	Back in 1989, Bentley Little was a struggling writer just emerging from graduate school. Thankfully, Little managed to publish his master's thesis, a little story called \\"The Revelation.\\" Thirteen years and twelve books later Bentley Little is one of the most recognized names in the horror genre. To think that the master who wrote brilliant social satire like \\"The Store\\" started out with a story about killer fetuses! Little would eventually do for Arizona what Stephen King did for Maine; turn a whole state into a festering pool of oozing evil itching to rip out humanity's throat.<br />\\"The Revelation\\" is set in Randall, Arizona. Randall is a podunk town where nothing much happens beyond dealing with scorching heat in the summer followed by monsoon-type rains. It is a nice, quiet place to live. It is even a good place to start a family, as Gordon and Marina Lewis discover when Marina becomes pregnant. For Sheriff Jim Weldon, Randall is usually a quiet town with minimal problems. Yep, Randall is an overall nice place to live, work, go to church, or even hang out at the local redneck bar. Unfortunately, Randall is a construct in the mind of Bentley Little, so we know something is bound to turn up that might make life a tad unpleasant in this picturesque town.<br />The dilemma starts when the local Episcopalian minister and his family disappear. The only clue left behind is on the minister's church, where unprintable obscenities are scrawled all over the building with goat blood. Quickly following on the heels of this shocking scene is the discovery of dead, mutilated goats on all the farms in the region. Then people start dying or disappearing, attacked by unknown assailants possessing a horrible bloodlust. Weldon, Gordon, and Father Andrews (the replacement minister at the Episcopalian church) start to experience weird, sweat spraying nightmares about a cemetery for dead babies and some sort of evil being with a penchant for leaping out of fires. Throw in an enigmatic, bible-thumping weirdo named Brother Elias, and you have the essence of this gross, supernatural horror novel.<br />Little's first novel contains many of the great hallmarks one sees in his later books: the placidity of normal everyday life rudely jolted by a horrific, supernatural event, an ancient evil reawakening after years of dormancy, a high body count with gallons of spilled blood, and very imaginative scenes that leave the reader in head shaking wonder while bringing on copious amounts of grade-A queasiness.<br />At the same time, \\"The Revelation\\" also contains some of the flaws one sees in Little's later works: threads that go nowhere (blood appears on a church in Phoenix, but nothing ever comes of it), unexplained phenomena and events, and an ending that always seems like a letdown after a great buildup (although the ending here is more detailed than some of the other conclusions in his later books).<br />Ultimately, \\"The Revelation\\" is still great fun for those who cackle over horror books and movies. This book, along with \\"The Store\\" would make a great movie. Bentley Little shows no sign of letting up anytime in the near future, faithfully churning out a new novel every year or so. If only he gave the same attention to his conclusions as he does for his buildups, his books would attain near perfection., bible-thumping weirdo named Brother Elias, and you have the essence of this gross, supernatural horror novel.<br />Little's first novel contains many of the great hallmarks one sees in his later books: the placidity of normal everyday life rudely jolted by a horrific, supernatural event, an ancient evil reawakening after years of dormancy, a high body count with gallons of spilled blood, and very imaginative scenes that leave the reader in head shaking wonder while bringing on copious amounts of grade-A queasiness.<br />At the same time, \\"The Revelation\\" also contains some of the flaws one sees in Little's later works: threads that go nowhere (blood appears on a church in Phoenix, but nothing ever comes of it), unexplained phenomena and events, and an ending that always seems like a letdown after a great buildup (although the ending here is more detailed than some of the other conclusions in his later books).<br />Ultimately, \\"The Revelation\\" is still great fun for those who cackle over horror books and movies. This book, along with \\"The Store\\" would make a great movie. Bentley Little shows no sign of letting up anytime in the near future, faithfully churning out a new novel every year or so. If only he gave the same attention to his conclusions as he does for his buildups, his books would attain near perfection.	2002-10-21
1369175:US	52012289	R3AQD51Z48POAG	0486295680	649642989	World War One British Poets: Brooke, Owen, Sassoon, Rosenberg and Others (Unabridged)	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Great Poems on War	I am not a poetry reader. Perhaps due to a lasting revulsion of forced readings in various literature classes during my tenure in public school, poetry used to be a real turn off. Until I picked up this slim book of poems of British World War I poets, that is. After a few pages of some of the excellent poetry in this book, the pulse quickened, the lights came on, and poetry suddenly seemed useful.<br />World War I (1914-1918) is pretty much a forgotten war today. Occasionally, you'll see a documentary containing grainy footage of men in strange helmets climbing out of trenches, usually moving at a freakishly quick pace due to the inadequacy of the early film process. WWI is further overshadowed by the mega-death body count of WWII. But WWI had its own unique horrors as the nations involved resorted to poison gas, mechanized warfare, and attrition strategies to kill off some 15 million people. The new methods of mechanized warfare failed to stifle the human element of war, and this is where these poems come into play. Some of the soldiers involved in the conflict were poets and writers, and they used these talents to document the battlefield horrors for the folks back home.<br />There are male and female writers here, and those who were there and those who stayed home. Those who served in the war do the best jobs with their poetry. Even May Wedderburn Cannan, a woman who served as a nurse at Rouen, writes better poetry about the war than such distinguished literary figures Rudyard Kipling and Thomas Hardy (both of whom write from the safety of the home fires).<br />Keeping in line with the subject matter, most of the poems are grim and violent. Many of the poems focus on the incongruity of nature and violent acts of war. In one stanza, birds are chirping, the sun is shining, men are singing, and all seems right with the world. The next stanza is filled with sudden mutilations, violent death, and the shriek and scream of shells and bullets. Some of the poems deal with the anguish of watching someone die or killing another human being, as Wilfred Owen writes in \\"The Target\\" about a possible meeting in the afterlife with an enemy he's killed:<br />  \\"Well, if they get me, first I'll find<br />  That boy, and tell him all my mind,<br />  And see who felt the bullet worst,<br />  And ask his pardon, if I durst.\\"<br />A few of the poets speak in favor of the war, seeing it as a call to glory or a defense against barbarism (see Rupert Brooks, John McCrae, and Rudyard Kipling). Others rail against the rulers and the senseless attrition warfare (Siegfried Sassoon, Wilfred Owen, and Isaac Rosenberg best represent this viewpoint).<br />Regardless of ideological viewpoint or writing style, all of the poems have a beauty that comes from dealing with horrors beyond the comprehension of the individual. The overwhelming power of the poems should make the hardiest soul's eyes mist over with tears of frustration, agony, and profound sadness.the anguish of watching someone die or killing another human being, as Wilfred Owen writes in \\"The Target\\" about a possible meeting in the afterlife with an enemy he's killed:<br />  \\"Well, if they get me, first I'll find<BR>    That boy, and tell him all my mind,<BR>    And see who felt the bullet worst,<BR>    And ask his pardon, if I durst.\\" <br />A few of the poets speak in favor of the war, seeing it as a call to glory or a defense against barbarism (see Rupert Brooks, John McCrae, and Rudyard Kipling). Others rail against the rulers and the senseless attrition warfare (Siegfried Sassoon, Wilfred Owen, and Isaac Rosenberg best represent this viewpoint).<br />Regardless of ideological viewpoint or writing style, all of the poems have a beauty that comes from dealing with horrors beyond the comprehension of the individual. The overwhelming power of the poems should make the hardiest soul's eyes mist over with tears of frustration, agony, and profound sadness.	2002-10-21
1369430:US	52012289	R3JBLCWLF8J039	0671877054	815222208	Bran Mak Morn	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Another Howardian Gem	You gotta love these Robert E. Howard books! The grandfather of testosterone drenched fantasy stories hits another homerun with this cycle of Bran Mak Morn tales offered in one volume. It is really too bad the other Baen volumes of Howard's works are out of print because this is excellent entertainment.<br />Like Howard's other superhuman heroes, Conan and Kull, Bran Mak Morn is tough as nails and doesn't take you-know-what from anybody. The stories are set in the distant past (although not as distant as Conan or some of Howard's other tales), in the time of the Roman occupation of Britain. Bran is the last pure blood king of the Picts, an ancient people overwhelmed by numerous invasions during the ages. Howard takes liberal license with the real history, creating a mystical people with links to Atlantis and Lemuria. Bran is fighting for the survival of his people in a world populated by Lovecraftian monsters, sorcerers, Roman soldiers, enemy tribes, Vikings, and other assorted evils.<br />In \\"The Lost Race,\\" a wandering Briton stumbles on a bandit leader and his evil minions. After fleeing from the thieves, he stumbles into a cave containing the remnants of the Pictish tribes, presided over by Bran Mak Morn. It is here we are introduced to Morn and discover how his tribe fell into misfortune.<br />\\"Men of the Shadows\\" is narrated by a Roman soldier lost in enemy territory after his fellow soldiers died in combat. His eventual meeting with Bran Mak Morn is no surprise, but serves to fill in details about the travels of the Picts through the ancient world. Some freaky sorcery and the usual Howardian sense of doom run throughout this tale.<br />\\"Kings of the Night\\" is a combat tale that reminds me of Howard's story on the Battle of Clontarf in \\"Eons of the Night.\\" The Picts are assembling for a battle to prevent an invasion by the Roman army. Bran Mak Morn has some trouble persuading some Vikings to fight for him until a king comes to lead the Vikings into battle. Where this king comes from and how he gets there is enormous fun, as is the gory battle with the Roman invaders.<br />\\"Worms of the Earth\\" absolutely reeks of Lovecraft. In this story, Bran Mak Morn swears revenge on a sadistic Roman governor. In order to carry out his oath, Morn seeks the help of the worms of the earth, a race of humans pushed underground eons ago by the Picts. Something happened to these humans during their years underground, a sickening transformation that makes them a fearsome presence.<br />\\"The Dark Man\\" is the story of Turlogh Dubh, a survivor of Clontarf whose exile from his clan leads him on endless journeys through forbidding lands. When a gang of Vikings kidnaps a beautiful Irish princess, Dubh hunts them down with the help of a strange icon found in the hands of a dead Pict. After a bloody battle with the Vikings, Dubh meets the Picts and learns about the fate of Bran Mak Morn.<br />The final story, \\"The Gods of Bal-Sagoth,\\" is a further adventure of Turlogh Dubh. Dubh is captured by Viking pirates, one of who is Athelstane, a survivor of the battle in \\"The Dark Man.\\" After the Viking ship crashes, Athelstane and Dubh join forces to topple the king of Bal-Sagoth. This king is a puppet of a sorcerer who spends his free time creating weird hybrids in an underground cave. Predictably, everything quickly degenerates into an epic battle where bodies topple by the boatload.<br />Robert Howard is a hard act to follow. It really is a pity he committed suicide at a young age, thereby robbing the genre of countless tales that would have elevated his reputation even higher than it is today. Somebody really out to reprint the other volumes in this series. Selling them would be a piece of cake.re this king comes from and how he gets there is enormous fun, as is the gory battle with the Roman invaders.<br />\\"Worms of the Earth\\" absolutely reeks of Lovecraft. In this story, Bran Mak Morn swears revenge on a sadistic Roman governor. In order to carry out his oath, Morn seeks the help of the worms of the earth, a race of humans pushed underground eons ago by the Picts. Something happened to these humans during their years underground, a sickening transformation that makes them a fearsome presence. <br />\\"The Dark Man\\" is the story of Turlogh Dubh, a survivor of Clontarf whose exile from his clan leads him on endless journeys through forbidding lands. When a gang of Vikings kidnaps a beautiful Irish princess, Dubh hunts them down with the help of a strange icon found in the hands of a dead Pict. After a bloody battle with the Vikings, Dubh meets the Picts and learns about the fate of Bran Mak Morn.<br />The final story, \\"The Gods of Bal-Sagoth,\\" is a further adventure of Turlogh Dubh. Dubh is captured by Viking pirates, one of who is Athelstane, a survivor of the battle in \\"The Dark Man.\\" After the Viking ship crashes, Athelstane and Dubh join forces to topple the king of Bal-Sagoth. This king is a puppet of a sorcerer who spends his free time creating weird hybrids in an underground cave. Predictably, everything quickly degenerates into an epic battle where bodies topple by the boatload.<br />Robert Howard is a hard act to follow. It really is a pity he committed suicide at a young age, thereby robbing the genre of countless tales that would have elevated his reputation even higher than it is today. Somebody really out to reprint the other volumes in this series. Selling them would be a piece of cake.	2002-10-21
1375383:US	52012289	RQ0SAB5HKP6I6	0803210183	873517728	Kinsmen of Another Kind: Dakota-White Relations in the Upper Mississippi Valley, 1650-1862	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Somewhat Biased, but Good	Gary C. Anderson is considered an expert on Dakota/Sioux history, largely due to this book, \\"Kinsmen of Another Kind: Dakota-White Relations in the Upper Mississippi Valley, 1650-1862.\\" It is a reprint, I believe, of his doctoral dissertation, and includes a new introduction of the original 1984 printing ... For a neophyte such as myself, the book is a bit too detailed for an introduction to Dakota history, but Anderson does help the beginner by vigorously emphasizing general themes throughout the book.<br />Anderson's central theme in his book is one of kinship ties. In Dakota culture, Anderson argues, one could be \\"adopted\\" into a tribe, band, or Dakota family by going through either a ceremony or marrying a Dakota. Once this was done, that person (and there is no distinction among Indians or Whites in this matter) is considered a part of the tribe. White traders as early as the French in the 17th century used these ties to great effect because it allowed the traders to employ Dakota hunters as fur gatherers. But the ties also required the traders who used them to treat their new Dakota kin as family, something some traders failed to do on a regular basis. Some of these traders let the relationships lapse, or did not give gifts to their Dakota kin (an essential aspect of the give and take of the relationship). Throughout the book, Anderson sledgehammers this concept again and again, showing how kinship bonds so heavily relied upon in the earliest days of Dakota-White contact faded into obscurity as time went by and Whites gained the upper hand in the region in terms of military, political, and economic strength. By the time of the Dakota uprising of 1862, kinship ties were nearly nonexistent.<br />An effective way to read this book, and one that my professor is trying to drill into our heads, is to try and examine Anderson's findings from an Indian perspective. When this is done, numerous problems with the book emerge.<br />First, Anderson relies heavily on European sources for his information. While his list of these sources in the back of the book is truly impressive (he examines everything from diaries, travelogues, journals, letters, government documents, books, and treaties), his use of native oral tradition is scarce. Dakota oral stories do exist concerning contact with Europeans, but after reading this book, you would never know it. This may stem from the time in which Anderson wrote the book, as there is now a greater awareness of the need to utilize these sources in order to achieve a finer balance and larger historical picture.<br />Second, for an Indian scholar, Anderson at times shows a slight insensitivity to the Dakota. It is easy to get carried away with this point and indulge in the type of reckless statements made by the politically correct crowd, but a few statements Anderson makes could be considered crass. For instance, he calls Andrew Jackson's removal program, a program that forced Indians throughout the United States off of their land (often at gunpoint), \\"humane.\\" During his exposition of the Dakota uprising in 1862, Anderson incessantly refers to Dakotas as either \\"friendlies\\" or \\"hostiles.\\" Now this may be true from the standpoint of the settlers in the region dodging Indian bullets, but it probably had different connotations for those Dakotas who participated in the revolt.<br />Despite the few biased comments, Anderson doesn't disregard the shameful aspects of the treaty process between Dakotas and the United States government. Time and time again, treaties signed with the Dakotas promised much and delivered little. It was the traders who committed the most egregious sins; they used their position as suppliers for the Dakota to falsify debt records, presenting bills to the federal government for outlandish amounts of money \\"owed\\" to them by the Dakotas. When the treaty money finally came through, the traders skimmed this amount right off the top, often getting the amounts written directly into thetreaty agreements. As if that isn't bad enough, some of the treaty commissioners indulged in a little corruption themselves, taking tens of thousands of dollars as \\"fees\\" for transporting the payments from Washington to the Dakota tribes in Minnesota. At least when this happened, it still meant the Dakotas got some of the money. Oftentimes, either the money didn't come through at all, or would be delivered months late, leading to starvation for the tribes who needed the funds for essential supplies. Eventually, the government realized they could purposefully withhold the money in order to force the Dakota to do things the government wanted done. This withholding of funds is what led to the destructive uprising in 1862, leading to the deaths of hundreds of Dakotas and Whites.<br />It would have been extremely helpful if Anderson included some decent maps in this book. We get two, one puny map of the upper Mississippi area and one of the Dakota reservations along the Minnesota River. Neither does effective service to the huge amount of place names Anderson drops during the course of his work. They also fail to help the reader place the various tribes within the Dakota Nation. This is important because Anderson often refers to the Mdewankantons, Sissetons, Wahpekutes, etc. These are the separate Dakota tribes, and they move about frequently, so frequently that locating them on the maps provided defies even the hardiest efforts.<br />For a detailed, scholarly history of the Eastern Dakota tribes, this book, despite its many flaws, does the trick. The research, for the sources it does utilize, is well done. Gary Anderson is to be commended for a fascinating look at a way of life long gone from the American scene.e treaty agreements. As if that isn't bad enough, some of the treaty commissioners indulged in a little corruption themselves, taking tens of thousands of dollars as \\"fees\\" for transporting the payments from Washington to the Dakota tribes in Minnesota. At least when this happened, it still meant the Dakotas got some of the money. Oftentimes, either the money didn't come through at all, or would be delivered months late, leading to starvation for the tribes who needed the funds for essential supplies. Eventually, the government realized they could purposefully withhold the money in order to force the Dakota to do things the government wanted done. This withholding of funds is what led to the destructive uprising in 1862, leading to the deaths of hundreds of Dakotas and Whites.<br />It would have been extremely helpful if Anderson included some decent maps in this book. We get two, one puny map of the upper Mississippi area and one of the Dakota reservations along the Minnesota River. Neither does effective service to the huge amount of place names Anderson drops during the course of his work. They also fail to help the reader place the various tribes within the Dakota Nation. This is important because Anderson often refers to the Mdewankantons, Sissetons, Wahpekutes, etc. These are the separate Dakota tribes, and they move about frequently, so frequently that locating them on the maps provided defies even the hardiest efforts.<br />For a detailed, scholarly history of the Eastern Dakota tribes, this book, despite its many flaws, does the trick. The research, for the sources it does utilize, is well done. Gary Anderson is to be commended for a fascinating look at a way of life long gone from the American scene.	2002-10-15
1375951:US	52012289	RXI4W3I55P58P	0486277909	699348136	Self-Reliance and Other Essays (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	61	66	N	N	An American Philosopher	Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-1882) is one of America's pre-eminent philosophers. Born into a long line of ministers and preachers, Emerson went to Harvard at the tender age of 14, where he studied to fulfill his destiny and become a minister. Emerson eventually dropped out of this line of work, embarking on a career as a public speaker and serving as the intellectual center of a group called the Transcendentalist Club. This Dover edition contains some of Emerson's best-known essays, specifically \\"Self-Reliance,\\" as well as his address to the Harvard Divinity School.<br />Emerson's philosophy, although sometimes painfully explicated upon in his own writings, is best summed up by the word \\"individualism.\\" To Emerson, it is the individual that should be the fulcrum point in all aspects of life. Emerson then took this philosophy and applied it to a myriad of subjects.<br />In \\"History,\\" the first essay in this collection, Emerson attempts to weave his belief in individual expression into the study of historical events. Emerson argues that a reliance on dates, places, and figures is not nearly as important as reaching within oneself to discover the whole of history. This is important because every man contributes to history, and every man can see himself in any history from any part of the world. Emerson also argues that history, as we presently know it and study it, ignores important fundamentals such as metaphysics and nature. What Emerson seems to attempt with this essay is to create a sort of \\"unified field theory\\" of history, a history that encompasses every aspect of the human experience, and one in which everyone takes part.<br />\\"Self-Reliance,\\" Emerson's masterwork, attempts to explain how man should retain his individualism in the face of society. It is society that stifles the individual, and the trick is to be true to yourself and your conscience. Law should not be, and is not, above the individual. Again, conscience should rule the day. Every man must follow his conscience even if doing so endangers his role in society. This tension between the individual and society Emerson enumerates continues to reverberate to this day.<br />In his address to the Harvard Divinity School, a real charmer that got Emerson banned from the school for years, he addresses individualism in the context of religion. Emerson, himself a trained minister who eventually resigned his pulpit, urges those about to embark on a career in the clergy to reach inside themselves when preaching. Don't rely on the same old tired formulas everyone else relies on, Emerson says, but see what the holy word means to you and then express what you find to your flock in your own way. It's easy to imagine what people who believe that religion is about rote memorization and rituals eons old thought about this speech. They hated it, and hated Emerson for delivering it to the young people in the audience.<br />Several other essays round out the collection, all of them utilizing Emerson's keen sense of the power of the individual. That Emerson is still in print today while some of his contemporaries are not is proof enough of the power and influence of his thought. Whether you agree with his arguments or not (and there is much here to disagree with), there is no denying that he has been enormously influential to American thinkers of his time and those who have come after him.s conscience even if doing so endangers his role in society. This tension between the individual and society Emerson enumerates continues to reverberate to this day.<br />In his address to the Harvard Divinity School, a real charmer that got Emerson banned from the school for years, he addresses individualism in the context of religion. Emerson, himself a trained minister who eventually resigned his pulpit, urges those about to embark on a career in the clergy to reach inside themselves when preaching. Don't rely on the same old tired formulas everyone else relies on, Emerson says, but see what the holy word means to you and then express what you find to your flock in your own way. It's easy to imagine what people who believe that religion is about rote memorization and rituals eons old thought about this speech. They hated it, and hated Emerson for delivering it to the young people in the audience.<br />Several other essays round out the collection, all of them utilizing Emerson's keen sense of the power of the individual. That Emerson is still in print today while some of his contemporaries are not is proof enough of the power and influence of his thought. Whether you agree with his arguments or not (and there is much here to disagree with), there is no denying that he has been enormously influential to American thinkers of his time and those who have come after him.	2002-10-15
1386558:US	52012289	R85GVY9MX317E	1929653298	492479332	Guises	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The Wicked World of Charlee Jacob	After discovering Charlee Jacob through her gore-soaked vampire novel, \\"This Symbiotic Fascination,\\" it seemed stupid to wait until the release of her second novel sometime next year without dipping into more of this excellent author's horrific writings. \\"Guises\\" is a worthy collection of vintage Charlee: a series of gruesome short stories written in lofty prose not normally found in the horror genre. Also included in \\"Guises\\" are more than a few poems, although this is not the type of poetry Robert Frost would recognize, let alone write.<br />There are ten short stories in this collection, with many of them previously appearing in horror magazines. The first story, \\"The Piper,\\" is a grim reworking of the \\"Pied Piper of Hamlin.\\" But there aren't any mice in this tale. Instead, a man who has spent his life helping others discovers that when children die in violent events, they tend to come back in spirit. Through a case of mistaken identity, this man, John Piper, must find out why the children haunt him, and what he can do for them. This is one of the better stories in the collection, and an excellent way to start the book.<br />Another personal favorite is, \\"Four Elements and an Emphatic Moon.\\" This story is about reincarnation of a type that would make Shirley McClaine shriek in horror. The starting point is medieval France, where a group of nuns comes down with some sort of disease. One of the nuns is not what she seems, and a woman who falls in with this monstrosity becomes attached to her through the ages. Through endless reincarnations the two seek each other out for some sort of sick reconciliation. The grue flows like water as Aztec rituals, mental asylums, and autopsies all make an appearance.<br />Charlee takes a stab at Lovecraftian horror with \\"The Begetting,\\" and \\"The Vanishing Point.\\" In \\"The Begetting,\\" old French rituals in a Florida town reemerge in the modern day when a man calls a degenerate local woman for a mating ritual. The subsequent scenes of conception and birth are too sickening to include in this review, but Jacob's prose does worthy tribute to Lovecraft. Check out this line:<br />\\"In her mind Nicole saw a creature shaking a rattle filled with dead stars and howling the end of aeons.\\"<br />\\"The Vanishing Point\\" is also Lovecraftian, although a bit harder to decipher. It seems to be about an alternate dimension (or is it our dimension?) populated with dead people and strange creatures that undergo plastic surgery to hide their hideous physical forms. Well, reading Lovecraft is tricky at times, so this story fits right in with that author's strange writings.<br />\\"Window for Anon\\" is a creepy story about an interstellar cloud slowly nearing the Earth. Before the cloud arrives, people who look into the sky see something so horrifying that it literally causes them to freeze with their eyes locked towards the heavens. The story is also about a Gellie, a mother imprisoned for arson and her strange son, Anon. It is difficult to discern whether this story is an apocalyptic tale or a story about a mother and child because of the hallucinatory imagery that runs rampant throughout the story.<br />Finally, there is \\"Guises,\\" the last short story in the collection. In this tale, a woman, named Tombi, is born with a real chip on her shoulder about her looks. Tombi manages to somehow acquire the ability to change her appearance, often with horrific results. At the same time, a few gruesome murders occur that have a direct bearing on Tombi. While the ending isn't very satisfying, it is the trip along the way that bears real fruit. Tombi's transformations are unsettling, to say the least.<br />As for the poetry, all that should really be said is that it's free verse and it often conjures up some strange imagery. If you enjoy poems that stray far from accepted standards, the stanzas in this book should do the trick quite nicely.<br />The cover art on this book in no way relates to some of the excellent stories found inside. Ignore the cheesy cover and pick up a copy of \\"Guises.\\" Remember, these small press books go out of print fast. Charlee Jacob's next novel, if anything like her previous work, promises to be an impressive addition to the horrorphile's bookshelf. Read \\"Guises\\" to steel yourself for the coming horror.inside. Ignore the cheesy cover and pick up a copy of \\"Guises.\\" Remember, these small press books go out of print fast. Charlee Jacob's next novel, if anything like her previous work, promises to be an impressive addition to the horrorphile's bookshelf. Read \\"Guises\\" to steel yourself for the coming horror.	2002-10-06
1394289:US	52012289	R38E8EWNUH2MJD	1550415557	337744321	Brief History of Canada	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Succinct History	What do you think of when you hear the word Canada? Do you think about hockey? Canadian bacon (which is neither Canadian nor technically bacon, by the way)? Eskimos? Whatever pops into our heads when we think about our neighbor to the north, it most likely has nothing to do with the historical Canada. Roger Riendeau aims to correct that ignorance with this one-volume history of the Great White North. Within a few pages of this excellent history primer it becomes apparent that Canada is much more than beer and Michael J. Fox.<br />The book is divided into five parts: the first section is the shortest, entitled, \\"Exploring the Northern American Frontier.\\" This deals with topics such as geography (Canada is massive in size and encompasses extremes in climate and topography), the native population and a quick overview of their lifestyles and languages, and the earliest voyages to Canada from Viking explorers up to Jacques Cartier in the 16th century. The impetus for European exploration is one we were all taught in grade school-an attempt to open up a northern passage to Asia in order to save money and time moving products between Europe and China.<br />The second section, \\"The French Empire in Northern America, 1608-1760,\\" deals with the attempts by the French to exploit their toehold in Canada through fur trading. Along the way, Riendeau gives a highly detailed exposition on life in New France, with an emphasis on governmental functions and exploration into the Great Lakes regions. The French would ultimately fail to expand their control into Canada due to unsuccessful attempts to integrate trade and a lack of support from the French government.<br />The next section, \\"The British North American Colonies, 1760-1867,\\" deals with the era of British control over Canada. Probably the most important aspect of this era is that Canada eventually gained its independence peacefully, without having to resort to a violent confrontation with England as the United States did in the 1770's and 1780's. It was also during this time that Canada saw an enormous influx of British and Scottish settlers move into Canada. It was the descendents of these settlers who ran the Canadian state during the darkest hours of the 19th and 20th centuries.<br />The fourth section, \\"The Foundations of Canadian Nationhood, 1867-1931,\\" sees Canada striking out on its own, while still maintaining important links to England. It is during this period that Canada begins to seriously confront the difficulties in creating a unified Canadian nation. An important event in this process occurred during the reign of the first Canadian leader, John A. Macdonald. Macdonald recognized the difficulties in bringing together regions with seemingly irreconcilable differences. It was his National Policy (a policy that included a protective tariff, a transcontinental railroad system, and a settlement policy for western Canada) that helped forge links that are still in place today.<br />The final section, \\"Affluence and Anxiety in the Modern Era,\\" is a dense examination of Canadian political turmoil beginning with the Canadian Great Depression of the 1930's (as bad as anything seen in the United States) to the early 1990's. Time and time again, the Canadian state dealt with the threat of disintegration, mainly from the French-Canadians in the province of Quebec. It is this section, more than any other, which shows us the miracle of Canada-a Canada that manages to stay unified despite numerous internal and external threats.<br />One surprising aspect of the book is Canada's relationship with the United States. Americans don't recognize how hostile our country has been with the Canadians. As late as 1911, an American congressman said that he expected to see the American flag flying over the Canadian nation all the way to the Arctic Circle.<br />The only sources mentioned in the book are a \\"suggestions for further reading\\" list towards the back of the book. One assumes Riendeau used primary sources (excerpts of important documents are included in sidebars in the text), but without footnotes, it is hard to tell. A lack of more detailed maps is troubling as well, especially when Canada is the second largest geographical expression in the world, making it absolutely necessary to include reams of maps.<br />The title of the book should read, \\"A Brief Political and Economic History of Canada,\\" as social history receives little coverage here. Relations between Europeans and Indian tribes of Canada is not really covered either. In these aspects, the book is not a comprehensive history of Canada. Other books should be consulted to get a fuller picture of this fascinating country.ary sources (excerpts of important documents are included in sidebars in the text), but without footnotes, it is hard to tell. A lack of more detailed maps is troubling as well, especially when Canada is the second largest geographical expression in the world, making it absolutely necessary to include reams of maps.<br />The title of the book should read, \\"A Brief Political and Economic History of Canada,\\" as social history receives little coverage here. Relations between Europeans and Indian tribes of Canada is not really covered either. In these aspects, the book is not a comprehensive history of Canada. Other books should be consulted to get a fuller picture of this fascinating country.	2002-09-29
1397329:US	52012289	RFUZ9TMJIZEA1	0843948442	860935876	Black Butterflies	Books	3	8	8	N	N	The Eerie World of John Shirley	\\"Black Butterflies\\" is a short story collection from horror/science fiction author John Shirley. Shirley, who also wrote the excellent gross out tale \\"Wetbones,\\" is quite adept at charging his stories with equal parts sex, horror, and suspense. It seems that Shirley spends more time working on science fiction novels, but occasionally, he churns out something like \\"Black Butterflies.\\" When Shirley delves into horror, look out. He likes to write them lean, mean, and sick as you know what.<br />\\"Black Butterflies\\" is divided into two large sections. The first section is entitled, \\"This World,\\" probably because the stories deal with everyday reality (I use the term \\"everyday reality\\" loosely in reference to some of these stories). The type of stories found in this part of the book varies widely. One story tells the bleak tale of a cop with profound suspicions of his partner. Two tales show the importance of screening people before fooling around with them. Stories about a horror film that is a little too real, an answering machine message one hopes never to hear on their own machine, and the after effects of an earthquake round out the first part of the book.<br />The second section, entitled, \\"That World,\\" deals with stories involving supernatural elements. Arguably the best story here is the first one, concerning a little girl and her imaginary friend viewing a side of family life that is both disconcerting and extremely gross. Other stories deal with the end of the world and its aftermath, a sculptor looking for inspiration, an encounter with alien beings who pick up victims in bars, the grim results of mixing [narcotics] with industrial strength insecticide, and a funny story about a battle between good and evil that takes place in a heavy metal/thrash bar.<br />Again and again, Shirley digs deep into the depths of depravity and despair with this collection of stories. What becomes most apparent as the book unfolds is the intimate knowledge Shirley seems to have with the dark side of human existence. When Shirley writes about the dangers of [narcotics], it seems like he knows about it from first hand experience. There are many authors that festoon their books with endless pages of violence and gore, but few do what Shirley does: create the starkest, grittiest atmospheres in which violence and gore not only unfold, but seem natural to the environment.<br />One slight problem with the stories in this collection is that many of the stories aren't very original. The horror film story concept has been done, along with the bad relationship/horror story. This tends to blunt some of the book's punch. Shirley certainly has the right to attempt to redo a certain storyline that's been done to death in the past, but more originality in doing so would have elevated this book above the merely average.<br />... But for a quick dip into this author's eerie work, \\"Black Butterflies\\" will certainly do the trick.h the dark side of human existence. When Shirley writes about the dangers of [narcotics], it seems like he knows about it from first hand experience. There are many authors that festoon their books with endless pages of violence and gore, but few do what Shirley does: create the starkest, grittiest atmospheres in which violence and gore not only unfold, but seem natural to the environment.<br />One slight problem with the stories in this collection is that many of the stories aren't very original. The horror film story concept has been done, along with the bad relationship/horror story. This tends to blunt some of the book's punch. Shirley certainly has the right to attempt to redo a certain storyline that's been done to death in the past, but more originality in doing so would have elevated this book above the merely average.<br />... But for a quick dip into this author's eerie work, \\"Black Butterflies\\" will certainly do the trick.	2002-09-26
1401535:US	52012289	R2V3J3X0ZI3BJY	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	5	533	581	N	N	Sadly, An American Classic	Bret Easton Ellis, more than once, captured the essence of America in the 1980's. In his books, most notably \\"Less Than Zero,\\" Ellis codified the look, sound, and feel of the Ronald Reagan, MTV watching, Yuppie 1980's. Ellis was not nearly as interested in showing the flashy glitter of that time as he was in revealing the dark side of excess in an America spiraling into total chaos. In \\"American Psycho,\\" Ellis attains the rank of a master satirist, viciously skewering a culture that reduces life to power lunches, Armani suits, personal hygiene, and video stores. Ellis is an American Dickens, holding a mirror up to the face of America and daring us to look deep into its depths. Needless to say, the reflection is not pretty.<br />Ellis's protagonist in \\"American Psycho\\" is one Patrick Bateman. Patrick is at the pinnacle of power: he is young, buff, tan, and filthy rich. He works, when he feels like it, at a powerhouse Wall Street firm. Most of his days are filled with parties, dating, dining out, renting videotapes, and buying the best of everything. Why not? Patrick can afford to do whatever he wants in an America that not only approves of his behavior, but ardently wants to emulate it as well. There is one slight quirk in Bateman's well coiffed persona, one small, minutely unpleasant ritual he feels he must engage in from time to time: Patrick likes to rape, torture, and murder people. His usual victims are prostitutes and homeless people, although he isn't above killing an occasional cop or child. That Patrick is, inside, a raving lunatic of epic proportions doesn't matter as long as he can maintain surface appearances. This he manages to do by keeping up on all the latest fads, doling out fashion tips to those less fortunate, and hanging out with the guys and gals on a regular basis.<br />The book alternates between power lunches at trendy New York restaurants and stomach churning scenes of murder and mayhem. There is a link between two such disparate activities, and a close reading reveals these links. In essence, Bateman is caught up in an empty, soul crushing existence. The people he knows and the places he populates are devoid of any deep feelings. In order to feel, to experience life, Bateman must kill (or at least fantasize about killing). Murder is his release from the daily banalities of Yuppie life, the only time when he feels as though he is participating in a life activity.<br />The violence may be extended even further, beyond the confines of Bateman's character, to show the results of a materialist culture on the human spirit. Does the best of everything always result in happy, well adjusted human beings? Are those who have great wealth automatically deserving of our respect because they are wealthy? Are these wealthy denizens guaranteed happiness because they can buy the best bottled water, the best stereo system, the best clothing? Ellis's answer is a resounding, and blood drenched, no. Bateman is not happy with his possessions (at least not beyond any surface pleasure), and actually seems to further deteriorate as he acquires more possessions.<br />The violence committed by Patrick Bateman is truly sickening on many levels. Ellis provides GRAPHIC descriptions of Bateman's murders, rapes, tortures, and yes, cannibalism. Those who read splatter literature won't see anything they haven't seen in horror books printed by small press publishers, but for those not used to horror films and books the violence here will definitely become unbearable. The violence is not only disgusting; it is cruel as well. It is the type of violence that seeks to humiliate and debase human beings, to bring others down to the dark levels where Bateman resides. However, keep this in mind: how can a book proposing to explore the American soul in the late 20th century avoid using violence as a major plot point? We live in an extremely violent society; to ignore that violence is to be dishonest to any serious attempt at social satire.<br />\\"American Psycho\\" is an important statement on late 20th century American society. Bret Ellis is to be commended for penning a book that plunges into the murky depths of our country's soul to expose our paradoxes and our ugliness. Ellis took a lot of heat for writing this book, probably from those who live lives a lot like Pat Bateman's surface existence. As a final note, be careful about watching the film version of this book. It does not capture Ellis's intentions in any way, shape, or form./>\\"American Psycho\\" is an important statement on late 20th century American society. Bret Ellis is to be commended for penning a book that plunges into the murky depths of our country's soul to expose our paradoxes and our ugliness. Ellis took a lot of heat for writing this book, probably from those who live lives a lot like Pat Bateman's surface existence. As a final note, be careful about watching the film version of this book. It does not capture Ellis's intentions in any way, shape, or form.	2002-09-22
1403503:US	52012289	R10QGZXITTPT2S	0843948760	13657707	The Lost	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Ketchum Does Suspense, Too	After having read several Jack Ketchum books recently, I've finally discovered the secret to his success; he opens a book about true-life serial killers, picks out some psycho, and uses that as a basis for a story. Ketchum's \\"The Girl Next Door\\" utilized the case of Gretchen Baniszewski, \\"Joyride\\" borrowed elements from the case of spree killer Howard Unruh, and \\"Off Season\\" apparently took material from the Sawney Bean family. In \\"The Lost,\\" Ketchum continues this trend to tell a story that is more suspense than horror, and he sets it in the tumultuous 1960's.<br />This isn't your typical whodunit; the book starts off with a double murder committed by three teenage friends. They commit the murders because they want to see what it feels like to kill people. The rest of the story is a flash forward four years into the future. One of the teens, who evades capture by local police, is living the high life as a local drug dealer while living and working at a motel run by his parents. Despite (or perhaps because of) his vanity, his cruelty, and his sociopathic tendencies, he is able to gather around him a motley assortment of losers who follow his every order and whim.<br />Since we know who did the crime right from the start, we're left wondering where Ketchum is going to take us. There is no need to worry about that. Ketchum populates his novel with more than enough intriguing characters. Two of the most important characters are the cops who investigated the original killings, and who are still attempting to pin the murders on the teens. One of the cops, Ed Anderson, who retired after the killings, comes to see that he has a personal stake in catching the killers. The other cop is Charlie Schilling, who delights in harassing the suspects in an effort to get a confession.<br />The ringleader of the three killers is a fictional representation of real life murderer Charles Schmid. Schmid killed several women in Arizona during the 1960's. Even a cursory comparison shows that Ketchum borrowed heavily from the Schmid case in order to create his killer. Schmid excelled at gymnastics during high school, wore makeup, stuffed his boots with paper to make himself look taller, told outrageous stories to attract followers, and even walked with an unusual gait. Ketchum's killer shares every one of these traits.<br />This book reminded me of Ketchum's \\"Joyride,\\" but this book is developed better and is more fun to read. One reason is length; Ketchum gives himself 400 pages to draw deeper characters and better atmosphere. Everyone comes across as authentic, from the teenage killers to the young ladies who may end up as victims.<br />What doesn't work as well here is the time frame. The book takes place in the late 1960's, but Ketchum gives only a few references to that effect. He does throw in a few references to the moon landing and the Manson murders, but there were many times that I forgot the time frame of the story. Ultimately, I think the story would have worked just as well if it had been set in modern times.<br />\\"The Lost\\" is one of Ketchum's better novels. I really had no idea how the story was going to end while I read the book. You do know that there is going to be some type of gruesome scenario (it is Ketchum, after all), but he hides it so well that the ending surprised me. This is a good read for those who like suspenseful books, as well as those who don't get enough Jack Ketchum in their diets.hat Ketchum borrowed heavily from the Schmid case in order to create his killer. Schmid excelled at gymnastics during high school, wore makeup, stuffed his boots with paper to make himself look taller, told outrageous stories to attract followers, and even walked with an unusual gait. Ketchum's killer shares every one of these traits.<br />This book reminded me of Ketchum's \\"Joyride,\\" but this book is developed better and is more fun to read. One reason is length; Ketchum gives himself 400 pages to draw deeper characters and better atmosphere. Everyone comes across as authentic, from the teenage killers to the young ladies who may end up as victims. <br />What doesn't work as well here is the time frame. The book takes place in the late 1960's, but Ketchum gives only a few references to that effect. He does throw in a few references to the moon landing and the Manson murders, but there were many times that I forgot the time frame of the story. Ultimately, I think the story would have worked just as well if it had been set in modern times.<br />\\"The Lost\\" is one of Ketchum's better novels. I really had no idea how the story was going to end while I read the book. You do know that there is going to be some type of gruesome scenario (it is Ketchum, after all), but he hides it so well that the ending surprised me. This is a good read for those who like suspenseful books, as well as those who don't get enough Jack Ketchum in their diets.	2002-09-20
1404103:US	52012289	R1MNO7A18CP5D9	0345337794	443644844	The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Lovecraft Must	H.P. Lovecraft continues to exert an enormous influence in the horror/fantasy genre. This may be surprising because Lovecraft's writings were nearly impossible to find for decades. Unlike those poor souls who, in the old days, fruitlessly searched for copies of his stories, today we can locate copies of them quite easily. And they are definitely worth seeking out, as Lovecraft writes chilling stories like no other person, alive or dead. Unfortunately for horror buffs, Lovecraft died at a young age, thus leaving his work to be carried on by others.<br />Lovecraft is famous for his creation of the Cthulhu mythos, an alternate universe (or series of universes) populated by strange beings of infinite evil. These are the Elder Gods, beings who enjoy tormenting the human race. Time and time again, Lovecraft takes his characters into unfortunate encounters with the Elder Gods, almost always to the detriment of these hapless souls. In \\"The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath,\\" DelRey collects yet another batch of Lovecraft gems.<br />The main course of this collection is \\"The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath,\\" a story about Randolph Carter, a mystic who has the ability to enter a fabulous world through his dreams. Carter isn't content with merely shuffling about a dream world; he wants to track down Kadath, a fortress where the gods live and play. Carter's quest takes him through endless adventures where he faces both good and evil realms. Carter goes to the moon, talks to cats, sails on the seas, and encounters weird creatures both helpful and harmful. All of this brings him steadily closer to his goal. This story is a synthesis of many of Lovecraft's other stories, such as \\"The Cats of Ulthar.\\"<br />\\"Celephais\\" is a short story about one of Carter's friends who became a king in the dream world. It is a short story that serves to give some background on both the dream world and one of the characters Carter encounters in his quest for Kadath.<br />\\"The Silver Key,\\" a story that again incorporates the Carter character, finds Carter discovering a key engraved with strange hieroglyphics. With the key, Carter attempts to reconnect to the dream world. His subsequent disappearance raises more questions than it answers. Fortunately, these questions are answered in the next story.<br />\\"Through the Gates of the Silver Key\\" picks up where the previous story left off. Carter uses the key to move through a portal into a universe beyond any human comprehension. Carter learns that through advanced mathematics he is capable of changing the very barriers of time and space. Some barriers shouldn't be messed with, as Carter quickly discovers. While his estate is being hashed out on Earth, Carter is working diligently to return to his world. Lovecraft co-wrote this story with another author, named E. Hoffman Price.<br />The book ends with two very short stories, \\"The White Ship,\\" and \\"The Strange High House in the Mist.\\" In \\"The White Ship,\\" a man who watches over a lighthouse embarks on a strange journey into lands only dreamed about by mankind. When the lighthouse keeper becomes bored with the paradise he discovers, his wish to move on leads to tragedy for the white ship. In \\"The Strange High House in the Mist,\\" a weird house on a cliff overlooking a fishing village serves as a meeting place for creatures of the sea both wicked and wise. When a curious clergyman explores the house, he comes back with knowledge some people in the village would rather not hear about.<br />All of these stories employ Lovecraft's usual trademarks: elegant prose, descriptions of horror beyond the knowledge of man, and imaginative plots that make the reader shake their head in wonder. There are Lovecraftian stories that are better than the ones in this collection, such as \\"At the Mountains of Madness,\\" but this is still an excellent collection of chillers from a master who, even on his off days, produced work vastly superior to many writers in the genre. Lovecraft richly deserves the consideration he receives to this day.he consideration he receives to this day.	2002-09-19
1404309:US	52012289	R14RA3BADFI7ZI	0843946954	859692408	You Come When I Call You	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Grisly	Doug Clegg seems to be on the short list of popular horror authors currently churning out tales of bleak terror. His books probably fall somewhere between powerhouses like Stephen King and those who write gore laden stories for the small press companies. In \\"You Come When I Call You,\\" Clegg reworks the classic theme of demon possession, setting the story in a small town located in the stony deserts of California. Demon possession is a staple of the horror genre, which means that any horror author worth his salt must visit the concept at least once in his (or her) career. Clegg not only visits this theme, he decides to set up camp while he is there.<br />Palmetto, California is a ghost town. It wasn't always a ghost town-up to 1980, the town housed a few hundred souls slowly wasting away in the harsh climate. In that year, a devastating fire ravaged the town, not only destroying the entire place but also making it impossible to find any bodies of those who didn't escape. The only ones who got out were four kids with a weird tale. According to these kids, a creature destroyed the town by infesting the locals. The kids did something to the demon, but how they did it is something so horrible that it takes 20 years for the full story to emerge. During these long years, the kids grow up while still harboring their terrible secret, a secret that must be revealed when they are \\"called\\" back to the ruins of Palmetto to face a horror beyond reason and time, a horror with the name Lamia, a horror who wants something the kids took from it and have kept inside themselves for two decades.<br />The blurb-like description above really won't prepare you for this gross, scary book. The book is gross because people are killed and tortured in the most exquisitely detailed ways. The book is scary because of Clegg's ability to heap layer upon layer of suspenseful dialogue on the reader right from the beginning of the story. He sets his sights high with the buildup, almost too high as suspense begins to become a substitute for plot. By the time the middle of the book is reached, the reader still doesn't have a good idea of what is going on, or where Clegg's story is heading. Fortunately, all is resolved at the conclusion of the book (which doesn't always happen with horror novels).<br />The main characters are well developed, although it is a development that comes mainly through hallucinations, memories, and dreams. One major character doesn't even appear until late in the story, when she provides some background about the evil the kids/adults are up against. Clegg does provide a thorough history on his major characters by splitting his story, first showing us how the kids are coping as grownups, and then taking us back to 1980 Palmetto. This \\"split-level\\" storytelling works, although the flashbacks provide more background on the characters, and are more entertaining than the present day accounts.<br />\\"You Come When I Call You\\" serves its purpose well: an effectively scary book that is good relaxation reading. It isn't brilliant horror, but it does give a few chills and thrills while reworking an old horror theme.pense begins to become a substitute for plot. By the time the middle of the book is reached, the reader still doesn't have a good idea of what is going on, or where Clegg's story is heading. Fortunately, all is resolved at the conclusion of the book (which doesn't always happen with horror novels).<br />The main characters are well developed, although it is a development that comes mainly through hallucinations, memories, and dreams. One major character doesn't even appear until late in the story, when she provides some background about the evil the kids/adults are up against. Clegg does provide a thorough history on his major characters by splitting his story, first showing us how the kids are coping as grownups, and then taking us back to 1980 Palmetto. This \\"split-level\\" storytelling works, although the flashbacks provide more background on the characters, and are more entertaining than the present day accounts.<br />\\"You Come When I Call You\\" serves its purpose well: an effectively scary book that is good relaxation reading. It isn't brilliant horror, but it does give a few chills and thrills while reworking an old horror theme.	2002-09-19
1409526:US	52012289	RB9NUMGID4AQW	0451206878	946670143	The Return	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Bentley Little Returns	\\"The Return\\" is the newest novel from horror author Bentley Little. Little, who also occasionally cranks out a social satire novel attacking such American institutions as chain stores or homeowner's associations, delivers a full-frontal assault on the horror genre with this book. \\"The Return\\" closely resembles \\"The Walking\\" and \\"The House,\\" in that the gore and scares come fast and furious. This may be Little's eeriest book to date, quite an accomplishment for a man whose imagination explores the darkest depths of human fear and depravity.<br />Once again, Little sets his story in the American Southwest, specifically Arizona. We are introduced to Glen, a techie visiting Arizona to clear up the affairs of his recently deceased mother. Glen decides he needs to change his life, and he begins to do so by volunteering to work on an archeological expedition for the summer. It is there that he meets Melanie, a teacher who likes to spend her summers digging up Indian artifacts. Regrettably for Glen and Melanie, they soon find themselves in the center of an ancient evil that is reawakening after years of dark slumber. This evil involves the Anasazi people, a race that disappeared along with the Mayans nearly 1000 years ago. With the reappearance of this force in modern times, cities start to disappear, people turn to murder and cannibalism, Indian artifacts become animated, and apocalyptic signs start to occur. The consequences of these activities are both horrific and gory.<br />While Little creates a story that is scary, and consistently scary at that, he tends to bite off more than he can chew as the story progresses. Too many events are occurring, and too many people are wandering around in the story. Little has a tough time weaving all of these threads into a neat conclusion.<br />Little sets a dark tone early on as he builds towards what should be a thrilling climax. But like other Little books, the conclusion tends to be somewhat of a letdown. The showdown between Glen and the creatures is so brief that one wonders what the fuss is all about. Since this is a phenomenon that occurs in other Bentley Little books, it seems that Little enjoys writing the body of the story more than he likes ending his books. Ultimately, there is nothing wrong with this, because Little always creates an awesome build up in his books. This build up often leads to chills and wariness about strolling about in a dark house. If achieving those effects requires the sacrifice of a brilliant ending, so be it.<br />For Bentley Little fans, \\"The Return\\" is, well, a welcome return for Bentley Little. For those yet to experience this dark genius, \\"The Return\\" is a good place to start before you devour the rest of his catalog (although be sure to check out \\"The Store,\\" one of Little's best books).en and the creatures is so brief that one wonders what the fuss is all about. Since this is a phenomenon that occurs in other Bentley Little books, it seems that Little enjoys writing the body of the story more than he likes ending his books. Ultimately, there is nothing wrong with this, because Little always creates an awesome build up in his books. This build up often leads to chills and wariness about strolling about in a dark house. If achieving those effects requires the sacrifice of a brilliant ending, so be it.<br />For Bentley Little fans, \\"The Return\\" is, well, a welcome return for Bentley Little. For those yet to experience this dark genius, \\"The Return\\" is a good place to start before you devour the rest of his catalog (although be sure to check out \\"The Store,\\" one of Little's best books).	2002-09-14
1409569:US	52012289	R3BGHPE1MDU7H5	0140186301	283114178	Lucky Jim	Books	5	87	94	N	N	Great British Humor	In the introduction to the Penguin edition of Kingsley Amis's 1954 novel \\"Lucky Jim,\\" David Lodge puts forth several possible influences Amis relied upon when writing the novel. Probably the most significant theory advanced by Lodge is that Amis wrote his book with one eye on Graham Greene's novel, \\"The Heart of the Matter.\\" Lodge convincingly argues that \\"Lucky Jim\\" is actually a comic inversion of Greene's story. Of course, if one has not read Greene's novel, this point may not register on the radar. But what is important is that Lodge proves to us that \\"Lucky Jim\\" is much more than a collection of funny scenes. Most will read this book because they have heard that it is uproariously funny, which it certainly is, as the book does contain enough humor to cheer up the most heartless people among us. However, don't get hung up on the humor and forget to look deeper.<br />\\"Lucky Jim\\" is set in the seemingly unfunny world of academia, specifically British academia. The hero of the story, James \\"Jim\\" Dixon, is a young man on the make, fresh out of school and dutifully working at his first real job; a position in the history department at an obscure provincial university. Jim really hates his job. This hatred stems from the cast of assorted characters Jim must put up with on a daily basis. Jim's biggest problem is Professor Welch, the head of the history department. Welch is a forgetful fool who holds Jim's future job in the palm of his hand. Then there is Margaret, a neurotic fellow lecturer who latches on to Jim and won't let him go. Welch's son Bertrand, an arrogant \\"artist\\" who torments Jim while flaunting his girlfriend Christine (who Jim quickly becomes enraptured with, creating a tension that leads to several hilarious confrontations between the Welch family and Jim) also makes an appearance. Rounding out the cast of quirky characters is an annoying student who knows more about medieval history than Jim.<br />Of course, Jim causes problems for himself with frightening regularity. He sets his bed on fire during a weekend retreat at the Welch's, delivers a lecture on \\"Merrie England\\" after imbibing way too much alcohol, and makes phony phone calls to the Welch house in an attempt to discredit Bertrand. The humor is classic British wit: slow and masterfully written in the way only the British can achieve. Jim's description of a hangover will bring a knowing chuckle from anyone who has ever downed too many at the bar. These scenes are extremely funny and help to drive the book to its happy conclusion.<br />Amis spends an enormous amount of time poking fun at the British upper class. Welch and his family are endlessly skewered as Jim constantly shows them up. That Jim ultimately conquers his enemies must be Amis's way of showing the ultimate triumph of the \\"commoner\\" over the entrenched British aristocracy. This tension reached an acme after World War II, when the British educational system expanded its programs to include the British lower classes (it is no mistake that Jim mentions his stint as a lowly soldier in the R.A.F. during the war, thus qualifying him as a sort of everyman hero).<br />What didn't work as well in \\"Lucky Jim\\" is the interaction between Jim and Christine. These encounters tend to be wordy and too steeped in emotional minutiae. Even some of the dialogue between Jim and Margaret ends up becoming rather tedious compared to the rest of the book. This is probably due to the comedic scenes in the book; they are so funny that everything else pales by comparison. But the dialogues do serve an important purpose in the story: they reveal the concerns of people trying to make their way in a world that places them at the bottom of the ladder.<br />\\"Lucky Jim\\" would make an excellent gift for anyone who needs a good cheering up. It also might help someone who is nervous about speaking in public for the first time (the embarrassment Jim suffers because of his drunken speech will show anyone that their attempt at orationcannot possibly approach the disastrous level Jim reaches). Any people submerged in the agonies of their pre-tenure years should also read this book. \\"Lucky Jim\\" is funny, eloquent, insightful, and should be read in conjunction with Jerome K. Jerome's \\"Three Men in a Boat\\" for the ultimate experience in British humor.n cannot possibly approach the disastrous level Jim reaches). Any people submerged in the agonies of their pre-tenure years should also read this book. \\"Lucky Jim\\" is funny, eloquent, insightful, and should be read in conjunction with Jerome K. Jerome's \\"Three Men in a Boat\\" for the ultimate experience in British humor.	2002-09-14
1410129:US	52012289	R35D6AH826FVI2	0061057541	18473604	Byzantium	Books	3	32	39	N	N	An Action Tale	Historical fiction is often a hit or miss affair. When it hits (as it does with Tolstoy's \\"War and Peace\\"), it takes the reader back to another time while teaching valuable lessons about humanity. When it misses, it ends up looking a lot like Stephen Lawhead's \\"Byzantium.\\" This isn't to say that \\"Byzantium\\" is a bad book; it is certainly entertaining as an action packed yarn with a cast of characters longer than your arm. But \\"Byzantium\\" fails as a historical tale because it really doesn't reflect the time period in which the story takes place.<br />Set in the 10th century during the reign of Byzantine emperor Basil II, \\"Byzantium\\" is a detailed account of the travels of Aidan, an Irish monk charged with delivering a special copy of the New Testament to the city of Constantinople. Aidan sets out with a group of monks on this mission, nervous about discharging his duties but excited about having a chance to see the world. Aidan does get to see the world, and he sees it in ways that he never imagined. Right at the start of the mission, the boat Aidan is sailing on is waylaid by a band of pirates. Aidan is taken prisoner, made a slave, and begins a roundabout trip to Constantinople. Along the way, Aidan falls in with a Viking expedition, travels through Kiev, visits Constantinople for an audience with Basil, acts as a spy for the Byzantines, is captured by Arabs, learns several languages, is almost executed in a slave mine, nearly marries a beautiful woman, and loses his faith (in no particular order).<br />All of these situations are well drawn and fairly exciting (especially the sea battle towards the end of the book, a battle that hums with energy and tension). Throughout each of these situations, Aidan must rely on his wits and various abilities to stay alive and hope to complete the mission he set out on. Lawhead certainly has the ability to create intriguing set pieces, whether it is the inside of a Danish feast hall, an Arab palace, or the city of Constantinople. This makes the book a fun read.<br />Regrettably, Lawhead fails to create convincing connections with the 10th century European world. Outside of a brief encounter with Basil II, this story could easily have been set in any time frame between the 6th and 14th century. The historical elements drop into the background of the story for large sections of the book. In other words, the book just doesn't speak from its time as many other books in the genre do (think about a book such as \\"The Name of the Rose,\\" for instance. That book creates some medieval atmosphere!). Perhaps this comes from a fear of making errors about the time frame, or a lack of hard research into the period. This book should be categorized as action/adventure rather than historical fiction.<br />The character development is lacking as well. It is understandable that all of the characters could not be developed due to the large number of people populating the pages of this story. The problem comes when major characters show a disturbing shallowness. Aidan, the main character and narrator, isn't given much to do beyond observing and surviving his surroundings. His crisis of faith, a clich&eacute; of epic proportions found in almost any book in which a priest is a character, isn't enough to create a memorable character. Other characters are reduced to mere cardboard cutouts.<br />Still, books like \\"Byzantium\\" do serve an important purpose. It is a relaxing book, one that doesn't require much thought to get through. This can be soothing after plowing through literature, history, philosophy, or any other heavy reads. Its length may scare off some, but \\"Byzantium\\" provides a good dose of action for those who crave such thingse. This makes the book a fun read.<br />Regrettably, Lawhead fails to create convincing connections with the 10th century European world. Outside of a brief encounter with Basil II, this story could easily have been set in any time frame between the 6th and 14th century. The historical elements drop into the background of the story for large sections of the book. In other words, the book just doesn't speak from its time as many other books in the genre do (think about a book such as \\"The Name of the Rose,\\" for instance. That book creates some medieval atmosphere!). Perhaps this comes from a fear of making errors about the time frame, or a lack of hard research into the period. This book should be categorized as action/adventure rather than historical fiction.<br />The character development is lacking as well. It is understandable that all of the characters could not be developed due to the large number of people populating the pages of this story. The problem comes when major characters show a disturbing shallowness. Aidan, the main character and narrator, isn't given much to do beyond observing and surviving his surroundings. His crisis of faith, a cliché of epic proportions found in almost any book in which a priest is a character, isn't enough to create a memorable character. Other characters are reduced to mere cardboard cutouts.<br />Still, books like \\"Byzantium\\" do serve an important purpose. It is a relaxing book, one that doesn't require much thought to get through. This can be soothing after plowing through literature, history, philosophy, or any other heavy reads. Its length may scare off some, but \\"Byzantium\\" provides a good dose of action for those who crave such things	2002-09-13
1415552:US	52012289	R4U4DDDD560IA	0802136346	166854560	Being There	Books	4	69	71	N	N	Take a Chance	Jerzy Kosinski, the author of \\"Being There,\\" had a long career as a distinguished author. After coming to the United States from his native Poland, Kosinski embarked on a writing career spanning nearly three decades. During this period he wrote nine novels and two collections of essays. The awards he collected over these years are too numerous to list here, but he did win an award for turning \\"Being There\\" into a screenplay. In the movie Peter Sellers played the role of Chauncey Gardiner (that's Sellers on the cover of the book, by the way). Jerzy Kosinski died in 1991.<br />If you have seen the film version of this book, you already know what the story is about. Chauncey is a gardener for a wealthy old invalid referred to cryptically as the \\"Old Man.\\" Poor old Chauncey doesn't have much going on upstairs; he cannot read or write, and his days are spent watching television and working in the garden. The Old Man adopted Chauncey when he was a small child, and maintains an iron grip over his life. Chauncey has never seen the outside world, never interacted with people beyond the gates of the house, or left any trace of himself in the outside world. He's a sort of modern day Robinson Crusoe, isolated on his own private island in the middle of our bustling world.<br />When the Old Man finally succumbs to his illnesses, Chauncey is left to his own devices in a world he has only seen on television. After a slight accident that occurs a few minutes after he leaves his cocoon, Chauncey finds himself quickly moving up in the world. He is \\"adopted\\" by Benjamin and EE Rand, a wealthy family. When Chauncey spouts a few vague aphorisms about gardening, the Rands misunderstand him and begin to believe that Chauncey is a brilliant, wealthy industrialist with intelligent insights into the business world. Chauncey's star continues to climb as every person who meets him, from the president to the Soviet ambassador, thinks he's a charming, insightful man. Chauncey appears on television, his quotes begin to pop up in newspapers, and his name is on the lips of everybody who is anybody. The world is going crazy for Chauncey Gardiner, while Chauncey remains blissfully ignorant of his newfound status. A large part of Chauncey's success comes from his good looks and wearing suits he took from the Old Man. If the image makes the man, Chauncey can't help but succeed.<br />The back cover of this edition declares that Kosinski's book is a scathing indictment of the media culture, and there is much to back up that assertion in the book. Chauncey's fascination with television is the only way he can relate to those he meets in the larger world. When meeting people, Chauncey remembers how people act on television, and then he mimics their behavior. Since Chauncey is essentially a blank slate (no one can discover anything about him because he has no background), he resembles one of the images he loves to watch on television. Like a television character, Chauncey has no substance. He lives in the present, with no past and no future. It is up to others to fill in the details of Chauncey's existence, and this is exactly what happens when everyone around him projects their own needs and wants on to Chauncey.<br />A particularly annoying incident in the book concerns a sexual encounter Chauncey has with a partygoer. There is no need for this encounter to take place, and it considerably cheapens the value of the book. Why Kosinski felt this sexual encounter needed to be included is a mystery. Whatever the reason, the addition of this situation dampens the simplicity and innocence of the story.<br />Overall, reading \\"Being There\\" is still a treat. The movie is highly recommended as well. Peter Sellers longed to play Chauncey for years, and does an excellent job with the role. If memory serves correctly, this was Peter Sellers's last film role. If you have already seen the film, be sure and read the book as well.n, his quotes begin to pop up in newspapers, and his name is on the lips of everybody who is anybody. The world is going crazy for Chauncey Gardiner, while Chauncey remains blissfully ignorant of his newfound status. A large part of Chauncey's success comes from his good looks and wearing suits he took from the Old Man. If the image makes the man, Chauncey can't help but succeed.<br />The back cover of this edition declares that Kosinski's book is a scathing indictment of the media culture, and there is much to back up that assertion in the book. Chauncey's fascination with television is the only way he can relate to those he meets in the larger world. When meeting people, Chauncey remembers how people act on television, and then he mimics their behavior. Since Chauncey is essentially a blank slate (no one can discover anything about him because he has no background), he resembles one of the images he loves to watch on television. Like a television character, Chauncey has no substance. He lives in the present, with no past and no future. It is up to others to fill in the details of Chauncey's existence, and this is exactly what happens when everyone around him projects their own needs and wants on to Chauncey.<br />A particularly annoying incident in the book concerns a sexual encounter Chauncey has with a partygoer. There is no need for this encounter to take place, and it considerably cheapens the value of the book. Why Kosinski felt this sexual encounter needed to be included is a mystery. Whatever the reason, the addition of this situation dampens the simplicity and innocence of the story.<br />Overall, reading \\"Being There\\" is still a treat. The movie is highly recommended as well. Peter Sellers longed to play Chauncey for years, and does an excellent job with the role. If memory serves correctly, this was Peter Sellers's last film role. If you have already seen the film, be sure and read the book as well.	2002-09-08
1416814:US	52012289	R2N2IM3QYFIJ8L	0671877178	717536640	Eons of the Night (The Robert E. Howard Library, Volume V)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Must Read Fantasy Stories	Robert Howard, author of the short stories collected in \\"Eons of the Night,\\" is best known for creating the Conan stories. Howard was so successful with Conan that countless authors are writing new stories using the ideas Howard left behind after committing suicide decades ago. But Howard also wrote lots of short stories that are as memorable as anything he ever wrote using Conan as a character. If the collection of stories in \\"Eons of the Night\\" is any indication, Howard's suicide robbed fantasy fans of a truly brilliant writer on par with Lovecraft and others in the genre.<br />In \\"The House of Arabu,\\" a pre-Nordic warrior wanders into ancient Sumeria and confronts a horror beyond time and space. A curse laid against him for killing a priest leads him to the Sumerian underworld, a rather unpleasant place filled with the spirits of the deceased and other strange beings.<br />\\"The Garden of Fear\\" is set in some unknown time millennia ago. Again, a pre-Aryan warrior and his woman confront a flying beast hiding out in a tower in the midst of a field of flesh eating flowers. This is one of the better stories in the collection. Hunwulf, the warrior, figures out a clever way to get to the tower to save his woman. This is an entertaining story that should have been expanded into a bigger tale.<br />\\"The Twilight of the Grey Gods\\" is the story of how the Irish threw out the Scandinavian invaders at the battle of Clontarf. The \\"Grey God\\" refers to the Norse deity Odin, who makes an appearance or two during the course of the story. The battle sequences in this one are phenomenal.<br />\\"Spear and Fang\\" is arguably the least interesting story of the lot. In this short tale, Howard takes us all the way back to the age of Cro-Magnon and Neanderthal man. The Cro-Magnons are winning the battle of evolution, but the Neanderthals are still hanging on by hiding out in the forest and attacking the Cro-Magnons whenever they get the chance. Surprisingly, this is a love story, albeit one of the strangest ones ever written. Romance authors have nothing on Robert Howard!<br />\\"Delenda Est\\" is a quick story set in the later days of the Roman Empire. The barbarians are running amok and Rome is in a precarious position. A delegation of Goths is on their way to Rome when a ghost out of the past pays a visit. It seems this ghost is a famous Carthaginian with an old grudge against Rome, and he is determined to see Rome punished for its sins.<br />\\"The Marchers of Valhalla\\" is fantastic. This story alone is worth the price of the book. Texas is the unlikely setting of this story, although it is a Texas none of us would recognize. Delving far back into prehistory, Howard introduces a band of pre-Nordic warriors who travel the world in search of battle and plunder. When they reach the city of Khemu, they discover a city that needs help fighting off an invading army and find a goddess locked in a local temple. The action scenes are again excellent in this tale.<br />\\"Sea Curse\\" and \\"Out of the Deep\\" are two stories about a fishing village that experiences scenes of supernatural horror, as a curse finds its mark and a resurrected corpse wreaks havoc on the town.<br />\\"In the Forest of Villefere\\" and \\"Wolfshead\\" are werewolf stories involving the same character. In \\"Wolfshead,\\" an estate on the coast of Africa is the scene of unbridled carnage as a werewolf stalks the halls of the mansion. The natives get restless and go on the warpath against the European settlers. Considering the shortness of the stories, these two really pack a punch.<br />Robert Howard is sometimes compared with H.P. Lovecraft, an author with whom Howard sometimes corresponded. There are a lot of differences between the two writers, however. Lovecraft's stories employed intricate prose to convey deep terror, while Howard's prose is quite simple. Lovecraft relied heavily on the Cthulhu mythos as sources of evil (Howard did write some Cthulhu stories, but he wrote outside that area more often), while Howard seems to focus more on human characters. While there are a few differences, the similarities are striking. Both writers are able to fill their stories with a pervasive sense of doom, and both resort to the equation \\"ancient times = horror.\\"<br />Howard deserves a place on any fantasy or science fiction fan's bookshelf. Be warned that some of Howard's musings seem to have a supremacist tint to them, probably due to the time frame in which Howard wrote them (1930's) and the place in which he wrote them (the American South). Still, Howard is as worthy of adoration as Lovecraft is, and to avoid Howard is to miss out on some great, entertaining stories., while Howard seems to focus more on human characters. While there are a few differences, the similarities are striking. Both writers are able to fill their stories with a pervasive sense of doom, and both resort to the equation \\"ancient times = horror.\\"<br />Howard deserves a place on any fantasy or science fiction fan's bookshelf. Be warned that some of Howard's musings seem to have a supremacist tint to them, probably due to the time frame in which Howard wrote them (1930's) and the place in which he wrote them (the American South). Still, Howard is as worthy of adoration as Lovecraft is, and to avoid Howard is to miss out on some great, entertaining stories.	2002-09-07
1422125:US	52012289	R3SK3Y2XJYM3Q3	0140431209	699219043	The Mill on the Floss (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A Minor Work by George Eliot	There is nothing like an obtuse, clotted introduction to impede a good book. For George Eliot's \\"The Mill on the Floss,\\" The introduction contributes nearly 50 pages of dense literary criticism that numbs the head, darkens the spirit, and creates grave doubts that this book is worth reading for anyone with less than a doctorate in English literature. There is nothing better than reading a good novel. Likewise, there is nothing worse than reading literary criticism that employs the obscurantist principles of the type that infect this introduction. After threading a path through these paragraphs that loom like mountains of iron, it is presumed one is ready to embark on Eliot's novel.<br />George Eliot, a.k.a Mary Ann Evans, wrote several novels in the mid 19th century. \\"The Mill on the Floss,\\" written in 1859-60, is not considered one of her better novels. That distinction falls to \\"Middlemarch,\\" a book that is often referred to as \\"the best English language novel ever written.\\" Others compare Eliot to Dickens, with the astute observation that Eliot's prose is loftier and her plots are composed with a greater intellectual ability. Wherever your preferences may lie in regards to 19th century English literature, Eliot's novels will find their way to your bookshelf. She's an important enough figure in the English literary canon that an opinion on her writings is an absolute necessity.<br />Eliot's writing is a large tapestry woven with biblical, classical, and English literary threads, as paragraph after paragraph, page after page, unfurls into a beautifully formed whole. Characters and atmosphere are masterfully etched in ink and paper as Eliot constructs a story exposing the contradictions and capriciousness of English provincial life in the 19th century. The ornate prose and intellectual brilliance found here can quickly overwhelm the literary novice. This is not a book for speed-reading or a quick weekend read. Passages must be reread and thought about in order to draw out Eliot's intentions.<br />\\"The Mill on the Floss\\" tells the story of two families, the Tullivers and the Dodsons, with special emphasis on Maggie and Tom Tulliver. The story covers over a decade of trials and tribulations within these two families, from the bucolic innocence of childhood on the banks of the Floss, to the bankruptcy of the Tulliver family and their subsequent exile from the family home of Dorlcote Mill. Roughly the last half of the book examines the travails of Maggie, as she falls in love with Phillip Wakem, the hunchbacked son of the lawyer who brought about the ruin of the Tullivers. Maggie's intentions with the enemy bring on the wrath of brother Tom, who has sworn to his father to oppose the Wakems with every ounce of his strength. When Stephen Guest (the beau of Maggie's cousin Lucy) suddenly woos Maggie, the connections become even more tangled (Guest is such an annoying addition to the story that Penguin saw fit to include an essay at the end of the book entitled, \\"The Placing of Stephen Guest,\\" in an attempt to justify his presence.). Tom and Maggie reconcile in an ending that is both redemptive and poignant.<br />A surprising element of the novel is its humor. It is not the staccato, rim shot humor one finds in America, but a slow, ingratiating British wit that builds over the course of dozens of pages. This humor is most apparent early in the story, when characters are introduced and Eliot examines the troubles of childhood. By the time things begin to decline for the Tullivers, the humor disappears from the story. This use of humor is unexpected from such an august figure as Eliot.<br />What is even more surprising is the use of British vernacular in the dialogue of the characters. This may be due to Eliot's love of Sir Walter Scott, an author who made copious use of Scottish accent in his fictional novels. Regrettably, this \\"British brogue\\" doesn't work as well here as it does in Scott's work. All too often, the dialect drops out of dialogue, leaving the reader to wonder how the characters can switch between perfect English and provincial slang.<br />Perhaps Eliot's novel is best summed up in her statement, \\"I am telling the history of very simple people, who had never had any illuminating doubts as to personal integrity and honour.\\" There is honor and integrity, such as duty to family and stoicism in the face of harrowing losses. However, this is ultimately a sad book, and quite effective in showing how social norms and narrow mindedness can ruin lives and create needless sorrow. This may not be Eliot's best work, but it definitely deserves due consideration by lovers of classic literature.f dialogue, leaving the reader to wonder how the characters can switch between perfect English and provincial slang.<br />Perhaps Eliot's novel is best summed up in her statement, \\"I am telling the history of very simple people, who had never had any illuminating doubts as to personal integrity and honour.\\" There is honor and integrity, such as duty to family and stoicism in the face of harrowing losses. However, this is ultimately a sad book, and quite effective in showing how social norms and narrow mindedness can ruin lives and create needless sorrow. This may not be Eliot's best work, but it definitely deserves due consideration by lovers of classic literature.	2002-09-02
1422358:US	52012289	R1U5CHCVCXWGOF	0451192249	280101697	The House	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Freaky!	Bentley Little writes two types of books: the first type is the pure horror novel. \\"The House\\" falls squarely into this category, as does his novel \\"The Walking.\\" These books rely heavily on gory scenes mixed with shocking glimpses into the supernatural world. The second type of story Little writes is social satire tales, such as \\"The Store,\\" or \\"The Association.\\" These stories often attack the mundane elements of life we Americans take for granted by taking events like shopping and creating stories that go way over the top, while still incorporating horrific elements.<br />\\"The House\\" is a take on the haunted house genre. Certainly any author that attempts to tell a story in this genre is taking his or her chances. So many stories exist in this area that it is important to try and attempt something new. Fortunately, Bentley Little doesn't give his readers rattling chains or flying plates in \\"The House.\\" What he does give us is a breezy ride of sickening horror designed to shock his readers into submission.<br />In \\"The House,\\" five seemingly unrelated strangers begin to discover that their childhood memories are disturbingly absent. As events begin to unfurl that bring back these memories, they find themselves drawn back to their childhood homes. But the homes, regardless of where they are located in the United States, all turn out to be the same type of abode. The houses are linked because they are the essentially the same place, a place that serves a very important purpose by protecting our world from unseen horrors. The houses are haunted, and as the characters return so does a long litany of suppressed horrors. As if some of the spooky events within the houses aren't bad enough, the characters are also reintroduced to two weird people who dwell in the house: Billington, a creepy butler, and Dawn, an evil child with an unusual (and sickening) ability to corrupt the inhabitants of the houses.<br />A major theme in \\"The House\\" is that of the dysfunctional family. All of the characters had extremely unhappy childhoods in the houses due to the inability of family members to communicate to each other concerning the horrors they experienced. When the characters are grown adults, they get the chance to return to the past, so to speak, and mend the problems of their childhood, and to reconnect to their families.<br />This is one of Little's sickest novels. Pedophilia is graphically presented through the Dawn character, as is murder and other unpleasantness. Those easily affected by such graphic displays may want to look elsewhere for their chills and thrills. It is likely that even iron stomachs used to horrific movies and other horror books might churn a few times over some of the scenes in this book. In short, be prepared.<br />Once again, the ending leaves a lot to be desired. The build up is excellent, with characters both primary and secondary well drawn. The characters are actually likeable, something that doesn't often occur in a Bentley Little book. But by the time the end of the story rolls around, the story wraps up quickly with an anti-climax that is disconcerting. This happens often in Little's books, and is a problem that will hopefully be soon remedied.<br />For Bentley Little fans, this is required reading. Those of us who admire his writing skills continue to look forward to new novels as they emerge (which is usually once a year, it seems). Even with the quick and unsatisfying ending, Little still writes stories vastly superior to the large amount of stuff floating around today. Little rejuvenates the horror genre, and for that those of us who like horror should be thankful.All of the characters had extremely unhappy childhoods in the houses due to the inability of family members to communicate to each other concerning the horrors they experienced. When the characters are grown adults, they get the chance to return to the past, so to speak, and mend the problems of their childhood, and to reconnect to their families.<br />This is one of Little's sickest novels. Pedophilia is graphically presented through the Dawn character, as is murder and other unpleasantness. Those easily affected by such graphic displays may want to look elsewhere for their chills and thrills. It is likely that even iron stomachs used to horrific movies and other horror books might churn a few times over some of the scenes in this book. In short, be prepared.<br />Once again, the ending leaves a lot to be desired. The build up is excellent, with characters both primary and secondary well drawn. The characters are actually likeable, something that doesn't often occur in a Bentley Little book. But by the time the end of the story rolls around, the story wraps up quickly with an anti-climax that is disconcerting. This happens often in Little's books, and is a problem that will hopefully be soon remedied.<br />For Bentley Little fans, this is required reading. Those of us who admire his writing skills continue to look forward to new novels as they emerge (which is usually once a year, it seems). Even with the quick and unsatisfying ending, Little still writes stories vastly superior to the large amount of stuff floating around today. Little rejuvenates the horror genre, and for that those of us who like horror should be thankful.	2002-09-02
1439361:US	52012289	RXSQW7N8KHNCD	0961413506	946562224	The Unseen Hand: An Introduction to the Conspiratorial View of History	Books	4	186	210	N	N	The Real Story?	The author of this book, Ralph Epperson, promises to introduce the reader to the fundamentals of the conspiratorial view of history. This view of history is in direct contradiction to the accidental view of history, or the theory of history accepted by most historians today. The conspiratorial view of history posits that all historical events are either controlled or directed by individuals or small groups of powerful people. Accidental history has no controls; events happen because they do, and no amount of effort may successfully direct events.<br />Epperson supports the conspiratorial view of history, and he tries to prove this theory in \\"The Unseen Hand,\\" a 488 page collection of secret societies, economic totalitarianism, and communist plots. According to Epperson, the overarching theme of conspiratorial history is that of power. When the rich amass enough money, they begin to thirst for power over their fellow human beings. Since most people want to have a say in the way their lives are run, these power hungry individuals must try to enact their plans in secret by using their influence and wealth to effect change that favors the interests of the rich and powerful.<br />The book is roughly chronological. It starts with early events in history and slowly marches through time until it reaches the 1980's. According to Epperson, the conspiracy began with the formation of the Illuminati on May 1, 1776. The Illuminati, founded by a Bavarian professor named Adam Weishaupt, dedicated itself to overthrowing the old world order of monarchy by adopting ideals of reason. Mankind, through reason, would come to reject religion and nationalism and found a collectivistic society. Epperson quickly draws links between the Illuminati and later movements such as Marxism and the socialist Fabians.<br />Another aspect of this conspiracy, in close collaboration with the Illuminati and its later incarnations, is that of international banking. The bankers quickly moved to institute central banks in Europe in order to control the population through the manufacture of fiat money (money backed by debt, not gold or silver) and the creation of inflation. The American revolutionary war and the American civil war were attempts by the bankers to weaken the country and institute a central banking system, a goal finally achieved at Jekyll Island in 1913.<br />No conspiracy book would be complete without a discussion of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Trilateral Commission, the Freemasons, and the Bilderberg group. All four groups are discussed in some depth here. Epperson takes great pains to point out that most of the upper hierarchy in American government are members of these four groups. The goal of these groups, which are funded by foundations set up by banking and oil interests, is to create a \\"new world order,\\" or a global socialist/communist government ruled by a small oligarchy of wealthy individuals.<br />This book works best when discussing the creation and role of government in a society, as well as the role of central banks and the control of the money interests. Epperson gives succinct explanations of how government and banking work, and how both can cause serious trouble if not properly regulated. It is ridiculous to believe that people in charge of so much money don't know the causes of inflation, or why prices of oil fluctuate as much as they do. Yet on any given day we are constantly informed by policy makers and other elites that they are as confused about why things happen as we are.<br />What doesn't work as well is some of the weird claims that pop up throughout the book. A claim that Karl Marx was a Satanist certainly raised my eyebrows, as did the claim that Jesse James lived to be 107 years old and was a 33rd degree freemason. Where did that come from? We know that DNA tests performed on Jesse's remains leave little doubt that he was killed just as the history books describe. Of course, a conspiracy theorist would claim that the results were doctored or are fabrications. And that is the problem with conspiracy theories: every counterclaim to the conspiracy theory is a lie or a half-truth, which further bolsters the conspiracy.<br />The source material for this book rests heavily on other conspiracy volumes, and most of the material for this book seems to be drawn from books and pamphlets from the John Birch Society. The Birchers built their entire organization around the ideas of a communist conspiracy and the creation of a global new world order. The last chapter of the book devotes a large amount of space in praise to the JBS, so an objective account of conspiratorial history won't be found in this book. Epperson also made the mistake of not going directly to source material for his information. Instead, he relied on the interpretations of others, and some of these people are wackos.<br />This is still an entertaining read for those who want to learn about alternate history or the paranoia of those who believe in such theories. There is good information in this book, but care needs to be taken when looking at the volume as a whole.the results were doctored or are fabrications. And that is the problem with conspiracy theories: every counterclaim to the conspiracy theory is a lie or a half-truth, which further bolsters the conspiracy.<br />The source material for this book rests heavily on other conspiracy volumes, and most of the material for this book seems to be drawn from books and pamphlets from the John Birch Society. The Birchers built their entire organization around the ideas of a communist conspiracy and the creation of a global new world order. The last chapter of the book devotes a large amount of space in praise to the JBS, so an objective account of conspiratorial history won't be found in this book. Epperson also made the mistake of not going directly to source material for his information. Instead, he relied on the interpretations of others, and some of these people are wackos.<br />This is still an entertaining read for those who want to learn about alternate history or the paranoia of those who believe in such theories. There is good information in this book, but care needs to be taken when looking at the volume as a whole.	2002-08-16
1439489:US	52012289	RH2GL46G6W87H	0971714819	828342198	Dice Angel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Enormously Entertaining	\\"Dice Angel,\\" a novel about life in Las Vegas, tells the story of Jimmy Delaney. Jimmy keeps himself busy by running the bar he inherited from his father. The bar, called Jimmy D's, draws in lots of Vegas locals who come to chat with Jimmy and have a good time. Unfortunately for Jimmy, he can't enjoy life along with his customers.<br />Jimmy's got so many problems in his life that it's hard to keep track of them all. His ex-wife, Joy, has custody of Jimmy's daughter while she dips into Jimmy's pocket for alimony and child support. Shortly after burglars rip off the bar, Jimmy discovers that someone's been pulling an inside job on him by emptying his bank account. Then he discovers that the IRS is interested in collecting a whole lot of scratch for back taxes. Yep, Jimmy has problems falling out of his ears.<br />Things go down hill so fast that Jimmy is forced to turn to the one thing in Vegas that might save somebody with no options left: gambling. Jimmy contacts the dice angel, a strange woman who claims that her intimate knowledge of astrology can save the day. All Jimmy knows is that her claims better be true because the IRS is moving in on him, and moving in for the kill.<br />\\"Dice Angel\\" is a hilarious story, mostly due to the antics of Jimmy. He's quick witted and cynical, but he also has a heart of gold. Even though he's not the straightest arrow in the world, you come to like the guy. It's hard not to. Sure, he messes around with his ex-wife's head a bit, but he loves his daughter, treats his employees like family, and helps his friends out whenever he can. He even takes a local homeless guy under his wing, although the guy has a tendency to scare the living daylights out of Jimmy whenever he shows up.<br />What is most memorable about this book is the cast of wacky characters that appear in Jimmy's life. There are two customers that insist on playing a game that involves questions you probably won't find in Trivial Pursuit, an Asian band that only plays pre-1977 Jimmy Buffett songs, a hypnotist with a picture of Larry from the Three Stooges on his wall, and Amaris, the dice angel, whose personal quirks are both strange and hilarious. Even though I've never been there, I suspect that only in Vegas would such a cast of goofballs be part of everyday life.<br />Vegas itself forms the backdrop for the story. The pawnshops, the casinos, and the tourists all appear at some point in the story. It must be hard to be a local in Las Vegas. While the characters in the story seem to be used to all of the chaos, most of us would probably be lost in a haze of bells, lights, and Elvis impersonators.<br />Seeing this story end is a real disappointment. Reading this book is like hitting three cherries on a slot machine. For a quick, entertaining story, \\"Dice Angel\\" is well worth the time.pre-1977 Jimmy Buffett songs, a hypnotist with a picture of Larry from the Three Stooges on his wall, and Amaris, the dice angel, whose personal quirks are both strange and hilarious. Even though I've never been there, I suspect that only in Vegas would such a cast of goofballs be part of everyday life.<br />Vegas itself forms the backdrop for the story. The pawnshops, the casinos, and the tourists all appear at some point in the story. It must be hard to be a local in Las Vegas. While the characters in the story seem to be used to all of the chaos, most of us would probably be lost in a haze of bells, lights, and Elvis impersonators. <br />Seeing this story end is a real disappointment. Reading this book is like hitting three cherries on a slot machine. For a quick, entertaining story, \\"Dice Angel\\" is well worth the time.	2002-08-16
1439601:US	52012289	R3C6VEGW5D409L	0451201744	232812399	The Walking	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Chilling Horror	Bentley Little is capable of writing brilliant, thought provoking social satire imbued with horrific elements. For this type of Bentley Little book, check out \\"The Store,\\" or \\"The Association.\\" But Little is also capable of writing straight horror, the type of horror that delivers the jolts while telling a great story with appealing characters and haunting atmosphere. For this type of Little story, look no further than \\"The Walking.\\"<br />\\"The Walking\\" is the story of Miles Huerdeen. Miles works at a private detective agency in Los Angeles, California. Miles's life isn't the most fascinating existence in the world. He gets to do some interesting work, but most of the time he spends his days toiling away on divorce cases. Miles is divorced from his wife Claire, a fact that his father, Bob, never lets him forget. Bob thinks Miles should get out more, but Miles is reluctant to change his routine. This all comes to a crashing halt when Miles takes on a new case that leads to a supernatural discovery: there are people who start walking after they die.<br />While Little tells us the story of Miles and the walking dead, he also acquaints us with a spooky tale in the late 19th century. This account explains the formation of a town populated with unusual people. When the town welcomes a strange newcomer, all heck starts to break lose. The people rebel against this newcomer and her violent ways by committing murder. But murder sometimes isn't enough to stop the truly depraved. When the U.S. government destroys the town some years later, a series of events is set in motion that eventually reach out not only to Miles Huerdeen, but other people throughout the United States.<br />This is a scary story with a lot of creepy atmosphere and gruesome deaths. The eeriest parts of the book deal with the walking dead. With unseeing eyes and cold, gray skin they continue to walk even when held or strapped down. Little creates a lot of good scenes with these grim zombies that definitely deliver the goose bumps. But it isn't just the walkers that scare; descriptions of a haunted canyon out in the desert are downright chilling, as are encounters with the strange force that seeks revenge on those who wronged it. Little is effective with his scenes because he doesn't try to explain every detail to the reader. In the haunted canyon, Little doesn't reveal what hides in the shadows or what instills fear in those who pass by. All that is shown is that something is terribly wrong.<br />The build up to the finale is exciting. Regrettably, the showdown between Miles and the evil presence was a lot like watching the air leak out of a balloon. Nothing spectacular happens in this final encounter. It's not as though the being is some pencil necked geek because Little spends most of the book showing us the being's power. To dispose of the villain this easily makes the reader feel as though they were robbed. It is becoming apparent that Little does this frequently in his books: great build-up, disappointing come down.<br />The unsatisfactory ending doesn't mean the book is not worth reading. Bentley Little is one of the premier horror authors producing works today. It is only a matter of time before we see a film version of one of his books. In the meantime, give this book, and his others as well, a chance.liver the goose bumps. But it isn't just the walkers that scare; descriptions of a haunted canyon out in the desert are downright chilling, as are encounters with the strange force that seeks revenge on those who wronged it. Little is effective with his scenes because he doesn't try to explain every detail to the reader. In the haunted canyon, Little doesn't reveal what hides in the shadows or what instills fear in those who pass by. All that is shown is that something is terribly wrong.<br />The build up to the finale is exciting. Regrettably, the showdown between Miles and the evil presence was a lot like watching the air leak out of a balloon. Nothing spectacular happens in this final encounter. It's not as though the being is some pencil necked geek because Little spends most of the book showing us the being's power. To dispose of the villain this easily makes the reader feel as though they were robbed. It is becoming apparent that Little does this frequently in his books: great build-up, disappointing come down.<br />The unsatisfactory ending doesn't mean the book is not worth reading. Bentley Little is one of the premier horror authors producing works today. It is only a matter of time before we see a film version of one of his books. In the meantime, give this book, and his others as well, a chance.	2002-08-16
1439865:US	52012289	R33TUBYI8OOZTG	0671741039	907356964	Swan Song	Books	5	355	365	N	N	Mr. McCammon's Opus	The apocalyptic genre is an endearing phenomenon in fiction. Even after the collapse of the Cold War, authors are still pumping out new novels about the end of civilization. That's probably due to the fact that nuclear war isn't the only way to kill off the human race; Stephen King got a lot of mileage out of a killer virus in \\"The Stand.\\" This book, by the excellent storyteller Robert McCammon, resembles King's classic novel in several respects, but McCammon sticks with the classic nuclear annihilation scenario in \\"Swan Song,\\" a book written as the Cold War was winding down in the late 1980's.<br />\\"Swan Song\\" starts out on a bleak note, and quickly goes down hill from there. The world is in turmoil as terrorists use nuclear bombs with impunity, the U.S. and the USSR constantly engage in skirmishes around the world, and the economy does a nosedive straight into the ground. Inevitably, the bombs are launched and the world erupts in a thousand mushroom clouds. This is all within the first hundred pages or so. What follows is the real story, and McCammon pulls out all the stops introducing us to the characters that drive the story.<br />Just like McCammon's novel \\"Stinger,\\" there are many major characters in \\"Swan Song.\\" McCammon introduces us to Sister Creep, a New York bag lady fostering a horrific personal tragedy; Josh, a 7' black wrestler (known as Black Frankenstein) with a heart of gold; Colonel \\"Jimbo\\" Macklin, a former war hero with an ominous shadow dogging his every move; and Roland Croninger, a wise beyond his years child who grows into Macklin's sadistic acolyte.<br />This is post-apocalypse, so there is the unavoidable good vs. evil theme running through the book. The good is Swan, a young girl who has the power to renew earth's ecosystem. The bad is the man with the scarlet eye, a shape shifter who makes King's Randall Flag look like the Osmond family. The other characters revolve around these two figures as the grand finale of the novel nears.<br />McCammon has the ability to make his characters endearing and genuine. There are no cardboard cutouts in this book. Even tertiary characters are developed with loving care. It's relatively easy to draw evil characters because evil is easy to see. What is difficult is to craft characters on the other side of the moral coin, and McCammon does it with seeming ease. You learn to really care about these people, something that doesn't happen often in books of this genre.<br />The atmosphere in \\"Swan Song\\" is bleak and oppressive. McCammon has no qualms about presenting life in a post-nuclear world. Cruelty is presented as normal behavior, and characters are mutilated or killed off quite frequently. Warlords battle for control of the country while little villages try to recreate a sense of community. The endless description of a shattered world slowly instills in the reader a sense of despair. McCammon's vivid portrait of a world gone mad certainly resurrects images of the Cold War and its shrieking insanity, when the world lived under the constant shadow of agonizing death.<br />While \\"Swan Song\\" clocks in at a hefty 950 pages, its pages pass by like a swift summer breeze. In the final analysis, McCammon's message in this book is one of hope; no matter how badly the human race messes things up, salvation may still be within reach. That is a message that transcends any age, and that is the significance of \\"Swan Song.\\"Cammon has the ability to make his characters endearing and genuine. There are no cardboard cutouts in this book. Even tertiary characters are developed with loving care. It's relatively easy to draw evil characters because evil is easy to see. What is difficult is to craft characters on the other side of the moral coin, and McCammon does it with seeming ease. You learn to really care about these people, something that doesn't happen often in books of this genre.<br />The atmosphere in \\"Swan Song\\" is bleak and oppressive. McCammon has no qualms about presenting life in a post-nuclear world. Cruelty is presented as normal behavior, and characters are mutilated or killed off quite frequently. Warlords battle for control of the country while little villages try to recreate a sense of community. The endless description of a shattered world slowly instills in the reader a sense of despair. McCammon's vivid portrait of a world gone mad certainly resurrects images of the Cold War and its shrieking insanity, when the world lived under the constant shadow of agonizing death.<br />While \\"Swan Song\\" clocks in at a hefty 950 pages, its pages pass by like a swift summer breeze. In the final analysis, McCammon's message in this book is one of hope; no matter how badly the human race messes things up, salvation may still be within reach. That is a message that transcends any age, and that is the significance of \\"Swan Song.\\"	2002-08-16
1445288:US	52012289	RXJ25NYOGCPAD	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	2	78	123	N	N	Insensate	On the front cover of this book, a giant Mike Moore towers over a conference table occupied by his mortal enemies, stupid white men. Where is the David to slay this Goliath! This book is one of the biggest bundles of doggerel I've ever read. That's a darn shame, too, because I always admired Mike Moore. Here's a guy that pulled himself up through sheer ability; he spent years toiling in obscurity, and spent almost every dime he had to make an important film about America's working man. He never attended college, but there he was making films and television shows. With this book, however, Moore not only shows a shocking amount of ignorance, he also moves himself further left than Karl Marx.<br />\\"Stupid White Men\\" attacks and addresses almost everything the American far left fears in late 1990's America. Conservatives, big business, arsenic in the drinking water, minority rights, George W. Bush, mad cow disease, education, the fusion of the Democratic and Republican parties, SUVs, Election 2000, and other paranoias I'm probably forgetting appear in this book. Yes, this is what the book is: paranoid. Remember the militia movement and how they feared invasion by the United Nations? Remember how everyone painted them as dangerous lunatics? Well, Mike shows us that paranoia knows no distinctions along ideological lines.<br />It's not that I disagree with some of Moore's assertions. Certainly some big business types are greedy jerks that act like gods, laying off workers at the drop of a hat. My problem is how Moore presents his arguments. Moore subscribes to \\"one cause\\" reasoning, a popular method of presenting a \\"fact\\" in order to tie it to a certain ideological position. The media does this all the time, and the purpose it serves is indoctrination. For example, Moore states that black women are four times as likely to die during childbirth than white women. Mike cleverly ties this solely to racism, claiming that these deaths are due to a system that purposefully denies treatment to black women. Is this the only reason? Of course not. Couldn't it also have something to do with the fact that black women have more children than white women, thereby exposing them to greater risk of death or injury? You'll never know from this book. What the reader needs to keep in mind is that every problem has more than one cause. Reducing every social ill to one concrete conclusion is not only inaccurate; it's dangerous as well because it hinders the development of effective solutions to problems. There are numerous examples of this type of reasoning in Moore's book.<br />Another concept lacking in this book is that of personal responsibility. Every problem in society, according to Moore, is caused by external events. People who do drugs are victims, students who fail to learn are victims, and minorities are victims as well. Heck, we're all victims in some way or another in Moore's moral universe. One of the great things about America is that a person, regardless of background, might be able to make it big with a little luck, a lot of hard work, and an optimistic outlook of can-do spirit. Andrew Carnegie didn't whine when he was wearing out the soles of his shoes as a poor boy. Carnegie did something about it, and succeeded beyond anyone's wildest expectations. No one handed him the keys to the castle for free. Quit looking for reasons why you can't and find reasons why you can. You did it, Mr. Moore!<br />Mike relies heavily on humor to make this mess palatable. It's hard to criticize points when you're laughing, and that's the idea. I'll admit I laughed over some of his quips. The idea of Ralph Nader as president is one of the funniest things I've read in years. I've always thought Moore was a funny guy. But do not make the mistake of reading this for humor at the expense of critical analysis.s treatment to black women. Is this the only reason? Of course not. Couldn't it also have something to do with the fact that black women have more children than white women, thereby exposing them to greater risk of death or injury? You'll never know from this book. What the reader needs to keep in mind is that every problem has more than one cause. Reducing every social ill to one concrete conclusion is not only inaccurate; it's dangerous as well because it hinders the development of effective solutions to problems. There are numerous examples of this type of reasoning in Moore's book.<br />Another concept lacking in this book is that of personal responsibility. Every problem in society, according to Moore, is caused by external events. People who do drugs are victims, students who fail to learn are victims, and minorities are victims as well. Heck, we're all victims in some way or another in Moore's moral universe. One of the great things about America is that a person, regardless of background, might be able to make it big with a little luck, a lot of hard work, and an optimistic outlook of can-do spirit. Andrew Carnegie didn't whine when he was wearing out the soles of his shoes as a poor boy. Carnegie did something about it, and succeeded beyond anyone's wildest expectations. No one handed him the keys to the castle for free. Quit looking for reasons why you can't and find reasons why you can. You did it, Mr. Moore!<br />Mike relies heavily on humor to make this mess palatable. It's hard to criticize points when you're laughing, and that's the idea. I'll admit I laughed over some of his quips. The idea of Ralph Nader as president is one of the funniest things I've read in years. I've always thought Moore was a funny guy. But do not make the mistake of reading this for humor at the expense of critical analysis.	2002-08-11
1445414:US	52012289	R2COOZ7LBAG85B	0441116175	548446533	Conan the Liberator	Books	1	12	18	N	N	Boring	Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. We've all heard that statement before, right? In most cases, it may even be true. Something tells me it isn't so with this book. The two authors of this book point out in the introduction (which, along with the map of Howard's fantasy world, is the only interesting thing about this book) that great care has been taken to carefully reconstruct Howard's prose style while maintaining character continuity with his original stories. Even though I've never read a Howard book before--and I will seek some of them out after this--I don't doubt that the prose and descriptions match the original stories. Unfortunately, in their careful attempts at mimicry, these two authors forgot to craft an engaging story.<br />\\"Conan the Liberator\\" tells the story about a revolution mounted against the evil Numedides, King of Aquilonia, by Conan the Cimmerian, a former general of Numedides. People are fed up with the debaucheries of Numedides, and the high taxes that go along with them. But Numedides is under the spell of the evil Lemurian sorcerer Thulandra Thuu, a man who wishes to further his own interests through the king. Conan has other ideas, and assembles an army with the help of Count Trocero, a nobleman of Poitain; Dexitheus, a priest of Mitra; Publius, a rebel tax accessor; and Prospero, another exiled general. The army assembles in nearby Argos, where spies keep watch on their activities, and a beauty by the name of Alcina, in the employ of Thuu, watches Conan. The entire book is a painfully detailed account of the grinding excursion north to a showdown with Numedides and Thuu.<br />\\"Conan the Liberator\\" is the worst fantasy book I've ever read. Page after page is loaded with meaningless dialogue and politics. I always felt the name Conan was synonymous with action. This book showed me the error of that type of thinking. NOTHING happens in this book. Sure, there are a couple of short battles during the course of the story, and Thuu manages to cast a couple of spells against Conan and his army. But overall, these few scenes are not enough to justify writing this book, let alone reprinting it. Almost every scene manages to land with an earth-shattering thud<br />Character development is criminally, excruciatingly flat. I've seen better character development in industrial training films. Not one character ever rises above simple human traits such as breathing and moving. It will be a miracle if I remember anything about any of them in a few days.<br />What is good about this book pertains directly to the creator of Conan, Robert Howard. The introduction is good, and the map of Howard's fantasy world is fascinating. According to the introduction, Howard created a world with a mix of ancient, medieval, viking, and biblical place names. Howard placed his world between the sinking of Atlantis and \\"the emergence of the cities.\\" Our gods and mythologies, according to Howard, are fragmentary memories of this forgotten age.<br />Avoid this clunker at all costs. Go out and find the original stories, or rent the Conan movies. Learning Esperanto or cleaning the lint out of your navel would be more fun than diving into this cesspool. I suspect Howard would be quite testy if he was still alive today to witness what others have done with his ideas.nages to cast a couple of spells against Conan and his army. But overall, these few scenes are not enough to justify writing this book, let alone reprinting it. Almost every scene manages to land with an earth-shattering thud<br />Character development is criminally, excruciatingly flat. I've seen better character development in industrial training films. Not one character ever rises above simple human traits such as breathing and moving. It will be a miracle if I remember anything about any of them in a few days.<br />What is good about this book pertains directly to the creator of Conan, Robert Howard. The introduction is good, and the map of Howard's fantasy world is fascinating. According to the introduction, Howard created a world with a mix of ancient, medieval, viking, and biblical place names. Howard placed his world between the sinking of Atlantis and \\"the emergence of the cities.\\" Our gods and mythologies, according to Howard, are fragmentary memories of this forgotten age.<br />Avoid this clunker at all costs. Go out and find the original stories, or rent the Conan movies. Learning Esperanto or cleaning the lint out of your navel would be more fun than diving into this cesspool. I suspect Howard would be quite testy if he was still alive today to witness what others have done with his ideas.	2002-08-11
1451050:US	52012289	R1SGVPZW1LI3UA	0451402375	267099768	The Mailman	Books	5	41	43	N	N	No More Mail!	I'm making an effort to read most of Bentley Little's books as fast as I possibly can. To me, Little is an absolute master of a strange mix of horror, humor, and general wackiness. This book, \\"The Mailman,\\" is one of Little's earliest efforts (written in 1991), and it looks like it is the first of several Little novels, such as \\"The Store\\" and \\"The Association,\\" that employ brilliant black comedy in order to poke fun at the staples of American culture. In these novels, Little takes mundane scenarios such as shopping or the post office, and turns them into hilariously horrific tales of murder and mayhem. His goal is to show how little power we have over our modern lives, and how close we are to allowing our institutions to become bulwarks of fascism. This isn't to say that Little doesn't write straight horror; I know now that he does, but his books can be broken down into two distinct categories: horror (such as \\"The Walking\\"), and social satire (\\"The Mailman,\\" \\"The Store,\\" etc.). Of Little's social satire books that I've read, \\"The Mailman\\" is the darkest and most effective of the lot.<br />\\"The Mailman\\" is set in Willis, Arizona. The main characters are Doug, a schoolteacher starting his summer break, his wife Tritia, and his son Billy. Life is looking promising until the local postman, Bob Ronda, commits suicide. His replacement, a strange looking man named John Smith, never really seems to fit in. His attitude is suspicious, and he delivers the mail much earlier than his predecessor did. Soon, the mail begins to change. Instead of finding the usual junk mail and bills, customers find letters from long lost friends, or unexpected refunds. It also becomes apparent that Smith is constantly changing his delivery times. Mail starts appearing in the box in the middle of the night. Those that make trips to the post office to complain to Howard, the local postmaster, discover that Smith is running the front counter. Howard, they are told, is sick and won't be in today. Things go from a nuisance to downright sinister when hateful and perverted mail starts showing up. I won't go any farther with this description because I don't want to spoil the fun for you. But by the time the town is chanting, \\"no more mail!\\" you'll be cheering right along with them.<br />The main and secondary characters are drawn well. The only character I had trouble with was Tritia, Doug's wife. She became so annoying to me that I actually wished her harm at the hands of the mailman. Her health food kick, which Little plays up throughout the story, at times seemed to be the real horror story of the book. Maybe it's because I grew up in a household where health food was crammed down my throat, but I found Tritia to be the type of woman that rhymes with the word \\"witch.\\" Fortunately, Doug and Billy are more sympathetic characters.<br />My favorite part of the book is the local post office. As the town slowly disintegrates, the post office becomes more and more hideous. By the time the final showdown takes place, Little has taken the post office so far over the top that I laughed for hours recalling the detailed descriptions of the place.<br />If you have never read Bentley Little, this book is a good place to start. \\"The Mailman\\" introduces you to Little the satirist, while still delivering some good gore and a few effective shocks. One thing is definite: once the Bentley Little bug bites, it bites deep. You'll want to rush out and read all of his stuff. Don't be afraid of this condition; it is quite harmless and can be easily treated.hings go from a nuisance to downright sinister when hateful and perverted mail starts showing up. I won't go any farther with this description because I don't want to spoil the fun for you. But by the time the town is chanting, \\"no more mail!\\" you'll be cheering right along with them.<br />The main and secondary characters are drawn well. The only character I had trouble with was Tritia, Doug's wife. She became so annoying to me that I actually wished her harm at the hands of the mailman. Her health food kick, which Little plays up throughout the story, at times seemed to be the real horror story of the book. Maybe it's because I grew up in a household where health food was crammed down my throat, but I found Tritia to be the type of woman that rhymes with the word \\"witch.\\" Fortunately, Doug and Billy are more sympathetic characters.<br />My favorite part of the book is the local post office. As the town slowly disintegrates, the post office becomes more and more hideous. By the time the final showdown takes place, Little has taken the post office so far over the top that I laughed for hours recalling the detailed descriptions of the place.<br />If you have never read Bentley Little, this book is a good place to start. \\"The Mailman\\" introduces you to Little the satirist, while still delivering some good gore and a few effective shocks. One thing is definite: once the Bentley Little bug bites, it bites deep. You'll want to rush out and read all of his stuff. Don't be afraid of this condition; it is quite harmless and can be easily treated.	2002-08-05
1451109:US	52012289	R2D9XTM4J3L34N	0843949880	48429437	City Infernal	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Gruesome	Edward Lee is considered by many to be the gross-out king of the horror genre. I wish I could confirm or deny that statement, but I cannot. That's because \\"City Infernal\\" is the only Ed Lee book I've ever read. His other novels are either out of print or are so expensive that one would have to visit a mafia loan shark just to come up with the dough to buy one. Fortunately, \\"City Infernal\\" doesn't require a broken arm in order to get a copy (at least not yet; when it goes out of print, it might be a different story.).<br />\\"City Infernal\\" is a real thrill ride. Lee tells us the story of Cassie, a Goth girl recovering from the suicide of her twin sister Lissa. Cassie and her father, a big shot Washington lawyer, move into the Virginia boonies to put the past behind them. Unfortunately for the two, they move into a mansion built by a Satanist. Cassie discovers that the house is occupied by three dead teenagers and serves as a gateway to the underworld (one of the teens is a mute named Hush. Nifty name!). But the Hades that Lee creates isn't all fire and brimstone; this Hades is a city built over the last 5000 years. It is much like New York or any other global metropolis. But in this city, torture, cannibalism, weird shops, and other types of mayhem can all be found during a stroll down the street. In Hades, black magic and sorcery are hard sciences. One can buy elixirs and cast spells on other people. Lucifer exists and lives in the largest high rise in the city, where he controls all types of government operations. The fallen angel Ezoriel, who battles his former friend for control of the underworld, opposes him by using terrorist tactics with a private army.<br />Cassie enters Hades with her three dead friends, hoping to find Lissa. Fortunately for Cassie, it is quickly discovered that she has special powers in Hades. The result is a freewheeling ride through the nooks and crannies of the city. We see Cassie and her chums battling demon cops, eating at a fancy restaurant that serves human and demon meat, cooling their heels at a club, and running from a gangster called \\"Nicky the Cooker.\\"<br />I found this book highly entertaining. Lee is a reader's writer. He knows that when creating such a fascinating world, the reader wants details. That is exactly what Lee delivers. Hundreds of pages are devoted to the minutiae of life in the netherworld. We get to see a demon birth, gruesome murders and tortures, very strange television programs, and some of the more famous residents of the underworld. All of this is described in abundant and clever detail.<br />I liked Cassie a lot, probably because she reminds me of several young ladies I know. Her internal observations were entertaining and realistic, considering the subject matter. Cassie's anguish over her responsibility for her sister's death is written with genuine feeling and comes across as such. Some of her reactions to experiences in Hades are a bit ridiculous, but on the whole she emerges as a good character that the reader knows quite well by the end of the story.<br />Other characters aren't drawn as well. Cassie's dead buddies are central to the story, but come across as one dimensional (of course, they are dead!). Lissa is an enigma; she appears at the beginning of the book, and only intermittently throughout. We know the context in which she kills herself, but never understand the real reason for her actions. This is a problem because Lee originally paints Cassie as the outcast, depressed loner while Lissa is an extrovert.<br />An even bigger problem is Lee's tendency to make the rules up as he goes along. We are told, by Cassie's dead friends in the beginning, that Hades has many rules. How fortunate that these rules always become apparent when most needed, and always helpful to our heroes! The demon cops are closing in-presto! We're invisible!  Oh dear, it doesn't look like we're going to get out of this situation alive-here's Ezoriel and his black knights to save the day! I could probably stomach most of these miraculous saves, as most fiction uses them to some extent or another. But by the time the end of the book rolls around, it gets cutesy-wootsy and it grates.<br />Despite a few minor problems, this book is still a lot of fun. I would read more Ed Lee in the future, based on what I know of him from this book. If you like horror/sci-fi/fantasy, pick this one up before it goes out of print.ay! I could probably stomach most of these miraculous saves, as most fiction uses them to some extent or another. But by the time the end of the book rolls around, it gets cutesy-wootsy and it grates.<br />Despite a few minor problems, this book is still a lot of fun. I would read more Ed Lee in the future, based on what I know of him from this book. If you like horror/sci-fi/fantasy, pick this one up before it goes out of print.	2002-08-05
1459302:US	52012289	R31YIA2M2OETEV	0451204123	161070434	The Association	Books	4	3	4	N	N	More humor from Bentley Little	Bentley Little certainly knows how to create a deft blend of humor, horror, and wackiness. Of the three novels I've read from this particular author, \\"The Association\\" continues this tradition, albeit on a slightly lower scale than \\"The Store\\" and \\"The Collection.\\" Little's \\"The Association\\" is his scathing indictment of the homeowner associations that are springing up all across America.<br />\\"The Association\\" is the story of Barry and Maureen, a wedded couple fleeing from Southern California life. Barry, a horror writer, and Maureen, an accountant, decide to move to a gated community in Corban, Utah. Corban, although it is out in the boonies, promises to be a peaceful, bucolic place to live. The houses are nice and the view is great. What Barry and Mo didn't count on was the homeowner's association. The trouble starts slowly; landscaping the couple plants is mysteriously torn up, a local weirdo accosts Mo, and strange rule violations start appearing in the mailbox. Things go quickly downhill from there. Paranoia sets in, as Barry has no idea which of his neighbors he can trust with his criticisms of the association. By the time some of Barry's friends start to disappear, the stage for a showdown is set.<br />This book contains many of Little's usual themes. The biggest one is the elevation of a mundane activity or organization into something fearful and fascist. Whether it is a discount retail store, the U.S. Postal Service, or gated communities, Little sees much to worry about in our everyday lives.<br />The humor is here as it is in his other novels, but it is nowhere near the level of \\"The Store.\\" Still, how can you not chuckle about Stumpy or the clipboard toting thugs in \\"The Association?\\" It is this kind of black comedy that makes Bentley Little so darn enjoyable. His propensity for \\"slight exaggeration\\" makes him more of a humorist than a horror writer. That's not to say there aren't sickening or upsetting incidents in this book, but I think the emphasis on horror ignores an important aspect in his writings.<br />My greatest concern with this novel is some of the threads left untied in the story. One small example is when Barry receives a picture, from the association, of a person being tortured to death. Shortly after, a FBI agent shows up to investigate the disappearance of a few of Barry's friends. Amazingly, NO ONE gives the FBI agent the picture! This doesn't strain belief; it violently breaks it in half and slaps you in the face with it! This, and a few other continuity errors, makes \\"The Association\\" a lesser Little work.<br />However, don't lose faith. Little is still one of the great ones out there, and he keeps churning novels out at a quick pace. You have to love a guy that references Jethro Tull, ELP, and Phillip Emmons (Little's own pseudonym) in the same book.on horror ignores an important aspect in his writings.<br />My greatest concern with this novel is some of the threads left untied in the story. One small example is when Barry receives a picture, from the association, of a person being tortured to death. Shortly after, a FBI agent shows up to investigate the disappearance of a few of Barry's friends. Amazingly, NO ONE gives the FBI agent the picture! This doesn't strain belief; it violently breaks it in half and slaps you in the face with it! This, and a few other continuity errors, makes \\"The Association\\" a lesser Little work.<br />However, don't lose faith. Little is still one of the great ones out there, and he keeps churning novels out at a quick pace. You have to love a guy that references Jethro Tull, ELP, and Phillip Emmons (Little's own pseudonym) in the same book.	2002-07-29
1461272:US	52012289	R3V7JNG69GIGG0	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Say it Ayn't So!	Ayn Rand's writings have been enormously influential, and to argue otherwise is an exercise in futility. Her reach in the field of politics counts Alan Greenspan as one her apostles. She's probably better known for \\"Atlas Shrugged,\\" a massive novel written in the 1950's. Before \\"Atlas Shrugged\\" came \\"The Fountainhead,\\" written in the 1940's. Rand was a screenwriter and a playwright as well. Ayn Rand died in 1982.<br />This edition of the book is divided into three parts: an introduction with some explanatory notes written by Rand in the 1960's, the actual novel, and an afterword by Rand acolyte Leonard Peikoff, who is also Rand's legal executor.<br />On the surface, \\"The Fountainhead\\" is a deceptively simple tale about an architect struggling to make buildings on his own terms. There is much more here than this, however.<br />Rand uses the novelistic style as a vehicle for her personal philosophy. This philosophy, known now as Objectivism, places man squarely at the center of the universe. It is man who creates, but only certain men. The man who creates is an egotist, a man who creates solely for his own sake and for the sake of the work, without any influence from others. He does not share his work or collaborate. The rest of humanity is \\"second-handers,\\" or parasites that feed off the misery of others. They do not create, but merely take from those who do to give to those who don't. These second-handers are usually found promoting a socialistic, or collective, society.<br />In \\"The Fountainhead,\\" it is Howard Roark who is the creator. Roark is a genius that is guided by an inner force to build. His whole life is dedicated to creating monuments to man's greatness. While others resort to imitation, Roark creates and expresses new ideas. He refuses to change his plans to please others. He only respects others who share his worldview.<br />Arrayed against Roark is Peter Keating, a fawning, inept architect who turns to Roark to bail him out of tough spots when he needs help, only to turn against Roark at the first opportunity. Keating accepts awards and positions he doesn't deserve, is vain beyond belief, and is also a momma's boy (Peter wants to become a painter, but his mother talks him into becoming an architect). He does what he thinks others want him to do. He is not his own man, but a man of the collective mentality.<br />Ellsworth Toohey is the archenemy of the novel. Toohey is a pseudo-intellectual who works behind the scenes to create a \\"brotherhood of man\\" society. Toohey creates councils to debase literature, architecture, and theater. He writes a column in a newspaper and magazine promoting socialist values. His goal is the domination of the world with himself as a sort of \\"first citizen.\\"<br />These are not the only main characters of the book, but they are the most important ones. There is Dominique Francon, a woman who shares Roark's outlook on life. She is so loyal to Roark that she works against him because she knows that if Roark succeeds, he'll be destroyed by society. Gail Wynand, a newspaper publisher with Roark's worldview, also emerges later in the novel. He too shares Roark's ideas, with an important exception revealed at the end of the story.<br />For the most part, I liked the book. Rand systematizes some beliefs I've held for awhile, especially on socialism and communism. She's dead wrong about second-handers not creating anything, however. These people have made much progress in the fields of political murder, torture, and penal institutions. Just look at the Soviet gulag system!<br />Her use of the novel format to express her ideas is good, and you can certainly tell Rand was a screenwriter. She creates believable social settings and atmosphere. My problems here are with the Dominique character; I just didn't like her. All too often, Dominique's presence led to over long dialogue and annoying situations. Be sure to pay attention to the first encounter between Roark and Dominique. It's an unusual takeon sexual relations that I don't agree with.<br />I'll probably read \\"Atlas Shrugged\\" at some point, although I would rather read one of Rand's purely philosophical books. I'd like to see Objectivism fleshed out a little bit more than is done in this book. I do recommend reading this book because Rand is considered an important figure, and you should have an opinion about her work and her philosophy.on sexual relations that I don't agree with.<br />I'll probably read \\"Atlas Shrugged\\" at some point, although I would rather read one of Rand's purely philosophical books. I'd like to see Objectivism fleshed out a little bit more than is done in this book. I do recommend reading this book because Rand is considered an important figure, and you should have an opinion about her work and her philosophy.	2002-07-27
1465832:US	52012289	R1ODO2RT1SQVR	0671737767	633434475	Stinger: Stinger	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Ya'll Best Watch Out For Stinger!	I have been reading an awful lot of these types of books lately. I've taken a couple of trips to the underworld, witnessed time travel, seen vampires chew up their victims, read about diseases that threaten the entire world, and visited the twisted worlds of serial killers. Ah, the life of the mass-market paperback reader! Usually, that life leaves a lot to be desired. Oftentimes, character development is minimal, the prose is turgid, or the plot is left loose ends flapping in the breeze. Not so with Robert McCammon. McCammon knows how to write a story with fascinating and well-developed characters, with an atmosphere that is both chilling and spooky. He also knows how to deliver a plot that is tied up in a neat little ball, to be neatly placed on your lap at the end of the book.<br />\\"Stinger\\" is just such a novel. It is the story of a little Texas town named Inferno. Inferno is dying, slowly and painfully. Since the mine closed down, there is little work and a lot of rusting dreams. The people that are left behind to witness Inferno's gasping death are a hardy lot. They need to be tough, because something terrible is about to happen that will change the people of Inferno forever. Early one morning, a spacecraft of unknown origin crashes outside town, quickly followed by another spaceship that lands outside Bordertown, where Inferno's Mexican citizens live. What follows is a roller coaster ride of sheer terror, as the occupants of the two spaceships aren't exactly friendly with one another. By the end of the book, dozens of people have died in extremely unpleasant ways.<br />At the center of the story is Daufin, a friendly alien running from an intergalactic bounty hunter called Stinger. Stinger has a lot of unusual tricks up his sleeve, leaving Daufin no choice but to drag the local inhabitants into the fray. There is the Hammond family, Colonel Rhodes, an air force investigator, Sheriff Ed Vance, Cody and Curt Lockett, Sarge Dennison, Rick Jurado, and other characters. The Hammond's are important due to their direct contact with Daufin. Lockett and Jurado are the leaders of two warring street gangs, the Renegades and Rattlers. These characters are astonishingly well developed for a horror novel. I was about half way through the book before I realized that McCammon loves his characters, and treats them accordingly. Some of the subplot stories are extremely heart wrenching. I know it is a clich&eacute;, but these really are characters that you come to care about.<br />What became most apparent to me as I read this book is McCammon's emphasis on redemption. Several of the characters are what society would deem \\"unlikable\\" people, but prove themselves when the going gets tough. An alcoholic abuser can change his ways, as can kids in a gang or a mentally unbalanced individual. McCammon has an unfailingly optimistic outlook towards humanity, something sorely lacking in most of today's fiction works. He believes that all types of people can put aside their differences in order to join together to fight a common enemy.<br />This is one of the better mass-market paperbacks I've read this summer. Do yourself a favor and pick this one up. I think it speaks volumes about McCammon's abilities as an author that this book, written in 1988, is still in print today. That's something most authors cannot brag about. Soon, I'll tackle \\"Swan Song.\\"cters. The Hammond's are important due to their direct contact with Daufin. Lockett and Jurado are the leaders of two warring street gangs, the Renegades and Rattlers. These characters are astonishingly well developed for a horror novel. I was about half way through the book before I realized that McCammon loves his characters, and treats them accordingly. Some of the subplot stories are extremely heart wrenching. I know it is a cliché, but these really are characters that you come to care about. <br />What became most apparent to me as I read this book is McCammon's emphasis on redemption. Several of the characters are what society would deem \\"unlikable\\" people, but prove themselves when the going gets tough. An alcoholic abuser can change his ways, as can kids in a gang or a mentally unbalanced individual. McCammon has an unfailingly optimistic outlook towards humanity, something sorely lacking in most of today's fiction works. He believes that all types of people can put aside their differences in order to join together to fight a common enemy.<br />This is one of the better mass-market paperbacks I've read this summer. Do yourself a favor and pick this one up. I think it speaks volumes about McCammon's abilities as an author that this book, written in 1988, is still in print today. That's something most authors cannot brag about. Soon, I'll tackle \\"Swan Song.\\"	2002-07-23
1466151:US	52012289	R3BLN3YW7VJC8I	0385236921	259545722	D'Aulaire's Norse Gods & Giants	Books	5	28	28	N	N	THE Childhood Book	When I was in grade school, so many years ago, a friend of mine turned me on to this amazing book. This book became my raison d'etre during those years. I checked it out of the library so many times that the librarian would come looking for me when someone else wanted to borrow it. I can still remember that copy of the book: the clear plastic cover over the dust jacket with a tear along the bottom right corner. When I moved on into junior high, once in awhile I would think of this book and wonder if it still resided in its usual position on the bookshelf. Even after I graduated from high school and began my life, I continued to wonder if this book was still in the library of my old elementary school. True, I thought about the book less and less as the years went by, but I still remembered it fondly when I thought of it. Then one night, while skating along the Internet, I thought of the book and decided to see if I could locate a copy. I frowned when I discovered it was out of print, but continued my search, becoming feverish as each avenue of inquiry turned up naught.<br />Then finally, success! I found a copy, available for an astronomical sum. I shelled out the dough and waited for its arrival. I was not disappointed. The book was just as I remembered it: an oversized hard cover copy with the familiar, although faded, dust jacket. Ultimately, the price I paid for the book really didn't matter. Who can put a price on the memories of childhood? I would have paid double what I coughed up for this precious book. What disappointed me was discovering that it was out of print. That is a crime I hope is soon remedied.<br />D'Aulaire's \\"Norse Gods and Giants\\" is an excellent book for a child. It is a simplified retelling of the stories and adventures of the Norse pantheon. All of the gods are here: Odin, Thor, Loki, Heimdall, Balder, Freya, and all the rest. Along with the descriptions and anecdotes of the gods and goddesses are stories about the creation of the earth, the evil jotuns, and Ragnorrak (the end the world). All of the stories explain earthly phenomena, such as planting, writing, death, fertility, war, and love. My favorite story in the book is the Thor cycle, actually four stories recounting the exploits of Thor (often with the treacherous Loki in tow) against the hated jotuns. The book crackles with magic, action, and amazing worlds. The D'Aulaires even add a post-script about the emergence of Christianity after the Norse pantheon collapses.<br />However, it is the illustrations that make this book such a treasure. The pictures run the gamut, from crude pencil or charcoal drawings, to ultra-bright colored pictures depicting the gods and goddesses acting out their stories. The artwork is, at times, extraordinary. The drawing of the goddess Sif and her golden hair is one of the most beautiful depictions of a woman I've seen in a children's book. It is the pictures, more so than the text, which moves the book along at a fast pace.<br />A reader's companion at the end of the book explains all of the characters and events in the narrative, along with explanations of what a story meant for those who told them and listened to them. For example, the story of Frey wooing the icy jotun Gerd explained how the barley fields thawed in the spring. A story about Odin hanging himself from a tree for nine days and nights explained how runes came into being. Even if the stories were stripped of their meaning in human terms, they would still be enormously entertaining for children.<br />As age encroaches on us, we learn about soteriology, eschatology, and the common origins of every religion. But once in awhile it's nice to shuck all of that and just indulge in something for the sheer joy of the thing. This book goes a long way towards accomplishing that. I wish every library contained a copy of this exciting and beautiful book. To think I even considered going back to my old elementary school in order to \\"liberate\\" this book! Oh well, I've got my copy. Now you have to find yours.'ve got my copy. Now you have to find yours.	2002-07-23
1468342:US	52012289	RQIZHNN7EH505	0451206096	266675919	The Collection	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Little Does it All!	Bentley Little has done it again! This collection of short stories is an absolute must have for anyone interested in this hilarious author's writings. Little's stories are a deft mix of humor, horror, and weirdness that are an excellent way to pass a few hours. I am continually amazed that many people fail to grasp the humor in this man's novels and stories. Little is a master of black comedy and satire (or as he refers to it in several of his stories here, \\"slightly exaggerated\\" situations).<br />I don't think it is helpful to go through a story-by-story analysis. Since many of the stories in \\"The Collection\\" are very short, an in-depth analysis of them would undoubtedly give away crucial plot information. I'll try to touch on a few recurring themes that Little revisits more than once.<br />Little has an interesting view of history. This theme caught my eye because I have a degree in history, and enjoy reading and studying the topic. Two stories are notable with this theme. The first, and the one story that made me buy the book, is \\"The Washingtonians.\\" A man finds a letter written by George Washington in a relative's trunk. The letter discusses eating children and making tools out of their bones, and is judged to be authentic. When the man visits a local university, he finds out that history, as we know it, is a total sham concocted to keep people in line and present a positive image of the powers that be. It is sufficient to say that by the time you reach the end of this story, you'll see a whole new meaning to the phrase, \\"the British are coming!\\"<br />The second story with this historical theme is \\"Colony.\\" A newly elected president finds out that America isn't what it appears to be. Let's just say that the Declaration of Independence is a facade to placate the people. The president, with the help of Nixon crony H.R. Haldeman (who turns out not to be dead, just in hiding), stages a new war for independence.<br />These two stories highlight Little's pessimistic view about accepted knowledge. Knowledge is often not a set of rigid facts or figures, but something softer and hazier that can be manipulated by people for whatever goals they desire. Sometimes, historical lies cover up something that can be truly terrifying.<br />Another theme in the book is his humor, especially in satire. The story that best fits this rubric is \\"Confessions of a Corporate Man.\\" In this brilliant gem of a tale, Little viciously skewers corporate America's attitude of competition. Disagreements between various departments in a company turn into full-blown wars involving murder, sex, and betrayal. It is bloody, but screamingly funny, as anyone who works (or has worked) in an office will quickly accede. Another tale, \\"Life with Father,\\" shows us what happens when recycling is taken WAY too far.<br />The humor isn't just satire, sometimes it is as black as the coffee at an AA meeting. Just check out \\"The Show,\\" about a snuff theater where the victim on stage might be someone you least expect. Then there is \\"Pillow Talk,\\" a short tale about pillows who want to share their lust. How about a story about a dwarf who is determined to collect a quarter? It's here and it's funny.<br />Then there are the straight horror stories, scary stories that make you look over your shoulder. Take a glance at \\"The Woods Be Dark,\\" a gruesome tale set in the South. The final tale, \\"The Mumurous Haunt of Flies,\\" is another shocker about a strange bathhouse on a farm that tells us more than we need (or want) to know about death.<br />There are other types of stories included in this collection, and a reader is sure to find something that tickles their fancy. I'm quickly discovering that Bentley Little is a brilliant author who can write any type of story. I'm looking forward to reading \\"The Mailman,\\" and \\"The Association.\\" Actually, I'm looking forward to reading all of his books, and I hope you will, too.view about accepted knowledge. Knowledge is often not a set of rigid facts or figures, but something softer and hazier that can be manipulated by people for whatever goals they desire. Sometimes, historical lies cover up something that can be truly terrifying.<br />Another theme in the book is his humor, especially in satire. The story that best fits this rubric is \\"Confessions of a Corporate Man.\\" In this brilliant gem of a tale, Little viciously skewers corporate America's attitude of competition. Disagreements between various departments in a company turn into full-blown wars involving murder, sex, and betrayal. It is bloody, but screamingly funny, as anyone who works (or has worked) in an office will quickly accede. Another tale, \\"Life with Father,\\" shows us what happens when recycling is taken WAY too far.<br />The humor isn't just satire, sometimes it is as black as the coffee at an AA meeting. Just check out \\"The Show,\\" about a snuff theater where the victim on stage might be someone you least expect. Then there is \\"Pillow Talk,\\" a short tale about pillows who want to share their lust. How about a story about a dwarf who is determined to collect a quarter? It's here and it's funny.<br />Then there are the straight horror stories, scary stories that make you look over your shoulder. Take a glance at \\"The Woods Be Dark,\\" a gruesome tale set in the South. The final tale, \\"The Mumurous Haunt of Flies,\\" is another shocker about a strange bathhouse on a farm that tells us more than we need (or want) to know about death.<br />There are other types of stories included in this collection, and a reader is sure to find something that tickles their fancy. I'm quickly discovering that Bentley Little is a brilliant author who can write any type of story. I'm looking forward to reading \\"The Mailman,\\" and \\"The Association.\\" Actually, I'm looking forward to reading all of his books, and I hope you will, too.	2002-07-21
1469217:US	52012289	R90QCSTRLE0TS	0812545249	536696611	The Chronoliths	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Give it up for Kuin!	It is the early 21st century. Scott Warden, a computer programmer educated at Cornell, lounges on the beaches of Thailand, wasting away his days in that great, wondering indifference we call youth. The fact that Scott has a wife and a baby daughter named Kaitlin isn't much of a concern, except when his wife and him are arguing. Most of the time, Scott hangs out with his drug-dealing buddy, Hitch. Life isn't great, but its good enough to avoid getting a new job and taking care of his responsibilities. Unfortunately for Scott, fate is about to deliver him a wake-up call that will change the rest of his life. An enormous structure appears suddenly in the jungle of Thailand. Scientific tests fail to discover anything meaningful about the object. The only thing known for sure about the object is an inscription written on the monument celebrating a military victory twenty years in the future by a mysterious figure named Kuin.<br />During the course of the next two decades, more monuments, now called chronoliths, appear throughout Asia, the Middle East, and Mexico. What everyone fears is the appearance of a chronolith in the United States. Paralleling the appearance of the chronoliths runs the course of Scott's life. Shortly after the first few chronoliths appear, an old college professor Scott met at Cornell, named Sue Chopra, contacts Scott. Chopra wants Scott to help her investigate the chronoliths by using his computer code writing abilities. Sue is an expert in physics who thinks she can reverse the appearance of the chronoliths, and she thinks Scott's presence in Thailand is linked to her solution.<br />On one level, this is pure science fiction. Weird coincidences, high-level physics, and the chronoliths themselves all meld together into a brilliantly conceived, and executed, novel. Time travel is a favorite sci-fi theme, but in this book it seems different. Spaceships aren't zooming into the past or the future. All we get are these strange objects. What do they mean and who is Kuin? How in the heck is it possible to send these objects through time a mere twenty years from the present, when time travel is still impossible?<br />On a second level, and a level much more meaningful for me, is the study of Scott and humanity in general. Their reactions to the chronoliths and the mysterious Kuin make up most of the novel. Some people support Kuin, and try to live their lives to that goal. Others, such as Sue, oppose the chronoliths and think there is a way out. People like Scott go back and forth; at times opposing the chronoliths, at other times just trying to survive in a rapidly disintegrating world. The book is, in this way, more of a sociological/psychological novel than mere science fiction.<br />I also found the writing style appealing. The whole story is supposed to be Scott writing about events after they have occurred, in the future. The passivity of Scott in the narrative gave me a feeling of hopelessness about how events would turn out. His replies to people are almost disinterested as though he recognizes that fighting against the future is hopeless (which it is, of course). I thought it added to the story in a good way.<br />An original and exciting plot, good characters who are well drawn, and a heck of an ending make this book an excellent read. If you're thinking about reading some good sci-fi, \\"The Chronoliths\\" is a tremendous place to start.n and who is Kuin? How in the heck is it possible to send these objects through time a mere twenty years from the present, when time travel is still impossible?<br />On a second level, and a level much more meaningful for me, is the study of Scott and humanity in general. Their reactions to the chronoliths and the mysterious Kuin make up most of the novel. Some people support Kuin, and try to live their lives to that goal. Others, such as Sue, oppose the chronoliths and think there is a way out. People like Scott go back and forth; at times opposing the chronoliths, at other times just trying to survive in a rapidly disintegrating world. The book is, in this way, more of a sociological/psychological novel than mere science fiction.<br />I also found the writing style appealing. The whole story is supposed to be Scott writing about events after they have occurred, in the future. The passivity of Scott in the narrative gave me a feeling of hopelessness about how events would turn out. His replies to people are almost disinterested as though he recognizes that fighting against the future is hopeless (which it is, of course). I thought it added to the story in a good way.<br />An original and exciting plot, good characters who are well drawn, and a heck of an ending make this book an excellent read. If you're thinking about reading some good sci-fi, \\"The Chronoliths\\" is a tremendous place to start.	2002-07-20
1469222:US	52012289	R2952F6NDYS8GE	0880331844	922403072	Albanian Stalinism	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Albanian Anti-Communism	I have had a soft spot in my heart for Albania for many years. Ever since I heard Radio Tirana on my shortwave radio back in the 1980's, my fascination with this little, misunderstood country on the fringes of Europe has never ceased. One day I hope to do graduate work on Albania and its people. In the meantime, I read historical works and novels about the country and dream of visiting it one day.<br />Albania's conversion to democracy after the devastating regime of Enver Hoxha's Stalinist rule continues to be a rocky one. Too much damage from five centuries of Ottoman rule coupled with communist brutality remains to this day. Arshi Pipa, in \\"Albanian Stalinism,\\" attempts to systematize the damage communist rule imposed on the country.<br />This book consists mainly of essays about communist Albania and the Kosova province. It also includes a book review of Jon Halliday's \\"The Artful Albanian,\\" a poem about Mother Theresa visiting Enver Hoxha and Stalin in Hades, and some speeches. There is even a small fictional piece about a stay in a forced labor camp and a dedication to a Catholic archbishop who died in an Albanian prison. Pipa wrote these essays over a forty-year span, from the 1950's to 1990.<br />The primary thrust of Pipa's essays can be summed up in the word \\"Stalalbanianism,\\" a concoction of Stalinist communism and Albanian communism. After Albania split with the Yugoslavs in 1948, they embraced Stalinist Russia. Albania's emphasis on collectivization, industrial development, gulags, and party purges not only can be traced to this dependence and adoption of Stalinism, but also lasted much longer than Stalinism did around the world. Pipa shows how Enver Hoxha adopted the personality cult of Stalinism, creating a sect around himself through purges and through his dense, convoluted writings. Hoxha became a sort of messiah figure, lauded even after his death as Albania's lone Marxist-Leninist theoretician (he had the other Marxist intellectuals killed). That Hoxha's elevation to a saint of Marxism required the execution and imprisonment of thousands magically eluded Albanian court historians. Pipa tries to set the record straight.<br />The essays on Kosova are informative, especially since Pipa wrote these essays before the wars and ethnic cleansings in Yugoslavia during the 1990's. In Pipa's writings, Kosova is a pawn between Albania and Yugoslavia. Albania promoted a pro-Stalinist government there in an effort to upset the Yugoslav government. Yugoslavia quashed efforts to elevate Kosova to a republic within the Yugoslav federation because the Serbs objected to Kosova's ethnic Albanian majority. Pipa argues that the Kosova problem might be overcome through economic solutions (a necessary solution, as Kosova had the highest unemployment and lowest income in the entire Yugoslav federation) based on an international outlook that would rise above regional hatreds. The NATO war against Serbia in 1999 showed that these developments never materialized.<br />This is not unbiased writing. Pipa is a vociferous anti-communist and despises Enver Hoxha. It's not hard to discover why; Pipa spent time in labor camps in the late 1940's and early 1950's, and found himself accused of collaboration with the CIA during the purge of Mehmet Shehu. Since this book isn't unbiased, care should be taken with some of Pipa's observations and conclusions. I'm glad to see that despite his hatred of Hoxha, Pipa did grudgingly admit that the Hoxhan reign raised literacy, improved industrial capacity, and increased medical care to the masses.<br />Go ahead and read this if you have a background in Albanian studies. If you don't have the necessary background, read a survey or two on Albania first. Pipa's analyses of events in Albania can get a bit sticky if you're not familiar with names and places.Hoxha's elevation to a saint of Marxism required the execution and imprisonment of thousands magically eluded Albanian court historians. Pipa tries to set the record straight.<br />The essays on Kosova are informative, especially since Pipa wrote these essays before the wars and ethnic cleansings in Yugoslavia during the 1990's. In Pipa's writings, Kosova is a pawn between Albania and Yugoslavia. Albania promoted a pro-Stalinist government there in an effort to upset the Yugoslav government. Yugoslavia quashed efforts to elevate Kosova to a republic within the Yugoslav federation because the Serbs objected to Kosova's ethnic Albanian majority. Pipa argues that the Kosova problem might be overcome through economic solutions (a necessary solution, as Kosova had the highest unemployment and lowest income in the entire Yugoslav federation) based on an international outlook that would rise above regional hatreds. The NATO war against Serbia in 1999 showed that these developments never materialized.<br />This is not unbiased writing. Pipa is a vociferous anti-communist and despises Enver Hoxha. It's not hard to discover why; Pipa spent time in labor camps in the late 1940's and early 1950's, and found himself accused of collaboration with the CIA during the purge of Mehmet Shehu. Since this book isn't unbiased, care should be taken with some of Pipa's observations and conclusions. I'm glad to see that despite his hatred of Hoxha, Pipa did grudgingly admit that the Hoxhan reign raised literacy, improved industrial capacity, and increased medical care to the masses.<br />Go ahead and read this if you have a background in Albanian studies. If you don't have the necessary background, read a survey or two on Albania first. Pipa's analyses of events in Albania can get a bit sticky if you're not familiar with names and places.	2002-07-20
1474384:US	52012289	RZ3BC8TRO1DWJ	0451192192	260699170	The Store	Books	5	35	44	N	N	Hilarious	Bentley Little was an enigma to me until a few weeks ago, when I thumbed through a few of his novels at the local bookshop. Despite the name association I made with the neighbor from \\"The Jeffersons,\\" the books looked interesting and I decided to take a crack at a few of them. \\"The Store\\" is the first one I decided to read and I am glad I did. What caught my eye were the somewhat cheesy cover and the hilarious description on the back cover. As I read the book, I discovered that the humor goes well beyond skin deep.<br />What surprises me about many of the reviews here is that they miss the biggest point of the story, namely, the humor. This is a wildly funny book. I alternated between chuckles, guffaws, snickers, giggles, hoots, bellows, knee slapping, gut busting, and roaring laughter with this gem of a novel. At first, I wondered if the book is supposed to be funny. I quickly decided that it is supposed to induce laughter. What Bentley Little is writing here is black comedy and satire on an epic scale. One event after another brought me to tears. There are horrific elements here, several which are decidedly unfunny. But overall, this book is the height of amusement. You know a book is good when you laugh out loud later, at weird times and places because you're thinking about the book. You learn to ignore the stares. It's difficult to explain what is funny in a short review. It is the cumulative effect The Store has on Juniper that brings out the chortles.<br />\\"The Store\\" takes place in Juniper, Arizona. Juniper is a podunk town out in the boonies. People have to drive to Flagstaff or Phoenix to visit a mall or a discount retailer. All of that changes when The Store arrives. The Store is a national discount chain, along the lines of Wal-Mart or Kmart. About the only person in town concerned about the new store is Bill Davis, a work at home writer who has plenty of time to poke his nose into what's going on in town. Davis has problems with The Store right from the start. The Store violates town rules by destroying the environment on the construction site. Then the dead animals start showing up, along with a transient that dies on the site. Davis is horrified to discover all of this carnage and quickly discovers that The Store is getting special treatment from the city government.<br />When The Store is finally built, even more ominous behavior begins to emerge. The Store uses its clout to run other businesses out of town. Unemployment begins to increase, as does The Store's influence in town government. The Store starts to sponsor activities in town, and they take over city services. People that are hired at the store begin to exhibit cult-like behavior. Bill is horrified when his daughter Samantha takes a job at The Store, followed by his other daughter, Shannon. Bill gets fed up with the increasingly fascist activities of The Store, and decides to confront its CEO, Newman King.<br />The book really builds up to what should be an awesome climax. Unfortunately, the ending is rather anti-climatic. Too many things go unexplained. Who is Newman King? Who are the Night Managers and how do they become what they are? The only conclusion I drew from the story is that The Store and its minions are related to some type of voodoo ritual. But that is never confirmed in any way, shape, or form. Like other reviewers have said, it seemed rushed. It does contain the most shocking scene of the book, however.<br />The characters in this book are marvelous. They are well drawn and sympathetic figures. I especially enjoyed Shannon, Bill's youngest daughter. Her spunky attitude and cynical observations are a joy to read. She reminded me of a girlfriend I once had years ago. Samantha, the other daughter, serves to put a human face on the degeneracy of The Store. It is through her eyes that we see the grueling application process, the cult-like devotion to The Store, and how The Store disciplines workers who break the rules.<br />Bentley Little'sgoal in this book is to expose the dependence Americans have on retail stores. In his view, Americans will sell out the very ideals of democracy in exchange for cheaper goods. Small towns are especially vulnerable to this type of corporate control because they lack access to bigger markets in a country that thrives on consumerism. These corporations can corrupt even their most dogged opponents, as seen in the book through Bill's meeting with Newman King. It seems that most of us recognize the danger of monopoly and unfettered corporate control. What Little does here is to take that idea and inject it with a huge dose of steroids, and then beat you over the head with the results.<br />This is masterful comedy, so sharp that it could put out your eye. I can't wait to read his collection of short stories and his other book, \\"The Association,\\" about an out of control homeowners association (which promises even more chuckles). I hope you find \\"The Store\\" as entertaining as I did.goal in this book is to expose the dependence Americans have on retail stores. In his view, Americans will sell out the very ideals of democracy in exchange for cheaper goods. Small towns are especially vulnerable to this type of corporate control because they lack access to bigger markets in a country that thrives on consumerism. These corporations can corrupt even their most dogged opponents, as seen in the book through Bill's meeting with Newman King. It seems that most of us recognize the danger of monopoly and unfettered corporate control. What Little does here is to take that idea and inject it with a huge dose of steroids, and then beat you over the head with the results.<br />This is masterful comedy, so sharp that it could put out your eye. I can't wait to read his collection of short stories and his other book, \\"The Association,\\" about an out of control homeowners association (which promises even more chuckles). I hope you find \\"The Store\\" as entertaining as I did.	2002-07-15
1475114:US	52012289	R2TAZXQ3JEAZUD	0425145662	348839810	Joyride	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Ketchum and Serial Killers	\\"Joyride,\\" another Jack Ketchum book I read recently, is a serial killer novel. I think at some point all horror writers are required to write such a book. It must be embedded in their first contracts with a publishing house-\\"Thou shalt write a book concerning serial killers!\\" Obviously, this becomes a problem when it is done to death over a period of time. If you really want to read about serial killers, check out the numerous encyclopedias and collections on real life killers and psychos. They tell you the real story, and most of the writers crib from them anyway. In the case of \\"Joyride,\\" Ketchum certainly did crib from a true account.<br />Poor Carole and Lee. They want to be together but Howard, Carole's ex-husband, insists on making his presence felt even when he isn't welcome. Howard feels that his propensity towards intimidation and forcing himself on Carole should merit reconciliation. Lee and Carole have other ideas. After police intervention has no effect on curbing Howard's violence, Lee broaches the idea of killing Howard. Carole goes along with this novel plan and the murder is done. Unfortunately for our two lovers, someone sees them do the deed. Even worse, this someone, Wayne Lock, is a sociopath with his own sick fantasies about murder. Wayne feels a sort of camaraderie for the two, and decides to pay them a visit. The rest of the book concerns these three people as Wayne goes on a killing spree. A subplot involves a local cop and his family problems.<br />This is a pretty straightforward book. The plot is simple, as is the prose. Surprisingly, for a Ketchum novel, the murders aren't exercises in over-the-top gore. A few of them are upsetting, especially the murder of Howard. But overall, they lack the usual Ketchum punch.<br />Also surprising is the character development. All of them are well drawn, with the exception of Wayne. Why write a serial killer novel and not develop the serial killer? This is not to say that Wayne isn't developed at all; he is. But not nearly as well as he should have been. More background on why Wayne is the way he is would have helped. How about more details about his messed up childhood? That always has the potential for some serious horror. Alas, `tis not so.<br />The ending of the book set off alarm bells in my head. I recognized the parallels to the Howard Unruh case almost immediately. For those unfamiliar with Howard Unruh, let me fill you in. Unruh, a WWII veteran, went on a shooting rampage in his neighborhood. Unruh was settling scores with neighbors who had done him wrong; he even wrote down the various \\"crimes\\" his fellow man committed against him (just as Wayne does in this book). Unruh's shooting spree left scores dead or wounded. When the cops finally arrived, Unruh holed up in his house. A reporter called Unruh in order to find out what was going on. Unruh's answer was, \\"I have to go now, I'm kind of busy right now.\\" Wayne says the same thing when the cops call him at his house.<br />For a Ketchum novel, \\"Joyride\\" is about average. I expected a little more out of it than it delivered. It's still a good way to pass a few hours (the book is very short and a quick read). I'm slowly working my way up to \\"The Girl Next Door,\\" supposedly the roman-a-clef of Ketchum's literary catalogue.he is. But not nearly as well as he should have been. More background on why Wayne is the way he is would have helped. How about more details about his messed up childhood? That always has the potential for some serious horror. Alas, `tis not so.<br />The ending of the book set off alarm bells in my head. I recognized the parallels to the Howard Unruh case almost immediately. For those unfamiliar with Howard Unruh, let me fill you in. Unruh, a WWII veteran, went on a shooting rampage in his neighborhood. Unruh was settling scores with neighbors who had done him wrong; he even wrote down the various \\"crimes\\" his fellow man committed against him (just as Wayne does in this book). Unruh's shooting spree left scores dead or wounded. When the cops finally arrived, Unruh holed up in his house. A reporter called Unruh in order to find out what was going on. Unruh's answer was, \\"I have to go now, I'm kind of busy right now.\\" Wayne says the same thing when the cops call him at his house.<br />For a Ketchum novel, \\"Joyride\\" is about average. I expected a little more out of it than it delivered. It's still a good way to pass a few hours (the book is very short and a quick read). I'm slowly working my way up to \\"The Girl Next Door,\\" supposedly the roman-a-clef of Ketchum's literary catalogue.	2002-07-15
1477655:US	52012289	RRIZ3GBSSCUIM	0345435796	285378245	The First Horseman	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Who Sneezed?	A lot of times when I read a medical thriller, I always tend to get a little paranoid. Every cough, sniffle, or sneeze takes on serious overtones. I think of books like this one, where millions became very sick or even die, and get antsy. I also start to think of the possible implications of going out to a movie, a concert, or any other place where large groups of people gather. I'm a student at a large university, and people are ALWAYS spreading around some illness or another there. Therefore, these types of books scare me more than most horror/suspense/psychological novels do. \\"The First Horseman\\" is one of these scary books. The author of \\"The First Horseman,\\" John Case, is actually a pseudonym for a husband and wife team. They haven't written a lot of books, but this one must be one of their best.<br />The story incorporates several real life events into a fictional account about a potential viral Armageddon. The story starts out with an unusual incident in the backwaters of North Korea, where a small village suffers a high death toll from a strange illness that causes its victims to turn blue and suffer a host of ills before they die. A doctor from the capital, Pyongyang, visits and cryptically refers to the \\"Spanish Lady\\" before he leaves. One of the villagers, while out collecting wood for dinner (this is North Korea, after all), witnesses the destruction of the village by North Korean military officials. His defection to South Korea and his report of the incident set off a high level investigation involving the CIA, the FBI, and various intelligence services. Caught up in the unfolding events is Frank Daly, a reporter form the Washington Post on a one year assignment to a specialist magazine, and Annie Adair, a scientist who is on a mission to excavate some Norwegian miners buried in the Arctic Circle in order to look for traces of the influenza pandemic of 1918. Also emerging into the storyline is Solange, the mysterious leader of a religious cult called, \\"The Temple of Light.\\" The resulting story lines are all weaved together into a taut, suspenseful thriller that kept me captivated until the last page.<br />Although the cover of my copy of the book says this is a novel of suspense, it is more than that. It is also a book about journalism. A good portion of the book is about Frank Daly investigating a story. We see how a journalist works to uncover facts. Frank makes phone calls to sources, digs through satellite images, tracks down names and numbers, wrestles with his publisher and his expense account, and occasionally deals with dangerous people who wish he would quit digging around where he's not wanted. For some reason, I kept picturing Daly as a certain Fox News channel talk show host-persistent, unflappable, and with a swaggering sense of humor. I guess most journalists have that type of commitment to their stories, but I couldn't shake the image.<br />Character development in \\"The First Horseman\\" is uneven. Daly is drawn well, with good background into his childhood and his interaction with other characters. The Annie character is not as well done. I didn't seem to have the connection with her I got from Daly. Annie is supposed to be this brilliant, big shot scientist but she comes across as a shy, giggling teenybopper type. She's always blushing about something and always putting her foot in her mouth about something she says or does. Solange, the cult leader, is portrayed as a psycho with little development outside torturing someone or giving orders to people.<br />I still got a thrill out of this book and found it difficult to put down. Not only does it have a novel type of torture (shook up Pepsi shot through someone's nose!) but it also moves at a fast pace, which is essential for a thriller. If you like thrillers, especially of the bioterror/medical type, pick up this book and give it a go.The Temple of Light.\\" The resulting story lines are all weaved together into a taut, suspenseful thriller that kept me captivated until the last page.<br />Although the cover of my copy of the book says this is a novel of suspense, it is more than that. It is also a book about journalism. A good portion of the book is about Frank Daly investigating a story. We see how a journalist works to uncover facts. Frank makes phone calls to sources, digs through satellite images, tracks down names and numbers, wrestles with his publisher and his expense account, and occasionally deals with dangerous people who wish he would quit digging around where he's not wanted. For some reason, I kept picturing Daly as a certain Fox News channel talk show host-persistent, unflappable, and with a swaggering sense of humor. I guess most journalists have that type of commitment to their stories, but I couldn't shake the image.<br />Character development in \\"The First Horseman\\" is uneven. Daly is drawn well, with good background into his childhood and his interaction with other characters. The Annie character is not as well done. I didn't seem to have the connection with her I got from Daly. Annie is supposed to be this brilliant, big shot scientist but she comes across as a shy, giggling teenybopper type. She's always blushing about something and always putting her foot in her mouth about something she says or does. Solange, the cult leader, is portrayed as a psycho with little development outside torturing someone or giving orders to people.<br />I still got a thrill out of this book and found it difficult to put down. Not only does it have a novel type of torture (shook up Pepsi shot through someone's nose!) but it also moves at a fast pace, which is essential for a thriller. If you like thrillers, especially of the bioterror/medical type, pick up this book and give it a go.	2002-07-12
1477773:US	52012289	RDMRRYFVNO1H7	0929587782	631827717	Ape and Essence	Books	4	47	50	N	N	Give me Detumescence!	The only other Aldous Huxley book I ever read was \\"Brave New World,\\" and that was at least ten years ago. For most people, I think that is the only Huxley book they know about. It's a shame, because this book, \\"Ape and Essence,\\" is a true Huxley gem. The back of the book says Huxley wrote this in 1948 as a response to the use of atomic weapons in WWII and the emerging Cold War. \\"Brave New World\\" showed us a future of soma-laden people cared for by the state from cradle to grave. \\"Ape and Essence\\" doesn't have anything nearly as pleasant as soma. In this new world, people are ruled by a satanic theocracy after a nuclear war.<br />The book is pretty easy to describe. Two Hollywood types find a manuscript that dropped off a truck bound for the incinerator. The script is entitled, \\"Ape and Essence,\\" by a William Tallis. Somebody didn't care much for his script; they marked it incinerate and underlined that word twice. The two read the script and try to find Mr. Tallis, only to discover that he died a few months earlier. What follows this brief introduction is the script, in its entirety.<br />\\"Ape and Essence\\" is about a post-nuclear holocaust world. New Zealand escaped the holocaust, and now they are sending explorers to America to see how the world is coming along. The main character here is Dr. Poole, a botanist. The survivors who roam the ruins of Los Angeles capture Poole and agree to let him live if he can improve crop production. Poole witnesses some unusual behavior amongst the natives, behavior that is explained to him by the archpriest of Belial.<br />Huxley uses this odd world as a backdrop for his own views on humanity in the 20th century. Huxley feels that mankind never got past the beast (or ape) inside. The beginning of the script shows apes dressed as humans, engaging in such delightful activities as chemical warfare and mass killing. These apes even keep Albert Einstein on a leash, signifying man's inability to use our genius to overcome our basest instincts. While strange at times (almost David Lynch-like), I don't think this is too strange for an intellectual like Huxley. He relies on extreme images to capture his despair over the state of mankind. The time frame in which Huxley writes is telling. It's 1948, only a few years after Hiroshima and just about the time the Cold War is really cranking into gear. Huxley must have been appalled that just a few years after the most destructive war in human history, even more horrors are starting to lurk on the horizon.<br />Huxley makes special mention of a few of man's ideas that lead to this type of nightmare. Both progress and nationalism are killers of mankind, according to Huxley. Nationalism, or the idea that one state is divinely sanctioned over all others, leads to useless killing. As Africa and the Balkans clearly show today, Huxley is not only insightful for his own time, but also prescient for today, as well.<br />The idea of progress is just as important. Why, with man's ability to create, does he so often use his talents for destructive purposes? It is progress that led to industrialization, which led to cities full of people with created needs. These needs found expression through war, when one set of people decided to take things from others to fulfill their own needs.<br />Huxley is insightful and his views on what makes humanity tick are dead on. I thought his use of a movie script to convey his ideas was clever, even though it is uneven at times. Huxley does seem to recognize the growing importance of media in disseminating ideas, and perhaps that is why he chose the format he did. I had to chuckle over the idea of this becoming a film in Huxley's day. The Catholics, who were keeping a close eye on Hollywood at this time, would have had a field day with this script-Satanism and unusual mating rituals would send them into histrionics. You can't go wrong with Mr. Aldous Huxley by your side.tincts. While strange at times (almost David Lynch-like), I don't think this is too strange for an intellectual like Huxley. He relies on extreme images to capture his despair over the state of mankind. The time frame in which Huxley writes is telling. It's 1948, only a few years after Hiroshima and just about the time the Cold War is really cranking into gear. Huxley must have been appalled that just a few years after the most destructive war in human history, even more horrors are starting to lurk on the horizon.<br />Huxley makes special mention of a few of man's ideas that lead to this type of nightmare. Both progress and nationalism are killers of mankind, according to Huxley. Nationalism, or the idea that one state is divinely sanctioned over all others, leads to useless killing. As Africa and the Balkans clearly show today, Huxley is not only insightful for his own time, but also prescient for today, as well.<br />The idea of progress is just as important. Why, with man's ability to create, does he so often use his talents for destructive purposes? It is progress that led to industrialization, which led to cities full of people with created needs. These needs found expression through war, when one set of people decided to take things from others to fulfill their own needs.<br />Huxley is insightful and his views on what makes humanity tick are dead on. I thought his use of a movie script to convey his ideas was clever, even though it is uneven at times. Huxley does seem to recognize the growing importance of media in disseminating ideas, and perhaps that is why he chose the format he did. I had to chuckle over the idea of this becoming a film in Huxley's day. The Catholics, who were keeping a close eye on Hollywood at this time, would have had a field day with this script-Satanism and unusual mating rituals would send them into histrionics. You can't go wrong with Mr. Aldous Huxley by your side.	2002-07-12
1478139:US	52012289	R28348MR97DQCR	051513175X	59736501	The Descent	Books	2	15	27	N	N	Doing the Hades Thing	Consider, for a moment, Satan. Him of the wretched, extremely hot place we call Hades (or that other word). Jeff Long decided to write a book about him and the result is \\"The Descent.\\" Long is an interesting person; he is a mountain climber, a journalist, a historian, and he even worked as an election supervisor in Bosnia. I always admire people, like Long, who embark on such diverse and exciting activities. People like this seem to be able to do it all. Alas, they can't always do it all. One of the blurbs on the back cover mentions that \\"The Descent\\" is going to be a hot summer read. This is always a warning sign for me. Hot summer reads tend to mean shallow characterization, simple plot, and mindless prose. \\"The Descent\\" embodies most of these points while avoiding others.<br />It's not that the idea is a bad one. The book starts off describing some strange incidents occurring in different parts of the world. A mountain climber by the name of Ike Crockett manages to trap himself and a tour group in a cave during a snowstorm in Tibet. They discover a strange man sitting on a throne covered with strange markings. When one of the tourists wanders off, Ike discovers some dangerous creatures in the cave system. In Bosnia, Major Elias Branch crash-lands his helicopter near a mass grave where an encounter with weird beings changes his life forever. Sister Ali von Schade discovers signs of an ancient proto-language in Africa, with references to a god called, \\"Older than Thou.\\" Within a short span of time, the upper world discovers that there is a vast subterranean world spanning the entire globe. The military moves in to investigate, and suffers unbelievable casualties when underground humanoids called Hadals attack the soldiers. The president announces that Hades exists, kicking off a wave of exploration and conquest by a global corporation called Helios. In the meantime, a group of academics uses this discovery in order to discover if Satan really exists. The three characters above play a major role in the story, as an expedition moves through a tunnel system deep under the Pacific Ocean. Does Satan exist? Who are the Hadals? Why are the corporations interested in the underworld? These questions, and many others, are all answered--with varying degrees of success--within the space of 592 pages.<br />I had a tough time liking any of the characters in this book. It isn't due to characterization. The depth is good for the ones who count. It's their personalities I had trouble with. Ike is miraculously transformed from some outcast freak to a friendly guide on the expedition. The love affair that blossoms between him and Ali is one of the most contrived incidents I've stumbled across in a long time. Ali's unlikable aspects would merit a whole review by itself. She's supposed to be this smart, radical nun but she comes across as weak and immature. Her attitude towards the vicious Hadals is breathtakingly idiotic and naïve. Consider this excerpt from the book:<br />\\"Maybe we can make a place for them among us. Or they can make a place for us among them. But it all starts here.\\"<br />This is immediately followed by:<br />\\"The torture of Walker's men began (by the Hadals). Their screams drifted up to Ali and Thomas.... Ali was certain the men had died. But then the screaming started again. With pauses, it would go on for many days.\\"<br />Yeah, I can't wait to have some Hadals over for coffee and conversation. Long tries to redeem Ali when he has her come to a painful realization towards the end of the book. But examples abound throughout the book that Hadals are savages, cannibals, murderers, and torturers. Wake up, you knucklehead!<br />The science is weak as well. It is never explained how a radio message supposedly sent in the future can be heard through solid rock. Holes are punched through the deepest parts of the ocean floor and supplies sent through the hole directly into the tunnels with seeming ease. How is this done? I'm not saying that it can't be done but I would like to know if it can and how they accomplish the deed. It is also never adequately explained why so many humans want to colonize the subterranean world. Would you want to live in a tunnel? I can't imagine there are many of us out there that would, with the exception of the Unabomber.<br />The idea for the book is a good one; it's just not one that is executed well. Better execution of the characters would certainly help, as would a tighter plot. I can't say I would dash out to pick up another Jeff Long novel anytime soon.ing that it can't be done but I would like to know if it can and how they accomplish the deed. It is also never adequately explained why so many humans want to colonize the subterranean world. Would you want to live in a tunnel? I can't imagine there are many of us out there that would, with the exception of the Unabomber.<br />The idea for the book is a good one; it's just not one that is executed well. Better execution of the characters would certainly help, as would a tighter plot. I can't say I would dash out to pick up another Jeff Long novel anytime soon.	2002-07-12
1478551:US	52012289	R2BMBGZINK643P	1587670046	291239761	Hide and Seek	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Ketchum Knows Horror	This is only the second Ketchum novel I've had the pleasure to read. The first was \\"Ladies Night,\\" an o.k. book that lacked a lot of the things we readers take for granted (a plot, character development, etc.). I shall read more of his stuff in the future, but not as many as I would like due to the high prices publishers and sellers charge for some of his novels. Until there are mass-market reprints of books like \\"The Girl Next Door,\\" I won't be reading his entire literary catalogue any time soon. That's a darn shame, too, as \\"Hide and Seek\\" is an excellent, and surprisingly scary, read.<br />\\"Hide and Seek,\\" Ketchum's second novel released in the early 1980's, is set in a small, dirt-poor town in Maine. The main character of the story is Dan Thomas. Dan is small town all the way; he works at a local lumber mill, and whiles away his days drinking with his buddy Rafferty. Dan ought to go to college, but he's young and drifting a bit in life. That is until he meets up with three rich college kids doing the summer thing in town. Dan really goes for Casey, a hot little number with an annoyingly dangerous habit of doing crazy things. Casey, along with her two buddies, Steve and Kim, think nothing of stealing cars for joyrides, shoplifting caviar for lunch on the beach, and taking their clothes off at weird times. Dan is accepted by the group, and quickly becomes wrapped up in their misadventures. Unfortunately for Dan, he makes the mistake of mentioning the Crouch incident to his newfound friends. The Crouch house, considered haunted by the local kids, stands as a tempting target for Casey's nihilistic approach to life. Casey insists on playing a game of hide and seek in the house as a new means for thrills. The tragedy that ensues changes everyone's life forever.<br />I really liked this book. Ketchum's use of foreshadowing is excellent and the characters are SO well drawn. Even secondary characters, mainly Kim and Steve, are written with some depth. We not only come to understand Dan, we also realize why Casey likes to live on the wild side. I think any guy can understand why Dan is attracted to Casey and why he is unable to break away from her dangerous spell. If you can't understand why, Ketchum explains it in effective ways.<br /><br />I am also surprised that the book actually scared me. Very few authors can bring out that emotion in me. I think it has something to do with the Crouch family. They aren't supernatural beings like vampires; they are mere humans. For some reason, that little distinction makes the novel scarier. When Dan and his friends are wandering through that abandoned house, and the other part of the house they find later, it is genuinely freaky. Maybe it's because we've all been in that situation (either alone in our own houses or exploring an old house in the woods as kids) that makes it so real and frightening. Whatever it is, I found myself looking over my shoulder a few times after reading the book.<br />This is one of Ketchum's good ones. I can't wait to read \\"The Lost\\" and some of his other novels. I also hope that reprints of his earlier works begin to appear with frequent regularity. Put down your Stephen King novels and visit the world of Jack Ketchum, and do it soon.understand Dan, we also realize why Casey likes to live on the wild side. I think any guy can understand why Dan is attracted to Casey and why he is unable to break away from her dangerous spell. If you can't understand why, Ketchum explains it in effective ways.<BR> <BR>I am also surprised that the book actually scared me. Very few authors can bring out that emotion in me. I think it has something to do with the Crouch family. They aren't supernatural beings like vampires; they are mere humans. For some reason, that little distinction makes the novel scarier. When Dan and his friends are wandering through that abandoned house, and the other part of the house they find later, it is genuinely freaky. Maybe it's because we've all been in that situation (either alone in our own houses or exploring an old house in the woods as kids) that makes it so real and frightening. Whatever it is, I found myself looking over my shoulder a few times after reading the book.<br />This is one of Ketchum's good ones. I can't wait to read \\"The Lost\\" and some of his other novels. I also hope that reprints of his earlier works begin to appear with frequent regularity. Put down your Stephen King novels and visit the world of Jack Ketchum, and do it soon.	2002-07-12
1479954:US	52012289	R1M1KEE16XFODC	055357910X	69307456	Meg: A Novel of Deep Terror	Books	3	6	8	N	N	A Cranky Shark	In the grand American tradition of \\"bigger is better,\\" Steve Alten delivers unto the masses his first novel, \\"Meg.\\" No longer are we afraid of mere tadpoles like the sharks in films such as \\"Jaws.\\" Now we have to deal with the likes of Meg. Meg isn't the aging, benevolent hippie who lives down the street, playing Melanie records and selling macram&eacute; for a living. Alten's Meg is Charcharodon megalodon, the ancestor of the great white shark and Alten thinks we should be very afraid of its possible presence. Megs are some sixty feet long with a ferocious bite. Wouldn't want to run into one of these fellows during a jaunt to the beach, would you?<br />In the book, Meg is considered extinct by all those foolish marine biologists, with the exception of Dr. Jonas Taylor. Taylor, a former deep-sea diver with the Navy, is on the lecture circuit promoting his mad theories about Meg and her possible existence in the Mariana Trench. This trench is the deepest part of the ocean, a place where water temperature is warm due to hot vents on the ocean floor. This pocket of hot water, theorizes Taylor, could support a whole slew of Megs. Taylor himself thought he saw one on his last dive, resulting in a panic that killed two of his fellow divers. Taylor is the laughing stock of everyone around him, especially his wife Maggie, an egomaniacal reporter. When a fellow marine explorer loses some deep-sea probes in the trench, Taylor is wrenched out of retirement to take a dive and see what happened. Of course, the Megs exist. I'm not giving away anything by telling you that. When one escapes (a pregnant female, no less!) from its Mariana prison, all heck breaks loose in the resulting attempts to capture the beast and warehouse it in an aquatic park.<br />I shouldn't even need to mention that bodies fall like rain in this book. Scads of people die as Meg swallows them up whole. Meg manages to sink a nuclear submarine, capsize boats, upset a few surfers, and even bring down helicopters during its rampage. Meg isn't a picky eater. She always clears her plate: ships, surfboards, submersibles, and whales--all provide for a tasty snack to this oversized shark. Meg likes to show off too; this shark can jump out of the water at will. This makes it easier to reach the stupid humans who think they are safe on boats or in the air. You can see the danger of allowing Meg to roam our seas. She just won't play by the rules. She has to be tracked down before she upsets migratory patterns in the oceans that might result in damage to the fishing industry.<br />While I did enjoy the action in this book, there is a lot to be desired. For one thing, the character development is zero in this book. We know a bit about Dr. Jonas, such as his catastrophe during the Mariana dive, an incident that resulted in a raging case of claustrophobia. We also know his wife hates him, and is trying to undermine him at every turn. She even starts fooling around with his old college roommate. For the other characters, there is nothing. They are cardboard cutouts that either serve as background, or shark food. Taylor's burgeoning love interest with Terry Tanaka is a good example. Let's see, they start out hating each other, then they end up in each other's arms? Huh? All we knew about Terry up to this point is that she is an arrogant woman who wants to go on dives. Injecting love into the story doesn't make sense unless Alten is confidant this is going to go to the big screen (he is, too, since he thanks Disney at the beginning of the book). Ultimately, the book suffers for its character ignorance. I think a book like this would be effective if the characters are developed. That way, when they die, the emotional impact on the reader is greater.<br />I would like to criticize the science behind Alten's theories but what I know about marine biology could fit on the head of Jacques Cousteau's harpoon. It seems to make sense, and maybe that is good enough for most people. But we all knowjust because something makes sense doesn't mean it is accurate. However, I'm willing to overlook shoddy science for the sake of fiction... It's just too much to take.<br />I picked up \\"The Trench\\" at the same time I got \\"Meg\\" but I'm not sure I want to get into the sequel right away. Apparently, a third installment will soon grace libraries and bookstore shelves all across the nation. For action and a quick pace, you can't beat \\"Meg.\\" If you want character development, might I suggest Tolstoy?because something makes sense doesn't mean it is accurate. However, I'm willing to overlook shoddy science for the sake of fiction... It's just too much to take.<br />I picked up \\"The Trench\\" at the same time I got \\"Meg\\" but I'm not sure I want to get into the sequel right away. Apparently, a third installment will soon grace libraries and bookstore shelves all across the nation. For action and a quick pace, you can't beat \\"Meg.\\" If you want character development, might I suggest Tolstoy?	2002-07-10
1482804:US	52012289	RR6X1W64M136F	0843949163	214085109	In the Dark	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good Suspense/Psychological Novel	On an episode of the old 70's show \\"The Rockford Files,\\" Jim tells a prot&eacute;g&eacute; how to run a scam on someone. Rockford explains that you have to take something from the mark, something valuable, in order to get a hook in them. Then you draw the mark through a series of twists and turns, drawing him farther and farther away from reality. Eventually, you'll be able to get the mark to agree to give up money for something they'd never go for in the beginning. With significant deviations, this is the premise of this Richard Laymon novel, \\"In the Dark.\\"<br />Jane Kerry is the new librarian in Donnerville, a type of Anywhere, USA. Jane is young, pretty, but a bit overweight. One day on the job, Jane notices an envelope with her name written on it sitting on her chair. When she opens the envelope, there is a note in it along with a fifty dollar bill. The note is signed by MOG, or the Master of Games. The note urges her to continue the game by using clues contained in the note. In the course of starting the game, Jane runs into Brace, a university professor who quickly joins in the fun. The rest of the book is a long string of increasingly dangerous games as Jane tries to get more and more money. The money doubles every time. By the time Jane is up to $50,000, the games are getting downright dangerous. I don't want to describe any of the games because it is the games, and their descriptions, that make up the bulk of the book.<br />This book is not overtly violent; it is more a suspense/psychological drama. The Jane character is well drawn as we see her change, both mentally and physically, during the progression of the game. While Jane does give into her greed for more and more money, she also becomes a stronger and better person. Her timidity rapidly diminishes and she improves her physique by exercising and through the physically demanding games.<br />The Brace character is less developed, probably due to his presence as the concerned lover, a stock character in both horror novels and horror films (note also concerned girl lover, the flip side of the same coin). Brace is lucky to get close to Jane because Jane has a real hang-up about guys. Throughout the novel Jane makes snide observations about Brace and men in general. This is due to a bad relationship Jane had with Ken, a real cad who cheated on her and used her as an ornament. Why are women so angry in horror novels?<br />There are problems with the novel, as there is with every book. Since Jane knows in advance, by at least 24 hours, where the next game is going to be played, why doesn't she go there early to track down MOG? It doesn't make sense.<br />Another problem, at least for me, is Laymon's use of the word \\"rump.\\" This may be forgiven when we consider that Laymon was British, but it still got under my skin. Jane is always smacking her rump into this or that, or falling on her rump. The word appears with such frequency that a drinking game could be based on it. Its repetitiveness became exponentially irritating as the novel progressed.<br />I found the ending of the book disappointing and anti-climatic. Questions the characters pose throughout the book never get answered. We never learn who MOG really is or what the rationale of the game is all about. At one point, Jane says that MOG must be a spook. Well, what type of spook? Is he supernatural or merely mortal? You will see my concern with this issue when you get to the end of the book. As it is, I can't go into more details without spoiling the ending. In short, Laymon never lays it on the line, at least not to my satisfaction.<br />Overall, this is a good, suspenseful book. It doesn't do anything spectacular, but is still a fun, quick read. This is my first Richard Laymon novel and I would read another one. If you like suspense with daubs of horror and violence thrown in, you'll like \\"In the Darkor novels and horror films (note also concerned girl lover, the flip side of the same coin). Brace is lucky to get close to Jane because Jane has a real hang-up about guys. Throughout the novel Jane makes snide observations about Brace and men in general. This is due to a bad relationship Jane had with Ken, a real cad who cheated on her and used her as an ornament. Why are women so angry in horror novels? <br />There are problems with the novel, as there is with every book. Since Jane knows in advance, by at least 24 hours, where the next game is going to be played, why doesn't she go there early to track down MOG? It doesn't make sense.<br />Another problem, at least for me, is Laymon's use of the word \\"rump.\\" This may be forgiven when we consider that Laymon was British, but it still got under my skin. Jane is always smacking her rump into this or that, or falling on her rump. The word appears with such frequency that a drinking game could be based on it. Its repetitiveness became exponentially irritating as the novel progressed.<br />I found the ending of the book disappointing and anti-climatic. Questions the characters pose throughout the book never get answered. We never learn who MOG really is or what the rationale of the game is all about. At one point, Jane says that MOG must be a spook. Well, what type of spook? Is he supernatural or merely mortal? You will see my concern with this issue when you get to the end of the book. As it is, I can't go into more details without spoiling the ending. In short, Laymon never lays it on the line, at least not to my satisfaction.<br />Overall, this is a good, suspenseful book. It doesn't do anything spectacular, but is still a fun, quick read. This is my first Richard Laymon novel and I would read another one. If you like suspense with daubs of horror and violence thrown in, you'll like \\"In the Dark	2002-07-08
1486156:US	52012289	R2HJFF0L13YO5W	0843945257	279173952	Wetbones	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Lovecraftian	After reading this book, I have to wonder if this is really the resurrected H.P. Lovecraft working under the pseudonym John Shirley. If not resurrected, at least reincarnated, because the plot of this book is straight out of a Lovecraft novel. Obviously, Shirley is writing a tribute to an author that influenced, and continues to influence, whole generations of the horror/sci-fi genre. The only difference between Shirley and Lovecraft is the gore quotient. Lovecraft always liked to let the reader fill in the blanks, rightly recognizing that the reader's imagination is worse than anything he could write. Shirley, a victim of his times, fills in the blanks for you.<br />Something weird is going on in California. Well, something weird is always going on in California, but this is beyond the normal level of strangeness. Drug addicts are dying, again, not very weird. But it is the way they are dying that is strange. They are wasting away to nothing in a matter of days, and mutilating themselves horribly in the process. As the story progresses, we discover that this is the result of a strange collection of freaks at the Doublekey ranch. These people have tapped into a strange astral dimension filled with odd creatures. I really don't want to go much beyond this limited description because it might spoil the story. It is sufficient to say that Shirley provides all the details, although it takes awhile to get there.<br />\\"Wetbones\\" is grand horror with multiple levels and wide ranging characters. The story takes place, for the most part, in Los Angeles, California. Characters include Prentice and Jeff Teitelbaum, Mitch Teitelbaum, Garner and his daughter Constance, Ephram and Sam Denver, wacked out hippie Mike Drax, and several others who fill out the plot as needed. The characters are drawn well, with varying levels of depth and ingenuity. Shirley spends a lot of time introducing us to these characters before he begins to bring them together to the inevitable showdown. As expected, several don't survive the unfolding events. If you want to find out whom, I guess you will have to read the book. I can tell you that several die in ways that are extremely unpleasant.<br />The gore in the story really got under my skin. That usually does not happen with these types of books. The gore isn't a constant, but when it does show up, it is sickening and generally unpleasant in ways I haven't seen before. The title of the book, \\"Wetbones,\\" describes a series of murders occurring in L.A. Shirley makes sure we witness at least one of these murders. Let's just say it's very gross and results in a pile of flesh and bones that is unidentifiable to the cops. The end of the book is an all-out gore fest, too. Bodies explode, people are shot and tortured, and there is dismemberment aplenty. It's sick stuff that prevented me from eating while reading the book.<br />I should also say I am impressed with the atmosphere of the book. Shirley creates a nihilistic world of drug addled freaks, losers, and loners. The author uses the Garner character to show the horrible slide into the drug underworld. The descriptions of crack cocaine abuse are frightening and seemingly realistic. It illuminates a larger issue, namely that everyone has some type of addiction that they become slaves to in some way or another. Some of the characters aren't drug addicts, but sex addicts. In Shirley's world, it is the same thing. Addiction kills us slowly by eating away our souls. The astral creatures introduced here are just an extreme example of this process. I started to wonder if Shirley went through some of these same types of problems. He seems to know a lot about addiction.<br />Shirley winds his story threads together well and his characters are described in some depth. I liked the background information he gave on the Denvers and their weird powers. I think my biggest problem with the book is that I had to wait far too long to discover what was going on. Where weird astral creatures are involved, throwing the reader a bone once in awhile helps. Still, this is an entertaining book that doesn't try to transcend what it is: a gory pulp novel.eatures are involved, throwing the reader a bone once in awhile helps. Still, this is an entertaining book that doesn't try to transcend what it is: a gory pulp novel.	2002-07-05
1486265:US	52012289	R2ONY5ZF9HFYXC	0060915331	732260177	A History of the Jews	Books	4	17	21	N	N	From Abraham to Israel	It would be tough to argue that this isn't a great book. A one-volume history of the Jews seems, to me, an impossibility. But that is exactly what Paul Johnson accomplishes with his \\"History of the Jews.\\" Johnson is a popular historian, writing on such topics as Christianity, intellectuals, and modern America. A book like this almost has to be a popular history; due to the enormous scope of the topic it is impossible to explore in great depth. There is a tendency, one that I've witnessed personally, to sneer at popular history. Historians don't take these books as seriously as a scholarly monograph or book. With the recent brouhaha over Stephen Ambrose, it is sometimes understandable.<br />Johnson's book covers the entire arc of Jewish history, from the earliest beginnings of Abraham and the patriarchs to the modern state of Israel circa 1987. Along the way Johnson covers the formation of the kingdoms of Israel and Judah, the Exile, the Roman period, medieval Jewry, the Ghetto system, the mass expulsions from Europe and the East, the Zionist movement and the Holocaust, and the formation of Israel. The book is organized with biographical snapshots of prominent Jews pasted onto a fabric of linear history. For each era of their history, Johnson introduces us to important figures that had a lasting impact on their time and future generations.<br />Johnson introduces us to Maimonides, the Rothschilds, Disraeli, Theodore Herzl, David Ben Gurion, Ba'al Shem Tov, Spinoza, Hesse, Marx, and dozens of other prominent Jewish historical figures that operated in every aspect of human life. While some of these figures were more important within Jewish circles, many contributed to humanity in general. The Jewish ideals of rationalism, justice, and discipline created new ways of thinking and new ways of conducting business. Johnson sees Jews as essential to the operations of the capitalist system, with its emphasis on credit, advertising, cheaper prices, quick movement of products, and competition. Jews created the New York stock exchange in the late 18th century. They also provided loans to European states during the Napoleonic wars.<br />While some ideas of the Jews proved useful, others proved disastrous to humanity. According to Johnson, Jews, at times, created extremely harmful ideas. The archetype of the self-hating Jew found its greatest expression in Karl Marx, the creator of Communism. Communism, as we all know, went on to kill untold millions during its reign in the 20th century. Johnson also confirms the belief that some Jews are subversive to any established ideas, including their own. It was Jews, according to Johnson, that perfected the idea of terrorism when Begin and the Irgun massacred Arabs during the Israeli wars for independence (not all Jews; Ben Gurion so despised Begin's methods that he called him \\"Hitler\\").<br />The book is at its best when it focuses on the large themes of Jewish existence, such as the \\"Wandering Jew.\\" The Jews are roamers, constantly moving from place to place. This movement led to a system of self-government that promoted group awareness and discipline.<br />Another large theme is found in Johnson's treatment of the creation of the Zionist state. He starts with the return of the Jews to England in the 1600's and traces it through the Dreyfus incident in France (an event that radicalized Theodore Herzl, the founding father of modern Zionism), to the Balfour Declaration during WWI, to the 1948 declaration of independence. Without even one of these events, Israel as a state might never have come into being.<br />The scholarship in this book seems to be accurate, with some exceptions. I once wrote a paper on the Israelites, and most of the information Johnson uses meshes pretty well with what I found during my research. It's a pity he wasn't as careful in his research on the state of Israel in modern times. [...]<br />This is excellent history, well researched and well written, for the most part. What surprised me the most was its accessibility. I rarely had to flip back and forth to rediscover terms or references to people. That is amazing for a history book of this size and scope. Expect to learn a lot from this book, as every page shines with insights and surprising information. I never knew that many common Jewish names (Stein, etc.) came from German bureaucrats who forced Jews to adopt pejorative names when they came into the country. Conversely, those who went to Israel changed their names to reflect biblical characters or events.<br />I can't even begin to tell you how many avenues for further research and reading I got out of this book. For a one-volume history on a fascinating people, this is the book to get.surprised me the most was its accessibility. I rarely had to flip back and forth to rediscover terms or references to people. That is amazing for a history book of this size and scope. Expect to learn a lot from this book, as every page shines with insights and surprising information. I never knew that many common Jewish names (Stein, etc.) came from German bureaucrats who forced Jews to adopt pejorative names when they came into the country. Conversely, those who went to Israel changed their names to reflect biblical characters or events.<br />I can't even begin to tell you how many avenues for further research and reading I got out of this book. For a one-volume history on a fascinating people, this is the book to get.	2002-07-05
1490779:US	52012289	R373IO7V7BRN24	0451400755	815642952	The Breeze Horror (Onyx)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	So-so Apocalyptic Horror	I checked numerous sources for any other books written by Candace Caponegro. Oddly, \\"The Breeze Horror\\" seems to be the only book she ever released. \\"The Breeze Horror\\" is fairly obscure, probably due to its 1980's release date. I imagine it's been out of print for years. Its obscurity has nothing to do with the story; the prose is apt and the characters, at least the main ones, are all well developed.<br />This book is your typical apocalyptic tale. The space shuttle explodes in orbit while it is carrying a load of toxic waste. The resulting spill causes an unusual rain to develop over the face of the earth. Presumably, billions will die in this toxic rain. Unfortunately for the few survivors, Caponegro decides to throw in an odd side effect of the toxic rain: some people exposed to the rain turn into noxious zombies. The resulting story takes place on Breeze Island, where a group of zombies and survivors are trapped together. On the island are Sandy and her son, Jesse. Also on the island is Mason, a psychopath with a lifelong fascination for Sandy. Rounding out the cast is Stafford, a local cop, and Mrs. Morelli, a neighbor with an invalid husband and a grown son.<br />At first, the survivors try and isolate the victims of the rain by quarantining them on the beach (where they pick up the nickname \\"beachers\\"). As the days progress, the beachers start to undergo frightening transformations. The beachers begin to resent the presence of the \\"norms,\\" and all heck breaks loose in the subsequent confrontations. Will Sandy and Jesse survive the assaults? Will Stafford and Sandy become a couple? What happens to the beachers that make them so frightening? You'll have to read the book to find out. Did you think I would spoil the story for you? Ha!<br />Overall, I say that this is so-so horror. Some of the beachers are well drawn, as is their descent into madness. Mason, since he is caught in the toxic storm, serves the purpose of personalizing this transformation. We experience the horrific changes through his eyes. The end of the book, which always serves as the final showdown in books like this, is better than average, but by no means great or awe inspiring. I think a little more gore thrown into the mix would have been helpful. We are dealing with zombies here! Zombies are gory; it's in their nature.<br />Is this worth seeking out? Probably, if you like a good apocalypse or zombie story. Otherwise, don't waste your time. Instead, read \\"The Stand,\\" \\"Alas, Babylon,\\" or any of the other millions of apocalyptic tales that are much better than this little story.ence the horrific changes through his eyes. The end of the book, which always serves as the final showdown in books like this, is better than average, but by no means great or awe inspiring. I think a little more gore thrown into the mix would have been helpful. We are dealing with zombies here! Zombies are gory; it's in their nature.<br />Is this worth seeking out? Probably, if you like a good apocalypse or zombie story. Otherwise, don't waste your time. Instead, read \\"The Stand,\\" \\"Alas, Babylon,\\" or any of the other millions of apocalyptic tales that are much better than this little story.	2002-07-01
1491285:US	52012289	R3QWNOXZBS5J39	0888030908	535433257	Eurocommunism Is Anti-Communism	Books	5	22	27	N	N	That Enver!	Nothing in the literary canon of the world can prepare you for the writings of Enver Hoxha. Leo Tolstoy, Marcel Proust, Robert Frost, and Thomas DeQuincey all pale in comparison to this literary giant. Hoxha, as we all know, was the communist dictator of Albania from 1945 to his untimely death from heart disease in 1985. For forty years Hoxha bullied his political cronies, threatened his neighbors, and generally made a fool out of himself and his country. All we have left today is a few pictures of Hoxha with his wistful smile and reams of his writings; his \\"Vepra,\\" or \\"Works,\\" clocks in at 71 volumes. Whole forests fell so that we are able to enjoy his wit and wisdom. Writings attributed to Hoxha continued to appear after his death, making him the first communist leader to continue preaching to the faithful after his death. This book, \\"Eurocommunsim is anti-Communism,\\" is one of the better-known Hoxha works. A picture of Enver hard at work is included at the beginning of the book. Some say that he is signing a death warrant in this photo. I don't know anything about that; I like to think he is penning another delightful critique of the very enemies he attacks in this book.<br />The main theme of the book, as far as my humble mind is able to discern, is classic Hoxha. Hard line Stalinist to the core, Hoxha blasts, by turns, Yugoslavia, China, the USSR, the French Communist Party, the Italian Communist Party, and the Spanish Communist Party for their \\"revisionist, derivationist, pro-bourgeoisie\\" stances. He argues that these countries and organizations abandoned the very ideas of Marxism-Leninism that made Stalinist era Russia so great. In Hoxha's opinion, the troubles started after WWII, when the rebuilding of post-war Europe allowed the capitalist system to effectively use the proletariat for their own profit motives. The massive amount of money and equipment used in the rebuilding program improved the worker's lives, making it easier for the unions and the communist groups to get comfy with the idea of capitalism.  The communist parties really bought into capitalism at this stage, changing their party platforms to reject strict Marxist-Leninist interpretation to move towards a social-democratic position. The idea of communist organizations working with, and within, a capitalist government enrages Hoxha. He claims that it is impossible for a socialist system, a true socialist system like the one that just happens to be found in Albania, to exist side by side with a capitalist system. What will happen to the workers? They will still be exploited, roars Hoxha in elegant prose that will induce narcolepsy in the unwary. Only a truly faithful cadre of Marxist-Leninists will defeat the bourgeoisie system, through subversion of the trade unions and army.<br />Alas, historical errors and omissions do appear in this book, although I think the errors are probably a conspiracy of Khrushchevite revisionists to discredit Enver's work. For example, during a tirade against \\"Titoite\\" Yugoslavia, Hoxha blasts Tito for accepting UNRRA (United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Association) aid after WWII. That Albania accepted the same type of aid at the same time is, oddly enough, never mentioned. I wonder why. Stalin is referred to as a \\"brilliant theoretician\\" of Marxist thought and is always mentioned by Hoxha as the gold standard of Communism. That some historians have uncovered evidence that Stalin never wrote the works attributed to him would doubtless make Enver a tad cranky. Comrade Hoxha also never fails to mention how happy and free the Albanian people are under his benevolent rule. Was this before or after the executions and twenty-year sentences in forced labor camps? It would seem that the appearance of the Table of Contents at the BACK of the book might be a symbolic representation of the backwardness of Albania during the Hoxha regime. Personally, I think that this is one of Hoxha's clever attempts to break down the bourgeoisie-revisionist pretensions erected by Western killjoys in order to limit literary form.<br />Whatever you may think about Uncle Enver and the above mentioned errors, I think this book still has a timeless quality about it that makes it essential reading. I pray that his \\"Works\\" are reprinted, in their entirety, some day soon. I can't think of anything better than curling up around the fire and plunging into yet another Stalinist tirade against Titoite revisionists. Enver's writings transcend time and space, colors seem brighter, and life's problems drift away with each delightful page of this wondrous figure's prose work. Not since the emperor Nero has the world witnessed such an inspiring creature. I've noticed a spring in my step since finishing this book, and for that, I am infinitely thankful.revisionist pretensions erected by Western killjoys in order to limit literary form. <br />Whatever you may think about Uncle Enver and the above mentioned errors, I think this book still has a timeless quality about it that makes it essential reading. I pray that his \\"Works\\" are reprinted, in their entirety, some day soon. I can't think of anything better than curling up around the fire and plunging into yet another Stalinist tirade against Titoite revisionists. Enver's writings transcend time and space, colors seem brighter, and life's problems drift away with each delightful page of this wondrous figure's prose work. Not since the emperor Nero has the world witnessed such an inspiring creature. I've noticed a spring in my step since finishing this book, and for that, I am infinitely thankful.	2002-07-01
1491476:US	52012289	R14Q9OFJI0E1CD	084394966X	914910401	This Symbiotic Fascination	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Yikes!	Welcome to the world of Charlee Jacob. After I stumbled over the other reviews here, I decided to pick this book up and give it a shot. I always love a good, gory horror novel. What I wasn't expecting was THIS----this ultra-sick, grue-filled extravaganza of blood and guts. Practically every page is filled to the brim with disgusting, multi-dimensional violence and perversion. There is stuff in here you've never imagined in your worst nightmares. Here is a sampling of what you will find in this book: cannibalism, murder, torture, dismemberment, disfigurement, suicide, and coprophagy. I think I left something out, and I really don't want to remember what it is. I am no babe-in-the-woods when it comes to horror books and novels, but this takes the cake. Is this what they are writing nowadays? This makes the sickest horror film look like a Disney feature. Don't be fooled by the cheesy cover or the fact that Charlee Jacob is a woman. This book is unbelievable in the gore category. It's off the charts.<br />That's my take on the gore. Now it needs to be said that this is an excellent horror novel, overflowing with great prose, great characters, and fascinating plot development. Essentially, the story is a vampire tale, but Charlee takes that tired genre and crafts a gem of a novel. There is no debonair undead duffer tooling around medieval castles in this book. Instead, Charlee introduces us to Tawne Delaney, a 37-year-old virgin who is angry at the modern world because its emphasis on beauty has left her out in the cold. No man wants anything to do with Tawne; she is a large woman with big hands who is usually seen, if seen at all, in the background of life. Tawne works in a clothing store, but only in the stockroom because the beautiful girls work as salesclerks. One of Tawne's coworkers, Arcan Tyler, also is a major character in the story. Arcan is also an outcast of sorts. The biggest reason for his social exile is the raving beasts running amok in his body. A cat, a wolf, and a ghoul all swirl in Arcan's diseased soul, leading him on a bloody rampage as a rapist and general sicko. It seems that Arcan inherited these particular traits from his dear old Mum, and he is barely hanging on as he tries to control these monsters. After Tawne sees a weird dude (a vampire with the power to change his looks) kill her only friend, she begs him to help her acquire the power to project images so she may do the same thing to attract men. The rest of the book describes Tawne's adventures as a vampire and her eventual relationship with Arcan. I am not really giving away much with this detailed description, something that would be impossible to convey in this review due to the gore and the number of twists and turns in the plot.<br />There are a few subplots that are great fun. Tawne's conversion to beast is captured by a local sleaze reporter on videotape. The story of the reporter and the subsequent incidents with the tape is very clever and entertaining, almost worth meriting treatment in a separate book. Arcan's victims, who were left alive to suffer from his attacks, also provide a good story on their own. Charlee attempts, with fair effect, to blend all of these story lines together at the end of the book. I don't think I need to spend too much time telling you the end of the book is grim and not at all pleasant (well, maybe Arcan finds some peace).<br />The chasm between the sexes certainly plays a large part in this book. Ideals of beauty and power are viciously attacked, as is the media that perpetuates sex roles. Jacob doesn't seem to favor one side or the other, as everyone is (or ends up) becoming a victim of some sort. Even Arcan's rape victims end up slaves to their own healing process and revenge.<br />This is Charlee Jacob's first novel, and there are some problems. As great as the plot and subplots are, they are a bit uneven. The videotape subplot starts out great but runs down towards the end. There is almost no explanation concerning Denise Cross's change from a good cop to a weird sicko. I am also still trying to figure out exactly what happened to Arcan's brother, Harry. Also, how could Tawne's car be left at a crime scene without bringing the police into the picture? These are problems, but for a first novel they are minor problems. I'm looking forward to her second novel.cerning Denise Cross's change from a good cop to a weird sicko. I am also still trying to figure out exactly what happened to Arcan's brother, Harry. Also, how could Tawne's car be left at a crime scene without bringing the police into the picture? These are problems, but for a first novel they are minor problems. I'm looking forward to her second novel.	2002-07-01
1491737:US	52012289	RZW8J1XXVJSYJ	014017737X	779170984	The Pearl	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Wisdom from Steinbeck	I'm finding it difficult to say much about \\"The Pearl.\\" The tale is so simple and short that a large exegesis seems unnecessary. While I read this novella, I had a dim recollection that I read this sometime in the distant past. When I looked at some of the reviews on Amazon, I understood why. Most of the reviews on the site are written by young students, so I must have read this back in my early school years.<br />\\"The Pearl,\\" written by none other than John Steinbeck, tells the tale of Kino and Juana, a poor indigenous couple in Mexico. Kino is a pearl diver who finds, one day, the pearl of the world. This pearl is the size of an egg and must be priceless. As soon as news spreads of Kino's find, evil descends on his family. Everyone plots against Kino in order to gain possession of the pearl. Kino is violently attacked, a local doctor tries to swindle Kino, and the local pearl buyers conspire to lowball him when Kino shows up to sell the pearl. Kino is determined to get a good price for the pearl because he has dreams for his son, Coyotito, as well as for himself. Eventually, Kino commits murder to protect the pearl, and when all of his property is destroyed, he and his family flee with the pearl.<br />Steinbeck uses this tale to show how greed corrupts everyone, even amongst the lowest of the low. But Steinbeck also seems to be saying that the simple life is the best life. Although Kino and Juana have next to nothing, they still have a happy family life. When the pearl arrives on the scene, all is lost. Not only does Kino have to worry about external danger, his own sense of self becomes enslaved to the pearl. He beats his wife when she tries to throw the pearl in the ocean, and he is reduced to murder to protect his find.<br />This is a good novella, comparable, in my opinion, to \\"The Old Man and the Sea.\\" I kept thinking about lottery winners as I read this slim book. I'll bet some of those people could tell some stories along the lines of what Kino and Juana went through, although to my knowledge, none of them have given away or disposed of their winnings. This is the kind of tale that teaches basic values, and should probably be reread every few years.ent through, although to my knowledge, none of them have given away or disposed of their winnings. This is the kind of tale that teaches basic values, and should probably be reread every few years.	2002-07-01
1491828:US	52012289	R2X5P8FM97Z9II	186064323X	917526722	Albanians, The: A Modern History	Books	4	33	37	N	N	Great Survey on Albania	Miranda Vickers's \\"The Albanians,\\" is one of three novels written by Vickers about the Balkan region, specifically Albania and Kosovo. I first read this book about four years ago for a class on East European history and politics. While the class wasn't that good, I did enjoy reading about Albania. The book fed an interest I've had about Albania since I first heard Radio Tirana on my shortwave radio years ago. Albania is a forgotten land, only newsworthy when a new ethnic conflict flares up in the region or when the country descends into anarchy, as it did in 1997. This edition is an updated version, covering events up into the late 1990's.<br />\\"The Albanians\\" is about as good a survey of the country as you will find. Vickers starts the book with the earliest history of Albania and ends the book around 1999. The goal of the book is to examine how Albanian nationalism worked itself out in the history of the region. Vickers outlines five points she hopes her book will shed light on. She wants to explain why many Albanians converted to Islam; why the Albanian state was the last in the Balkans to develop a national consciousness; how the Albanian state came into existence; why the Albanians of the former Yugoslavia were excluded from that state; and why Albania remained for so long one of the world's most isolated and repressed societies. The following is a partial summary of some of Vickers's claims in answer to her questions:<br />Many Albanians converted to Islam, explains Vickers, due to the presence of Ottoman domination for some five centuries. While the Ottoman's didn't eradicate other religious faiths from their territories, they did institute programs that favored Muslims and those who converted to Islam. Muslims got appointments to local offices, paid fewer or no taxes, and didn't have to pay the Devshirme, the levy that required Christians to give up one son for the elite Janissary corps of the Ottoman army. Conversion to Islam, therefore, benefited a person and his family.<br />The Albanian state was the last to develop a national consciousness due to a number of factors. One reason was the Ottoman land system, called the millet. This divided people up according to religious faith, and prevented the formation of a national identity by creating religious divisions that hindered a coalescence of the various Albanian tribes. Another problem was the lack of a systematic, written Albanian alphabet. Three scripts vied for attention: the Latin (eventually adopted at the alphabet congress at Monastir in 1908), the Greek, and the Turkish. A culture that cannot write down its own history, or express itself through a unified language, is not much of a culture.<br />The Albanian state became a political expression in November 1912. This was a bleak time for Albania, due to the first Balkan war. Greece invaded Southern Albania in an attempt to claim Northern Epirus. The Montenegrins invaded from the north, laying siege to Shkoder, and Serbia marched to Durres on the Adriatic, in order to obtain a port. The independence of Albania was an important event to Austria-Hungary, who hoped to blunt the spread of pan-Slavism. Independence caused problems with Western powers, who tended to ignore Albania in favor of its neighbors. The ultimate outcome of Albanian independence was a political and geographical entity, although many Albanians now resided outside the borders of the Albanian state. The region of Kosova became a major problem for Albania after independence. Kosova flipped-flopped between Albanian and Yugoslavian control until after WWII, when it became a permanent (?) part of Yugoslavia. Serbian claims to Kosova revolved around the 1389 Battle of Kosovo. The Serbs claimed this was an important part of their cultural heritage, a claim that fell on sympathetic Western ears. Further problems for reunification occurred when Albania's communist regime collapsed in the early 1990's. Many Kosovars had no interest in giving up a standardof living that was light years ahead of Albania.<br />Albania's isolation consists of many factors. Its geographical features are a major problem. A Muslim majority in Christian Europe is another factor. Probably the most important factor is its almost fifty year communist regime, a regime headed up by a pro-Stalinist xenophobe named Enver Hoxha. Hoxha, a mass murder if there ever was one, spent his entire career bouncing Albania between the Yugoslavs, the USSR, and China before instituting a strict isolationist stance. Albania definitely had some concerns with foreign influence, but Hoxha's positions were absurd. By the time Albania came out of its long isolation, the country seemed like a relic out of time.<br />There are a few problems with the book. Since \\"The Albanians\\" is a survey, I constantly found myself asking questions that went beyond the scope of the book. In that respect, maybe the book does do its job; it makes you hungry for more information about this fascinating country. I do think Vickers could have spent more time discussing the likes of Skenderbeg, Albania's national hero. A good portion of this information is stuffed into a small introduction. Another problem is the maps, which are sorely lacking. The three maps included in the book are completely lacking in place names, rivers, etc. For a survey book, detailed maps are a MUST, and this book falls down on the job.<br />I enjoyed this book the first time I read it, and even more the second time through. Vickers knows her stuff. I can't wait to read her sequel.of living that was light years ahead of Albania.<br />Albania's isolation consists of many factors. Its geographical features are a major problem. A Muslim majority in Christian Europe is another factor. Probably the most important factor is its almost fifty year communist regime, a regime headed up by a pro-Stalinist xenophobe named Enver Hoxha. Hoxha, a mass murder if there ever was one, spent his entire career bouncing Albania between the Yugoslavs, the USSR, and China before instituting a strict isolationist stance. Albania definitely had some concerns with foreign influence, but Hoxha's positions were absurd. By the time Albania came out of its long isolation, the country seemed like a relic out of time.<br />There are a few problems with the book. Since \\"The Albanians\\" is a survey, I constantly found myself asking questions that went beyond the scope of the book. In that respect, maybe the book does do its job; it makes you hungry for more information about this fascinating country. I do think Vickers could have spent more time discussing the likes of Skenderbeg, Albania's national hero. A good portion of this information is stuffed into a small introduction. Another problem is the maps, which are sorely lacking. The three maps included in the book are completely lacking in place names, rivers, etc. For a survey book, detailed maps are a MUST, and this book falls down on the job.<br />I enjoyed this book the first time I read it, and even more the second time through. Vickers knows her stuff. I can't wait to read her sequel.	2002-07-01
1497081:US	52012289	RQRLIC4I77PQ	0316779423	685145331	Barrel Fever: Stories and Essays	Books	4	20	25	N	N	Uneven but Good	Within a few pages of this David Sedaris book, I was seething with rage. \\"This is about as funny as a car wreck,\\" I said to myself. Although I hate to start a book and never finish reading it, I tossed this one aside in disgust, vowing never to return to its poisoned pages. Well, I did pick it up a few days later and I am glad that I did. The problem was the first few stories. The humor in the first three or four stories is juvenile and just plain dumb. It is the style of humor one finds in our middle schools. Once you get past those clunkers, the following stories and essays crackle with humor and dark emotion.<br />My favorite stories were his holiday stories, namely \\"Season's Greetings,\\" and \\"The SantaLand Diaries (this story is why I originally wanted to buy the book).\\" I don't think I really need to go into the SantaLand story since it popular enough that most people have heard of it or read it. As someone who did the retail thing, I recognize many customers and personality types in this story. I am surprised more people haven't mentioned \\"Season's Greetings.\\" This story is an absolute scream. It is written in the form of a Christmas card-type letter written by Jocelyn Dunbar. Poor, poor Jocelyn. Her family is sorry to announce the arrival of Khe Sahn (!), a Vietnamese strumpet who turns up on the Dunbar doorstep. Khe Sahn is the illegitimate daughter of Clifford, Jocelyn's husband, conceived during his tenure in Vietnam. I don't want to ruin the whole story for you, but I will say the way that the story is written adds greatly to the humor. The breezy, forced joviality of the letter just killed me.<br />Other stories in this collection are just as entertaining, although much darker and thoughtful. \\"After Malison\\" tells the story of an arrogant literary jerk and an encounter with her favorite post-modern writer. \\"Don's Story\\" reveals the vacuous nature of Hollywood. \\"Jamboree\\" is a depressing story about an unwanted child and his jerk parents. All of the stories will arouse some type of emotion in you, whether it is rage, happiness, or tears depends on the type of person you are.<br />Sedaris does have insightful perception on various aspects of society and when he is writing at top form, he shines. My advice on reading this book: expect good stories, but expect to read awhile before you get to them.s will arouse some type of emotion in you, whether it is rage, happiness, or tears depends on the type of person you are. <br />Sedaris does have insightful perception on various aspects of society and when he is writing at top form, he shines. My advice on reading this book: expect good stories, but expect to read awhile before you get to them.	2002-06-26
1497304:US	52012289	R83KDPPHSTK5L	0140189424	227048468	Henderson the Rain King (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	2	27	39	N	N	Boring	The first page of this Penguin edition states that Saul Bellow won three National Book Awards and the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1976. Bellow, the author of thirteen books and numerous articles, also won the National Book Award Foundation Medal in 1990. This book, \\"Henderson the Rain King,\\" written in 1958, made the list of the top 100 fiction novels of the 20th century. Some of his other works include \\"Seize the Day,\\" \\"Herzog,\\" \\"Ravelstein,\\" and \\"The Adventures of Augie March.\\"<br />Why \\"Henderson the Rain King\\" made that top 100 list, I'll never know. I like classic literature and I have read a large number of classic works over the last several months, but \\"Henderson the Rain King\\" falls at the bottom of the list. Maybe I am not used to Saul Bellow's prose style, or the way he thinks, but I just don't like this book. Turning a page in this book felt like moving a mountain. I groaned and fretted my way through every nightmarish paragraph, every miserable word. When I start a book, I want to finish that book, no matter what. Every minute I held this book in my hands I wanted to stop reading it. Believe me, this albatross is one heavy bugger.<br />\\"Henderson the Rain King\\" tells the story of Eugene Henderson, scion of a wealthy American family. His father wrote French history and his grandfather served as a Secretary of State. Gene doesn't quite live up to expectations, however. Frankly, he's a cad and a colossal idiot. He's an alcoholic, ignores his kids, starts fights with authority figures, and is working on his second marriage. His idea of a good time is raising pigs on the family estate and shooting bottles with a slingshot. Eugene's life is slowly falling apart when one day he decides to go with a friend and his new bride to Africa. Henderson bails out on them with a guide named Romilayu, and sets off for the desolate interior of Africa. Henderson first hooks up with the Arnewi tribe where he feels impelled to help them clear a pond of some troublesome frogs. The second tribe Eugene encounters is the Wariri. Henderson befriends the king of the tribe and becomes the \\"Rain King\\" when he lifts a statue no one else can move. His friendship with the king helps Henderson come to terms with his rampant insecurities until the twist ending reveals that Henderson might be in over his head.<br />Along the way we get an awful lot of navel gazing from Henderson, and some gobbledygook science from the king of the Wariri. Even the twist ending, which did help speed up the plodding pace of the book, can't save this novel from the clutches of banality. The back cover of the book says this novel is a comedy full of \\"rollicking prose, offbeat inventiveness, and impulsive creation.\\" In other words, the publishers don't understand this mess anymore than you will (impulsive creation is a code word for \\"huh?\\"). Sure, the prose occasionally rises to the level of a classic, but most of the time it is pretty plain. As for the comedy aspect, I'll grant that some of Henderson's blathering can be amusing, especially when he reveals himself to be a liar and hypocrite within the space of a few pages. But if you are expecting to bust a gut over this book, you can just forget it.<br />If I were forced to give an answer as to why this book made that infernal list, I would say that this is the classic liberal/leftist novel that makes so many people feel warm and fuzzy inside. A rich, unhappy jerk abandons America and goes to primitive Africa in order to learn life lessons. When Henderson tries to help the Arnewi with the frogs, his Western learning causes more trouble than it is worth. Only when he relies on brute strength and turns his life over to a primitive does he learn his lesson. Yawn.<br />Save yourself the pain and avoid this book. If you do have to read it for some reason or another, at least take comfort in the fact that it is only 341 pages long. Occasionally, some good prose and some nice set pieces will help propel you along, but not nearly fast enough. Maybe some of Bellow's other novels are better, and if they are, I'd like to know. Maybe I would read another one of his books, but I sure don't want to if it resembles \\"Henderson the Rain King\\" in any way, shape, or form. The best thing about this book is the cover.rly fast enough. Maybe some of Bellow's other novels are better, and if they are, I'd like to know. Maybe I would read another one of his books, but I sure don't want to if it resembles \\"Henderson the Rain King\\" in any way, shape, or form. The best thing about this book is the cover.	2002-06-26
1500247:US	52012289	R2ST3EC2NYOL92	1887368353	292687471	Ladies Night	Books	3	17	21	N	N	Watch out for Women	This Jack Ketchum novel is one of the few that doesn't require a second mortgage on your house in order to procure a copy. I think people selling copies of his novel \\"The Girl Next Door\\" are now requiring a buyer to give them their first-born son for a copy. After reading this book, \\"Ladies Night,\\" I don't really understand what all of the fuss is about. I should admit that this is the first Ketchum novel I've read, so I can't confirm his greatness in the eyes of many based solely on one slim book. Apparently, Stephen King mentioned him in his book on writing, and now thousands are going crazy trying to snap up Ketchum novels.<br />Despite many errors in the book, I did like \\"Ladies Night.\\" In the preface to the book, Ketchum relates several amusing anecdotes about how the book came about. \\"Ladies Night\\" came out in the late 1990's, but Ketchum says he wrote it in the early 1980's. Despite the immense amount of time Ketchum spent writing the book (detailed outlines, research, in-depth character analysis), every publisher rejected the book due to the high level of pornographic violence. It is not difficult to imagine the chagrin Ketchum felt when his carefully crafted 400-page novel failed to reach publication. Ketchum then hooked up with a screenwriter/playwright who made significant reductions in the size of the original novel. After this failed to produce results, Ketchum began to circulate the story around to movie studios in an attempt to get the tale to the big screen (or at least a straight to video release). Eventually, the book made it into print. This 160+ page novella is the result.<br />The plot of \\"Ladies Night\\" is one we've seen many times, with slight variations, in both books and movies. A tanker truck involved in an accident spills an unknown fluid in the streets of New York. Unfortunately for the men of New York, the odor of this fluid causes a majority of women to develop rather unusual symptoms, including hypersexuality and a propensity to kill, horribly, any man they can lay their hands on. The main character, Tom Braun, must get home in order to save his son Andy from his mother, Susan. This is easier said than done, however, as the streets of New York rapidly slide into bloody chaos. Packs of women roam the streets, killing and maiming pedestrians, spouses, and cops. Several side stories describe, in more than graphic detail, the omnipresent murder and mayhem. Bottles are broken in faces, eyes soar out of sockets, heads are caved in, men are run over by cars, people are set on fire, and necks and chests are torn to shreds during the course of the story. Bodies topple with frightening consistency as Tom battles his way home to save his son. The gore quotient increases rapidly as the book nears its bloody, and grim, end. This book is not sunshine and smiles.<br />While the story is definitely entertaining, mostly due to the battle of the sexes theme, there are a lot of problems with the book. First, I think I would like to read the original book he wrote in the 1980's. If what Ketchum says is true, I think the original would clear up a lot of the problems I had with the book. With this kind of apocalyptic story, I want a lot of background on the events. I want to see the actual breakdown of society and I want to discover why it happened. You don't get that depth here. We never find out where the liquid came from or who made the fluid. Ketchum says in his preface that he covered this in great depth in the original. If Ketchum is as popular as his book prices warrant, why can't we see the original?<br />Second, the character development is flat as a pancake. The only real insight we see in the book is with Andy, Tom's son, and even that is scarce. I realize that in a book like this, the gore is often the main character, but other authors do more with characterization in books that are just as gory. Ketchum, if he developed his characters, would achieve greater shock value when they die suddenly, as several doin the course of the story. Unfortunately, the attempt at brevity sacrifices the characters.<br />Third, I would like to know who edited this book. They should be fired. You know it's bad when you feel like picking up a pen or pencil to mark in commas and correct misspelled words. I know my grammar isn't great, but when I read something that is a published work, I expect a lot more than what I found here. I would be embarrassed if I wrote a story that had this many errors. I started to wonder if this is the condition the story was in when Ketchum turned it in for publication. If it was, Ketchum needs to buy a few grammar textbooks and spend some time working with them.<br />Overall, this is still an entertaining book. I spend a lot of my time reading classic literature and history books, but I shall always have a weak spot for horror novels. In \\"Godfather III,\\" Michael Corleone once said, \\"I try and get out and they keep pulling me back in!\\" That's me with horror novels and films. I'll read more Ketchum, but I am not going to pay the exorbitant prices some of his books command to do so. Bring back the mass-market paperbacks!in the course of the story. Unfortunately, the attempt at brevity sacrifices the characters.<br />Third, I would like to know who edited this book. They should be fired. You know it's bad when you feel like picking up a pen or pencil to mark in commas and correct misspelled words. I know my grammar isn't great, but when I read something that is a published work, I expect a lot more than what I found here. I would be embarrassed if I wrote a story that had this many errors. I started to wonder if this is the condition the story was in when Ketchum turned it in for publication. If it was, Ketchum needs to buy a few grammar textbooks and spend some time working with them.<br />Overall, this is still an entertaining book. I spend a lot of my time reading classic literature and history books, but I shall always have a weak spot for horror novels. In \\"Godfather III,\\" Michael Corleone once said, \\"I try and get out and they keep pulling me back in!\\" That's me with horror novels and films. I'll read more Ketchum, but I am not going to pay the exorbitant prices some of his books command to do so. Bring back the mass-market paperbacks!	2002-06-23
1500788:US	52012289	R1G0OYG1YUSID0	0965694844	538449378	Acts of God (Book Three of the Christ Clone Trilogy, 2nd Edition)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Beware the Anti-Christ!	The back cover of this book tells us that the author, James BeauSeigneur, was a former intelligence analyst for the National Security Agency, a newspaper publisher, a political science professor, a contender for a seat in Congress in 1980 (he ran against Al Gore), and a writer of numerous speeches, manuals, and articles. What this description doesn't tell us is that BeauSeigneur is a fundamentalist Christian as well. This is important to note because this series of books, of which \\"Acts of God\\" is the final installment, is a fundamentalist Christian view of the end of the world. Some people will have a problem with a fundamentalist based view of the apocalypse. They shouldn't worry, however, because these books are exciting and about as \\"unputdownable\\" as you can possibly imagine.<br />\\"Acts of God\\" is the boisterous conclusion to the Christ Clone series, and BeauSeigneur pulls out all the stops with this one. Plagues right out of the Book of Revelations roar through the world, killing millions upon millions of people. Water turned to blood, extreme heat, and sinister darkness ravage the globe. People turn to Secretary-General Christopher Goodman for help, and they get it when Bob Milner, his New Age guru, performs miracles to clear up the plagues. Goodman and his coterie of officials operate out of the new United Nations headquarters located in Babylon, Iraq. It is here that Decker Hawthorne, Goodman's confidant, suggests marking the hands of the faithful when they receive doses of Christopher's blood in the \\"Communion.\\" The only people organized to oppose Christopher is the KDP, located at Petra, in the wilderness of Jordan. Needless to say, the book ends with a bang, and yes, Jesus Christ himself puts in an appearance.<br />In this volume, I am most impressed with what I see as the process of Christian conversion involving Decker Hawthorne. Christopher Goodman's opposition, the KDP, kidnaps Hawthorne, the main character of the series. At the KDP compound in Petra, Jordan, Scott Rosen, a minor character who appeared in the first book of the series, confronts Decker about his belief in Christopher. Rosen launches into a lengthy exegesis on Christianity, trying to prove to Decker that it is the only true religion in the world. Decker, upon his release, spends a month agonizing over what Rosen told him, while biblical plagues sweep the world. Decker ultimately converts to Christianity (it's a close one, as you'll see) and rejects Christopher's New Age world. BeauSeigneur dramatically shows how many come to convert to Christianity, and also tries to get some of his readers to convert as well.<br />BeauSeigneur's use of New Age religions as a conduit for the Anti-Christ is also a relevant detail of the story. New Age religions encompass two important aspects in the rise of the Anti-Christ; the first is humanism, or the emphasis on man as the center of spiritual development; the second is moral relativism, which allows humanity to engage in any type of deviant behavior without fearing consequences. Bob Milner, the false prophet who serves the Anti-Christ in the story, is a practitioner of New Age quackery. When the Anti-Christ is preaching about man becoming a god, he uses the language and techniques of New Age religion to accomplish his goal.<br />I guess my only concern with the trilogy is the lack of character development. It may be successfully argued that the main character of the book is the apocalypse, but there is no reason to ignore the other characters. BeauSeigneur rarely provides adequate descriptions of his characters beyond their words and actions. It is an uneven process; Decker's internal thoughts are described, but others are completely ignored. It is also difficult to sympathize with characters when you have no idea what they look like.<br />I also take exception to the fundamentalist interpretation to the apocalypse. Every event that happens is right out of Revelations, as though the plagues are a checklist. It's funny that many characters never seem to notice what is happening as the events unfold. Perhaps BeauSeigneur is commenting on the lack of knowledge most people have today with the Bible. Personally, I think I would have bowed out long before the UN relocated to Babylon.<br />Get out there and pick these three books up as quickly as you can. I originally bought \\"In His Image\\" without getting the others. I finally picked up the other two when I realized they might go out of print before I read the first one. I am glad I did this because I wanted to start reading the next book right after I finished the previous one. These books are so engrossing that the pages fly by at lightening speed. I think I finished the whole trilogy in about three days. Get going!s funny that many characters never seem to notice what is happening as the events unfold. Perhaps BeauSeigneur is commenting on the lack of knowledge most people have today with the Bible. Personally, I think I would have bowed out long before the UN relocated to Babylon. <br />Get out there and pick these three books up as quickly as you can. I originally bought \\"In His Image\\" without getting the others. I finally picked up the other two when I realized they might go out of print before I read the first one. I am glad I did this because I wanted to start reading the next book right after I finished the previous one. These books are so engrossing that the pages fly by at lightening speed. I think I finished the whole trilogy in about three days. Get going!	2002-06-23
1501497:US	52012289	R1HB9P515RCK5O	0670840890	62717498	Stalin: Breaker of Nations	Books	5	46	50	N	N	The Monster	Robert Conquest is one of the better known authors on Russian history, specifically on the rule of Stalin and the Communist era. The beginning of this book lists over fifteen books written by Conquest on these subjects, along with books of poetry. There is even a fictional book listed, written in conjunction with Kingsley Amis. Conquest's sources are vast and are included at the back of the book, although a lack of footnotes is bothersome.<br />Conquest starts out his book where it all began, in the country of Georgia at the birth of Stalin. We learn there is some confusion over Stalin's birth date and his birth father. Life is hard for young Iosif; his home life is abusive and the family moves around a bit. Stalin ends up enrolled in a seminary school, where he spends five years studying Russian and reading banned Western books. School discipline is strict, and this discipline and arbitrary rules radicalizes young Stalin. Stalin falls in with Marxist revolutionaries and begins his long march to infamy. Conquest's account of Stalin's revolutionary years is a long litany of arrest and internal exile. Stalin repeatedly escapes from Siberian exile only to be rearrested. Stalin does manage to move up in the ranks, becoming known to both Lenin and Trotsky. When the revolution breaks out, Stalin ends up on the front lines, where he takes part in a few unimportant actions (which are elevated to godlike military exploits once Stalin is in charge). Iosif defies many orders and tends to take matters into his own hands, a trait that others will die for when Stalin assumes control.<br />The rest of the book is the monster.  After the death of Lenin, Stalin begins his climb to power by systematically eradicating his fellow Politburo members. Conquest succinctly covers the internal power struggles, the show trials, the war against the peasantry, the treaties and war with Hitler, and the post-war era of lies and murder. Along the way untold millions die of famine, executions, and imprisonment in the gulag system. The most interesting information in these sections is the rise of the personality cult, where Stalin is elevated to the status of a god. Conquest reveals the ridiculousness of this cult. When one of Stalin's speeches is released on records, one side of an album is devoted entirely to applause. A picture in the book, from a celebration of Stalin's 70th birthday, shows Stalin's head in the sky emitting beams of light over the lowly masses, like some bizarre sun. This is sick, sick stuff.<br />Conquest attempts to account for Stalin's behavior by showing that Stalin has no links to humanity (his wives died and he has few friends). Some of his attributes reek of sociopathy: his emotional expressions always seem to be forced, as though he is acting a part and not really feeling anything, and his natural state is one of cruelty. Conquest also shows how Stalin is really, well, nothing. The guy is a vacuum; he is not Russian, and he doesn't really share the traits of a typical Georgian. It is as though Stalin rose up out of the ground from nowhere. Isn't that how Damien appeared in \\"The Omen\\"? Maybe they should check his mother's grave and see if a jackal's skeleton is in there.<br />This book should be required reading. I did have some problem with Conquest's writing style, which I thought was a little obtuse. This may be my own fault, as I have been reading literature for the past month and I'm out of practice with textbook language. This book gets five stars for its subject. Let's never forget about this monster.imprisonment in the gulag system. The most interesting information in these sections is the rise of the personality cult, where Stalin is elevated to the status of a god. Conquest reveals the ridiculousness of this cult. When one of Stalin's speeches is released on records, one side of an album is devoted entirely to applause. A picture in the book, from a celebration of Stalin's 70th birthday, shows Stalin's head in the sky emitting beams of light over the lowly masses, like some bizarre sun. This is sick, sick stuff.<br />Conquest attempts to account for Stalin's behavior by showing that Stalin has no links to humanity (his wives died and he has few friends). Some of his attributes reek of sociopathy: his emotional expressions always seem to be forced, as though he is acting a part and not really feeling anything, and his natural state is one of cruelty. Conquest also shows how Stalin is really, well, nothing. The guy is a vacuum; he is not Russian, and he doesn't really share the traits of a typical Georgian. It is as though Stalin rose up out of the ground from nowhere. Isn't that how Damien appeared in \\"The Omen\\"? Maybe they should check his mother's grave and see if a jackal's skeleton is in there.<br />This book should be required reading. I did have some problem with Conquest's writing style, which I thought was a little obtuse. This may be my own fault, as I have been reading literature for the past month and I'm out of practice with textbook language. This book gets five stars for its subject. Let's never forget about this monster.	2002-06-22
1501579:US	52012289	R23ZIPTPRZ0ZLN	0881848662	126954898	Paved With Good Intentions: The Failure of Race Relations in Contemporary America	Books	4	117	128	N	N	To an Open Dialogue on Race	This book is one of many that emerged in the early to mid-1990s concerning issues of political correctness, race, and immigration. I read several of these books; Dinesh DSouza and Martin Gross are the first that come to mind. David Horowitz is another who covers these issues in some of his writings. These books are still important because even though we dont hear about these issues as much today, they are even now stalking the American landscape. Jared Taylors book seems to be the best one I have read to date. Paved with Good Intentions, written in 1991, is Taylors manifesto on the corrosive and divisive issue of race relations in modern America.<br />Paved with Good Intentions is not a racist tract, but is a calm, expertly documented approach to the race question. Taylor writes with neutral reasoning as he covers every aspect of the problem. Taylors purpose is not to denounce blacks and other minority groups, but rather to open a dialogue on an issue that threatens to destroy the country. I dont think anyone denies that race is a big problem in America. Taylor explains that this is the result of obfuscation by guilty whites, fast buck hustlers, and misguided do-gooders who have more to gain from racial tension than peace.<br />Some of things you will discover while reading this book:<br />Crime: blacks commit the vast majority of crime, with most of the crimes directed towards other blacks. Far more racial crimes occur when blacks victimize whitesespecially rape, which is overwhelming black against white. The media tends to play up crimes where the perpetrator is white and the victim black, while downplaying (or just plain ignoring) racial crimes committed by blacks against whites.<br />Affirmative action is bad: economic policy favors minorities and excludes whites. Minorities get breaks in education, business, housing, hiring, and a host of other areas. Instead of raising the living standards of blacks, affirmative action has worked to instill in blacks a hatred of whites, while making little difference in the lives of many poor blacks. Schools exclude better qualified whites in preference for minority students. Many of the under qualified students end up dropping out of school when they discover they lack the necessary skills to compete. Entrance tests to schools and jobs have been altered, or dumbed down, in an effort to raise test scores. This occurs in important occupations (police, firefighting) where the best people are needed, but are not getting the jobs.<br />Racism: there is a constant cry of racism over the most ridiculous issues. Like Peter and the Wolf, these constant cries desensitize the public and cost minorities credibility. Taylor does an excellent job revealing the truth about racism, namely, that it doesnt exist in the levels that it once did. The claim of institutional racism is shown to be a falsehood, to say the least. Taylor shows that government agencies employ a large percentage of blacks, which are unlikely to engage in any sort of institutional racist programs. Claims that AIDS or drugs are a racist conspiracy by whites to destroy blacks are equally fallacious. According to Taylor, if whites are so bent on destroying blacks, why would they waste time using methods that cause harm to the white community? Why would they waste billions of dollars to improve minority positions in society?<br />Jared Taylor doesnt hate minorities. His writing shows a real concern for these issues. He seems to want a return to Martin Luther Kings idea of a colorblind society, an idea that is subverted daily by those who seek to profit from racial animosity. Until an open, honest dialogue emerges, these problems will only get worse. I think for many people really dont understand the full picture when it comes to this issue. Books like this could open eyes when voters find out what the politicians are really up to in Washington. I recommend this book to those amongst us who have an open mind, and to those who want to start thinking for themselves.mongst us who have an open mind, and to those who want to start thinking for themselves.	2002-06-22
1501672:US	52012289	R346SLUTFD9JK1	0965694828	451794091	In His Image (Book One of the Christ Clone Trilogy, 2nd Edition)	Books	4	211	217	N	N	Fundamentalist View of the Apocalyspe	The back cover of this book tells us that the author, James BeauSeigneur, was a former intelligence analyst for the National Security Agency, a newspaper publisher, a political science professor, a contender for a seat in Congress in 1980 (he ran against Al Gore), and a writer of numerous speeches, manuals, and articles. What this description doesn't tell us is that BeauSeigneur is a fundamentalist Christian as well. This is important to note because this series of books, of which \\"In His Image\\" is the first, is a fundamentalist Christian view of the end of the world. Some people will have a problem with a fundamentalist based view of the apocalypse. They shouldn't worry, however, because these books are exciting and about as \\"unputdownable\\" as you can possibly imagine.<br />\\"In His Image\\" introduces us to the main character of the trilogy, Decker Hawthorne. Decker is a publisher and writer for a small paper in Tennessee when he gets a call from one of his buddies, Tom Donafin, about a scientific expedition that is planned to examine the Shroud of Turin. One of the scientists involved in the trip, Harry Goodman, was Decker's mentor years before when Decker was a pre-med student. Decker ingratiates himself with Goodman and manages to involve himself in the expedition. By going on the trip, Decker starts a voyage that will place him at center stage in the battle of good versus evil. Scientific tests on the shroud captures some dermal cells from Jesus, and Goodman clones them and places them in a woman's womb (a Mexican servant named Maria, of course). The result is Christopher Goodman, an exact replica of Jesus Christ. His birth sets off a series of events that are taken right out of the New Testament. BeauSeigneur spices up the biblical story with the adventures of Decker. Decker is hired by a big name publisher and sent to Israel with Tom Donafin, where the two witness the destruction of the Wailing Wall and suffer through three years of captivity in Lebanon. Shortly after their release (through an unusual involvement with Christopher), Decker's family, along with 1/5 of the world's population, dies in the \\"Disaster,\\" and the story starts to zoom.<br />I am not really giving anything away with the above story description. Most of it appears on the back cover of the book. Needless to say, there are tons of other characters and events that interact and help set up the story in ways that reappear later in the series.<br />What is impressive about this series, and what makes it stand out from other books with similar themes is the artful way BeauSeigneur weaves religion, science, history, and politics into a realistic and coherent pattern. At the beginning of the book, BeauSeigneur acknowledges many scientists and theologians for help in creating his tale. Some of the characters in the book, at least during the Shroud of Turin trip, are real people. This emphasis on real events, people, and religious and scientific themes gives the book certain credibility. When Harry Goodman discusses cloning techniques, BeauSeigneur brings in the theories of Nobel Prize winner Francis Crick to provide an explanation for the origin of Jesus.<br />I found the religious aspects of the story fascinating, even though I am not a Christian. BeauSeigneur has one of his characters, Joshua Rosen, explain a theory about the Ark of the Covenant that is absolutely mesmerizing. Rosen brings in biblical passages, conspiracy theories about the Knights Templar, and obscure writings from apocryphal texts to create a theory that makes you nod your head in agreement, even though it is highly unlikely. New Age religions are presented as the wave of the future, through the characters of Bob Milner and Alice Bernley. These New Age elements work through the United Nations to bring about a global system of government.<br />I guess my only concern with the trilogy is the lack of character development. It may be successfully argued that the main character of the book is the apocalypse, but there is no reason to ignore the other characters. BeauSeigneur rarely provides adequate descriptions of his characters beyond their words and actions. It is an uneven process; Decker's internal thoughts are described, but others are completely ignored. It is also difficult to sympathize with characters when you have no idea what they look like.<br />Get out there and pick these three books up as quickly as you can. I originally bought \\"In His Image\\" without getting the others. I finally picked up the other two when I realized they might go out of print before I read the first one. I am glad I did this because I wanted to start reading the next book right after I finished the previous one. These books are so engrossing that the pages fly by at lightening speed. I think I finished the whole trilogy in about three days. Get going!he apocalypse, but there is no reason to ignore the other characters. BeauSeigneur rarely provides adequate descriptions of his characters beyond their words and actions. It is an uneven process; Decker's internal thoughts are described, but others are completely ignored. It is also difficult to sympathize with characters when you have no idea what they look like.<br />Get out there and pick these three books up as quickly as you can. I originally bought \\"In His Image\\" without getting the others. I finally picked up the other two when I realized they might go out of print before I read the first one. I am glad I did this because I wanted to start reading the next book right after I finished the previous one. These books are so engrossing that the pages fly by at lightening speed. I think I finished the whole trilogy in about three days. Get going!	2002-06-22
1501724:US	52012289	R107W6AFKRJYOO	0965694836	391817798	Birth of an Age (Book Two of the Christ Clone Trilogy, 2nd Edition)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	The Apocalypse Continues	The back cover of this book tells us that the author, James BeauSeigneur, was a former intelligence analyst for the National Security Agency, a newspaper publisher, a political science professor, a contender for a seat in Congress in 1980 (he ran against Al Gore), and a writer of numerous speeches, manuals, and articles. What this description doesnt tell us is that BeauSeigneur is a fundamentalist Christian as well. This is important to note because this series of books, of which Birth of an Age is the second part, is a fundamentalist Christian view of the end of the world. Some people will have a problem with a fundamentalist based view of the apocalypse. They shouldnt worry, however, because these books are exciting and about as unputdownable as you can possibly imagine.<br />Birth of an Age takes up right where In his Image left off; BeauSeigneur even includes the final chapter of In his Image as a prologue here in case the reader hasnt read the first book or waited awhile to start the second book. Troubling signs of biblical apocalypse start to appear in earnest in this volume. A good portion of the book is devoted to three asteroids approaching Earth. One of the asteroids is appropriately named Wormwood, not from the biblical prophecy (!), but from the Calvin and Hobbes cartoon strip (Calvins teacher was named Ms. Wormwood). Two of the asteroids rake the planet, causing massive damage that BeauSeigneur describes in minute, and frightening, detail. Meanwhile, Christopher sees his star rapidly rising at the United Nations. After a plague of strange locusts strike the world, Christopher is spotted healing people. An assassination, a resurrection, a fascinating reinterpretation of Yahwehs role in humankind, and a dramatic performance in Jerusalem round out the book.<br />BeauSeigneur manages to keep the excitement of the series at a fever pitch. I liked this volume better than the first one, due to the artful descriptions of mass destruction and the continued emphasis on religious interpretation. The drama is good without sinking into soap opera. The plagues described are scary and full of tension.<br />I guess my only concern with the trilogy is the lack of character development. It may be successfully argued that the main character of the book is the apocalypse, but there is no reason to ignore the other characters. BeauSeigneur rarely provides adequate descriptions of his characters beyond their words and actions. It is an uneven process; Deckers internal thoughts are described, but others are completely ignored. It is also difficult to sympathize with characters when you have no idea what they look like. Mary Ludlow, the young woman who discovers the asteroids, is a good example of the uneven characterization. Mary frets about her father, who abandoned her when she was a child. The problem with this description is that BeauSeigneur never goes anywhere with Mary.  Why give some insight to a marginal character while ignoring major ones?<br />Get out there and pick these three books up as quickly as you can. I originally bought In His Image, the first book, without getting the others. I finally picked up the other two when I realized they might go out of print before I read the first one. I am glad I did this because I wanted to start reading the next book right after I finished the previous one. These books are so engrossing that the pages fly by at lightening speed. I think I finished the whole trilogy in about three days. Get going!iptions of mass destruction and the continued emphasis on religious interpretation. The drama is good without sinking into soap opera. The plagues described are scary and full of tension.<br />I guess my only concern with the trilogy is the lack of character development. It may be successfully argued that the main character of the book is the apocalypse, but there is no reason to ignore the other characters. BeauSeigneur rarely provides adequate descriptions of his characters beyond their words and actions. It is an uneven process; Deckers internal thoughts are described, but others are completely ignored. It is also difficult to sympathize with characters when you have no idea what they look like. Mary Ludlow, the young woman who discovers the asteroids, is a good example of the uneven characterization. Mary frets about her father, who abandoned her when she was a child. The problem with this description is that BeauSeigneur never goes anywhere with Mary.  Why give some insight to a marginal character while ignoring major ones?<br />Get out there and pick these three books up as quickly as you can. I originally bought In His Image, the first book, without getting the others. I finally picked up the other two when I realized they might go out of print before I read the first one. I am glad I did this because I wanted to start reading the next book right after I finished the previous one. These books are so engrossing that the pages fly by at lightening speed. I think I finished the whole trilogy in about three days. Get going!	2002-06-22
1506656:US	52012289	RYZXRIXC8FC4B	0345383044	618631054	Jihad vs. McWorld: Terrorism's Challenge to Democracy	Books	3	4	4	N	N	What a World we live in!	... The book, written in 1996, is still relevant today. Benjamin Barber is a political science professor at Rutgers University, and has written several books.<br />The central theme of the book is that there are two competing worldviews in the post Cold War world. The first is what Barber calls 'McWorld,' which is essentially the economic consumption system based on control of information systems, and 'Jihad,' a nationalistic view that rejects McWorld and its consumption ideals while seeking to create autonomous ethnic enclaves. It is Barber's contention that these two competing views are endangering both the maintenance and spread of democratic institutions throughout the world. The reason this examination is essential, according to Barber, is due to the fact that nations facing Jihad contain most of the world's supply of oil. If Jihad is not contained or dealt with, the world could be faced with some sort of economic terrorism.<br />Barber spends a lot of time discussing McWorld and all of its aspects. He discusses advertising, television influence (with a special emphasis on MTV), and media mergers. If McWorld is not contained, or at least made subservient to democratic ideals, it threatens to overwhelm and destroy democracy everywhere. Jihad is just as bad. Barber uses Russia and East Germany as case studies, where the violent insertion of McWorld and its value system (essentially Western culture) caused chaotic economic upheavals that left these two areas in serious economic depressions. The rise of a figure such as Zhirinovsky in Russia points to a potential fascist backlash against McWorld and its twisted values (this is dated, as Zhirinovsky is long gone from the Russian political scene).<br />My problem with the book certainly doesn't come from world opposition to McWorld's use of Western values; I don't like the garbage spread about through ...TV anymore than an imam in Iran. I guess I take exception with his arguments about democracy. Who says democracy should be a world goal? Successful democracy involves an intricate series of temporal and geographical situations. What works here most likely won't work in Kuwait or Laos. Also, democracy eventually leads to tyranny when vigilance wanes. It did in Greece and it will here, too. Wasn't it democracy that gave rise to the very McWorld that Barber is railing against? In many places in the world, they will be better off without democracy.<br />I don't think this book is too hard to get through,... Barber has a tendency to be glib with some of his word play, especially during his examination of McWorld. I'm still surprised that I enjoyed a book with a Barbara Ehrenreich blurb on the front cover.hould be a world goal? Successful democracy involves an intricate series of temporal and geographical situations. What works here most likely won't work in Kuwait or Laos. Also, democracy eventually leads to tyranny when vigilance wanes. It did in Greece and it will here, too. Wasn't it democracy that gave rise to the very McWorld that Barber is railing against? In many places in the world, they will be better off without democracy.<br />I don't think this book is too hard to get through,... Barber has a tendency to be glib with some of his word play, especially during his examination of McWorld. I'm still surprised that I enjoyed a book with a Barbara Ehrenreich blurb on the front cover.	2002-06-17
1509655:US	52012289	R393FHFMT15GD6	0195083989	368769477	The Unreality Industry: The Deliberate Manufacturing of Falsehood and What It Is Doing to Our Lives	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Media Revealed	Ian Mitroff and Warren Bennis are two academics heavily involved in the technological revolution. Their purpose in writing this book is to examine how technology, in what they call the \\"systems age,\\" has created an all-consuming cocoon of unreality in our daily lives. They are not bashing technology, but examining how a lack of ethics has allowed technology to threaten the very nature of our system of government and of our lives. There are plenty of books available on media studies: Todd Gitlin, Jerry Mander, Neil Postman, and others; what makes this book different, at least in the eyes of the authors, is that it studies the underlying causes of the effects of television and mass media. This underlying effect is the creation of unreality, or a system that is so all consuming that it blocks out the real world.<br />The problem with an omnipresent unreality is that the real reality has not gone away. One of the reasons we create an unreality is that the real world is far too complex to understand. In the modern world, the interdependence of every aspect of global life has led to a complexity that is simply astonishing to behold. Not one human being on the face of the Earth can make heads or tails of events anymore. The result is fear on the part of humans, which leads to the creation of an alternate, unreal world where answers are easy and presented in a somewhat non-threatening way (I'm not sure this is right; the media loves to start panics). This alternate world has become so pervasive that it has become an actual industry, generating celebrities and images that people can relate to.<br />How celebrity is created and marketed is probably the best part of the book. The authors use charts and graphs to show how this process has become a huge industry employing thousands and thousands of people. The book also shows how the masses react to this celebrity, which in extreme cases, leads to the likes of Jonestown and Mark David Chapman. Celebrityhood is revealed to be a process of engineering; people are \\"remade\\" to fit personalities and molds demanded by the public (or is it really demanded by the public? Perhaps the demand is created.).<br />Other sections show how media uses archetypes from the human psyche to create shows, how heroes are generated in a society that lacks, or at least ignores, real heroes, and boundary warping, or how reality and unreality is actually defined.<br />This is a good book, although it is somewhat dated. Even the 1993 update makes this book pre-Internet, a new technology that would no doubt interest the authors. One of the charts uses characters from \\"Dynasty\\" as examples, and the reliance on Sigmund Freud shows that the authors are not aware that most psychologists view Freud as a quack. I think this is a necessary read, at least for those who are interested in media studies and the like. It does tend to get a little esoteric at times, which is not surprising as the two authors are engineers who are probably not used to writing directly to the masses. Recommended.rocess of engineering; people are \\"remade\\" to fit personalities and molds demanded by the public (or is it really demanded by the public? Perhaps the demand is created.). <br />Other sections show how media uses archetypes from the human psyche to create shows, how heroes are generated in a society that lacks, or at least ignores, real heroes, and boundary warping, or how reality and unreality is actually defined.<br />This is a good book, although it is somewhat dated. Even the 1993 update makes this book pre-Internet, a new technology that would no doubt interest the authors. One of the charts uses characters from \\"Dynasty\\" as examples, and the reliance on Sigmund Freud shows that the authors are not aware that most psychologists view Freud as a quack. I think this is a necessary read, at least for those who are interested in media studies and the like. It does tend to get a little esoteric at times, which is not surprising as the two authors are engineers who are probably not used to writing directly to the masses. Recommended.	2002-06-14
1510168:US	52012289	R10LX31FU3ODJI	189062621X	991819171	Hating Whitey: And Other Progressive Causes	Books	5	19	25	N	N	Readers of the Right, Unite!	\\"Hating Whitey\\" is a collection of online musings and rants from David Horowitz, the former radical who converted to conservatism. I read \\"Radical Son\\" about two years ago, so I am familiar with Horowitz's brand of criticism. What is relevant about Horowitz is that he knows his enemies; he was one of them for years, and he knows exactly how they think and feel. He knows their ulterior motives and their methods of attack. Horowitz knows when they are lying, and he knows when to read between the lines to discover what is really going on in the wacky world of the American leftist. The leftist establishment routinely shuns Horowitz because they know he is dangerous.<br />A variety of topics are given full treatment in \\"Hating Whitey.\\" They range from the fraudulent writings of Rigoberta Menchu, to race relations, to the Clinton regime. Horowitz blasts Camille Cosby's racial polemic concerning the death of her son, the closure of American campuses to conservative academics, the selling of nuclear weapon secrets and technologies to the Chinese, and the Black Panthers. There is almost no aspect of leftist thought and activity that escapes Horowitz's withering critique.<br />The section on the Black Panthers is especially enlightening. Horowitz covered this in some detail in \\"Radical Son,\\" but it never hurts to go over such an important topic again. The Panthers were not a revolutionary vanguard of the New Left, but a group of murderous thugs that dealt drugs, committed torture, and killed dozens of people. Horowitz is in a position to know all about the true face of these killers; he was deeply involved in helping the Panthers set up a school in California. Horowitz became deeply disillusioned with the group when Betty Van Patter, a woman Horowitz helped get a job with the Panthers, was brutally murdered by them. This disillusionment became the impetus that led to Horowitz's conversion to political conservatism.<br />The theme of this book is that leftists, or \\"progressives,\\" are nothing of the sort. Horowitz shows how ideas given birth in the 1960's have been twisted in the 1990's. The civil rights struggle has been turned into a grab for special privileges. Even the collapse of Communism in recent years has not created any regret in these hard hearts. Despite the fact that every scheme and idea of the Left has failed beyond description, these people still persist in creating new stunts in order to bring about a new world at the expense of the old. If these people are \\"progressive,\\" how come they have no perception of their failed ideas and tired ideology?<br />Horowitz tells it the way it is. In the book, he mentions an appearance he made on C-SPAN a few years back. I happened to catch that program when it was on, and Horowitz's description of his treatment at the hands of a leftist mob is dead on. You have to admire a guy that gets up in front of people when he knows he will be shot down and abused. Read this book!s,\\" are nothing of the sort. Horowitz shows how ideas given birth in the 1960's have been twisted in the 1990's. The civil rights struggle has been turned into a grab for special privileges. Even the collapse of Communism in recent years has not created any regret in these hard hearts. Despite the fact that every scheme and idea of the Left has failed beyond description, these people still persist in creating new stunts in order to bring about a new world at the expense of the old. If these people are \\"progressive,\\" how come they have no perception of their failed ideas and tired ideology?<br />Horowitz tells it the way it is. In the book, he mentions an appearance he made on C-SPAN a few years back. I happened to catch that program when it was on, and Horowitz's description of his treatment at the hands of a leftist mob is dead on. You have to admire a guy that gets up in front of people when he knows he will be shot down and abused. Read this book!	2002-06-13
1510264:US	52012289	R38CPPQ25S48Y0	0140442898	838094100	Tales from the Thousand and One Nights (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	62	67	N	N	Fantastic Tales	This book is a selection of the choicest tales from the Thousand and One Nights. The translator, N.J. Dawood, also translated the Koran for the Penguin Classics series. Dawood explains in the introduction that the first of these tales appeared in a written form around 850 C.E., in a book called, \\"A Thousand Legends.\\"  More tales, of lesser quality, were added over the years until an anonymous editor in Cairo finally codified them in the 18th century. A French version of some of the stories appeared in the 17th century, and was followed by several English versions in the 19th century; the best known adaptation came from Sir Richard Burton, in 10 volumes. The stories are a mix of Arabic, Persian, and Indian tales and appear to have been written in response to classical Arabic literature. The Arabs do not consider them part of the classic canon, and after reading these stories, I can see why. They are aggressive and highly sexualized, and are loaded with sorcery, fantasy, and criticism of authority figures.<br />Whatever their origins and means of transmission, these are excellent and entertaining stories. I cannot think of one tale in this selection that I did not like. Included in the book is the instantly recognizable Aladdin story, as well as the Sinbad voyages. Other tales are just as interesting: \\"The Tale of the Hunchback,\\" \\"The Tale of Judar and his Brothers,\\" \\"The Porter and the Three Girls of Baghdad,\\" and many others. Many of these stories are cycles; they have stories within stories, as characters in one story tell their own stories. At the end of the cycle, the story is cleverly wrapped up, usually with a happy ending. I do not think I need to go into detail about Aladdin or Sinbad, except to say that I was surprised to see Aladdin described as Chinese. Providing details to these stories would be useless anyway because they are so detailed as to be impervious to summary.<br />There is no doubt that many of these stories started as oral stories, and retained that shape into the written versions. The best example is the Sinbad cycle. All of the stories in this cycle are framed in the same way. This repetition made it easier to memorize the stories, or at least the basic outline. A good storyteller could take the frame and fill in the blanks with whatever his heart desired. You often see this kind of writing in the Bible.<br />Social roles and class play a large part in these stories. Women are presented as wily and dangerous, but not always. Several stories show men trying to pull fast ones on the ladies, with the results much to the detriment of the men. Many stories show how the high and mighty come crashing down, or how the lowly are elevated to great status. These movements are attributed to the grace or condemnation of Allah, and the characters all act out their movements with Allah close by.<br />You will not go wrong with this book. These are immensely entertaining stories for both children and adults, although you might want to find a toned down version for the kiddies. Why? I am thinking about the tale where a man and some women play \\"name that body part.\\" My only criticism of this version is that the tale of \\"Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves\\" is absent. I have no idea why it is missing, but the book loses one star for this grave omission.d that shape into the written versions. The best example is the Sinbad cycle. All of the stories in this cycle are framed in the same way. This repetition made it easier to memorize the stories, or at least the basic outline. A good storyteller could take the frame and fill in the blanks with whatever his heart desired. You often see this kind of writing in the Bible.<br />Social roles and class play a large part in these stories. Women are presented as wily and dangerous, but not always. Several stories show men trying to pull fast ones on the ladies, with the results much to the detriment of the men. Many stories show how the high and mighty come crashing down, or how the lowly are elevated to great status. These movements are attributed to the grace or condemnation of Allah, and the characters all act out their movements with Allah close by.<br />You will not go wrong with this book. These are immensely entertaining stories for both children and adults, although you might want to find a toned down version for the kiddies. Why? I am thinking about the tale where a man and some women play \\"name that body part.\\" My only criticism of this version is that the tale of \\"Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves\\" is absent. I have no idea why it is missing, but the book loses one star for this grave omission.	2002-06-13
1510676:US	52012289	RFXGOOCXSAS6T	0803292864	977997777	The Skylark of Space (Bison Frontiers of Imagination)	Books	3	6	22	N	N	Ho-Hum Space Adventure	According to the introduction to this book, \\"The Skylark of Space\\" is the first \\"space opera\\" ever written. The story first appeared during the 1920's in the pages of \\"Amazing Stories,\\" and was reedited in the 1950's by the author, E.E. \\"Doc\\" Smith. Smith went on to write other Skylark stories, as well as a few other sci-fi series. The introduction also calls attention to other themes in the story: the role of women in the sci-fi genre, the idea of manifest destiny, and the accuracy of predictions made in the story as opposed to real scientific development.<br />\\"The Skylark of Space\\" is entertaining. Of that there is no doubt. Scientist Richard \\"Dick\\" Seaton, during the course of mundane research at his government laboratory, accidentally discovers a new means of propulsion. Of course, no one at the lab believes him. Seaton then goes to his buddy Martin Crane, inventor and millionaire, for help. Together, the two begin to develop a spaceship using the new propulsion formula. The wily Marc DuQuesne, a fellow scientist in league with the evil World Steel Company, constantly undermines their plans in the hope of stealing the formula and making a fortune out of it. When DuQuesne abducts Dorothy, Seaton's fianc&eacute;e, and flies her away on a second ship using the stolen formula, the hijinks begin. The characters end up uniting to face a host of spectacular space dangers. The characters, who use their wits and strength to great advantage, overcome black holes, hostile planets with weird animals, and a planet-wide war.<br />While the story is entertaining, the cheese factor here is off the charts. The story starts out well, but quickly descends into confusion and pure goofiness. The introduction stresses that the reader must suspend disbelief, but this is ridiculous. The characters are all models of perfection, and each difficulty encountered in space is overcome with seeming ease. The only thing missing from Seaton's profile is the gleam of his teeth when he smiles. The worst part of the book is the end, when the marriage of Seaton and Crane to their respective women dominates the story. Who cares? Isn't one of the goals of science fiction, at least in theory, to provide action sequences? There is action here, but not nearly enough to hold my attention.<br />This is probably essential reading for the diehard sci-fi fan, but all others should steer clear. A high intake of cheese like this can clog your arteries!rst part of the book is the end, when the marriage of Seaton and Crane to their respective women dominates the story. Who cares? Isn't one of the goals of science fiction, at least in theory, to provide action sequences? There is action here, but not nearly enough to hold my attention.<br />This is probably essential reading for the diehard sci-fi fan, but all others should steer clear. A high intake of cheese like this can clog your arteries!	2002-06-13
1514641:US	52012289	R3SM3AD6W09LQP	0452279070	956761338	Ragtime	Books	3	6	12	N	N	The Movie is Better	Due to some amazing coincidence, I happened to finish this book on the same day that the movie \\"Ragtime\\" aired on television. While the movie cut some serious corners, I think that the film is infinitely better than the novel. I have never read any of E.L. Doctorow's books before, and I cannot say I am in a hurry to run right out and dig up anymore of them. If \\"Ragtime\\" is his best work, I fear we are all in a lot of trouble.<br />I really wanted to like this book. Honest. Within 10 pages, I started to get a sinking feeling in my stomach. By the last 50 pages, I didn't think I would have the energy to finish the darn thing. But since I don't like to leave started books unfinished, I gutted it out, hoping for redemption. I did find some redemption, but it sure took a long time to get there.<br />\\"Ragtime,\\" written in 1975, is an attempt at historical fiction. Doctorow writes a tale of racial injustice set in the early part of the 19th century. Real historical figures appear at a rapid pace: Henry Ford, Harry Thaw, Stanford White, Harry Houdini, and scads of others. Against this backdrop, Doctorow sets up the story of Coalhouse Walker, a black piano player who rebels against the treatment he receives from a local fire station. After his car is vandalized and his wife-to-be is killed, Walker goes on a rampage of violence and mayhem.<br />I know what Doctorow is trying to do, but I just don't like it. The racial angle doesn't come into play until far into the book, and the prose is sheer agony. His sentences are extremely short, which in itself is a different way, and not necessarily a wrong way, of writing a novel. I think he is trying to make his prose mirror ragtime music, or images of the time. For me, every sentence was like ramming a truck into a brick wall.<br />Something should also be said about the various story threads in the novel. Sensational accounts of the day (the Thaw-Stanford murder) vie with fictional characters. While Doctorow does manage to weave them together at the end of the book, he takes far too long to do so. All of the vignettes seem to have much to do with the idea of escaping some type of role or problem. Houdini's escape tricks, Younger Brother's search for something to believe in, Morgan's quest for immortality; they all involve a sort of transcendence. Is Doctorow criticizing the supposedly staid social constraints of the time? What is certain is that he doesn't care much for America in this time frame. He seems to take great joy in revealing sexual peccadilloes and other scandalous behavior. I think he is criticizing the widely held belief that this time period was a type of American Eden in which everyone lived happily and troubles were few.<br />Hmm, maybe I did get more out of this book than I thought. I'm still not about to dive into anymore Doctorow, even though I usually will read other books by an author if I think they are capable of doing better. Be aware with this one; it is not a sunny, quick read.em together at the end of the book, he takes far too long to do so. All of the vignettes seem to have much to do with the idea of escaping some type of role or problem. Houdini's escape tricks, Younger Brother's search for something to believe in, Morgan's quest for immortality; they all involve a sort of transcendence. Is Doctorow criticizing the supposedly staid social constraints of the time? What is certain is that he doesn't care much for America in this time frame. He seems to take great joy in revealing sexual peccadilloes and other scandalous behavior. I think he is criticizing the widely held belief that this time period was a type of American Eden in which everyone lived happily and troubles were few.<br />Hmm, maybe I did get more out of this book than I thought. I'm still not about to dive into anymore Doctorow, even though I usually will read other books by an author if I think they are capable of doing better. Be aware with this one; it is not a sunny, quick read.	2002-06-10
1515358:US	52012289	R1V7WMYGL1YP8E	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A Classic	I should have read this book in the 9th grade, but like most of my fellow students, I ended up skimming the book and tossing it in the corner after the final exam. Steinbeck just was not relevant to me at that age. Actually, no literature was relevant. I firmly believe that for some teenagers, a lack of life experience makes the reading of literature an exercise in futility. Of course, this doesn't stop its being assigned, much to the consternation of millions of kids (many of whom are more suited to rap videos and other mind-numbing pap). Literature is a capricious thing; you will either learn to love it, and approach it on your own terms, or hate it and ignore it for life.<br />That being said, this is a book I wished I had read years ago. One of the things I am learning to appreciate about Steinbeck is his ability to convey multi-dimensional messages with prose that is the height of simplicity. There is no fat on his literary bones. \\"Of Mice and Men\\" is such a book. Themes of friendship, oppression, and duty jockey for position in this simple tale about two itinerant laborers (one a simpleton; the other his caretaker) drifting through California looking for their slice of the American dream. I don't think it is necessary to go into further detail about the story. Many have read it, and those who have not won't benefit from a detailed description. Heck, the book is short enough that any details thrown out in this review might spoil it for the uninitiated.<br />The introduction to the edition I read made one good point (the rest of the introduction was cutesy-wootsy to the point of nausea) that I had not noticed about the book: \\"Of Mice and Men\\" was an attempt by Steinbeck to see if he could craft a novel that closely resembled a play. When read with this in mind the story does resemble a work made for the stage; there are few set pieces in the story, but an enormous amount of dialogue. It is no wonder there are several stage and film versions of this book floating around.<br />Finally, this book is depressing. There is no happy ending here, as death and danger stalk the pages of the story. I would be lying if I said I was not affected by some of the events in the book. I did not burst out crying, but I did feel gloomy and a little cranky after I finished reading. If you are attempting Steinbeck, you will have to visit this little novella at some point.around.<br />Finally, this book is depressing. There is no happy ending here, as death and danger stalk the pages of the story. I would be lying if I said I was not affected by some of the events in the book. I did not burst out crying, but I did feel gloomy and a little cranky after I finished reading. If you are attempting Steinbeck, you will have to visit this little novella at some point.	2002-06-09
1516094:US	52012289	R2LHZ6WIZYG7KW	0140139400	391244810	The Spectator Bird (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	3	23	30	N	N	Another Good Stegner Novel	Why have I revisited Stegner so soon after reading \\"Angle of Repose\\"? I don't really know. I cannot say \\"Angle of Repose\\" is excellent literature, although I do say that it is very good. I guess I just wanted to give Stegner another chance. I chose to read this book, \\"The Spectator Bird,\\" in order to try and understand Stegner a bit better and give him that chance. For those who don't know, Wallace Stegner wrote many books, both fiction and non-fiction, with the American West as their theme. \\"Angle of Repose,\\" his best known work (it's on that top 100 list from a few years ago), won the 1971 Pulitzer Prize. Stegner died in a car accident in 1993, at the age of 84.<br />\\"The Spectator Bird,\\" written five years after \\"Angle of Repose,\\" tells the story of Joe Allston. Allston, a retired literary agent, lives in California with his wife Ruth. Life has not been good for Allston; he had a son that died, he's been diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis, and his life has been one uninteresting blur. His work as a literary agent left him on the sidelines, as a spectator to the success of others. Except for one event: a trip to Denmark some 20 years prior, when Allston and his wife tried to track down the village where Joe's mother came from. A postcard from Astrid, the Danish woman that the Allstons stayed with on the trip, arrives in the mail and inspires Allston to dig up a journal he wrote while in Denmark. Joe reads the journal to his wife, and together, they relive their journey. Just as in \\"Angle of Repose,\\" a dark secret emerges at the end of the journal. This leads to revelations that improve the relationship between Joe and Ruth.<br />That's it, in a nutshell. I have to say that \\"Angle of Repose\\" is the better of the two books. \\"The Spectator Bird\\" is much shorter, for one thing. It also is not nearly as rich, in its prose, as \\"Angle of Repose.\\" While this makes \\"The Spectator Bird\\" somewhat more accessible, it also lessens the effect of the work. In \\"Angle of Repose,\\" Stegner's ability to create atmosphere and character depth is simply breathtaking. This does not happen as often in \\"The Spectator Bird.\\"<br />Wallace Stegner is probably best described as a reactionary. He often places his characters in opposition to the 1960's counterculture movement. Stegner tries to show that old values are not worthless, but rather the correct and healthy ones. It is these values, if studied and listened to, which can solve problems in the present. It's not hard to imagine that Stegner, with his novels and writings, represented the \\"silent majority\\" of Richard Nixon fame.<br />I apologize for comparing \\"The Spectator Bird\\" with \\"Angle of Repose.\\" Many of the reviews on Amazon seem to make similar comparisons, and many of the readers seem to start out with \\"Angle of Repose,\\" just as I did. While \\"The Spectator Bird\\" isn't on the level of \\"Angle of Repose,\\" it is still entertaining reading. Enjoy!\\" Stegner's ability to create atmosphere and character depth is simply breathtaking. This does not happen as often in \\"The Spectator Bird.\\"<br />Wallace Stegner is probably best described as a reactionary. He often places his characters in opposition to the 1960's counterculture movement. Stegner tries to show that old values are not worthless, but rather the correct and healthy ones. It is these values, if studied and listened to, which can solve problems in the present. It's not hard to imagine that Stegner, with his novels and writings, represented the \\"silent majority\\" of Richard Nixon fame.<br />I apologize for comparing \\"The Spectator Bird\\" with \\"Angle of Repose.\\" Many of the reviews on Amazon seem to make similar comparisons, and many of the readers seem to start out with \\"Angle of Repose,\\" just as I did. While \\"The Spectator Bird\\" isn't on the level of \\"Angle of Repose,\\" it is still entertaining reading. Enjoy!	2002-06-08
1517607:US	52012289	R23UJL6CKG7ESX	0940450402	767183952	Norris: Novels and Essays (Library of America)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	An Atlas of American Literature	Nothing, and I mean absolutely nothing, will prepare you for Frank Norris. This guy is a literary deity, a veritable Atlas of the written word. Why he is not widely known, let alone widely read, is an incalculable tragedy. I only stumbled over him by pure chance; I caught a glance of this Library of America book in the stacks at the library and stopped to look. It just goes to show that the gems are out there, and are often found when you least expect it. Actually, I have a good idea why Norris is not widely known: He died at the early age of 32 in 1902, which left us with only a handful of his works. Also, some of his views are not politically correct.<br />This volume contains three of Norris's novels: \\"Vandover and the Brute,\\" \\"McTeague,\\" and \\"The Octopus.\\" The last 100 pages are short essays Norris wrote for various periodicals of the day. As usual, the LOA includes helpful notes, a timeline of the author's life, and textual emendations. Sure, the book is huge, but considering it is divided into novels, you can do what I did and take breaks between the novels.<br />The first story, \\"Vandover and the Brute,\\" written while Norris was at Harvard, is an unremittingly grim tale about a social phony named, aptly, Vandover. Vandover is a cad, one of the most unlikable characters ever to grace the world of fine literature. Norris takes us in right at the beginning of Vandover's life, when his mother dies after a trip to San Francisco with the family. Vandover's father encourages his son's only talent, painting, by promising to take him to Paris. In the meantime, Vandover enrolls at Harvard, where he coasts through classes with the help of his friend Geary. It is also at Harvard where Vandover acquires an unfortunate craving for prostitutes. Once out of school, Vandover returns to live with his father, and begins to play the role of social climber and hanger-on. He gets to know a nice girl, but his love of ladies of the night leads him to talk a young lass into accompanying him to a house of ill repute, where they engage in some licentious behavior. The girl subsequently kills herself, causing a nasty scandal that requires Vandover to leave town. A shipwreck, an unfortunate death, and the acquisition of a sexual disease lead Vandover into a freefall to chaos and ultimate doom. This story is G-R-I-M, folks. Almost every character in the story is absolutely despicable, with no redeeming qualities to speak of. Be sure and pay attention to the prose. Norris leaves nothing to the imagination. Descriptions of rooms and characters run on for pages at a time. The intricacy is astonishing without becoming tiresome. They should tape a packet of Prozac on the book jacket for this one.<br />The second story, \\"McTeague,\\" continues Norris's naturalist literary work. McTeague is a hulking giant of a man, big of body and short of mind. He works as a dentist in San Francisco and lives the bachelor life. His only friend introduces McTeague to Trina, a pretty girl of German descent. McTeague falls for the lass and the story starts to zoom. McTeague wins Trina over and they start out on their life together. Trina has a slight problem, a problem that becomes all consuming as the novel progresses; she's a miser. By the time McTeague loses his practice and the two are forced to live in a hovel, Trina refuses to yield even a dime to help the financial situation. Trina makes Scrooge look like a chronic gambler. I cannot convey to you how much I hated her by the end of the story. She should be horsewhipped. When I reached the last page of this story, I roared out loud over the ending. What a classic! If you read only one novel by Frank Norris, read this one.<br />The troika is complete with \\"The Octopus.\\" This sprawling novel was the first in Norris's \\"Trilogy of the Wheat.\\" The story is set in the San Joaquin valley at the turn of the century. \\"The Octopus\\" focuses on the conflict between wheat growers and the railroad that owns their land. It's anti-capitalist to the extreme, and I bet Upton Sinclair got the idea for \\"The Jungle\\" from this novel. But the novel is more than a socialist tract. Norris turns this conflict into a biblical tale of good and evil. The prose takes your breath away. The descriptions of Vanamee calling out to his dead bride are nothing short of pure brilliance. Also note the pulse quickening accounts of Dyke's flight from the law.<br />Run, don't walk, to get this book. I would like to see hundreds of reviews for Mr. Norris's works here on Amazon. I'm thinking of buying this LOA edition so I can revisit these tales often. I just wish they had included \\"The Pit,\\" Norris's sequel to \\"The Octopus.\\" Oh, be sure to read the essays. They provide helpful insights into Norris's views on writing and some of his stories.talist to the extreme, and I bet Upton Sinclair got the idea for \\"The Jungle\\" from this novel. But the novel is more than a socialist tract. Norris turns this conflict into a biblical tale of good and evil. The prose takes your breath away. The descriptions of Vanamee calling out to his dead bride are nothing short of pure brilliance. Also note the pulse quickening accounts of Dyke's flight from the law.<br />Run, don't walk, to get this book. I would like to see hundreds of reviews for Mr. Norris's works here on Amazon. I'm thinking of buying this LOA edition so I can revisit these tales often. I just wish they had included \\"The Pit,\\" Norris's sequel to \\"The Octopus.\\" Oh, be sure to read the essays. They provide helpful insights into Norris's views on writing and some of his stories.	2002-06-07
1521543:US	52012289	R3ERFV349Q61TL	014016930X	21744022	Angle of Repose (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	91	108	N	N	Good Fiction	Wallace Stegner was a mystery to me before I saw his name on that top 100 list a few months ago. I didn't even have an idea about the type of fiction he wrote. A little research on the web revealed that Stegner was quite prolific, writing both fiction and non-fiction books concerning the American West. Stegner died in 1993 in a car accident at the age of 84.<br />\\"Angle of Repose,\\" written in 1971, won a Pulitzer Prize for its intense portrayal of the lives of Susan, Oliver, and Lyman Ward. Lyman, a retired historian dying of a bone disease, is researching his grandparents' lives in order to find out why the two were alienated in their later years. Through the letters of his grandmother Susan, written to her lifelong friend Augusta, Lyman pieces together Susan's life in 19th century America. Susan is a fairly successful East Coast painter and author who marries mining engineer Oliver and takes part in his life in the American West. They move from California to Colorado, to Mexico and Idaho, always living a hardscrabble life. A family tragedy that Stegner fully reveals at the end of the book has lessons for Lyman's own estrangement from his wife Ellen.<br />I agonized over this book. There were times I found myself doing other things in order to avoid reading the book. Don't get me wrong; it's not that it's a bad book. Stegner's ability to create atmosphere is second to none. I can't remember the last time I read an author who can bring background to life as Stegner does. My biggest problem with the book is the characters. Frankly, I don't like any of them. Susan is an elitist snob who domineers her husband and is totally in the grip of her gal pal Augusta. At one point, Susan tells Augusta that see would rather have her son (Lyman's father, Ollie) be unhappy then to bother Augusta on a visit. Susan also butts into Oliver's life on a continual basis. This is NOT a likeable woman. I'm not going to go into the unlikable aspects of Lyman. It is sufficient to say that they are legion, as you will see when you read the book. What hurts so much is that, by the end of the book, Stegner does make the characters interesting. Why couldn't he have accomplished this throughout the book?<br />There are several levels to this book. One aspect is the parallel between Lyman's life with the life of his grandparents. Another seems to be a study of America, specifically life in the late 19th century vs. the 1960's. Stegner often has Lyman preaching against the moral banality of the 1960's. Stegner's portrait of the 19th century American West is one of growth, but Lyman's age is one of stagnation. Is Stegner saying that America has reached its \\"angle of repose\\"? I don't know, but the books multi-dimensional aspects do help erase some of the disappointment over the characters.<br />I cannot, in good conscience, give this book five stars. The depth Stegner gives the book, and the redemption of the characters in the end, does help immensely. However, I'm leery about recommending this book. You have to be in the right frame of mind to get through this one. Would I read more Stegner novels? Probably. He is an excellent writer. It's not his fault I despised the characters.hey are legion, as you will see when you read the book. What hurts so much is that, by the end of the book, Stegner does make the characters interesting. Why couldn't he have accomplished this throughout the book?<br />There are several levels to this book. One aspect is the parallel between Lyman's life with the life of his grandparents. Another seems to be a study of America, specifically life in the late 19th century vs. the 1960's. Stegner often has Lyman preaching against the moral banality of the 1960's. Stegner's portrait of the 19th century American West is one of growth, but Lyman's age is one of stagnation. Is Stegner saying that America has reached its \\"angle of repose\\"? I don't know, but the books multi-dimensional aspects do help erase some of the disappointment over the characters.<br />I cannot, in good conscience, give this book five stars. The depth Stegner gives the book, and the redemption of the characters in the end, does help immensely. However, I'm leery about recommending this book. You have to be in the right frame of mind to get through this one. Would I read more Stegner novels? Probably. He is an excellent writer. It's not his fault I despised the characters.	2002-06-03
1525315:US	52012289	R252PRLTQX5B65	0375700943	417034486	The Three-Arched Bridge	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Kadare does it again	This is one of the many books written by the great Albanian author Ismail Kadare. Kadare, who fled Albania's communist government in 1990, crafts intricate novels that address various Balkan issues, with a specific eye towards Albanian situations. Albania needs all the help it can get, as it is virtually ignored by the rest of the world. Every Kadare novel I have seen mentions he is short-listed for the Nobel Prize for Literature. I can see why; his novels, even in translation, are stunning works of symbol, imagery, and insight. I suspect that Kadare is one of literature's best kept secrets. What a shame. More people should read Kadare and share in the joy.<br />\\"The Three Arched Bridge,\\" written by Kadare in the early 1980's, is a complex, multi-layered examination of Albania on the eve of the Ottoman invasion of the 14th century. Some of the horror of the story comes from knowing what happened in real life; the Ottomans arrived and didn't leave for five centuries, leaving behind a people with no connections to the outside world and little development to fall back on. Even worse, the Ottomans converted the majority of Albanians to Islam, further alienating the Albanian people from Christian Europe.<br />The story is couched as a history of the bridge built over the Ujama e Keqe River (translated as \\"Wicked Waters\\"). The writer of this journal is a Christian monk named Gjon, who acts as a translator to the local Albanian nobility. During the construction of the bridge, all sorts of sinister activities take place: foreigners arrive to build the bridge, the bridge is sabotaged, and a gruesome sacrifice in which a local man is plastered into the bridge takes place. During the construction of the bridge, the Albanian nobility fight amongst themselves while the Ottoman threat looms in the distance.<br />This is a grim story, full of drama and suspense. The nobility can never get their act together to unite and protect Albania against foreign threat. Even the family of the man plastered into the bridge fight amongst themselves for his estate. This disunity serves to weaken Albania and invites foreign conquest. The bridge represents many things: Albania as a bridge between Europe and Asia, the bridge between two ages, the old Medieval Europe and the emerging mercantile Europe, or even the dominance of foreign influence over the Albanian people. I think Kadare used the river to symbolize Albania. When the foreigners come to build the bridge, they spread mud from the riverbed all over the place. This is exactly what foreign powers did in real life; they drew up borders and left Albanian people scattered all over the region. With this intrepretation in mind, there are numerous other examples that emerge in the book.<br />Whatever the symbolic implications of this book, it is a great read. Kadare is dramatic without ever drifting into soap opera, and he creates characters with great depth in a minimum of words. If he keeps writing his awesome tales, I'll keep reading them. Give this one a chance; you will like it immensely.e man plastered into the bridge fight amongst themselves for his estate. This disunity serves to weaken Albania and invites foreign conquest. The bridge represents many things: Albania as a bridge between Europe and Asia, the bridge between two ages, the old Medieval Europe and the emerging mercantile Europe, or even the dominance of foreign influence over the Albanian people. I think Kadare used the river to symbolize Albania. When the foreigners come to build the bridge, they spread mud from the riverbed all over the place. This is exactly what foreign powers did in real life; they drew up borders and left Albanian people scattered all over the region. With this intrepretation in mind, there are numerous other examples that emerge in the book.<br />Whatever the symbolic implications of this book, it is a great read. Kadare is dramatic without ever drifting into soap opera, and he creates characters with great depth in a minimum of words. If he keeps writing his awesome tales, I'll keep reading them. Give this one a chance; you will like it immensely.	2002-05-31
1527933:US	52012289	RUBFFZT0EHHGW	0140187456	69278241	The Long Valley (Twentieth-century Classics)	Books	4	28	35	N	N	California Tales	My first Steinbeck book! O.K., I should have read \\"Mice and Men\\" when it was assigned in the 9th grade, but you know how that goes. The five years I have spent in college have awakened a love of the classics, making Steinbeck essential reading at some point. This book is a collection of his short stories written in 1933-34. In the introduction, written by John Timmerman, we find Steinbeck slaving away on these stories while taking care of his ill mother. We also discover that Steinbeck wrote his stories on a notebook copped from his father's desk. Timmerman points out that \\"The Long Valley\\" stories constitute an important bridge between Steinbeck's earlier efforts and the later canon of literature that secured his lasting fame.<br />The first two stories are the kind of works that English teachers love to assign; they involve women trying to break out of social roles. In the first story, Steinbeck starts his tale with: \\"The high grey-flannel fog of winter closed off the Salinas Valley from the sky and from all the rest of the world. On every side it sat like a lid on the mountains and made of the great valley a closed pot.\\" Obviously, someone is trapped. I don't care for these two stories because I've read so many like them over the years, usually at the threatening point of a grading pen.<br />But as the book progresses, I quickly discovered that Steinbeck is an excellent writer. My favorite stories were \\"The Harness,\\" \\"Johnny Bear,\\" \\"Saint Katy the Virgin,\\" and \\"The Red Pony.\\" In \\"Johnny Bear,\\" Steinbeck writes a freaky tale about an idiot savant that has an odd talent, much to the chagrin of the community. I figured out how it was going to end ahead of time, but it was still great fun. \\"Saint Katy the Virgin\\" is a strange tale, set in the Middle Ages, about a pig who converts to Christianity. This story does seem to be a criticism of the Catholic Church, but there is enough ambiguity in it to make me wonder if the story is actually pro-religion.<br />\\"The Red Pony,\\" which is actually a cycle of four stories, has to be the best of the lot. I seriously believe Steinbeck could have made a comfortable living by turning this into a series. The stories focus on Jody, a boy living on a ranch in California. What impressed me most about these stories is the emphasis placed on discipline, hard work, and clean living. Along the way, Jody learns valuable lessons about death, old age, and respect for his elders. While reading about Jody, it is impossible not to draw comparisons with the pampered youth of our era. Almost no child living in this country today could maintain the patience Jody shows while waiting for the birth of his colt.<br />I thought Steinbeck would be stodgy reading; I was quite worried when I pulled this off the shelf and made a go of it. I can't say I'm going to dive right into his other works right away, but if his other stuff matches up to some of the stories here, they will be good reading.y,\\" which is actually a cycle of four stories, has to be the best of the lot. I seriously believe Steinbeck could have made a comfortable living by turning this into a series. The stories focus on Jody, a boy living on a ranch in California. What impressed me most about these stories is the emphasis placed on discipline, hard work, and clean living. Along the way, Jody learns valuable lessons about death, old age, and respect for his elders. While reading about Jody, it is impossible not to draw comparisons with the pampered youth of our era. Almost no child living in this country today could maintain the patience Jody shows while waiting for the birth of his colt.<br />I thought Steinbeck would be stodgy reading; I was quite worried when I pulled this off the shelf and made a go of it. I can't say I'm going to dive right into his other works right away, but if his other stuff matches up to some of the stories here, they will be good reading.	2002-05-29
1528969:US	52012289	RGGMX6SW7PXB8	0140437509	134638487	Three Men in a Boat and Three Men on the Bummel	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Roaringly Funny	I have been reading some good, but bleak literature lately, so I decided to turn to something a bit lighthearted. I think there is nothing better to fit that bill than Jerome K Jerome's hilarious \\"Three Men in a Boat.\\" This Penguin edition also adds \\"Three Men on the Bummel,\\" a worthy sequel that Jerome wrote roughly ten years later. I cannot believe I'd never heard of these gems before. This is, without a doubt, one of the funniest books I've ever read. Despite the fact that Jerome is writing to us from the Victorian era, the humor is timeless. The writing style could be a bit touchy for some, but for me, that is what added extra dimensions of humor to the stories. It's the intricate way Jerome conveys his acidic comments that leave you in stitches.<br />\\"Three Men in a Boat\\" is certainly the more humorous of the two. In this tale, three friends, J., George, and Harris, with Montmorency the dog in tow, decide to take a jaunt down the Thames for rest and relaxation. What ensues is a wild stream of hilarious tales and misadventures. Often, the trip takes a backseat to the stories, as J. talks about an assortment of topics. My favorite stories concerned the cheese, the weather, and the German singing the \\"humorous\\" song. Another favorite is the descriptions of how the three learned to sail and row. I don't want to give away any of the details of these stories because they are just too hilarious; I would also kill the humor if I tried to relate them. This story also gives some detail to historical places along the river. The introduction to this book shows how historical accounts of river travel were quite popular. Jerome set out to write such an account, and the publisher dropped much of this material and left the funny anecdotes intact.<br />\\"Three Men on the Bummel,\\" written in 1900, reunites the three (minus Montmorency) for a biking excursion in Germany. While still funny in spots, it lacks the vigor of its predecessor. I found the tale about the water hose a hoot, but Jerome tends to spend more time on travelogue. His observations about the German people are eerily prophetic, as you'll see when you read the book. The language is still acid sharp, and Jerome has an interesting eye for details that make this story a joy to read.<br />If you don't mind roaring at the misfortunes of others, and enjoy wry sarcasm, you will delight in these two stories. Also, you are lying if you don't recognize Uncle Podger in your own family. As I write this review, I'm chuckling over the memory of some of the stories. In fact, you may want to be careful while reading this; you'll continue to laugh later as more layers of Jerome's humor emerge in your mind. A great book for a rainy day!, but Jerome tends to spend more time on travelogue. His observations about the German people are eerily prophetic, as you'll see when you read the book. The language is still acid sharp, and Jerome has an interesting eye for details that make this story a joy to read.<br />If you don't mind roaring at the misfortunes of others, and enjoy wry sarcasm, you will delight in these two stories. Also, you are lying if you don't recognize Uncle Podger in your own family. As I write this review, I'm chuckling over the memory of some of the stories. In fact, you may want to be careful while reading this; you'll continue to laugh later as more layers of Jerome's humor emerge in your mind. A great book for a rainy day!	2002-05-28
1531670:US	52012289	R3J690Y3T7S37	0060931396	313139072	Alas, Babylon (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another Apocalyptic Classic	Reading this book sure brings back the old, terrible memories of youth. As everyone else old enough to remember the 1970's and 1980's, I also grew up with the fear of nuclear annihilation. Even worse, I lived (and still live) in Omaha, Nebraska. Anyone who reads this book realizes the implications of Omaha. I grew up playing under the Doomsday planes flying in and out of the SAC airbase in Bellevue (they passed over our house constantly). Even though the nuclear threat is still alive, I consider anyone who missed out on the Cold War as an extremely lucky person.<br />This book is one of a long line of apocalyptic books and films made from the 1950's to the 1980's. \\"Alas, Babylon\\" is standard fare for the genre: the suspenseful build up to attack, followed by the trials and tribulations of post-war life. There's always some old retired military guy, someone with a shortwave radio, a romance, and usually a baby born in the aftermath. \\"Alas, Babylon\\" has most of these features, with the exception of the baby (there are several young children, however). What is significantly different in Frank's book is the racial aspect of the story. The Henrys, a black family that lives in the same area with the other main characters, are integrated into the story and quickly become important material providers for the others. That the story takes place in Florida adds additional dimensions to this racial aspect. Even the women of the story are, for the most part, strong and capable.<br />I have several complaints with this book. The scenario for the start of the war was totally unconvincing. The Russians want access to the Mediterranean? Come on. This was the case in the 19th century, but in the 20th century, it falls flat. Frank should have focused on missiles in Turkey, a touchy situation with the Soviets in this time frame, so much so that Kennedy ended up pulling out the missiles there after the Cuban situation in 1962.<br />Another problem with the book deals with the characters and situations. I was so annoyed with the constant references to nephew Ben as \\"Ben Franklin,\\" that I wanted to scream every time I saw it. Also, wasn't it amazing that there was NO fallout to speak of in Fort Repose? This stretches belief to the breaking point. Then Paul Hunt just happens to be the guy that shows up at the end. Not since Oliver Twist attempted to pick his long lost grandfather's pocket in London has such an amazing coincidence occurred. You'll have to suspend belief time and time again to get through this book.<br />Despite these drawbacks, Frank's book still manages to entertain. These books are fun to read because we all wonder about our reactions in a similar situation. If you've read books like Nevil Shute's \\"On the Beach,\\" you'll like to read \\"Alas, Babylon\\" as well.s and situations. I was so annoyed with the constant references to nephew Ben as \\"Ben Franklin,\\" that I wanted to scream every time I saw it. Also, wasn't it amazing that there was NO fallout to speak of in Fort Repose? This stretches belief to the breaking point. Then Paul Hunt just happens to be the guy that shows up at the end. Not since Oliver Twist attempted to pick his long lost grandfather's pocket in London has such an amazing coincidence occurred. You'll have to suspend belief time and time again to get through this book.<br />Despite these drawbacks, Frank's book still manages to entertain. These books are fun to read because we all wonder about our reactions in a similar situation. If you've read books like Nevil Shute's \\"On the Beach,\\" you'll like to read \\"Alas, Babylon\\" as well.	2002-05-25
1532127:US	52012289	R2J7BVPF3BYQP9	0156001284	161127756	Biografi: A Traveler's Tale	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Not Your Typical Travelogue	When I started reading \\"Biografi,\\" I expected a straightforward travelogue on Albania and its peoples. After all, Albania seems to bring out the travelogue in authors. I can think of several on Albania alone off the top of my head. But most of these are 19th and early 20th century journals. What is surprising is that even in the 1990's, and one assumes into the future, travelogues are and will still be written on a country that is, amazingly enough, in Europe. The reason for this is few know anything about Albania. There may be a vague recollection of its Communist past; beyond this people draw a blank. This is where the travelogues come in; they are an easy way of discovering and presenting the unknown. Unfortunately, they are often grossly inaccurate and fraught with bias or outright hostility by the author in question. The topic, in this case Albania, is the problem. To outsiders, Albania is weird. Centuries of Ottoman domination destroyed any chance of development and left the majority of the population Muslim (at least nominally), and the rugged terrain further hindered outside influence. What makes this book different is that it isn't travelogue in the orthodox sense; it is a strange mix of fact and fantasy about a misunderstood country.<br />I was greatly pleased to read that Jones learned about Albania the same way I did, namely through shortwave radio. I vividly remember listening to Radio Tirana back in the 1980's. Tirana always stood out on the dial because the Chinese transmitters were so poorly modulated that the announcers sounded as though they were talking into a bucket. Jones's neighbor, who plays a prominent part in this book, often listened to Radio Tirana, and Jones became interested. When the Communist collapses came in the early 1990's, Jones decided to take a trip to Albania (lucky duck!). This book is the result.<br />Jones's quest in Albania is to find Petar Shapallo. Petar, a dentist by trade, is abducted by Communist leader Enver Hoxha's secret police so he can become Hoxha's body double. Shapallo assumes Hoxha's duties when Hoxha is ill. When Hoxha dies, Shapallo is cast out into society, where his likeness to a suddenly unpopular leader leads Shapallo to mutilate his face and go into hiding. During the search for Shapallo, Jones runs into a grand cast of characters, both local and foreign. Jones even talks to Hoxha's widow, Nexhmije, along the way. Everywhere Jones goes, he finds a country in a freefall into chaos. What's worse, the people are decaying just as rapidly. Albanians constantly worry over their \\"biografi,\\" which are official files held by the Albanian secret police. The stories are heartrending; people locked up, exiled, or executed for trivial matters. A family member of thirty years ago with the wrong connections can land their descendents in jail, or worse. Outside of these biografis, Albanians seem to have no identity of their own.<br />Jones is very concerned with journeys in this book. Everyone is going somewhere; Jones is going to Albania, Shapallo is trying to return to his village, many Albanians are headed to Italy or points beyond. Jones even relates a tale about his aunt running away from her marriage to his uncle. This obsession with movement seems to be tied up with identity. None of the characters in the book seem to know who they are or why they do what they do. They just know they must GO, somewhere, anywhere. Hope lies just over the horizon and they'll find something if they can just get there. When Jones looks up some Albanians in Italy, they are unhappy because Italy isn't the paradise they thought it would be; now they talk about going to America. Will Albania ever find itself? Will we, as humans, ever find ourselves? It seems that this is a message Jones is trying to convey.<br />Of course, I could be completely off my rocker. What I do know is this book goes way beyond travelogue. There are dimensions to this book I can only guess at. Even if you don't want to read deeply into this book, there are still plenty of good things to find. Jones goes into some depth in his descriptions of the beautiful scenery in rural Albania, and the characters are, for the most part, well crafted and worth reading about. I do think some knowledge on Albania is helpful. The map in the book is worthy for place descriptions, but a quick web search might help with some basic information and names. You should know who Enver Hoxha is and why he is such a despicable character. I hope they reprint this book soon.d deeply into this book, there are still plenty of good things to find. Jones goes into some depth in his descriptions of the beautiful scenery in rural Albania, and the characters are, for the most part, well crafted and worth reading about. I do think some knowledge on Albania is helpful. The map in the book is worthy for place descriptions, but a quick web search might help with some basic information and names. You should know who Enver Hoxha is and why he is such a despicable character. I hope they reprint this book soon.	2002-05-25
1534153:US	52012289	R2ZQFDJJXZS6KC	0937165093	12533810	Deliberate Deceptions: Facing the Facts About the U.S.-Israeli Relationship	Books	5	177	189	N	N	Deception is an Understatement	\\"Deliberate Deceptions\\" is the second Paul Findley book I have read. The first, of course, was \\"They Dare to Speak Out.\\" Findley, a former congressman from Illinois, is a crusader for truth in the relationship between Israel and the United States. In \\"They Dare to Speak Out,\\" Findley discusses the sinister influence of the pro-Israel lobby on American government. In this book, Findley broadens his criticism well beyond the borders of lobbying. The importance of Findley's books take on additional dimensions of meaning since the terrorist attacks of last summer.<br />\\"Deliberate Deceptions\\" exposes serious concerns about Israeli-U.S. relations. Findley argues, convincingly, that Israel is an aggressive, hostile state that will stop at nothing to further its own ends at the expense of others. Israel suctions billions of dollars out of U.S. coffers, with special deals on loans and military hardware that no other country in the world gets. Israel also has the bomb and refuses to allow international inspections of its facilities in the Negev desert. Findley reveals Israel's spy networks in the United States, its cozy relationship with the South African government (during the Apartheid era), and its tendency to resell American military technologies for self-enrichment. The amount of statements and evidence Findley marshals is both amazing and disgusting. Where is the United States government when all of this is happening? It's in large part our government that reinforces this bad behavior. Politicians, according to Findley, are scared of Israel's lobby and influence. The result is that the U.S. turns a blind eye to these shenanigans.<br />The Palestinians are the primary victims of Israel's aggression. Since the founding of Israel, the Palestinians have endured non-stop forced deportations, land seizures, violence, torture, and murder. Occasionally, the Palestinian people tire of Israel and events like the Intifada occur. Findley shows how Israel responds to these incidents by instituting policies that encourage soldiers to break bones and attack children and senior citizens. Palestinians that are considered citizens of Israel are treated as second-class citizens, as Israel considers itself a purely Jewish nation. The United Nations runs itself ragged denouncing Israel for its actions towards the Palestine people, and Findley provides a list of UN edicts towards Israel that is staggering to behold. Findley argues that great strides could be made in the Palestinian-Israeli problem if Israel would quit building settlements in occupied territory and withdraw to its UN mandated borders. Israel refuses to do this, and the whole world has to deal with the fallout, with endless peace plans and negotiations that go nowhere.<br />One of my criticisms with the book concerns Findley's account of the Intifada. Findley lists how many Palestinians were detained, murdered, and injured. I think he should have included figures on how many Jews were killed in the uprising. This would bolster his arguments better, in my opinion, as those numbers are probably lower than the Palestinian numbers. Still, this book is shocking in its implications and should be read by all Americans. I recommend reading this book before reading \\"They Dare to Speak Out.\\"s by instituting policies that encourage soldiers to break bones and attack children and senior citizens. Palestinians that are considered citizens of Israel are treated as second-class citizens, as Israel considers itself a purely Jewish nation. The United Nations runs itself ragged denouncing Israel for its actions towards the Palestine people, and Findley provides a list of UN edicts towards Israel that is staggering to behold. Findley argues that great strides could be made in the Palestinian-Israeli problem if Israel would quit building settlements in occupied territory and withdraw to its UN mandated borders. Israel refuses to do this, and the whole world has to deal with the fallout, with endless peace plans and negotiations that go nowhere.<br />One of my criticisms with the book concerns Findley's account of the Intifada. Findley lists how many Palestinians were detained, murdered, and injured. I think he should have included figures on how many Jews were killed in the uprising. This would bolster his arguments better, in my opinion, as those numbers are probably lower than the Palestinian numbers. Still, this book is shocking in its implications and should be read by all Americans. I recommend reading this book before reading \\"They Dare to Speak Out.\\"	2002-05-23
1536477:US	52012289	R14C878IN6QZA	0451527097	705074922	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Signet Classics)	Books	5	57	63	N	N	The Sickness of Communism	\\"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich,\\" by Alexander Solzhenitsyn, is one of those books that look deceptive. It isn't that long, and it's a little mass-market paperback that would blow away with the wind. Even the cover design really doesn't convey what lies inside. What we have with this book is a worthy contribution to the annals of Russian literature. Solzhenitsyn finds himself in the ranks of Tolstoy, Turgenev, and Gogol with this gripping tale of the Stalinist Gulag system. Solzhenitsyn went on to write a massive indictment of the Gulag system in a three-volume work called, \\"The Gulag Archipelago.\\" Solzhenitsyn won a Nobel Prize for Literature and found himself exiled, forcibly, from the Soviet Union for his writings. He returned to Russia after the collapse of Communism.<br />As the title indicates, the story covers one day in Ivan Denisovich's ten-year prison sentence. Ivan is a peasant who runs afoul of the authorities when the Germans capture him during the war. When he finds his way back to the Soviet camp, the authorities charge him with treason and sentence him to the camps. Denisovich is luckier than many of his fellow convicts; they are serving 25-year sentences. This day is better for Ivan than most; he ends up getting a better work assignment, a member of his squad gets a parcel loaded with food, and Ivan manages to get extra food rations. He even scores some tobacco, his only weakness.<br />Ivan lives day by day; it is the only way he can survive the camps. What is most shocking about this book is the matter-of-fact way in which the story is told. All of life is reduced to acquiring food and staying warm. Following the rules and avoiding punishment is just as important. Woe to the man who ends up in the guardhouse cells for ten days.  I was nauseated by how hard Ivan worked on the power plant. Here's a guy who is a prisoner, forced to lay bricks in the middle of winter, and he is busting his hump to do a good job. But in a way, this can be uplifting, too. Ivan refuses to give up to the brutality of his condition. Every day is a struggle, but Ivan never grouses or causes problems. He accepts everything camp life throws at him and triumphs. You get the impression that Ivan is going to make it out of the camp no matter what.<br />This is an excellent book that exposes the real face of Communism. No matter how brutal Communism is (or was) as a system of government, it failed to crush the spirit of humanity. I recommend reading this book in conjunction with Arthur Koestler's \\"Darkness at Noon,\\" another book that exposes the sickness of Communism.ing, too. Ivan refuses to give up to the brutality of his condition. Every day is a struggle, but Ivan never grouses or causes problems. He accepts everything camp life throws at him and triumphs. You get the impression that Ivan is going to make it out of the camp no matter what.<br />This is an excellent book that exposes the real face of Communism. No matter how brutal Communism is (or was) as a system of government, it failed to crush the spirit of humanity. I recommend reading this book in conjunction with Arthur Koestler's \\"Darkness at Noon,\\" another book that exposes the sickness of Communism.	2002-05-21
1538290:US	52012289	R1YWBAE0X2Q5SJ	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Masterpiece of Russian Literature	Oh, if I only I could read Russian! It would be worth learning that language to read this book in its original language. Tolstoy is well known for several books he wrote, but \\"War and Peace\\" is his crowning achievement. Out of all the distinguished works of Russian literature (Turgenev, Dostoyevsky, and others), \\"War and Peace\\" is the Atlas that holds all the others upon its shoulders. It beckons you to conquer its sheer size and scope, and its reputation is one of the most formidable in literary history. Surprisingly, War and Peace is not difficult, and is a cracking good tale.<br />An adequate summary of the book, in 1000 words, is impossible. Tolstoy places his characters in the context of the Napoleonic wars. His emphasis is on three \\"characters\\": the Bolkonsky family, the Rostov family, and Pierre Bezuhov. Along the way, dozens of other characters appear: Denisov, Dolohov, Helene, Kutuzov (my favorite), and Anatole quickly spring to mind. Even Napoleon and the Russian Tsar Alexander make appearances. All aspects of life appear, in one carefully crafted scene after another. Love, death, marriage, children, combat; all come together into a seamless whole. Saying that these people become real through Tolstoy's pen is an understatement. Despite the different time frame and different society, their struggles are our struggles. Pierre's search for meaning in life will find many sympathizers in our fast-paced world. Andrei's death scene is achingly realistic, and it you aren't touched in some way by it, you should check your pulse. Even Natasha, the hyper vivacious Rostov who grows into a responsible family matriarch, is a recognizable figure in today's world (as anyone who knows teenage girls can attest). It doesn't matter that these people are 19th century Russians; they are people acting on the stage of humanity, and are timeless. The end of the story, with everyone settled down in family life, reflects Tolstoy's own joys of family and home.<br />Occasionally, Tolstoy lifts the curtain and reveals the method behind the story. This method is Tolstoy's unwavering belief in the abilities of man. It is no mistake that the peasantry is represented as an ideal of man. Pierre's embrace of peasant simplicity towards life and Nicolai's careful cultivation of peasant ways are issues that Tolstoy himself dealt with in late 19th century Russia. The Populist movement in Russia in the 1890's is an extension of this idea. Tolstoy takes his faith in the peasant, and with it, posits a whole philosophy of history. His philosophy of history, in short, sees history as the result of millions of individual actions. History is not the prerogative of the elite, but the result of the actions of all humans. I see some reviews despised these sections, accusing Tolstoy of repetition and error. While the theory may be questionable at times, it does fit in with Russia's growing awareness of the peasantry and its role in the future of the country.<br />I had a few problems with this Penguin edition. First, printing this monster in one volume was not a good idea. Expect pins-and-needles sensations in your hands and fingers. I suggest at least two volumes, maybe three, for better and easier reading.<br />Second, I wonder if Rosemary Edmonds trimmed the translation a little. I find it hard to believe that Tolstoy did not provide more information on some of the characters. Bagration's death is announced but never described. We also never find out what happens to Dolohov. Prince Vasili figures prominently in the early parts of the book but barely appears in the rest of the story. Maybe Tolstoy did leave this stuff out, but I would like to know for sure. Other than these objections, the translation seems excellent.<br />Third, this edition needs a better introduction. I am loath to recommend this, as introductions are usually boring or useless. For \\"War and Peace,\\" an introduction longer than three or four pages is needed. The introduction in the book is inadequate because it doesn't elucidate Tolstoy's philosophy and it gives only superficial clarification of characters.<br />You owe it to yourself to read this book. My copy set on the shelf for a long time, too. It took me about eight days to read the book. I made sure to read at least 100 pages a day. On at least one day I read 250 pages. I wanted to get it done fast so I could get the full effect. Spreading this monster out over months would not be a good idea. Highly Recommended.uate because it doesn't elucidate Tolstoy's philosophy and it gives only superficial clarification of characters.<br />You owe it to yourself to read this book. My copy set on the shelf for a long time, too. It took me about eight days to read the book. I made sure to read at least 100 pages a day. On at least one day I read 250 pages. I wanted to get it done fast so I could get the full effect. Spreading this monster out over months would not be a good idea. Highly Recommended.	2002-05-20
1543017:US	52012289	R271ZSEU2Q3VTQ	0140435549	420375395	Rob Roy (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Highly Entertaining Historical Fiction	Sir Walter Scott is widely acknowledged as the creator of the historical fiction genre. His best known book is Ivanhoe, which I have not read. I instead decided to read Rob Roy, a book I became familiar with due to the 1995 movie of the same name starring Liam Neeson and Tim Roth. Rob Roy, written in 1817, takes us back in time to the 1715 Jacobite uprising.<br />Surprisingly, Rob Roy is not the main character of the book. Rob Roy's appearances in the book are spotty, at best. Instead, Francis Osbaldistone is both narrator and main character. Francis, we quickly find out, is more interested in poetry than in business. His father, who hoped for Francis to take over the family business, becomes angry with his son and banishes him to his brother's estate, Osbaldistone Hall. Francis's relatives are all country hicks, with the exception of Diana Vernon, an astonishingly beautiful \\"cousin\\" who stays with the Osbaldistones for reasons best left unrevealed here. Francis also encounters the treacherous Rashleigh Osbaldistone, the cousin who is to replace Francis at his father's business. Francis soon becomes embroiled in several adventures, usually with Scottish sidekick/groundskeeper Andrew Fairservice and Glasgow businessman Nicol Jarvie at his side. Needless to say, Francis falls in love with Diana Vernon and becomes entangled in the machinations of the Jacobite rebellion.<br />I found myself amazed at Scott's depictions of women in this book. Diana Vernon is not only beautiful; she's smart, self-assured, and a very dominant figure. Rob Roy's wife, Helen MacGregor, also is presented as strong and domineering. I find this fascinating in a novel written in the early 19th century. Even more surprising is Francis; he is depicted as weak and easily dominated. Between Rashleigh, Rob Roy, and Diana, Francis never seems to know what is happening and is easily brought to emotional frenzies by the other characters. You quickly begin to wonder how this guy can get anything done.<br />There are two minor problems in Rob Roy. First, I'll mention the Scottish dialect. Scott, in an effort to be authentic, makes liberal use of the Scottish accent. This isn't much of a problem in the first part of the book, but in the second half it becomes a serious issue. Even worse, Scott uses the Scottish characters to reveal major plot points. Therefore, if you can't read the dialect, you're in trouble. This wouldn't be bad if a glossary had been included in the book, but there isn't one. After awhile, I realized that \\"bluid\\" was blood, and that \\"muckle\\" meant much, but the inclusion of many Scottish idioms had me totally dumbfounded. Other Scott novels in the Penguin series include a glossary of Scottish terms, but not their edition of Rob Roy.<br />Second, the pacing of the book is most unusual. For some 200 pages, nothing much happens. I've read many novels from this time period, and most move faster than Scott. This doesn't make Rob Roy a bad book, but it does take patience to get to the end. Even when the plot starts to thicken, Scott still takes a lot of time to unfold events. In some aspects, this lends a distinct quaintness to the book. At other times, it can become annoying. It is easy to understand how many people would lose patience with the book and give up.<br />This is still an entertaining book, and I highly recommend it to those interested in historical fiction. Despite a few problems I had with the book, I would like to read more of Scott's work in the future. I shall certainly look for editions with glossaries so I can navigate the Scottish words. By the way, the man on the cover of the Penguin edition is William, 18th Earl of Sutherland./>There are two minor problems in Rob Roy. First, I'll mention the Scottish dialect. Scott, in an effort to be authentic, makes liberal use of the Scottish accent. This isn't much of a problem in the first part of the book, but in the second half it becomes a serious issue. Even worse, Scott uses the Scottish characters to reveal major plot points. Therefore, if you can't read the dialect, you're in trouble. This wouldn't be bad if a glossary had been included in the book, but there isn't one. After awhile, I realized that \\"bluid\\" was blood, and that \\"muckle\\" meant much, but the inclusion of many Scottish idioms had me totally dumbfounded. Other Scott novels in the Penguin series include a glossary of Scottish terms, but not their edition of Rob Roy.<br />Second, the pacing of the book is most unusual. For some 200 pages, nothing much happens. I've read many novels from this time period, and most move faster than Scott. This doesn't make Rob Roy a bad book, but it does take patience to get to the end. Even when the plot starts to thicken, Scott still takes a lot of time to unfold events. In some aspects, this lends a distinct quaintness to the book. At other times, it can become annoying. It is easy to understand how many people would lose patience with the book and give up.<br />This is still an entertaining book, and I highly recommend it to those interested in historical fiction. Despite a few problems I had with the book, I would like to read more of Scott's work in the future. I shall certainly look for editions with glossaries so I can navigate the Scottish words. By the way, the man on the cover of the Penguin edition is William, 18th Earl of Sutherland.	2002-05-15
1545264:US	52012289	R1E9KISNH3E7AO	0375700951	411773072	The Pyramid	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Entertaining and Frightening	I have four Ismail Kadare books, and since the semester just ended, ...[I'm] going to try and read all four of them this summer. Kadare is an Albanian expatriate living in France, and from what I've heard about his books, the overarching theme is either the elevation of Albanian culture or criticism of the Albanian Communist Party. In this book, Kadare takes us back to ancient Egypt during the reign of Cheops, the pharaoh who built one of the Seven Wonders of the World. What we take for granted today as an impressive monument to ...[man's] ability to create, Kadare sees as a different sort of monument. Kadare uses the pyramid of Cheops as an allegory for the dehumanization of political power.<br />The upper echelons of Egypt become concerned when Cheops decides he does not want to build a pyramid. His advisors tell him that a pyramid is necessary in order to head off potential unrest amongst the populace. When Egypt is prosperous, the advisors explain, the people are not occupied and may start to have dangerous thoughts. A pyramid is a long, involved process that will keep all noses to the grindstone. What follows is a nightmarish vision of power run amok. All of Egypt becomes devoted to the pyramid, with every resource available poured into its construction. Workers die by the thousands cutting the rocks, transporting the stones, and building the pyramid. Thousands more are tortured and murdered for poor workmanship or because of conspiracies that arise during construction. Even the pharaoh starts to go nuts, as the pyramid becomes a reality.<br />Kadare masterfully details the dangers of power without limits. Arguably, the finest chapter is the one where time itself is reduced to numbered building stones. Workmen no longer think in terms of minutes, hours, or days; they think in terms of the 10,000th stone, and then stone 10,001, followed by stone 10,002. You get the idea. In short, the pyramid turns society and the very idea of nature upside down.<br />...<br />This is probably the best book you've never heard of. Of course, if you're reading this review, you have heard of Kadare and you're thinking about reading his work. I'm certainly looking forward to his other efforts, and the guy is still pumping them out so there won't be a shortage of his books anytime soon. Albania tends to get short shrift in the world; they should be very proud of Mr. Kadare. Although this book is quite short, it has a lot of depth. Recommended.>This is probably the best book you've never heard of. Of course, if you're reading this review, you have heard of Kadare and you're thinking about reading his work. I'm certainly looking forward to his other efforts, and the guy is still pumping them out so there won't be a shortage of his books anytime soon. Albania tends to get short shrift in the world; they should be very proud of Mr. Kadare. Although this book is quite short, it has a lot of depth. Recommended.	2002-05-13
1546996:US	52012289	R2O1328KX7TFUA	020530902X	241676942	The Elements of Style, Fourth Edition	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Prestigious	I first became aware of Strunk and White when a college professor included it in the list of books required for a writing class. I tossed the book into my closet and forgot about it until recently, after I handed in a few papers that I felt were not up to my standards.<br />Strunk and White is a quick read. What the book does is present the basics of English grammar and style in a way that anyone who wants to may improve their writing skills. I know I have several writing problems that need attention. I like to write in the passive voice when I should write in the active. I also like to add superfluous words when none are needed. Many of the words Strunk lists in his book are some of my favorites: as to whether, kind of/sort of, certainly, importantly, and many more. Strunk even attacks the use of the word very. It's going to be awhile before I can get that one out of my papers. Other helpful sections deal with commas, semicolons, and quotations.<br />I think an effective way to use this book is to just write a paper, mistakes and all, and then go back and see what needs to be changed. You'll drive yourself nuts if you try to change your writing as you go along. Change rarely occurs overnight, especially with a habit as deeply ingrained as bad writing style. I've had professors who claim the word but must never go at the beginning of a sentence. In other words, many highly educated people have no better grasp of grammar than the average person. Buy this book and show them up!	2002-05-12
1549547:US	52012289	RSSJW8G86PXG8	0520040244	438488935	The Whole World Is Watching: Mass Media in the Making and Unmaking of the New Left	Books	4	10	10	N	N	SDS and the Media	\\"The Whole World is Watching,\\" is Todd Gitlin's doctoral dissertation modified for publication. Gitlin was president of the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) in the early 1960's before moving on to other radical causes. Gitlin was educated at Harvard and is currently (I think) a professor at NYU in media studies and journalism. This book deals with the influence of the media on SDS during the 1960's. He's written other works on media studies as well an epic history of the 1960's. Gitlin is definitely the intellectual, and it shows in this book.<br />In \\"The Whole World is Watching,\\" Gitlin argues that the theory of hegemony as articulated by Antonio Gramsci can be applied to the media and its operations. Gitlin argues that the media is a tool of the corporate liberal apparatus and that the media acts as a sort of \\"middle-man\\" between elites and the masses. The media controls and directs how people think by using \\"frames.\\" These frames limit the parameters in which discourse can take place in the public sphere. Frames can and do change, however, as elites change their opinions. Gitlin uses SDS as a test case for his theory. He argues that SDS, once it came to media attention in 1965, was framed by the media as an anti-war group, totally ignoring all of the other things SDS stood for (participatory democracy, etc.). This frame attracted thousands of people who joined SDS without any knowledge of what SDS was all about. This influx of people ended up changing the group for the worse, and SDS died a painful death several years later due to sectarian Marxist wackos.<br />Along the way, Gitlin looks at various other traits of the media. For me, the most important was his examination of how media creates celebrity. This treatment is particularly important in relation to SDS because it contributed to its downfall. Gitlin shows how SDS's schizophrenic attitudes toward leadership (where organization was needed and advocated by some but opposed by those who hated hierarchy) allowed the media to create harmful divisions. The media tends to profile only the people who are photogenic or those who make good copy. Unfortunately for SDS, these were usually not the best qualified or most stable people. Those that got the attention parlayed their success into monetary gains, alienating other people in the organization. Mark Rudd comes to mind as one who best personifies this problem. Rudd, who sported a comb over that would make Senator Carl Levin jealous, went on to fame and glory with the Weatherman organization. His claims to media celebrity went so deep that when he turned himself in to the authorities in 1977, reporters turned out in droves for what turned out to be a non-event. What is important here is that the media concentrate on image over substance. This can be very harmful to an organization with serious issues to debate.<br />Gitlin ends his dissertation with a critique of the sources he used for his research. Gitlin was only able to peruse the CBS archives, as ABC didn't have any and NBC wouldn't let him look at theirs. The other main media source for the dissertation was the New York Times. Despite the limited scope of his sources, I think Gitlin has gone a long way towards exposing the hypocrisy any right thinking person knows exists in our media systems. Gitlin even goes so far as to imply that the 1968 Democratic Convention fiasco in Chicago was a media creation. For anyone interested in media studies, this book is a must have.chy) allowed the media to create harmful divisions. The media tends to profile only the people who are photogenic or those who make good copy. Unfortunately for SDS, these were usually not the best qualified or most stable people. Those that got the attention parlayed their success into monetary gains, alienating other people in the organization. Mark Rudd comes to mind as one who best personifies this problem. Rudd, who sported a comb over that would make Senator Carl Levin jealous, went on to fame and glory with the Weatherman organization. His claims to media celebrity went so deep that when he turned himself in to the authorities in 1977, reporters turned out in droves for what turned out to be a non-event. What is important here is that the media concentrate on image over substance. This can be very harmful to an organization with serious issues to debate.<br />Gitlin ends his dissertation with a critique of the sources he used for his research. Gitlin was only able to peruse the CBS archives, as ABC didn't have any and NBC wouldn't let him look at theirs. The other main media source for the dissertation was the New York Times. Despite the limited scope of his sources, I think Gitlin has gone a long way towards exposing the hypocrisy any right thinking person knows exists in our media systems. Gitlin even goes so far as to imply that the 1968 Democratic Convention fiasco in Chicago was a media creation. For anyone interested in media studies, this book is a must have.	2002-05-09
1551988:US	52012289	R1W2JK6KD1VO88	0195066243	857190766	"Takin' It to the Streets": A Sixties Reader	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Primary Sources for the 1960's	This book is an anthology of numerous primary source statements, manifestos, and letters concerning events in America during the 1960's. \\"Takin it to the Streets\\" turned out to be very helpful for a class I took on this time period. There is so much here and that it boggles the mind. Almost all viewpoints are represented in some respect or another, although some might be missing or not as well represented, as one of the other reviewers of this book pointed out.<br />What you will find in this book are excerpts from the Port Huron Statement, conservative viewpoints on the anti-war movement, the platform for the Black Panther party, accounts of sit-ins during the civil rights struggle in the South, feminist statements and a million other things. It must have been difficult at times to put this book together, as deciding what to include (and what not to include) would be extremely difficult. Chances are whatever you're looking for is probably here in some form or another. Very helpful as a guide through this tumultuous time and essential for a student trying to get the feel for the times.	2002-05-07
1553246:US	52012289	R2RPOWDS7FTTS1	0809015676	266307297	The Age of Great Dreams: America in the 1960s (American Century Series)	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Overview of the 1960's	The age of great dreams turned into the age of great nightmares, which America has still not awakened from. David Farber shows us where it all began in his history of the 1960's. The back cover says Farber teaches history at the University of New Mexico and is also the author of some other books on the 1960's, specifically \\"Chicago '68.\\" I have not read any of his other books, but this one is well written and provides a good overview of the turbulent age of rebellion.<br />Farber starts his book with a quick overview of the 1950's, essential for studying the 1960's. Farber shows how economic, social and political conditions laid the groundwork for the 1960's. Some of the conditions of the 1950's fairly well known: the baby boom and suburban growth were the fuel for the fire in the 1960's. Farber also writes about the conditions of blacks in the 1950's, as well as the growing omnipresence of television and advertising. Farber titled this chapter, \\"Good Times,\\" but many problems lay under the surface, ready to explode at the slightest spark.<br />The rest of the book deals with almost every aspect of the 1960's. From Kennedy to Nixon, Farber misses few opportunities to bring to light both the good and the bad. He covers everything from LSD to the Bay of Pigs, from SDS to the sit-ins. His major theme is how the 1960's started out with Kennedy's vision of a \\"New Frontier,\\" where anything seemed possible for an America rich in resources. By the end of the book, Farber shows the dawning realization that it can't all be done, that possibilities are not limitless. It took a mess of assassinations, a spoiled generation of brats, a huge war, and the Great Society programs of LBJ to show America that there were limits on what the country could do.<br />This is a good book that will certainly introduce anyone who reads it to the major themes of the 1960's. Focusing on the 1960's is important because it helps us forget about the 1970's, with pet rocks and the clothes my Mom made me wear predominating the memories of that decade. This was the main book for the class I took on the 1960's, and it was a good choice.me wear predominating the memories of that decade. This was the main book for the class I took on the 1960's, and it was a good choice.	2002-05-07
1557563:US	52012289	R2920PU7HXE5PA	0415906148	27780694	Projecting the Past: Ancient Rome, Cinema and History (The New Ancient World)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Roman Cinema	This book, by Maria Wyke, examines the plethora of films with Roman themes made since the early history of cinema. Her thesis is that these films contain numerous connections with real events around the time they were made. She looks at two types of films: Italian cinema and American cinema. The book is divided into four sections: films about Spartacus, Cleopatra, Nero and Pompeii.<br />For Italian films, most use the historical figures and places as either a means to represent and promote Italian unification and nationalism, or fascism under Il Duce, that merry prankster who considered a military victory over Ethiopia a major event. Many of the films borrowed events from paintings and novels to create a connection to higher art and thus present themselves in the same league as opera and the like. American films embrace consumerism (what a surprising revelation) as well as victory over Communism and Christian values. The Taylor-Burton version of Cleopatra, Wyke observes, shows a mirroring between the real Cleopatra and Elizabeth Taylor's personal life. By the time of the late 1960's, the film image of Rome changed. The example Wyke gives is Fellini's Satyricon, which focuses more on the mystique of the ancient world.<br />Is this a good book? It's not too bad, but film is so subjective that I wonder about some of her interpretations. I also wonder how many people in the audience would pick up on some of the more obscure references Wyke thinks the movies contain. That films reflect certain views is beyond dispute. Just watch any of the films today that try and show the greatness of multiculturalism or any of the other touchy-feely liberal values we're all supposed to think are so great. Only read this book if you are really interested in old films and political/social messages in media.	2002-05-02
1563854:US	52012289	R6BG3A7FSQHXR	0300036272	370805337	The Christians as the Romans Saw Them	Books	5	137	140	N	N	Roman Christianity	Robert Wilken takes a somewhat slightly different tack with this book of Roman history. He examines Christianity in the Roman Empire by looking at it through the eyes of pagan critics. Wilken states in his introduction that his goal in this book is to bring Roman history into closer conjunction with early Christianity. He argues that by studying the context of pagan critics, one can understand how the early Church shaped its theology and doctrines.<br />Wilken examines five pagan critics, starting with Pliny the Younger's letters to the emperor Trajan circa 112 C.E. Galen, Celsus, Porphyry and the Roman emperor Julian round out the cast of characters. As the accounts unfold, the development of Christianity can be seen clearly: from a small, almost unknown sect in Pliny's day to the powerful apparatus it became by the time Julian launched his reactionary attacks in the late 4th century. The attacks on Christians become more theological as time progresses, showing an increasing sophistication as knowledge about Christianity became better known. Pliny mentioned the Christians in passing, one event among many in his role as a provincial governor. By the time of Celsus, Porphyry and Julian, whole books are being written to refute Christian ideas.<br />Wilken points out that Pliny's concerns with the Christians mirror his function as a politician. With Galen, a concern for philosophical schools is reflected in his attack on Christianity, namely the creation doctrine and how it compares with the Greek conception of creation as Plato defined it in his work, Timaeus. Celsus attacks Christianity on several fronts, most importantly that Christianity is an apostasy from Judaism and that Jesus was a magician. Porphyry, a philosopher and literary scholar, demolishes the Christian view of the Book of Daniel and criticizes the Christian worship of Jesus on an equal footing with God. Julian takes criticism of Christianity much further, first by banning Christians from traditional Greek and Latin schools and an attempt to rebuild the Jewish Temple in Jerusalem. The idea of rebuilding the temple was an attempt to isolate Christians who believed that they were the legitimate successors to the Jewish traditions. By reconstructing the Temple, the Jews would be restored to their traditional role as defined in the Old Testament, relegating Christians to their rightful place: apostates of Judaism. The Temple project failed when Julian died on campaign in Persia and Christian emperors once again assumed power.<br />This is an excellent book that inspires the reader to pursue further reading on this fascinating topic. What is most relevant is that the same questions we ask about Christianity today have been around for almost two thousand years. This is recommended reading for Roman buffs and Christian scholars alike.eek and Latin schools and an attempt to rebuild the Jewish Temple in Jerusalem. The idea of rebuilding the temple was an attempt to isolate Christians who believed that they were the legitimate successors to the Jewish traditions. By reconstructing the Temple, the Jews would be restored to their traditional role as defined in the Old Testament, relegating Christians to their rightful place: apostates of Judaism. The Temple project failed when Julian died on campaign in Persia and Christian emperors once again assumed power.<br />This is an excellent book that inspires the reader to pursue further reading on this fascinating topic. What is most relevant is that the same questions we ask about Christianity today have been around for almost two thousand years. This is recommended reading for Roman buffs and Christian scholars alike.	2002-04-27
1574618:US	52012289	R3DHOUVJIZEMTD	0521559219	185431327	Literature and Religion at Rome: Cultures, Contexts, and Beliefs (Roman Literature and its Contexts)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Roman Religion	Out of all the books I've read for my Roman seminar this semester, I strongly feel that this is the one of the best, ranking right up there with M.I. Finley's book on the ancient economy. Feeney dedicates his book to exploding myths about religion in the Roman era. He uses literature as a means of example in arguing that Rome was not dominated by adopted Greek ideas, culture and myth, but that Rome took these ideas and dynamically changed them. The idea that Rome was spiritually bankrupt...of Greek ideas comes from the 19th century movement of philhellenists such as Lord Byron who promoted Greek greatness in all avenues of thought. This philhellenism has had a lingering effect on scholars right up to modern times.<br />Feeney divides his book into four sections: Belief, Myth, Divinity and Ritual. A brief epilogue also looks at knowledge. Feeney believes that it is ritual that stands at the core of Roman religion, not belief. This seems alien to modern practitioners of Christianity, Judaism or Islam. Feeney is not saying that belief does not exist, but rather that it is a peripheral element in Roman religious practice. Belief in the Roman pantheon is summed up by \\"brain-balkanization,\\" or a multiplicity of different beliefs in different contexts. These different beliefs are represented in literature and compete with each other. Therefore, belief as expressed by Cicero differed from that of the Augustan age.<br />With myth, Feeney argues that it is not merely the usurpation of Greek myth by the Romans, but a trans-cultural dialogue between the two entities. Greek myth itself is hardly original, as it arose as a response to other Near East cultures. If one is accusing the Romans of stealing Greek myth, the same charge must then be leveled against the Greeks. The real difference comes in how myth is assimilated. The Greeks, with their closed off Polis system and distrust of foreigners, took their myths to heart. The Romans recognized that the myths they subscribed to were foreign, but they took them in and changed them to fit their needs. This, according to Feeney, is an incredible development in history, as it was the first time that this had been done and it laid the groundwork for subsequent Western mythological development. Feeney notes that there were backlashes against this foreign intrusion of ideas in Rome, but these backlashes helped contour and define the ideas in a new way. Feeney also sees that the Romans, as outsiders to the ideas they took from the Greeks, were able to borrow and develop other ideas that the Greeks were incapable of attaining.<br />The section on divinity discusses such themes as the place of divinity in the structure of Rome, anthropomorphic representations of deity, and personifications (which are divinities attached to human conditions such as modesty, shame, etc.). The Romans deified these human conditions in order to make them divine so they can have power that can then be called upon by men. Feeney finishes by discussing the various encounters Romans had with divinity, such as epiphany.<br />Ritual, as stated above, is seen as the center of Roman religion. The problem that confronts scholars when studying Roman religion is the abundant amount of rituals. The Romans have rituals for everything, oftentimes multiple rituals for one activity. Even more problematic is the origins of these rituals. Even the Roman writers are reduced to stating multiple origins for certain rituals. These multiple origins fit into the dynamic of Roman religion: a contextual approach to religion where different ideas emerge and compete within one society. Feeney points out that Greek origins are static, with multiple origins for ritual rarely appearing.<br />This is an excellent book that I enjoyed immensely, as can probably be seen from my detailed description above. However, the argument that belief is not central to Roman religion is a tough nut to swallow. Certainly any interactions with a deity have to come from some type of belief on the part of man, otherwise how can the development of ritual be explained? That belief could certainly be forgotten over time and replaced by ritual is a real possibility, but that doesn't imply that belief never played a crucial, central role in the practice. Feeney addresses this in part in the epilogue on knowledge, emphasizing that Christianity has probably suffered the same fate. How many Christians can really explain the nuts and bolts of Sunday services? These are the kinds of things found in this book and they really provoke some interesting thoughts. Highly Recommended.some type of belief on the part of man, otherwise how can the development of ritual be explained? That belief could certainly be forgotten over time and replaced by ritual is a real possibility, but that doesn't imply that belief never played a crucial, central role in the practice. Feeney addresses this in part in the epilogue on knowledge, emphasizing that Christianity has probably suffered the same fate. How many Christians can really explain the nuts and bolts of Sunday services? These are the kinds of things found in this book and they really provoke some interesting thoughts. Highly Recommended.	2002-04-18
1578654:US	52012289	R6GPUC0ABGSXX	1859843239	513688777	The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering	Books	4	65	79	N	N	Cashing in on Tragedy	Norman Finkelstein is to be commended for tackling such a divisive issue as this one. The holocaust is an event that has the capacity for causing heated emotions. With a word, a phrase or a smirk, one can be branded an anti-Semite or worse. Finkelstein takes his chances and charges into the fray. As a Jew, Finkelstein seems to have even more to lose than most, although criticism of Jewish issues by a Jew seems to be more acceptable than if the criticism came from a non-Jew.<br />Finkelstein targets what he calls the \\"holocaust industry.\\" This industry is made up of writers, lawyers and others who benefit from appropriating Hitler's campaign of genocide against the Jews for their own monetary gain. Writers such as Jerzy Kosinski, Finkelstein reveals, are frauds that try and make a buck off legitimate suffering. The lawyers are even worse. These legal attack dogs sue companies that are supposedly responsible for aiding or abetting the Third Reich. These same lawyers have gone after Swiss banks that supposedly have hidden funds deposited by Jews who subsequently died in the concentration camps. The damages sought by these lawyers are astronomical and have no direct relation to actual events. If the companies or banks don't give in, media systems are used to intimidate and threaten, with hysterical cries of anti-Semitism thrown about with seeming indifference. Even worse, the lawyers end up pocketing most of the awards.<br />No one, Finkelstein included, denies a holocaust against Jews. It is important to remember that many others died in the camps, such as Gypsies, Slavs and others. The death of Jews in no way elevates their suffering over any other people. Finkelstein's concern seems to be that these blackmail schemes will ultimately cheapen the holocaust and open the way for the deniers. Anyway you cut it, the tactics used by the holocaust industry are shameful and should be condemned as such.	2002-04-15
1579649:US	52012289	RMNPQGPGUSE43	0312420331	603875347	Crash: A Novel	Books	4	46	53	N	N	Definitely Different	There are very few books in existence that I know of which can prepare you for Crash. Nauseatingly disgusting and beautiful at the same time, author Ballard tries to find redemption in technological malaise. This is the first book I've ever read by Ballard, but if his other works are similar to Crash, he should be better known than he is presently. I should also mention that I've never seen the film version of this book. Within a few pages, I realized why Cronenberg made this into a film. Cronenberg has made a name for himself exploring the same bleak landscapes that Ballard apparently works in: namely, the marriage between humanity and technology. Crash shares some attributes with Cronenberg's Videodrome, at least in my opinion. What is interesting is that Cronenberg didn't do a film version of Crash much sooner (Crash was published in 1973).<br />The second thing that hits the senses while reading Crash is the writing style. Cold, detached medical terms jockey with lovingly descriptive phrases concerning technology. Ballard is a magician with the English language and Crash is a first class spell in the syntax department. The first thing that is noticeable, of course, is the sickeningly gory descriptions of car crashes, wounds and ... sex. Chins will hit the floor over the sheer magnitude of blood and sex within these pages. But this isn't violence for the sake of violence; it is a careful constructed theme showing the awful repercussions that technology has wrought on our lives. ... The characters are dehumanized, without a doubt, but what Crash does is to show how humans are trying to reconnect to their emotions and humanity. That they choose to do so through the very means that has robbed them of it is the paradox. All of the characters that see car crashes as erotic adventure are essentially lost people. Ballard and his wife Catherine engage in mindless affairs and word games because they have lost their humanity, their sense of being. Car crashes give them a means to attempt to assert some form of dominance over technology, and the fact that Vaughan has more scars than any of the others shows that he is much closer to achieving this than any of the others, explaining his hyper sexuality and dominant position in this group of crash aficionados.<br />Ballard brings the icons of technology into his story as well. Famous people such as Elizabeth Taylor, whom Vaughan wants to die with in a crash, are people most associated with technology. They are the faces we see in film and television, and could be seen as an organic face of technology. To meld with one of these figures in a crash is to go the extra step. Their death adds an extra dimension to the eroticism. It isn't just famous people that can bring this about. The character of Gabrielle is important in this context due to her leg braces and spinal supports. Gabrielle's organic existence, her very energy, is supported by technology. Ballard fantasizes about the metal braces and the special handles she needs in her car, explaining that they open up whole new avenues of eroticism.<br />Even though I can see the beauty of Ballard's prose work and understand his connections between technology and humans, this in no way means that this book didn't disgust me. My stomach occasionally does slow turns when I think back on a particular passage or event, and driving to work and school occasionally makes me feel queasy. The idea of imitating crash positions during ...intercourse isn't going to win over the chicks, either. This is a book that is tough to read but certainly worthwhile. Be careful about recommending this book to people. Some folks are bound to take it the wrong way.eans to attempt to assert some form of dominance over technology, and the fact that Vaughan has more scars than any of the others shows that he is much closer to achieving this than any of the others, explaining his hyper sexuality and dominant position in this group of crash aficionados.<br />Ballard brings the icons of technology into his story as well. Famous people such as Elizabeth Taylor, whom Vaughan wants to die with in a crash, are people most associated with technology. They are the faces we see in film and television, and could be seen as an organic face of technology. To meld with one of these figures in a crash is to go the extra step. Their death adds an extra dimension to the eroticism. It isn't just famous people that can bring this about. The character of Gabrielle is important in this context due to her leg braces and spinal supports. Gabrielle's organic existence, her very energy, is supported by technology. Ballard fantasizes about the metal braces and the special handles she needs in her car, explaining that they open up whole new avenues of eroticism.<br />Even though I can see the beauty of Ballard's prose work and understand his connections between technology and humans, this in no way means that this book didn't disgust me. My stomach occasionally does slow turns when I think back on a particular passage or event, and driving to work and school occasionally makes me feel queasy. The idea of imitating crash positions during ...intercourse isn't going to win over the chicks, either. This is a book that is tough to read but certainly worthwhile. Be careful about recommending this book to people. Some folks are bound to take it the wrong way.	2002-04-14
1583777:US	52012289	R3SOB5VRWM7OH4	0415121647	46789581	Emperors and Gladiators	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Roman Games	This book, by author Thomas Wiedemann, is a penetrating look into the processes of the gladiatorial, or spectacle games, of the Roman era. I can agree to some extent with the previous reviewer who stated that this book is difficult for beginners. The only reason I got so much out of it is that I've been reading heavily on spectacles and games. Once you've covered a few of these books, it gets much easier, as most of the same citations and quotes appear in every account. In other words, once you recognize Martial, Tertullian and historians such as Dio and Tacitus, things become much clearer.<br />Wiedemann touches on almost every aspect one can think of in this book. Background information on Republican games is covered well, and the Imperial aspects of the games are also given liberal treatment. Wiedemann discusses the political content of spectacle as well as the decline of the games in the later Roman Empire. Interesting treatments of the role of myth in the games appears here, as does the paradox of the gladiator (Romans considered gladiators the lowest of the low socially, yet idolized them at the same time). Wiedemann sees the gladiators as symbols of Roman virtu, slugging it out in the arena in order to show Romans what it means to be Roman and to teach important lessons on death and rebirth. Wiedemann's discourse on opposition to the games is especially noteworthy. Wiedemann shows that not one aspect of Roman society opposed the games on humanitarian grounds. There was no ACLU in these days. Philosophers opposed the games on the grounds that it brought forth dangerous emotions in man while denying the rational mind. Even Christians didn't make a stink about the dehumanization of the games. They opposed the games because the lessons of rebirth the games taught were an error. Rebirth comes not from receiving mercy from the people and the emperor, but from acceptance of Christ and the sacraments. Actually, the death and destruction the Christians suffered in the arena could be seen as a boon; the huge amount of martyrs created by the games bolstered Christianity by providing important examples of the serenity and power Christ could bring to the faithful.<br />This is a very good book and very helpful to me as I attempt to write a paper on the political role of the games. I do wish Wiedemann could have been a little more organized in his approach. Oftentimes, he seems to be all over the place with his discussions. Some of his claims, while interesting, are somewhat shaky. Wiedemann writes that the placement of the arenas, on the edge of towns and cities, were a symbol of the games themselves, specifically the fight between civilization and nature as best expressed by the animal fights (venatio). I'll buy this civilization vs. nature argument, but not the placement of the arenas. Not all arenas were on the outskirts of towns. Alison Futrell showed that many were tied to local religious sites. In the East, many games were held in pre-existing theaters, which were not necessarily on the outskirts of town. Like all things Roman, uniformity is hard to find. This is one reason why Rome was so successful in holding things together for so long. The Romans were willing to accept many local customs and traditions if they could throw a veneer of Romaness over them. Despite a few inconsistencies, this book is a valuable contribution to the often misunderstood Roman spectacle.arena could be seen as a boon; the huge amount of martyrs created by the games bolstered Christianity by providing important examples of the serenity and power Christ could bring to the faithful.<br />This is a very good book and very helpful to me as I attempt to write a paper on the political role of the games. I do wish Wiedemann could have been a little more organized in his approach. Oftentimes, he seems to be all over the place with his discussions. Some of his claims, while interesting, are somewhat shaky. Wiedemann writes that the placement of the arenas, on the edge of towns and cities, were a symbol of the games themselves, specifically the fight between civilization and nature as best expressed by the animal fights (venatio). I'll buy this civilization vs. nature argument, but not the placement of the arenas. Not all arenas were on the outskirts of towns. Alison Futrell showed that many were tied to local religious sites. In the East, many games were held in pre-existing theaters, which were not necessarily on the outskirts of town. Like all things Roman, uniformity is hard to find. This is one reason why Rome was so successful in holding things together for so long. The Romans were willing to accept many local customs and traditions if they could throw a veneer of Romaness over them. Despite a few inconsistencies, this book is a valuable contribution to the often misunderstood Roman spectacle.	2002-04-11
1588674:US	52012289	R8G6F09XKZT0T	0674197259	31559079	Democracy Is in the Streets: From Port Huron to the Siege of Chicago, With a New Preface by the Author	Books	4	16	18	N	N	More SDS History	This is another history concerning the SDS, or the Students for a Democratic Society. Miller admits in the introduction that he was a member of SDS and is sympathetic to what they did or tried to do. Not only is this book shorter than Kirkpatrick Sale's excellent history of SDS, but its focus is different as well. Where Sale focuses on the group as a whole, Miller provides more of an intellectual history of SDS. Miller provides exacting detail on the early period of SDS, especially the convention that produced the Port Huron Statement. For a much more thorough and detailed history of the SDS, please refer to Kirkpatrick Sale's SDS.<br />I still really enjoyed reading Miller's book. I like books that discuss intellectual development, and this one certainly accomplishes that. There is even an entire chapter devoted to C. Wright Mills, the radical sociologist that so many in the New Left idolized. Mills's idea of publics and his concerns about technology spoke directly to the alienation many young leftists felt. Miller points out that both Mills and the New Left shared a crucial weakness; both articulated problems without posing any effective solutions. This is most apparent in the idea of participatory democracy, the cornerstone of Port Huron. This idea, much touted by SDS members for most of its history, was never adequately defined in the document. Miller shows that many of the SDS projects, such as ERAP, were attempts to put participatory democracy into practice. The end result was failure because a concept such as this would probably only work on an extremely small level. As more people are brought into the mix, participation becomes problematic because so many different ideas are brought forth. Process and decisions become arthritic and meetings drag on for hours without results.<br />Miller seems to bog down considerably when he moves into the second half of his work. He provides four accounts of four separate members of SDS, one of whom is of course Tom Hayden. The problem with this technique is that none of these members had much to do with SDS after 1965. The later struggles of SDS are subsumed under these four accounts. Therefore, not nearly enough detail is given to the PL-SDS and Weather split in 1969. For description of the old guard of SDS, Miller is an excellent source. Just don't expect to find out much about late 1960's SDS.The problem with this technique is that none of these members had much to do with SDS after 1965. The later struggles of SDS are subsumed under these four accounts. Therefore, not nearly enough detail is given to the PL-SDS and Weather split in 1969. For description of the old guard of SDS, Miller is an excellent source. Just don't expect to find out much about late 1960's SDS.	2002-04-08
1592276:US	52012289	R2812QVKRO6OAF	0394719654	417855971	SDS (Students for a Democratic Society)	Books	4	31	31	N	N	SDS History	It quickly becomes apparent that this is the bible for anyone interested in the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS). Clocking in at a whopping 700+ pages, Sale has exhaustively researched almost every aspect of this organization and turned that research into interesting and concise reading. His research on SDS encompasses books, the SDS archives in Wisconsin, interviews and letters with some of the movers and shakers in SDS, and even archives for the League of Industrial Democracy (SDS's parent organization). The book is divided into four sections: Reorganization, Reform, Resistance and Revolution. Within these divisions Sale creates chapters based on the seasons, such as Summer 1965 or Fall 1967. The book covers roughly 12 years, from 1960 to 1972 (the book was published in 1973). Sale still writes articles for such magazines as The Nation, as well as other books, one on Robert Fulton being his most recent.<br />SDS started out as SLID, or the Student League of Industrial Democracy, an arm of the LID mentioned above. LID was an Old Left organization made up of cautious anti-Communist liberals/socialists. Sale details every aspect of SDS; the formation of the group under the watchful eyes of Al Haber and Tom Hayden, the writing of the Port Huron Statement, the tensions between the intellectuals and actionists which resulted in the ERAP projects (and the failure of those projects), the infusion of new SDS members from mid-America which moved the power base from the East Coast and radicalized the movement. Sale continues his account all the way to the demise of SDS into two Communist factions: Weatherman and PL-SDS. Sale knows he's telling a long tale and constantly stops along the way for summaries and recaps of problems. The ominous appearance of sections on the Progressive Labor Party (PL) provides a separate timeline of this group until its infiltration and destruction of SDS in the later 1960's.<br />As useful as this history is, Sale does have his limitations. He rarely provides any look at the intellectual underpinnings of SDS, an aspect that is critical in understanding their ideas and some of their weaknesses. There are only a few mentions of C. Wright Mills, for example. Mills was critical to early SDS thought and should definitely have a place in any history of SDS (James Miller's book provides an intellectual history of SDS). Another problem is that Sale is writing so close to his subject. In 1973 Weather bombs are still going off and principal members of SDS are still protesting. Sale misses out on what the perspective of time can do for people. Finally, for a book so exhaustive and meticulous in its approach, there is no reprint of the Port Huron Statement to be found, not in the text or in an appendix, which I find very surprising.<br />If you are going to do any reading on SDS, let alone any research, you must read this book, and I recommend reading it before you read any other books on the topic. Unfortunately, it's out of print. I haven't seen a copy available anywhere ..., but a reprint could always happen at anytime. Highly Recommended.s. He rarely provides any look at the intellectual underpinnings of SDS, an aspect that is critical in understanding their ideas and some of their weaknesses. There are only a few mentions of C. Wright Mills, for example. Mills was critical to early SDS thought and should definitely have a place in any history of SDS (James Miller's book provides an intellectual history of SDS). Another problem is that Sale is writing so close to his subject. In 1973 Weather bombs are still going off and principal members of SDS are still protesting. Sale misses out on what the perspective of time can do for people. Finally, for a book so exhaustive and meticulous in its approach, there is no reprint of the Port Huron Statement to be found, not in the text or in an appendix, which I find very surprising.<br />If you are going to do any reading on SDS, let alone any research, you must read this book, and I recommend reading it before you read any other books on the topic. Unfortunately, it's out of print. I haven't seen a copy available anywhere ..., but a reprint could always happen at anytime. Highly Recommended.	2002-04-05
1599763:US	52012289	R22N44WPI2TVFK	0312284039	892136214	The Gladiator: The Secret History of Rome's Warrior Slaves	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Roman Gladiators	This book is a popular history about the gladiatorial games in ancient Rome. As such, it has no footnotes and limited sources. Still, Baker does a pretty good job of giving a concise account of this fascinating aspect of ancient history. Various chapters cover such things as different types of gladiators, emperors who fought in the arena, and the Spartacus slave revolt. The book ends with an examination of why the gladiatorial games ended (Christianity, in a nutshell). The highpoint of the book is a fictional account of a day at the games under the emperor Commodus. Did this guy write the screenplay to the movie Gladiator? I don't think so, but he is obviously influenced by that film.<br />What should become apparent as this book unfolds is the changing nature of the games and spectacles. The munera, or gladiatorial contests, originally began as a funeral ritual. During the Republic, the religious implications of these contests increasingly became politicized. Temporary theaters were constructed so people could recline and watch. The sponsors of these contests were increasingly magistrates and others who wanted to curry favor with the masses. The number of fighters also increased as the years went by. It was with the installation of Augustus that the games became codified in political terms. Augustus passed legislation concerning seating in the arena and took over many of the aspects concerning the games. Menageries holding animals used for exhibitions and executions were owned by the emperors, as were the gladiatorial schools housing the fighters. Other officials were banned for the most part from sponsoring games, although provincials were allowed to do so under strict supervision from Rome. Those officials who were allowed to hold games were held to strict limits so as not to upstage the emperor. Marcus Aurelius went so far as to construct a price schedule for the games. Officials could hold games, but the money amounts required were way below what the emperor could spend. This allowed the emperors to keep a tight check on potential rivals to the throne.<br />Even with this concern over the games, it is highly unlikely anyone but the emperor could have afforded the kind of spectacles some of the rulers put on. Some emperors staged enormous recreations of naval battles on artificial lakes involving thousands of fighters. Not only was this highly entertaining, the battles provided a political basis for imperial rule. Augustus, for instance, came to power after the battle at Actium. Recreations of these sorts of battles reinforced his power. The gladiatorial games also accomplished this; gladiators fought in the dress of conquered peoples. This showed the subservience of these peoples to the power of Rome.<br />Baker has written an entertaining, if somewhat melodramatic account of the games. Problems emerge when sensationalism is dwelled upon. The accounts of Caligula are a good example. Baker borrows heavily from Suetonius in this section. While most of the stories of Caligula's depravity are entertaining, many have nothing to do with the arena. Also, Suetonius wrote his accounts under the auspices of Hadrian, some time after Caligula's rule. It may have been in the interests of the time to paint these earlier emperors in a harsh light. Keep these things in mind while reading the book. Overall, Baker does a good job and the book is entertaining.uld spend. This allowed the emperors to keep a tight check on potential rivals to the throne.<br />Even with this concern over the games, it is highly unlikely anyone but the emperor could have afforded the kind of spectacles some of the rulers put on. Some emperors staged enormous recreations of naval battles on artificial lakes involving thousands of fighters. Not only was this highly entertaining, the battles provided a political basis for imperial rule. Augustus, for instance, came to power after the battle at Actium. Recreations of these sorts of battles reinforced his power. The gladiatorial games also accomplished this; gladiators fought in the dress of conquered peoples. This showed the subservience of these peoples to the power of Rome.<br />Baker has written an entertaining, if somewhat melodramatic account of the games. Problems emerge when sensationalism is dwelled upon. The accounts of Caligula are a good example. Baker borrows heavily from Suetonius in this section. While most of the stories of Caligula's depravity are entertaining, many have nothing to do with the arena. Also, Suetonius wrote his accounts under the auspices of Hadrian, some time after Caligula's rule. It may have been in the interests of the time to paint these earlier emperors in a harsh light. Keep these things in mind while reading the book. Overall, Baker does a good job and the book is entertaining.	2002-03-30
1603712:US	52012289	R1571A3DQ86FUU	0415106184	846065449	Ancient Rome: City Planning and Administration	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Roman Urban Planning and Adminstration	Olivia Robinson is a legal scholar. She's written several books and articles on legal and administrative aspects concerning the Roman period. This book came about, as Robinson relates, from an idea she got from her husband in 1974 when he was working for a Scottish political organization. Oddly, the book wasn't published until 1992, a long time for the amount of information contained in the book. Obviously, this work was not a priority in Robinson's life.<br />The subtitle of this book is \\"City Planning and Administration\\", a fairly broad title that encompasses a lot of material. For the most part, the book is boring and loaded with technical terms, as well as Latin phrases that are not defined. The first few chapters are a real chore to slog through. But soon, the book starts to warm up. Chapters containing such mundane items as bridges, latrines, prostitution and policing become fascinating despite undefined terms. How did Romans bury people or take care of public health? The answers (in part) can be found in this book. It always helps to know that Romans did have public latrines and urinals. The men had it easy, as urinals were cut jars in which one relieved himself. Women apparently had to carry about chamber pots or other devices if they felt the need to go. The urine was sold, mostly to people who used the discharge to clean togas (ring around the collar? No more!). If at home, the waste was collected in buckets and then dumped outside the city or flung into the streets. Other topics include building projects, grain supply, spectacles, sewers and streets, transportation and scads of other stuff. Even though I can't say I cared for the book too much, I did learn a good deal from Robinson.<br />As mentioned above, undefined terms cause serious problems here, making this a book off-limits to beginners. Other problems include a failure to present the city as it probably really was: a stinking cesspool of odor, crime and disease. These things are talked about to some extent, but not given the place they deserve. Robinson actually emphasizes that the abundance of water in the city, as well as baths, led to a squeaky clean population that was concerned about public health. Rome was a dirty, dangerous place, and it should be emphasized as such. Also, Robinson tends to credit most of the maintenance procedures to the aediles, magistrates that concerned themselves with city upkeep. In the later Empire, Robinson believes that these functions were subsumed into the office of the Urban Prefect. This may be true, but Robinson fails to provide a clear explanation of why this occurred.<br />I think a better account of this topic could be written. When studying any subject, there are good books as well as bad ones. While this book doesn't fall into the precipice completely, it could have been much, much better.me extent, but not given the place they deserve. Robinson actually emphasizes that the abundance of water in the city, as well as baths, led to a squeaky clean population that was concerned about public health. Rome was a dirty, dangerous place, and it should be emphasized as such. Also, Robinson tends to credit most of the maintenance procedures to the aediles, magistrates that concerned themselves with city upkeep. In the later Empire, Robinson believes that these functions were subsumed into the office of the Urban Prefect. This may be true, but Robinson fails to provide a clear explanation of why this occurred.<br />I think a better account of this topic could be written. When studying any subject, there are good books as well as bad ones. While this book doesn't fall into the precipice completely, it could have been much, much better.	2002-03-27
1605620:US	52012289	R2B27B3Y43RVUI	029272523X	317912364	Blood in the Arena: The Spectacle of Roman Power	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Roman Spectacle	This book, by Professor Alison Futrell of the University of Arizona, is a reworking of her doctoral dissertation. The title is somewhat misleading; there is little blood in any of the arenas discussed in this book. What we do get is a very intelligent, comprehensive examination of Roman spectacle and the role that it played in shaping (I should say reflecting) Roman society. Although I don't always agree with Futrell's analyses on the role of spectacles, I'll be lucky to pull off a dissertation as good as this one. Fortunately I won't be doing any dissertation work in ancient history.<br />Futrell starts her analysis with a short history of the two types of games that predominated amphitheater productions: the munera and the venatio. The munera are gladiatorial contests that actually started out as funeral rituals. Futrell provides evidence that gives support to Etruscan origins for the munera. The venatio are the animal exhibits; both peaceful-gee-watch-the-neat-animals-do-tricks kinds and the ones where the animals were slaughtered. Unfortunately, Futrell doesn't provide much more information on venatio. Most of the book deals with munera, although there is also information on arena types and constructions.<br />Arenas took several forms. Everyone is familiar with the Colosseum, built by the Flavians around 80 A.D.  The first theaters were much less impressive. At first, most games were held in the Forums. Eventually, small wooden amphitheaters were built, both during the Late Republic and Early Empire. Augustus was the first to really devote sufficient energy to the amphitheaters. He used them to consolidate his rule by connecting games with an Imperial cult dedicated to himself and Roma. In the provinces, mixed edifice theaters (consisting of seating and stage) melded together local and Roman customs to provide a loyalty to Rome. The military also had their own amphitheaters, which doubled as training grounds for soldiers. Building amphitheaters could be expensive, depending on the type of theater. Oftentimes, liturgies were used to build them, or the emperor provided funds for construction. In the Republican era, generals celebrating triumphs used war booty to build monuments such as these. An intricate series of contracts and labor were required to construct these buildings. Permission was required from the emperor himself because constructing a building that held so many people could be used for seditious behavior. Of course, as a sign of gratitude, the emperor's name would be engraved on the building.<br />Futrell often makes interesting connections during the course of her examinations. An explanation of the mixed edifice theaters in the provinces involves a long digression into Irish and Welsh myths. This is done so that the reader will understand why Rome built amphitheaters where they did. The Romans wanted to incorporate local traditions as much as possible, if nothing more than to show Roman dominance over them. In Celtic regions, these were built near bodies of water or other types of boundaries, areas that were central to Celtic religion. Another discussion on the role of human sacrifice in Rome incorporates information on sacrifices in Sumer, China, Central America and Carthage in order to make comparisons with the activities in Rome. Different types of ritual sacrifice are discussed and debated, with Futrell arguing that human sacrifice did take place in Roman life, but usually only in times of great social distress. The sacrifices were carried out in order to bring alignment back to society by appeasing angry gods. Futrell carries this idea of sacrifice into the arena, where gladiators were seen as sacrifices to the idea and history of Rome. Gladiatorial games could be seen as the working out, under controlled conditions, of the founding of Rome and the reassertion of the social order.<br />Futrell's digressions can be a bit disconcerting, and she does have her melodramatic moments (the arena has cosmic dimensions, etc.). Her claim that the amphitheaters also worked to reinforce social hierarchy is widely accepted, but how was this done, exactly? Amphitheaters seated only so many people, most of whom were the well off. Therefore, it is safe to assume that these buildings reinforced social hierarchy amongst the upper classes. The lower classes would have been least affected. In this I think Futrell has a tendency to overplay the role of the amphitheater and games. I do think that the amphitheater, taken in concert with other social controls, worked its magic on the lower classes, but that idea is absent here (or at least understated). Recommended reading for the lovers of Rome.nsions, etc.). Her claim that the amphitheaters also worked to reinforce social hierarchy is widely accepted, but how was this done, exactly? Amphitheaters seated only so many people, most of whom were the well off. Therefore, it is safe to assume that these buildings reinforced social hierarchy amongst the upper classes. The lower classes would have been least affected. In this I think Futrell has a tendency to overplay the role of the amphitheater and games. I do think that the amphitheater, taken in concert with other social controls, worked its magic on the lower classes, but that idea is absent here (or at least understated). Recommended reading for the lovers of Rome.	2002-03-26
1609102:US	52012289	R5Y7X86SBZKQK	1556520735	980026737	They Dare to Speak Out: People and Institutions Confront Israel's Lobby	Books	4	410	446	N	N	Findley Speaks Out	The author of this book, Paul Findley, was a Congressman from Illinois for some 22 years. This puts him in the unique position to criticize his target. That target is the pro-Israel lobby, specifically AIPAC (The American-Israel Public Affairs Committee). Findley believes that many politicians have lost elections due to the influence of this group. Findley himself thinks they played a role in his own defeat in the early 1980's. Why would AIPAC use lobbying clout to defeat politicians? Because some of these figures dared to question the intimate relationship between the U.S. and Israel.<br />The book is extremely well written and organized, although there are no numbers in the text to match the endnotes at the back of the book. At first, I snickered at some of the accusations Findley makes. After all, shouldn't a criticism of AIPAC be extended to ALL political action groups? Wouldn't it be just as easy to point out that this is a symptom of a larger problem, that of outside influence in politics? What quickly becomes apparent is that AIPAC uses threats and intimidation to cow any voices that speak out against what Israel is doing to the Palestinians. Those who can't be dealt with immediately are publicly branded as anti-Semites or Jew haters. Some are even compared to Nazi war criminals. The people Findley discusses are hardly goose-stepping thugs. They are people who are concerned that Israel is using American weapons to kill innocent civilians. Some oppose the Israeli theft of Palestinian land, or Israeli spying within U.S. institutions. Almost all of these people begin to receive letters, threatening phone calls and other heavy-handed tactics designed to shut them up.<br />Findley shows how the pro-Israel lobby intimidates government officials, educators, restaurant owners and journalists into toeing the Israel line while denying the Arab position on any matter. Even presidents have felt the pressure from Israel's lobby. Reagan renewed the shipment of cluster bombs to the Israelis even after it was known that Israel used them on Palestinians in the past and would probably do so again in the future. Although not mentioned in the book, even Clinton felt the pressure. He came close to pardoning Jonathan Pollard, the Israeli spy, until the heads of the FBI and CIA threatened to resign if he did so. Findley talks about Pollard in the book, and the tale is staggering to behold. Pollard continues to receive pay from the Israelis, even though he is in prison. Documents stolen by Pollard were never returned by Israel, and many of these papers ended up in the hands of the Soviet Union, endangering U.S. lives and security. Israel also refused to hand over Pollard's handlers. These Israeli agents ended up with lucrative positions back in Israel.<br />Probably the most disturbing account in this book is that of the USS Liberty. The Liberty was a U.S. warship that was viciously attacked by Israeli planes and gunboats in 1967. Despite flying a U.S. flag in a stiff breeze and clearly marked numbers and names on the hull, the Liberty was strafed, torpedoed and napalmed by Israel. The toll was staggering: 34 dead and 171 injured. The U.S. government not only delayed sending a rescue mission to the imperiled ship until well after the attack, they covered up the entire incident. Documents were destroyed or hidden and letters to the families of the dead failed to take into account what really happened to their loved ones. A book written about the attack by James Ennes was blackballed. Even if this attack was a mistake, and Findley presents plenty of evidence to the contrary, covering it up is a crime tantamount to treason.<br />There is plenty of evidence in this book to make any thinking person stand up and take note. To criticize Israeli policy is not anti-Semitism. Not one of the people in this book ever tried to deny Israel the right to exist as a state. They merely wanted Israel held accountable for its behavior towards the Palestinians. Ascan be expected, Findley has suffered insults and slurs for his beliefs. Read this book.can be expected, Findley has suffered insults and slurs for his beliefs. Read this book.	2002-03-22
1615127:US	52012289	R2IXMPV7OSUOED	1859841678	669550513	The Way the Wind Blew: A History of the Weather Underground (Haymarket Series)	Books	2	19	85	N	N	Those Wacky Leftists	This short book attempts to outline the rise and fall of the Weatherman Organization. Weather, as it came to be known, was an offshoot of the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS). When the SDS fragmented in the late 1960's, Weather became its best known survivor. Weather quickly went \\"underground\\" and engaged in a series of bombings that stretched well into the 1970's. Probably the most recognizable event in the history of Weather was the explosion that occurred in a townhouse in New York in 1970, when three members died while constructing bombs. The group bombed the United States Capitol building, banks, police stations and other \\"symbols\\" of what they deemed the imperialist-capitalist system. Most members of the Weather group eventually were arrested and sentenced to prison (unfortunately brief) terms. The last action concerning Weather was an armored car robbery in 1981 in New York.<br />Ron Jacobs, the author of this book, really could have done a better job. For one thing, he sympathizes too much with his topic. This causes serious problems with his objectivity and taints the book. His research is lacking as well. He relies exclusively on news clippings and documents. I believe I saw only one citation concerning an interview with a figure involved in the actual events. Errors abound as well, mostly concerning editing problems that should have been rectified before reaching publication. The book resembles a laundry list of events more than a historical narrative. In short, Jacobs takes a subject that has the potential for interest and turns it into cerebral novacaine. I'd like to see a more serious treatment of this topic, preferably written by a professional historian.<br />There is still some value to be found here, however. Even a car wreck of a book can't hide the fact that Weather was made up of serious wackos. The conflicts within Weather about the direction the group should take would be hilarious if it wasn't so dangerous. All the talk about revolution and women's roles in the group become ridiculous when you remember that we are talking about an organization made up of at most a few hundred people. Actually, I hesitate to call Weather an organization because hierarchy was seen as a symptom of the \\"imperialist pig\\" system. I also have problems with using the term \\"underground\\" in referring to Weather. Most of the group lived openly, albeit under assumed identities, for years. Bernardine Dohrn, who praised the Manson killings and wrote most of the Weather invective, lived with hubby Billy Ayers in New York. They raised children and worked jobs like any other people. When I think of underground, I think of hiding out and moving from safe house to safe house. This definitely didn't happen here. It's unimaginable that members of the Order, a neo-Nazi insurrectionist group active in the 1980's, would have lived the comfortable life many Weather members enjoyed while on the run. Unfortunately, instead of rotting away in prison, most of the former Weather members lead comfy lives today. Billy Ayers is a university professor at UI in Chicago (parents, remember this when looking for schools for your kids) and wife Bernardine works at a legal foundation. Since we can't seem to throw these people in prison, I think the best thing to do is constantly throw light on them and never forget what they did. Marginalize them as much as possible.n and women's roles in the group become ridiculous when you remember that we are talking about an organization made up of at most a few hundred people. Actually, I hesitate to call Weather an organization because hierarchy was seen as a symptom of the \\"imperialist pig\\" system. I also have problems with using the term \\"underground\\" in referring to Weather. Most of the group lived openly, albeit under assumed identities, for years. Bernardine Dohrn, who praised the Manson killings and wrote most of the Weather invective, lived with hubby Billy Ayers in New York. They raised children and worked jobs like any other people. When I think of underground, I think of hiding out and moving from safe house to safe house. This definitely didn't happen here. It's unimaginable that members of the Order, a neo-Nazi insurrectionist group active in the 1980's, would have lived the comfortable life many Weather members enjoyed while on the run. Unfortunately, instead of rotting away in prison, most of the former Weather members lead comfy lives today. Billy Ayers is a university professor at UI in Chicago (parents, remember this when looking for schools for your kids) and wife Bernardine works at a legal foundation. Since we can't seem to throw these people in prison, I think the best thing to do is constantly throw light on them and never forget what they did. Marginalize them as much as possible.	2002-03-18
1617904:US	52012289	R2KPYKGU7XGL4X	0472081241	524546896	The Power of Images in the Age of Augustus (Thomas Spencer Jerome Lectures)	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Roman Art	This book is an excellent example of how art critique can be used to analyze politics and history. Paul Zanker does an exceptionally thorough job as he systematically works his way through the end of the Republic to the heights of Augustan Rome. The book includes tons of photographs, coins, maps and reproductions to illustrate appropriate points in the text. The thesis of the book is to show how art was used to convey the importance and dignity of the new Imperial system. Despite the breadth of material presented here, the text is smooth and understandable.<br />There really isn't enough space in a review to adequately cover this book. Zanker's main thrust is to show how Augustus rebuilt and remodeled Rome with himself at the center. The styles that Augustus used were quickly picked up and duplicated by the Roman upper classes, as well as those in the provinces. My favorite section of the book concerns the coinage. Augustus minted coins closely linking himself to Julius Caesar in order to establish himself as the heir apparent (which he was) to Caesar. Coins were also used to commemorate Augustus's triumph at Actium over Antony, and also to promote Augustus's conservative legislation concerning marriage and childbirth. Although Augustus slowly consolidated power under the title of princeps, he took great pains to show Rome that he was bringing about peace, prosperity and honor, all things that had been missing during the civil wars. Is Augustan art propaganda? It could certainly be interpreted that way, even though there was no \\"Ministry of Information\\" in Rome.<br />An excellent book, although there are a few problems. One of them is the tendency of art critique to see things that others may not. Zanker's descriptions of statues of Augustus are a good example. While I can agree with his depictions of the later Augustan busts as showing a calm, sort of omniscient demeanor, I have a tough time agreeing with his assessment of an earlier bust of Augustus as nervous and power hungry. This is a small problem with an otherwise great book that will make you think about Rome in a different way.power hungry. This is a small problem with an otherwise great book that will make you think about Rome in a different way.	2002-03-16
1618733:US	52012289	R3N5LFW915498P	0701119683	527215510	The Ancient Economy	Books	4	39	43	N	N	Roman Economics	The author of this book, M.I. Finley, is a giant in the field of ancient history. The introduction paints a pretty impressive picture of the man. He graduated from college with an M.A. at the age of 17, an amazing feat for us wannabe intellectuals. His M.A. was in public law, not exactly the usual prerequisite for an amazing career in history. Finley's positions on the ancient world were based on the works of Max Weber; the sociologist who posited that status played a big role in society. In this book, Finley tries to prove that the ancient economy was largely a byproduct of status. In other words, economic systems were not interdependent; they were embedded in status positions.<br />Finley first examines status and statistics. What constituted status in the ancient world? For one thing, class and status were independent. A person could be of low class, but very high status. Pallas and Narcissus, the freedmen that served the emperor Claudius, come to mind here. Both were extremely high placed in society. They were rich beyond the dreams of avarice, but their class was lower than that of a senator. Finley's examination of statistics in ancient Rome is telling. In our world, it is inconceivable that the economy could be discussed without using stats. In Rome, this was not the case. Certainly, there were receipts of expenditures and interest rates on loans, but numbers just didn't hold the allure in Rome that they do today. The absence of guilds and interdependent markets, according to Finley, certainly has something to do with this. Most merchandise was locally made and consumed locally, or shipped directly to Rome. There was no need for corporations or massive transportation of goods (except grain shipments to Rome) between regions.<br />Finley's discussions on slavery are certainly enlightening. Finley believes slavery was necessary to the Roman world because it reinforced status. The highest strata of society disdained work, so having a dependent class of workers was essential to watch over estates and manage businesses. One of the surprising insights Finley provides is in exploding the myth that slavery is inefficient. Finley shows that the large landowners had money to burn due to the labor of slaves, as did the plantation owners in the American South. I'm not so sure I agree with this argument. To the extent that slaves were profitable in Rome, it would seem that this had much to do with the Roman system of slavery. The Romans had a process called \\"Peculium\\" in which slaves were given seed money by their masters to start businesses. Slaves could keep some of the profits from this system and eventually buy their freedom, as well as learn a trade. This is an excellent incentive to work hard, thereby increasing profits to their owners. I don't think slaves in the Americas had the same incentives.<br />Although the book is much more complex than the poor description I've given above, this review should provide ample initiative to read Finley. Even a beginner to Roman history could get much out of this book. Finley, despite some early hiccups, has a smooth writing style that is sympathetic to the newbie. Many a professional scholar has received inspiration from Finley. Highly Recommended.as essential to watch over estates and manage businesses. One of the surprising insights Finley provides is in exploding the myth that slavery is inefficient. Finley shows that the large landowners had money to burn due to the labor of slaves, as did the plantation owners in the American South. I'm not so sure I agree with this argument. To the extent that slaves were profitable in Rome, it would seem that this had much to do with the Roman system of slavery. The Romans had a process called \\"Peculium\\" in which slaves were given seed money by their masters to start businesses. Slaves could keep some of the profits from this system and eventually buy their freedom, as well as learn a trade. This is an excellent incentive to work hard, thereby increasing profits to their owners. I don't think slaves in the Americas had the same incentives.<br />Although the book is much more complex than the poor description I've given above, this review should provide ample initiative to read Finley. Even a beginner to Roman history could get much out of this book. Finley, despite some early hiccups, has a smooth writing style that is sympathetic to the newbie. Many a professional scholar has received inspiration from Finley. Highly Recommended.	2002-03-15
1620619:US	52012289	R1ZEFL0T679WFL	0804712379	69410647	The Roman Empire	Books	3	31	36	N	N	Roman Survey	This is an adequate one volume history on the Roman Empire. I've certainly seen some surveys of this period that are better, but Colin Wells does the job. The book covers the period from 44 B.C. to 235 A.D., or roughly from the beginnings of the second triumvirate to right before the 50 years of anarchy before Diocletian. Wells takes an interesting path with his book; he alternates between standard political history and social developments. You can read about everything from Elagabalus to Arezzo pottery. Most surveys I've read stick exclusively to politics. This format allows Wells to talk about areas that interest him. He states in the forward that his concern is archeology and that he has worked in Carthage unearthing buildings and walls.<br />Most books agree that the death of Julius Caesar and the civil wars between Octavian and Antony usher in the Imperial phase of Roman history. Wells is correct to start with these events. The book doesn't go far enough, however. Stopping at 235 A.D. leaves out an enormous amount of significant events. Leaving out Diocletian and the Tetrarchy alone is a huge mistake, as is the absence of Constantine and Christianity. Still, the book is a great refresher on Roman history. There really isn't much new here in the way of interpretation, although I did appreciate his introduction. Wells manages to do in a few pages what many fail to do: explain in a concise way the intricacies of Roman names and Roman political offices. Very helpful.<br />This is a good book, although a serious survey of Roman history would be better served with a more comprehensive textbook. Be sure and locate a book that at least covers Rome up to 476 A.D., if not later.	2002-03-13
1622258:US	52012289	R1WEWR7XDLC9K	0415093759	695933919	Imperium Romanum: Politics and Administration	Books	2	13	18	N	N	Roman Administration	There really aren't many positive things to say about Andrew Lintott's book on Roman administration. The forward says this is an important addition to the study of administration in the Roman era. If this is true, we are all in a lot of trouble. Lintott tries to maintain an organizational structure to the book, but fails because he constantly veers from presenting his own specialized research to generalized themes. The result is a book that is awkward to read and awkward to study. My professor said it best: \\"Lintott claims to be writing this for his students. One wonders what they must think of him.\\"<br />Lintott examines the effects of Roman administration in both the city and the province. I'm not going to waste much time discussing details here. There are too many of them and most of them are boring. In short, he looks at provincial administration, economics, etc. Lintott's conclusion is interesting. He feels that we shouldn't claim too much for the Roman Empire because it couldn't provide the kind of coherence that a city/state or constitution could. But Rome as a political and geographical expression lasted for 1500+ years. Who cares if it didn't provide city/state coherence? The economic and social links sufficed to hold Rome together. That should be enough.<br />Beware Lintott's writing style. It is so tedious due to misplaced clauses that you'll be ready to toss this one into the fireplace by the time you get to the end. I should probably lump this into the editing problems. For an academic text, the editing is atrocious. Mistakes abound everywhere. Lintott also drops so many Latin phrases, without explanation, that even Julius Caesar would have had trouble reading this. If you have to read this book for a class (as I did), take a deep breath before diving in.	2002-03-12
1626163:US	52012289	R33I7L6F6CG0J0	0801492734	924859088	Law and Life of Rome, 90 B.C.–A.D. 212 (Aspects of Greek and Roman Life)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Legal History	It would be pretty tough to argue that this isn't a great book. J.A. Crook provides a very through overview of Roman law and procedure from roughly 90 B.C.E. to 212 C.E. Under such rubrics as commerce, labor, and status, Crook explains in minute detail the workings of law as it related to society and social relations. Beware, this is specialized Roman history. A beginner could be in trouble if he is not aware of at least a basic outline of Roman history and society.<br />Most of what historians and scholars know about Roman law comes second hand through manuscripts of the day (Cicero, etc.). A big source for law in this period comes from Justinian's Digests, a massive compilation of law sources written in the 6th century C.E. The jurists who compiled this massive collection did so on the fly, so to speak, so it does leave much to be desired. There is also the problem that the Digests were compiled four to six centuries after the period in question. Other sources include works by Gaius, inscriptions found on tombs and in places such as Pompeii, and papyrus collections found in Egypt. At worst, so much is missing. At best, what we do have often has to be read between the lines in order to make connections to early Rome. Of course, this has never stopped scholars from doing their best to earn their PhDs.<br />Crook can be frustrating. His descriptions of status in the Roman world boggle the mind, although patient reading and knowledge certainly help to make the distinctions. The Romans were nuts for status, and it shows. What is a Junian Latin and what does that status mean? What were the rights of a citizen? It's all here in this book. What quickly becomes apparent is the complexity of this ancient society. Just like today, there are lots of examples of laws that were enacted and then subtly modified as new circumstances emerged. One of the most interesting sections in the book is the description of how civil courts worked. Legal actions took place in private homes and businesses, not a courthouse. The ensuing process was quite complicated, with a praetor deciding whether an action existed and a judge deciding what the outcome would be. Most of the figures involved, including the magistrate and judge, knew little law themselves. They could rely on jurists for advice, but seemed to rely more on \\"good sense.\\" Only with the appearance of the Principate could appeals be made (to the emperor). There are also some good stories here that will induce a chuckle or two. I particularly liked the story about the slave that got his throat cut while receiving a shave from the barber. Barbers worked outside, and someone was playing ball in the street. The ball hit the barber's hand and caused a nasty slip. The mental image still makes me laugh. Also, a series of legal actions revolved around things that were thrown or dropped into the street by people living in the \\"high rises\\" in Rome.<br />This is an excellent book, and very illuminating. Knowledge of Latin would be very helpful. Crook tosses so many terms around that it can be tough to find out what he's talking about. I wasn't but a few pages in when I whipped out the pen and started making detailed notes in the margins. I also relied on the index more than I normally would. If you've got an interest in legal history, add this one to your library.d businesses, not a courthouse. The ensuing process was quite complicated, with a praetor deciding whether an action existed and a judge deciding what the outcome would be. Most of the figures involved, including the magistrate and judge, knew little law themselves. They could rely on jurists for advice, but seemed to rely more on \\"good sense.\\" Only with the appearance of the Principate could appeals be made (to the emperor). There are also some good stories here that will induce a chuckle or two. I particularly liked the story about the slave that got his throat cut while receiving a shave from the barber. Barbers worked outside, and someone was playing ball in the street. The ball hit the barber's hand and caused a nasty slip. The mental image still makes me laugh. Also, a series of legal actions revolved around things that were thrown or dropped into the street by people living in the \\"high rises\\" in Rome.<br />This is an excellent book, and very illuminating. Knowledge of Latin would be very helpful. Crook tosses so many terms around that it can be tough to find out what he's talking about. I wasn't but a few pages in when I whipped out the pen and started making detailed notes in the margins. I also relied on the index more than I normally would. If you've got an interest in legal history, add this one to your library.	2002-03-09
1632497:US	52012289	R15IVKTDKETK75	0312069219	14071940	The Canadians	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Canadian Travelogue	My hopes for this book centered primarily around history. I wanted to get a good introduction to Canadian history from the earliest times to recent developments. Alas, `tis not so with this Andrew Malcolm book. Malcolm makes it known to all that he is of Canadian ancestry, although he spent most of his life here in the U.S. He mentions in the text that he taught history at a university and that he was a \\"Canadian Bureau Chief\\" at the New York Times. Despite his association with anything New York, he is still eminently qualified to do some serious work on Canada and the Canadian mentality. \\"The Canadians\\" is the result.<br />This is more travelogue than history. Malcolm spent four years rattling around Canada trying to get a feel for the country. The scope of the book is impressive. Malcolm examines geography, people, and economics to show his readers where Canadians have been, and where they are going. The chapter on geography is definitely illuminating. Most of us, especially here in the U.S., probably don't have an adequate idea of how huge Canada really is. Almost the entire population of Canada lives right along the border. Behind them stretches an amount of territory that is amazing to behold. Even all of the provinces of Canada are enormous. Most of the provinces could hold several major U.S. states within their boundaries with room to spare. The northern regions, namely the Yukon and the Northwest Territories (isn't it known as Nunavit now?) are almost beyond description, with many areas unexplored by man. The task that Canada has had since its inception has been making use of the vast resources within these regions while preserving the fragile environment. Most of the natural gas mined here goes to other places, such as the U.S. Actually, most of the stuff scraped, panned, cut or dug goes other places, as Canada's main source of economic livelihood is trade. Of course, the U.S. is Canada's biggest trading partner, with billions of dollars of goods flowing across the border. The U.S reciprocates this trade. This trade and emphasis on Canada's economic condition is detailed by Malcolm in his chapter on Canadian economics. Malcolm spends a huge amount of page space showing how Canadian business has moved into the U.S., buying up real estate and companies with impunity. The Canadian banking system is discussed in detail (it's monolithic) as is the growing trade relationships with Japan and the Pacific Rim. The best factoids from this section: Canadian beer. Most of the Canadian beer we see in the U.S. isn't even available in most of Canada due to strict production laws at the provincial level. Buying alcoholic beverages in Canada is a bit different, too. Special stores are set up strictly for alcohol. People go in and order what they want from the clerk. The drinks then come through the wall on a conveyor belt. I laughed when I read this because I remembered the scene in \\"Strange Brew\\" when Bob and Doug went to the liquor store and tried to claim they found a mouse in a beer bottle.<br />Malcolm spends a lot of time discussing the psychology of Canadians. It seems that most Canadians suffer from living in the shadow of the U.S. Canadians are quick to criticize the United States, even though they benefit from our presence. They also seem to suffer from an inferiority complex. Canadians are less competitive and less willing to attempt new things for fear of failure. They don't want to toot their own horn, but they hate criticism of their culture and country. Malcolm also makes much out of the regionalism of Canadians. Due to the vast geography and inclement conditions, Canadians tend to stick closer to home and have not developed the type of national unity that the U.S. or other countries have come to take for granted.<br />Malcolm has a great love for Canada, although some of his writing has an \\"aw, shucks\\" mentality to it that can be annoying at times. His descriptions of life in the Arctic Circle are fascinating and informative. I give this book three stars, not because it isn't good, but because it wasn't what I was looking for. To be fair, that's more my fault than his.mative. I give this book three stars, not because it isn't good, but because it wasn't what I was looking for. To be fair, that's more my fault than his.	2002-03-04
1640112:US	52012289	R3Q6ESBX6WU0CE	0060652934	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Intelligent Look at the Devil	The only C.S. Lewis I had ever read up to this point was the Narnia series, when I was a kid. Those were great books that probably deserve a rereading at some point, even though I'm much older now. The Screwtape Letters find Lewis waxing on his favorite topic: Christianity. The book is a series of letters from Screwtape, a high-ranking administrator in Hell, to his nephew Wormwood, who is a tempter of man. The whole book is a wicked satire that Lewis pulls off well. Not only is this book fun to read, it has a serious message, too.<br />I found myself laughing quite a bit with this book, although the laughter tends to be the nervous sort of chuckling that comes from discomfort. Too many times I found myself described within these pages. Especially when Screwtape discusses the types of laughter found among man and how these can be turned to good use in gaining souls for Hell. The most useful type of laughter for Satan is flippancy, when man laughs because he can always see a ridiculous side to everything. It is most useful because men who do this will never take anything as seriously as they should, especially the \\"Enemy\\" (the term Screwtape uses to describe God). Another interesting chapter deals with Jesus and the tendency of moderns to try to define and describe Jesus in terms that should be alien to him. Screwtape delights in efforts to make Jesus a Communist, a social theoretician or a magician/philosopher. All of these efforts divert man from whom and what Jesus really was.  Screwtape also cackles over intellectuals, who are corrupted by the historical point of view. Intellectuals don't look for truth in what they read; they analyze writing styles, context, and historicity. By not looking for the truth, they are confused and turned away from God. Other topics are covered here as well: sex, marriage, prayer, Christianity and lots more. The best part of the book, by far, is the toast Screwtape gives at the end of the book. Lewis uses this toast to launch one of the most vigorous and thorough attacks on democracy that I've had the pleasure to read. I never knew Lewis had it in him!!<br />A great book that should be read by a greater audience. I should make an effort to read more from this author. You should too. Recommended, with highest distinction.e most vigorous and thorough attacks on democracy that I've had the pleasure to read. I never knew Lewis had it in him!!<br />A great book that should be read by a greater audience. I should make an effort to read more from this author. You should too. Recommended, with highest distinction.	2002-02-26
1641198:US	52012289	R3FBLMT8Z4VQ0Q	0911038825	304561390	Behind Communism	Books	4	17	24	N	N	Essential for Research	Even a cursory interest in the so-called \\"far right\\" political movement will quickly turn up this little pamphlet. Behind Communism is available from a wide selection of groups, from Christian Identity to Neo-Nazi organizations. This is because the booklet addresses the main concern that all of these groups share: the Jews and their machinations. The cover is somewhat deceiving, as it shows a rather hazy image of Uncle Joe Stalin. This is surprising because the author admits that Stalin was one of the few non-Jews involved in the higher echelons of world Communism. It would seem a picture of Anna Pauker would be more appropriate, but apparently not. The booklet is written by Frank Britton and it seems to have been first published in 1951 or 1952, although my copy is not dated.<br />Britton starts his exegesis by examining the history of the Jews. He spends considerable space showing how their presence in Europe shaped both Christians and Jews. Christians, according to Britton, despised the Jews because of their tendency to dominate unpleasant occupations such as money lending and the like. The Jews themselves lived in self-imposed ghettos where they built up a rabid dislike of gentiles. It was from these ghettos that Communism and Zionism emerged. Britton's concern, of course, is with Communism. He sees Communism as a Jewish racial movement and that this accounts for the high percentage of Jews present in its ranks, especially at the top. Most of the pamphlet details the Russian revolution and how Jews brought about Communism. Pictures and names of prominent Jews are thrown about quite a bit. Britton points out that although Lenin wasn't a Jew, he was married to one, as was Stalin (Britton is often concerned with Jewish-Gentile marriages. He seems to feel that a Jewish bride is one step away from being a Jew.). The last section of the booklet attempts to show how Jews in America have time and again been involved in Communist plots. The Rosenbergs, Klaus Fuchs, the Hollywood Ten and others all make an appearance here. Britton finishes by listing name after name of Jews involved in Hollywood, from actors to directors to musicians.<br />I will say this is not the most hysterical anti-Jewish writing I've ever read. There is much worse out there. There are a few times Britton slips into slur, but most of the booklet tries to remain calm and reasoned. There are errors to be found. At one point, Britton points out that almost all of the Russian intelligentsia were Jews, due to educational preferences. Later, when discussing the Red Terror, Britton says that the Reds wiped out the entire upper class of Russia. If Communism is a Jewish movement, why would the Jewish Reds wipe out their racial comrades? Britton also says that Nicholas II was in the process of turning Russia into a constitutional monarchy when he was forced to abdicate. Everything I've read to date points to the contrary. Nicholas II was an autocrat who had no intention of giving up real power to the Duma or anyone else. Almost every attempt at reform made by the tsarist system was an abysmal failure. To credit Nicholas with this type of enlightenment is just wrong. Even if Nicholas was attempting this type of reform, it came WAY to late to do any good.<br />Behind Communism is an essential reference to anybody doing research on anti-Jewish groups. Reading this pamphlet alone will definitely give insights into how these people think and feel.ollywood Ten and others all make an appearance here. Britton finishes by listing name after name of Jews involved in Hollywood, from actors to directors to musicians.<br />I will say this is not the most hysterical anti-Jewish writing I've ever read. There is much worse out there. There are a few times Britton slips into slur, but most of the booklet tries to remain calm and reasoned. There are errors to be found. At one point, Britton points out that almost all of the Russian intelligentsia were Jews, due to educational preferences. Later, when discussing the Red Terror, Britton says that the Reds wiped out the entire upper class of Russia. If Communism is a Jewish movement, why would the Jewish Reds wipe out their racial comrades? Britton also says that Nicholas II was in the process of turning Russia into a constitutional monarchy when he was forced to abdicate. Everything I've read to date points to the contrary. Nicholas II was an autocrat who had no intention of giving up real power to the Duma or anyone else. Almost every attempt at reform made by the tsarist system was an abysmal failure. To credit Nicholas with this type of enlightenment is just wrong. Even if Nicholas was attempting this type of reform, it came WAY to late to do any good.<br />Behind Communism is an essential reference to anybody doing research on anti-Jewish groups. Reading this pamphlet alone will definitely give insights into how these people think and feel.	2002-02-25
1642457:US	52012289	R3IX1T5AJ1FM6E	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Tyranny of the Masses	This slim little novella is a rollicking story about Guy Montag, a \\"firefighter\\" of the future who loves his job. His job is not to put out fires, but to set them. Montag and his comrades burn books for a living. It doesn't matter what type of books, they have all been targeted for incineration. Apparently, in the America of Guy's time, the people, and especially the government, have decided that books are a bad deal. Books make people think and agonize over choices, which is a bad thing. The real goal of society should be happiness for everyone. Since no one can be happy if they are always worrying about things they read, the solution is clear. Unfortunately, many people seem to have a problem with this, at least on a subconscious level. Suicides in Guy's world are sky high, so high that they have special teams of medics go around and suck pills and other nasty poisons out of the people who have decided they don't want to live anymore. The government does try to placate the masses through mind numbing television and radio shows (see Guy's wife, Mildred). People that refuse to go along with the program are sent away, or worse. Guy wakes up when he meets a young neighbor who turns him on to the way of experiencing life. Guy eventually rebels and ends up as part of a group who memorize books to preserve them for future generations.<br />I'm leaving out lots of details to the book with this description. After all, I don't want to spoil the whole thing for you. What seems to be more important about this book is its value to today's world. Although written years ago, some of Bradbury's details are amazingly prescient. The omnipresence of television and other means of electronic control certainly ring true today. Also, the censoring of books continues unabated even now, with every type of group clamoring for some type of control over what the rest of us read. Certainly, burning books of every sort couldn't be far away. Since most people read nothing but pap these days anyway, I can imagine Plato and Milton going up in flames soon enough. Who wants to read that boring stuff when you can watch TV or go to a movie? Soon after this comes what Bradbury refers to as, \\"the tyranny of the masses.\\" If enough people don't want to do something, you better jump on the bandwagon too. Try going to work and speaking out against multiculturalism and see what happens. Throw out your TV set and tell people about doing so. You'll be branded a freak and avoided like the plague. People are cattle, plain and simple. Bradbury does seem to have some hope for our sorry condition, as can be seen at the end of the book. However, getting to that state will take some time, I'm afraid.way, I can imagine Plato and Milton going up in flames soon enough. Who wants to read that boring stuff when you can watch TV or go to a movie? Soon after this comes what Bradbury refers to as, \\"the tyranny of the masses.\\" If enough people don't want to do something, you better jump on the bandwagon too. Try going to work and speaking out against multiculturalism and see what happens. Throw out your TV set and tell people about doing so. You'll be branded a freak and avoided like the plague. People are cattle, plain and simple. Bradbury does seem to have some hope for our sorry condition, as can be seen at the end of the book. However, getting to that state will take some time, I'm afraid.	2002-02-25
1647672:US	52012289	R1Y7J8RQ9RL27U	0679785892	58271710	Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A Look Into Insanity	Just about everything other reviewers have said about this book here on Amazon.com is true. This is funny, it does try and examine the American Dream (albeit in a weird and twisted way) and it is insane. Hunter Thompson takes his attorney, Gonzo, on a twisted trip to Las Vegas to cover the Mint 400, a bike and dune buggy race sponsered by a casino owner. Then they try and cover a meeting of cops and district attorneys who are meeting in Las Vegas to figure out how to deal with the drug problem in the United States. Along the way, the two end up in crazy situations that would make even a straight person go nuts. Of course, these two are anything but straight. Before starting out on the trip they load up their car with enough dope to kill a company of Marines...<br />Needless to say, the trip ends up being more about getting high and trying to maintain than the events they are supposed to cover. The book is screamingly funny at times, scary and sad at other times. I think you'll miss out on some of the book if you've never gone on an extended freakout like Gonzo and Duke... When Duke hears the song on the jukebox and freaks out about it, I can relate... P>Some of the situations the two find themselves in are a real hoot. The observations on the Circus-Circus are a scream, and who else has been kicked out of a Debbie Reynolds concert? The two also find themselves in a possible rape rap, hotel rooms that quickly take on the appearance of a cell for mental patients, and tooling down the highways of Las Vegas being attacked by manta rays and bats. The stories are endless and funny. A theme about finding the American Dream also works its way into the story, although I think it takes a back seat to the hijinks of these two wacked out freaks... P>A weird and strange book that is worth the time. I can't comment on any of Thompson's other books because I haven't read any of them but if they are like this one, they would be worth it too. I can't believe Thompson is still alive, but he is and continues to write (I think). Give this a shot., but he is and continues to write (I think). Give this a shot.	2002-02-20
1649356:US	52012289	R1Z380UZYYGHBQ	0759609330	684362659	The Fame of a Dead Man's Deeds: An Up-Close Portrait of White Nationalist William Pierce	Books	5	117	122	N	N	William Pierce Up Close	While I was reading this book, I happened to catch a program on VH-1 about White Power music. Several clips of an interview with William Pierce were shown, and this book was clearly visible on the bookshelf over Pierce's shoulder. The author, Robert Griffin, spent a month at National Alliance headquarters and read numerous writings and books in order to compile this encyclopedic account of William Pierce, the chairman and driving force of the National Alliance. Most books concerning Pierce or the larger White Nationalism movement are hopelessly biased or just plain inaccurate. This book is different because Griffin goes out of his way to provide a fair account of the topic. Griffin is a university professor in Vermont, and it is refreshing to see that at least some academics are still capable of doing unbiased work. I think that out of all of the books I've read concerning the White Nationalist movement, this is the best one available. Most accounts are extremely hostile to the movement because they are grinding ideological axes.<br />This book is huge, running over 400 pages in length. Griffin not only conducts interviews with Dr. Pierce, he makes sure to read books that have influenced Pierce throughout his life. Griffin provides exegesis on several books and prominent figures of the movement. George Shaw's Man and Superman, Adolf Hitler and Mein Kampf, Revilo Oliver, Savitri Devi, George Lincoln Rockwell and William Gayley Simpson are all examined in minute detail by Griffin. Griffin shows how these influences are reflected in Dr. Pierce's writings and lectures. Specific chapters devote much space to Pierce's views on World War II and, of course, the Jews. Several legitimate questions are raised in the course of the book. Why do we not hear anything about how many Germans were killed after the war? About the treatment of German POWs in Allied prison camps? About the horrible mass murders in Katyn and Vinnitsa? Griffin himself realizes that he knows nothing about the number of deaths in WWII except the six million figure concerning the Jews. He had to go look up the estimates. Over 12 million Germans, 18+ million Russians, and one million Americans were killed or maimed in the war. Why is it that we don't hear about this? Pierce says that this is because the Jews control the mass media outlets in America, and that it is more important for the Jews to proclaim their victim status in order to extort money from Germany, the U.S. and other Western countries. Whether or not anybody believes this, the questions raised about WWII are interesting and will make you think. In short, the book details every aspect of Pierce's philosophy.<br />The book also shows us the personal side of Dr. Pierce. Griffin shows us the dedication of Pierce to his cause, his marriages, his upbringing and education as a physicist, and his life on his compound in West Virginia. Griffin reveals how Pierce interacts with others and even talks about Hadley, Pierce's cat. Pierce admits that he is a loner and likes working on his own schedule and at his own pace. The guy is pushing seventy and still works 12+ hours a day. That is what comes across most strongly: Pierce believes in what he is doing and still has passion for his work. The book shows that Pierce, regardless of what anyone thinks of him, cares deeply for his race and devoted his life to that purpose. Pierce threw away a career as an academic for his battle. Not many people are willing to do what Pierce has done, no matter what the movement or issue.<br />I'm glad to see this book got published. Griffin had so much trouble finding a publisher that he eventually had to make this available as an ebook. It was a bestseller on the Internet. Of course, once someone saw that a buck could be made, it got published. My only problem with the book itself is that there are a fair amount of grammatical errors and awkward sentences. At times, I had to reread a sentence to understand what Griffin was trying to say. Still, anyone with even a remote interest in this subject will find this book explosive. I suspect this will go through several printings and will be an authoritative volume for years to come.. Still, anyone with even a remote interest in this subject will find this book explosive. I suspect this will go through several printings and will be an authoritative volume for years to come.	2002-02-19
1652042:US	52012289	R233T74OA632D2	0140188266	851518000	North of South: An African Journey (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	39	45	N	N	African Travelogue	I'm trying very hard to figure out how I can review this book without coming across as an ignorant, bubble-headed liberal or a rabid racist. Hmmm... I don't think it's going to happen. North of South, by the late Shiva Naipaul, is essentially a travelogue of a trip to parts of Africa in the 1970's, specifically Kenya, Tanzania and Zambia. Welded to the descriptions of people and scenery are sharp observations on class, racism, government and colonialism. Naipaul's eye misses nothing during his travel, and his anecdotes are both humorous and sad. It was interesting to see that this guy is the brother of V.S. Naipaul, who recently won a Nobel Prize for Literature. Anyway, this book is not going to be found on the syllabus of any black studies classes anytime soon.<br />North of South reveals Africa in all of its glory: degenerate, corrupt and lazy. What really stands out is how Africans have taken Western ideas and applied them to their own situations, often with laughable results. Take the case of Tanzanian Socialism. Naipaul can barely contain a chuckle at the absurdity of this situation. Almost everyone he meets praises the administration, but almost no one has any true sense of what it's all about (to be fair, the same could be said for most nations). The corruption is truly astonishing. Bribery abounds everywhere, especially at border crossings, where tourists are routinely harassed and threatened with imprisonment if their papers aren't in order. A story in which Naipaul is conned when he gets a shoeshine is a good example. Not only does the guy ruin his shoes, he tries to overcharge him in the process. Naipaul constantly has to shell out the bucks to get even the most basic services, if he gets them at all. Hotels are run down traps, prostitution is epidemic, and beggars and the unemployed are everywhere. The few situations where something actually works are attributed to the presence of white expatriates, and even here there is the danger that the black government will step in at any minute and expel the whites.<br />Probably the most bothersome aspect of this book, and one that costs Naipaul a star in my review, is the bias Naipaul shows in regards to the \\"Asian\\" population in Africa. The \\"Asians\\" are actually of Indian descent, as is Naipaul. Naipaul reveals that Africans are prejudiced against these Indians and he seems to take it personally (what a surprise! Blacks can actually be racists!). Much time is spent on this problem and it opens Naipaul up to charges of retaliatory prejudice. Naipaul is much more effective when he shows how both blacks and whites have their racist attitudes, and how both races have been brought down together through the process of colonialism.<br />This is an obscure book that probably will never get much attention in the politically correct atmosphere of America. If you want to make a liberal's head explode, buy this book and tuck it into their stocking next Christmas. If you need a break from the multicultural crowd, this is the book for you.ment will step in at any minute and expel the whites.<br />Probably the most bothersome aspect of this book, and one that costs Naipaul a star in my review, is the bias Naipaul shows in regards to the \\"Asian\\" population in Africa. The \\"Asians\\" are actually of Indian descent, as is Naipaul. Naipaul reveals that Africans are prejudiced against these Indians and he seems to take it personally (what a surprise! Blacks can actually be racists!). Much time is spent on this problem and it opens Naipaul up to charges of retaliatory prejudice. Naipaul is much more effective when he shows how both blacks and whites have their racist attitudes, and how both races have been brought down together through the process of colonialism.<br />This is an obscure book that probably will never get much attention in the politically correct atmosphere of America. If you want to make a liberal's head explode, buy this book and tuck it into their stocking next Christmas. If you need a break from the multicultural crowd, this is the book for you.	2002-02-16
1652334:US	52012289	R3SNDB3PHXS489	1563841665	479608282	Government by Decree: From President to Dictator Through Executive Orders	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Executive Orders Can Hurt!!	This is really more of a pamphlet than a book. In a few short pages James Hirsen outlines his belief that Executive Orders pose a serious risk to American government. Executive Orders are those nifty little notes the President signs whenever he needs to do some housecleaning within the Executive branch of government. This booklet explains that these orders have existed since the earliest days of the Republic, but only in recent years have they expanded in both number and scope.<br />According to Hirsen, Clinton relied on them to circumvent the legislative process when scandals torpedoed his chances of passing his programs in Congress. Two orders from the Clinton regime are reprinted in the booklet. One deals with the issue of Federalism, the other with international treaties. Hirsen believes that the order on Federalism was an attempt by Clinton to override the 10th amendment of the Bill of Rights. Hirsen believes this order would (or could) be used by the government to take away powers traditionally awarded to the states. This order also revoked two previous orders under Reagan's watch, although Hirsen is somewhat vague on what these orders were (one required a cost-benefit analysis to be performed for federal \\"rules,\\" the other is referred to as only \\"protecting the family.\\"). Hirsen sees the other order as a means for the United Nations and environmentalist organizations to sink their meat hooks into American sovereignty. A short conclusion makes several suggestions to curb the use of Executive Orders.<br />Hirsen certainly has an agenda, but he does make points. Executive Orders can be dangerous and should only be used to change rules within the Executive branch. Hirsen's concern about the United Nations seems to be on par with that of the John Birch Society and other ultraconservative organizations. His references to Helen Chenoweth and Ron Paul would certainly endear him to those groups as well. Still, for those concerned with the increasingly autocratic stance of the government, this is a good read. At the very least, it will give some even more to worry about at night!ce of the government, this is a good read. At the very least, it will give some even more to worry about at night!	2002-02-16
1656689:US	52012289	RT12XUI7JZ3RA	0684838648	7030456	The Redneck Manifesto: How Hillbillies, Hicks, and White Trash Became America's Scapegoats	Books	5	94	106	N	N	Razor Sharp	If you decide to read this book, you are in for a major treat. This is a book unlike any other. As I read the book, I kept wondering how it ever got published. Jim Goad is one angry redneck, to be sure. His goal is to show how poor white trash has become the only acceptable scapegoat left in this country. Along the way, he rides roughshod over every type of politically correct supposition known to man. Goad doesn't care a whit about whiny blacks or liberal do-gooders. He doesn't give a fig about conservatives with their big-business loving mentality, either. Goad is concerned with one thing: the mistreatment of people, regardless of their skin color.<br />Goad reduces the ills of poor white trash to one simple formula: economic exploitation by the wealthy. Goad believes that the rich, throughout history, have consistently played off classes against each other in order to maintain their privileged status. The recent black vs. white warfare is just the latest incarnation of this exploitation. Goad disproves the widespread belief that blacks suffered alone. The majority of whites in America got here as indentured servants, many of whom were kidnapped and tossed on a boat against their will. America also served as a dumping ground for poor white criminals. The indentured servants were often treated worse than black slaves. Owners of indentured servants knew that they only had a limited amount of time to exploit these white slaves, so they worked them to a frazzle. Goad cites statistic after statistic to show that the vast majority of whites had it as bad, if not worse, than blacks.<br />Most of the book concerns razor sharp insights into white trash values. Goad looks at Elvis, Bigfoot and snake hugging Christians and sees within them new religions of the trash class. Militias and conspiracy addicts are also examined and shown to have somewhat of a basis for their paranoia. Probably the best part of the book, in my opinion, is when Goad describes a night out on the town in a poor white bar. His observations on the denizens of this bar are hilarious and sad at the same time. Most of the time that is the charm of this book: it is thigh-slapping funny. I would love to quote to you some of the witty aphorisms contained in this book, but I can't because they are so obscene. If you are not a fuzzy-wuzzy liberal, you'll laugh at this gem of a book too. After reading this book, I'm sure my reparations check is only a trip to the mailbox away. Highly recommendein a poor white bar. His observations on the denizens of this bar are hilarious and sad at the same time. Most of the time that is the charm of this book: it is thigh-slapping funny. I would love to quote to you some of the witty aphorisms contained in this book, but I can't because they are so obscene. If you are not a fuzzy-wuzzy liberal, you'll laugh at this gem of a book too. After reading this book, I'm sure my reparations check is only a trip to the mailbox away. Highly recommende	2002-02-13
1657047:US	52012289	R1FBELFMDGC3BD	0140298444	524924959	S.: A Novel about the Balkans	Books	5	25	25	N	N	The Horrors of War	The sparse title of this book reflects the contents within. Slavenka Drakulic, a Croatian journalist turned writer, has given the world one of the sparsest, depressing novels of all time. It is a pity she's not better known because she is an excellent author. This book is one of several that she has written, and I suspect it might be her best one. I only came across this book because I noticed it was a book about the Balkans, an area in which I have an avid interest.<br />The whole book is essentially the inner thoughts of S., a half Serb/half Muslim schoolteacher who finds herself caught up in the Bosnian war in the early 1990's. S. is abducted at gunpoint and sent to a camp where she quickly finds herself in the throes of dehumanization. S. and groups of other women are tormented by guards, denied adequate housing and food, and denied proper medical care. The book nosedives into insanity when S. is chosen to become an inmate of the \\"women's camp,\\" a special brothel set up to service the soldiers of the camp. S. and others are routinely raped and tortured. Drakulic tells us the details, which I will not reproduce here for reasons of decency. S. survives the camp by becoming the girlfriend of the camp commander. Eventually, S. is freed through a prisoner exchange and ends up in Zagreb with a cousin and her family. S. doesn't want to stay and ends up hitting the refugee lottery by getting a visa to Sweden. Unfortunately for S., she discovers she is pregnant by one of the soldiers involved in the rapes. S. agonizes over her condition and decides to put the baby up for adoption. The end of the book can be seen as either happy or depressing, although I tend to see it as the former, a triumph over the inhumanity of war.<br />Drakulic pulls no punches with this tale. The rapes are depicted in nauseating detail, as is the process of dehumanization practiced on all of the prisoners. Most jarring is the occasional mention of dates (can this really be happening in 1992? In Europe?). What Drakulic has essentially accomplished is shrinking down the process of war to the level of the individual. S. is one individual, and it staggers the mind to think there were thousands, or even millions, of stories analogous to hers. Certainly, referring to this character as \\"S.\\" is a way of trying to illustrate this point. A name does not matter because so many are going through this trauma. The guards of the camp certainly don't care what her name is, nor do the people in charge of this war.<br />This is a sick book full of depressing and grim stories. I'm still glad I read it, though. It is good to be reminded of war and its horrors. War is not parades and glory. War is the systematic dehumanization of one group of people by another (although both sides are often dehumanized in the process). Those of us who may live out our lives in peace because we live in the West should consider ourselves very lucky. To not have to go through the things described in this book is like winning a global lottery. S. is highly recommended by this reader.rope?). What Drakulic has essentially accomplished is shrinking down the process of war to the level of the individual. S. is one individual, and it staggers the mind to think there were thousands, or even millions, of stories analogous to hers. Certainly, referring to this character as \\"S.\\" is a way of trying to illustrate this point. A name does not matter because so many are going through this trauma. The guards of the camp certainly don't care what her name is, nor do the people in charge of this war.<br />This is a sick book full of depressing and grim stories. I'm still glad I read it, though. It is good to be reminded of war and its horrors. War is not parades and glory. War is the systematic dehumanization of one group of people by another (although both sides are often dehumanized in the process). Those of us who may live out our lives in peace because we live in the West should consider ourselves very lucky. To not have to go through the things described in this book is like winning a global lottery. S. is highly recommended by this reader.	2002-02-12
1662583:US	52012289	R1SKF174CNSZJO	0553265954	881120122	Darkness at Noon	Books	5	8	12	N	N	The Real Story on Communism	Arthur Koestler wrote this book after his disillusionment with  Communism led him to reject his Marxist beliefs. Communism is, and will always be, an intellectual movement. It is probably the only form of government that came from books and writings of intellectuals. Apologists and other types of Neo-Marxists today try and shrug off the atrocities of Communism. They say that Stalinism and the like were not really Communism but an autocracy cloaking itself in proletariat trappings. These people are wrong, of course. Communism killed more people than National Socialism ever did. Even the chaos of democratic government cannot claim the body counts of Communism. In this book, Koestler tries to show how everything went wrong.<br />The book traces the arrest, interrogation and trial of Rubashov, a fictional composite of several real figures associated with Communist Russia. The one figure that leaps to mind immediately is Leon Trotsky. Every time Rubashov rubs his spectacles on his sleeve, I think of good old Trotsky (a murderous thug who got an axe in the head in Mexico, thanks to his old pal Uncle Joe Stalin). Regardless of who Rubashov is modeled on, comrade Rubashov is in trouble here. Rubashov is one of the founding fathers of the Communist revolution and Stalin (referred to as No.1) has decided to remove him from power, as well as life. Rubashov is arrested and jailed. His interrogator turns out to be an old friend, Ivanov. After Ivanov is himself arrested, Rubashov falls into the clutches of Gletkin, a sadistic thug who eventually gets Rubashov to confess to crimes against the Party. Needless to say, the end is not pretty. In fact, the whole book is glum and rather depressing.<br />Much of the book examines Rubashov's life in flashback. We see Rubashov dispatched to smooth over problems with local Commies, a meeting with a dissident Communist that ends badly for the dissident, and the sad relationship between Arlova and Rubashov. Arlova falls prey to execution because Rubashov sells her out to keep himself alive. Like I said, this is depressing stuff. There is also a fair amount of philosophical musings on Communism as well. Personally, I have little sympathy for a character like Rubashov. It was men such as him that killed hundreds of thousands when the Communist government came to power. Under Lenin, a terror unleashed on the upper class resulted in mass death, and confiscations of grain in the countryside caused even more mayhem. Stalinism, rearing its ugly head in the 1930's, was a logical progression of Leninism and its warped visions. Koestler shows us in sparse, unremittingly grim prose the end product of these horrors.<br />I read this book fairly quickly. It is only a little over 200 pages long and is good for killing some time. A superficial knowledge of Russian Communism is helpful in understanding some of Koestler's references, although even this is not necessary to experience the terror in this book. This book was even put on the list of the 100 all-time greats of the 20th century. I can see why. Read and understand.use Rubashov sells her out to keep himself alive. Like I said, this is depressing stuff. There is also a fair amount of philosophical musings on Communism as well. Personally, I have little sympathy for a character like Rubashov. It was men such as him that killed hundreds of thousands when the Communist government came to power. Under Lenin, a terror unleashed on the upper class resulted in mass death, and confiscations of grain in the countryside caused even more mayhem. Stalinism, rearing its ugly head in the 1930's, was a logical progression of Leninism and its warped visions. Koestler shows us in sparse, unremittingly grim prose the end product of these horrors.<br />I read this book fairly quickly. It is only a little over 200 pages long and is good for killing some time. A superficial knowledge of Russian Communism is helpful in understanding some of Koestler's references, although even this is not necessary to experience the terror in this book. This book was even put on the list of the 100 all-time greats of the 20th century. I can see why. Read and understand.	2002-02-08
1669566:US	52012289	R1VFJRP8GTWT7D	0806520337	549584372	The 70 Greatest Conspiracies Of All Time: History's Biggest Mysteries, Coverups, and Cabals	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Conspiracy!	Doesn't everyone enjoy a good conspiracy theory? I know I do. Ever since I can remember, I've always enjoyed reading books about secret plots, etc. I even like reading books about weird events (UFO's, disappearances). That doesn't mean I believe in all that stuff, though. With conspiracies, some are more believable than others. With this book, seventy conspiracy theories are laid out for our consumption. It is apparent that many of these have bloomed since the advent of the Internet, a medium that has led to an explosion of paranoia amongst the public.<br />Some of the conspiracies here are old ones. MKULTRA, the CIA program for mass mind control, rears its ugly head. So do the RFK, MLK, and JFK assassinations, three conspiracies that are required for any book purporting to cover this subject. There are still many that I'd never heard of, however. Princess Diana died a few years ago, and apparently conspiracies abound about her death, although most of them are ludicrous, in extremis. The conspiracy theory that seems to have the sturdiest feet is the TWA 800 explosion. The authors raise some of the points that I myself asked during that incident. I remember seeing film footage that showed a streak of light (similar to a missile) filmed when the crash happened. It was bone chilling and I never did see it on the major networks. Also, how in the heck did the CIA get involved in this incident? The CIA put together a film showing what \\"really\\" happened to the plane. When I saw that on TV a few years ago, I asked myself this question, just as the authors do here. Why didn't the NTSB or FBI do that reenactment? Don't they have the know-how to do this? Weird. Probably the dumbest conspiracy is listed under \\"The Sorcerers\\". I let you read it and see why.<br />This is good, entertaining stuff. This book is a quick way to waste a few hours when you've got nothing else to do. I didn't care for the political bias too much. The authors really have it in for Reagan, and it shows. The writing style is often tongue-in-cheek, and I laughed out loud many times during the course of the book. Give it a try.he writing style is often tongue-in-cheek, and I laughed out loud many times during the course of the book. Give it a try.	2002-02-02
1682704:US	52012289	R2UO20MFK55G56	0395925037	589962776	Mein Kampf	Books	4	316	382	N	N	Hitler Puttin' it to Paper	Here it is, straight from the man himself. Called everything from garbage to a Satanic Bible, Mein Kampf is the written words of one of history's most important figures, Adolf Hitler. \\"My Struggle\\" was taken down in prison where Hitler was incarcerated for his failed Munich coup in 1923. Hitler waxes philosophical about his early life and aspirations, government, and a new program to lift Germany to dominance. The book is kind of tough to read at times, but other passages are remarkably lucid. This is probably due to the fact that it is a dictated account. There is endless repetition and congealed passages that will make you shake your head in incomprehension. I think the best hope for reading this book is to try and come away with the general themes of what Hitler is trying to say. Try not to get bogged down in the details or you're a goner.<br />Hitler begins the book by discussing his childhood. His father and him argued incessantly over what career Hitler should pursue. Hitler won by default (his parents died) and chose to pursue his dream of painting. He spent time in Vienna, where he began to form opinions on Marxism and Judaism. Long sections follow on Hitler's experiences in World War I, the Jews, and the failures of democracy. German foreign policy, along with its failures, is discussed in detail. Hitler never provides much evidence for his arguments, except for his condemnation of democracy, which is right on the money. Interspersed throughout his long discussions on politics and race are accounts of the rise of the NSDAP, or Nazi party. This is probably the most interesting part of the book, as Hitler outlines the growth of the party up until the Munich putsch.<br />I suspect most people will read this book to find out what Hitler says about the Jews. Hitler does discuss the Jews, mainly by outlining how the Jews gain dominance over the gentiles throughout history. Hitler sees Marxism as a Jewish phenomenon designed to enslave the Aryan world. The international financial system is seen as the cause of World War I. This same system is also described as a tool of the Jews. Hitler believed that the Jews sabotaged the German war effort from behind the lines. Jews are referred to as parasites and less than human. In general, most of the book is not about Jews, but concerns politics. The copy I bought was in the history section under Germany/Austria.<br />At times turgid and fascinating, you'll never forget reading Mein Kampf. I enjoyed this translation. I expected to see some raving monster. Instead, we see a political animal with some intense views. This book is must read for historians and World War II buffs.tional financial system is seen as the cause of World War I. This same system is also described as a tool of the Jews. Hitler believed that the Jews sabotaged the German war effort from behind the lines. Jews are referred to as parasites and less than human. In general, most of the book is not about Jews, but concerns politics. The copy I bought was in the history section under Germany/Austria.<br />At times turgid and fascinating, you'll never forget reading Mein Kampf. I enjoyed this translation. I expected to see some raving monster. Instead, we see a political animal with some intense views. This book is must read for historians and World War II buffs.	2002-01-23
1688638:US	52012289	R2MYKWS8LMPT18	014024364X	933995871	A People's Tragedy: The Russian Revolution: 1891-1924	Books	5	134	152	N	N	What a Deal!!	I picked up this book by Orlando Figes on a whim. The Russian Revolution is an interesting topic so I figured that one day I'd get around to reading this massive book. I finally read it over Christmas break, and I must say that this is an excellent history book. One of the best I've ever read, actually. It is a real page turner, something very rare for a scholarly book of this size and scope. Figes certainly has the education to pull off this type of history: he was educated at Oxford and has written other works concerning Russia.<br />Figes goes against the grain with this book. In opposition to such scholars as Richard Pipes (author of another huge tome I own but have yet to read), Figes believes that the Russian Revolution was in fact a \\"bottom up\\" revolution. Figes proves that the peasantry in Russia were sick to high heaven of a system that degraded them to a status of barely human. To the peasant, the most important thing was land and freedom from the state. All government forms, from the tsarist state to the Bolsheviks, were judged by how much autonomy the peasants earned under them. Figes actually seems to measure the success and failure of each government according to how the peasants received them. Not surprisingly, the tsarist system was a dismal failure. It's easy to be a Monday morning quarterback with history, but the tsarist regime was pathetic. The list of the problems confronting Tsar Nicholas is too numerous to list here, but what is important to note is that this regime failed them all. Land reforms were desperately wanted, but the Tsar denied them. Nationalism in the peripheral states around Russia was not only denied, but a program of Russification was instituted that caused more problems than were necessary. The list could go on and on. The problem was power. The tsarist state refused to give any ground on the autocratic principles that the Russian tsars loved so much. Figes spends a good portion of his book discussing the failures of the tsarist system and shows how that system could have averted problems and maintained the throne (although as a constitutional monarchy akin to England).<br />The other elements of government, the Bolsheviks, the Provisionals and the Whites, failed just as badly. The Provisionals were forced to tread the line between extremists and failed to reconcile both. The White regimes failed because the conservative elements that made up the bulk of the movement refused to budge on principles they enjoyed under the Tsar. Even the Bolsheviks failed, but their failure wasn't as pronounced because they were able to retain at least some semblance to the revolutionary principles that the peasants loved so much. Even here, the Bolsheviks had to make some concessions to retain power. The examination of the Communist regime is probably the most interesting aspect of this book.<br />The Communists are given heavy treatment in this text. Not only do we see how they came to power, we get huge doses of their philosophy. Figes gives a detailed examination of the intellectual currents that gave rise to the Communist movement, as well as their actions once they attained power. What emerges is a bleak picture. Communism is death to all it touches. The Bolsheviks sought to not only rule by dictatorship, but to change the very essence of man into an automaton subservient to the state. Figes shows the reader the Red Terror and some of the other methods the Bolsheviks used to try and bring about this subservience. It is a horrifying picture made worse, of course, under the rule of Stalin.<br />Figes states in his introduction that it took six years to do the research for this book. It is beautifully done and, I should mention, done by Figes himself without research assistants. I am amazed at how much information I have retained from this book, something that can't be said about many history books. I'd love to take a class from this scholar. His insights are fresh and his writing is erudite. Buy this book!ok!	2002-01-18
1690731:US	52012289	R2RXY85RT7NHNX	014044615X	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Universal Classic	Often when I read, I have the television on (but muted). Imagine my surprise when I saw a trailer for the new film Count of Monte Christo while I was actually reading the novel. I suspect that the film will in no way measure up to this monument of world literature. This book is phenomenal. It is truly a magisterial work of the ages. The copy I read was the Penguin unabridged version, which clocks in at 1,078 pages in very dense font. I've never read the abridged version, but I imagine that cutting even a small bit of Dumas' work does it a great injustice. Read the unabridged version. It takes longer but always pays off. In fact, always read the full version of any piece of literature. Why cut corners?<br />On the surface, the book seems to be a simple tale of revenge. Edmond Dantes, a young sailor with a bright future, has his life turned upside down when three men get him arrested on a false charge. Dantes ends up in prison for 14 years, where he meets a man who tells him of a hidden treasure. When Dantes escapes, he finds the treasure and emerges as \\"Le Comte de Monte Christo\\" and wreaks havoc on his enemies. Simple, right? There is so much more here than simple revenge. Dumas uses his sprawling epic to cast aspersions on the French aristocracy, as well as examining the relationship of God and man. Is man right to seek earthly revenge? Is it acceptable for man to assume the role that has been eternally given to God? It's all here in eloquent prose. Dumas also weaves into his work the European fascination of the time with anything Oriental, as some of the characters and events have a distinctive Turkish and Balkan character.  As stated above, this book is brilliant. Dumas has an exceptional eye for character, and he loads this book with plenty of interesting people. The scheming businessman Danglars, the crown prosecutor M. de Villefort, the Greek slave Haydee, and Albert Morcerf are all characters you will meet during your journey through this book. My favorite character was Monsieur Noirtier, Villefort's father. What a tough old bird! Noirtier often saves the day.<br />I was almost done with the book when I realized that I was reading a soap opera. All of the elements are there. It's the high level of melodrama that is most apparent. Eyes are constantly cast upwards towards heaven, chests are clutched in agony or joy, and sighs and blanching occur frequently. I felt sorry for the chairs and other furniture in this book. People are constantly collapsing into them over some agony or other emotional breakdown. Despite these constant emotional outbreaks, the book is still great. The book closes with the typical happy ending (even a ride off into the sunset occurs).<br />This book is a classic and you'll quickly see why within a few pages. I would sure like to read other Dumas classics, although I can't imagine when I'll find the time. His musketeer stories apparently encompass some 3000 pages in its entirety. Start with this gem and it will suffice. Robin Buss is to be credited with his translation. Devoting the time to translating this huge book certainly is a labor of love. Five stars just aren't enough!!aracter was Monsieur Noirtier, Villefort's father. What a tough old bird! Noirtier often saves the day.<br />I was almost done with the book when I realized that I was reading a soap opera. All of the elements are there. It's the high level of melodrama that is most apparent. Eyes are constantly cast upwards towards heaven, chests are clutched in agony or joy, and sighs and blanching occur frequently. I felt sorry for the chairs and other furniture in this book. People are constantly collapsing into them over some agony or other emotional breakdown. Despite these constant emotional outbreaks, the book is still great. The book closes with the typical happy ending (even a ride off into the sunset occurs).<br />This book is a classic and you'll quickly see why within a few pages. I would sure like to read other Dumas classics, although I can't imagine when I'll find the time. His musketeer stories apparently encompass some 3000 pages in its entirety. Start with this gem and it will suffice. Robin Buss is to be credited with his translation. Devoting the time to translating this huge book certainly is a labor of love. Five stars just aren't enough!!	2002-01-17
1692532:US	52012289	R31O5BH0FDPZLS	1883011493	107525114	Crime Novels: American Noir of the 1950s: The Killer Inside Me / The Talented Mr. Ripley / Pick-up / Down There / The Real Cool Killers (Library of America) (Vol 2)	Books	5	60	63	N	N	More Noir	This book is the second volume in the Library of America set on American crime noir. I enjoyed the first volume so much that I decided to read the second one during Christmas break. Once again, the LOA has done a nice job of collecting a fine series of stories. These stories were written during the 1950's and 1960's. The book is nice to look at too; it's covered in red cloth with a cloth bookmark.<br />The first story is from the demented mind of Jim Thompson. This story, called The Killer Inside Me, is much better than The Grifters, a book by Thompson that I read some time ago. The Grifters seemed to be pretty one-dimensional with respect to its characters. This story is the exact opposite. A deputy sheriff in a Texas city has a terrible secret. He plays dumb on the outside, but inside he is a cunning sociopath. A long simmering resentment leads to a terrible revenge. Bodies quickly stack up as a result. This seems to be the story that Thompson is best known for and it's no surprise why. This is a dark, twisted tale with a grim ending.<br />Patricia Highsmith wrote a whole series of stories concerning Tom Ripley. The one included here is The Talented Mr. Ripley, probably better known due to the recent film with Matt Damon. This tale isn't as noir as I would have liked, but it still has enough twists and turns to keep anybody in suspense. Ripley is a low class conniver who ingratiates himself into a wealthy family who wants him to go to Italy and bring back their son. Ripley sees the potential for bucks and meets up with the kid and his lady friend. Of course, things take a turn for the worse and the bodies start stacking up. This story was probably my least favorite out of the entire collection.<br />The next story, Pick-Up, by Charles Willeford, is a depressing tale about two alcoholics who go bump in the night. The story follows the adventures of this alcoholic couple as they attempt suicide, check themselves into a mental hospital, and drink themselves into a stupor. After the female half of the couple dies in another suicide pact, the story switches to a prison tale. The end is somewhat of a twist, but really doesn't impact the story that much, in my opinion. Again, not really noir as noir can be, but still a fine story that can stand by itself.<br />Down There, by David Goodis, is a wild ride of a tale. Full of suspense and death, this is a great story that deserves to be included here. A family of ne'er-do-wells drags their talented piano-playing brother into their personal problems. The background information on Eddie, the piano player, is phenomenal. The tragedy that has struck him once is bound to repeat itself again. This story has great bit characters that really liven up the background.<br />The final story, by Chester Himes, is The Real Cool Killers. This is noir on acid: pornographic violence, massive doses of grim reality, and characters you're glad to see get killed. The story is set in Harlem and involves two tough cops named Grave Digger Jones and Coffin Ed Johnson. Someone kills a white guy in Harlem and the cops try and track them down. This story contains one of the funniest descriptions of a person falling off a balcony that I've ever read (and I've read a few, disturbingly enough). The writing has enough similes and metaphors to give Raymond Chandler an apoplectic fit. A cool story that certainly deserves a place in this book.<br />If you like noir, read these two LOA novels. They are long (together they're almost 2000 pages) but it is definitely worth the effort. These kinds of stories are just a great way to while away some free time and relieve stress.upor. After the female half of the couple dies in another suicide pact, the story switches to a prison tale. The end is somewhat of a twist, but really doesn't impact the story that much, in my opinion. Again, not really noir as noir can be, but still a fine story that can stand by itself. <br />Down There, by David Goodis, is a wild ride of a tale. Full of suspense and death, this is a great story that deserves to be included here. A family of ne'er-do-wells drags their talented piano-playing brother into their personal problems. The background information on Eddie, the piano player, is phenomenal. The tragedy that has struck him once is bound to repeat itself again. This story has great bit characters that really liven up the background.<br />The final story, by Chester Himes, is The Real Cool Killers. This is noir on acid: pornographic violence, massive doses of grim reality, and characters you're glad to see get killed. The story is set in Harlem and involves two tough cops named Grave Digger Jones and Coffin Ed Johnson. Someone kills a white guy in Harlem and the cops try and track them down. This story contains one of the funniest descriptions of a person falling off a balcony that I've ever read (and I've read a few, disturbingly enough). The writing has enough similes and metaphors to give Raymond Chandler an apoplectic fit. A cool story that certainly deserves a place in this book.<br />If you like noir, read these two LOA novels. They are long (together they're almost 2000 pages) but it is definitely worth the effort. These kinds of stories are just a great way to while away some free time and relieve stress.	2002-01-15
1693804:US	52012289	R2D5IRUDN0B5UI	0679722580	262981597	The Continental Op	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Lots of Fun	This is the first Dashiell Hammett book I've read. It's actually a collection of short stories revolving around the exploits of the Continental Op, a nameless private dick who works for the Continental Detective Agency. The Op is a hard-nosed, intelligent guy who always cracks his cases, along with a few heads. Hammett originally wrote these as serials for magazines way back in the 1920's. That was one of the things that surprised me about these stories. I couldn't believe they were written so long ago. The edginess and violence seems much more modern. These stories could easily have been written around the time that Raymond Chandler was banging out his Marlowe stories (during the 1950's). You cannot help but like the Op. He's sarcastic and smart and operates on his own code of justice. He's the kind of guy you would want to have around if you were in trouble.<br />All of the stories are good, but some are better than others. The best story, in my humble opinion, concerned a jewel heist gone bad in which the Op ends up in a gun battle in a dark apartment. The bodies stack up quickly in this one. Other stories involve a trip to Mexico, nine \\"clews\\" that don't add up, and a theft that the Op accidentally stumbles upon. All of the stories involve murder and mayhem. I spent a lot of time trying to figure out how the stories would end while I was reading them, but Hammett always seems to make it end in an unexpected way. The writing style is quick and cool, with many neat metaphors I've come to expect from noir writings.<br />The introduction to this collection is pretty useless and boring. I recommended skipping it and going right to the meat. This is noir. Who needs an introduction? Read!	2002-01-14
1694336:US	52012289	R4JPJ14T3P27G	0394757688	849452523	The Long Goodbye	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Awesome, Again!	My second Raymond Chandler novel has elevated my opinion of him even higher than I thought possible. Chandler is an absolute master of the noir genre. His grittiness, dialogue and characters are matched by almost no one else. This book just flies by and is such a page turner that I had it finished in less than two days. Too bad Chandler wasn't more prolific; I'll have all of his stuff read by the end of the year.<br />The Long Goodbye brings Marlowe into constant conflict with lowlifes almost immediately after the book starts. Marlowe befriends a drunk who happens to be married to a beautiful, rich heiress. The only problem with this is she's a nymphomaniac and ends up dead. Marlowe helps her hubby escape and ends up in trouble with the law (of course). The rest of the book sees Marlowe hired to keep a famous author sober so he can finish his novel. Marlowe ends up entwined with the author's wife and their crazy butler, Candy. Needless to say, all of these threads wind together in the end. Even revealing this much to you in no way spoils the book. There's so much going on here that you'll be constantly wondering how Chandler is going to bring it all to a head. He does, and he does it beautifully.<br />The book is top heavy with all sorts of clever dialogue. Marlowe's putdowns lead to endless howls of laughter (at one point, he describes a guy with as having a \\"face like a collapsed lung\\"). My favorite part of the book is when Marlowe confronts the three quack doctors while trying to track down the alcoholic author. Marlowe is the man!!<br />This book should be required reading for anyone interested in noir. I'd recommend it to anyone who just likes to read. I can't wait to read more of Chandler's novels. I'll try and space his books out so they last a long time. Too bad Raymond Chandler didn't start writing at an earlier age.	2002-01-14
1695344:US	52012289	R3PUMR3T59IV05	0806126647	888238227	Bone Game: A Novel (American Indian Literature and Critical Studies Series)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Surreal	After reading the novel Bone Game, a common reaction of many readers must be confusion. There are so many visions and dreams in this novel. These visions seem to occur independent of time and space, leading a reader used to highly structured \\"Western\\" novels to throw up their hands in futility. On reflection, however, several themes can be discerned from this confusing novel. One overarching theme seems to be the pervasive force of evil that manifests itself throughout the book. Louis Owens definitely has a grasp of criminal history. He has borrowed from real life events to construct his novel. Most of the events in Bone Game occur at the University of California, Santa Cruz where Cole McCurtain works as a professor. During the early 1970's Santa Cruz suffered through a crime wave when three serial killers committed crimes there.<br />Herbert William Mullin was, by anybody's account, a strange bean. A heavy user of LSD and a frequent pot smoker, Mullin eventually suffered a serious psychological collapse. He began hearing voices that commanded him to kill people in order to prevent earthquakes from destroying Southern California.<br />Edmund Kemper embarked on a sadistic rampage of murder and mayhem that culminated with his arrest in Pueblo, Colorado in April 1973. Kemper was a giant of a man, 6'9\\" tall and 280 pounds. Inside lurked a monster. Kemper despised women, especially his mother. When Kemper began to hunt women, his mother, a UCSC employee, inadvertently aided her son's murderous desires by providing him with a parking sticker for his car. This sticker allowed Kemper to lure young college co-eds to their deaths. After killing his victims, Kemper dismembered their bodies and decapitated them. Kemper buried one particular head in the yard outside his room, with the head facing towards the house so he could \\"talk\\" to his victim.<br />The third killer was John Linley Frazier. Frazier's spree was limited to a single event in 1970, when he torched the house of a local doctor. Frazier left a note at the crime scene expressing his outrage at the exploitation of the ecosystem and the rampant materialism prevalent in American society. When arrested, it was discovered that Frazier was a rabid ecologist and a practitioner of Tarot cards. Police believed that the murders Frazier committed might have been linked to the hippie culture movement that existed in the surrounding areas of Santa Cruz.<br />This lengthy description of madness is not an attempt to skirt discussion of Bone Game. Rather, Owens uses these real events to create fictional characters that adopt, and ultimately subvert, Indian culture. Can any reader look at the hulking figure of Paul Kantner and not see Ed Kemper? The murderer in Bone Game uses a car with a UCSC parking sticker to pick up one of his female victims. Kantner even murders his mother in the same way Kemper killed his mother. Paul also admits to burying the head of one of his victims so that it faces his room, allowing him to talk to the head. Again, this is the same thing that Kemper did.<br /><br />Herbert Mullin and John Frazier are also represented in the story. Robert Malin, Cole's graduate assistant, seems to possess some of Mullin's attributes. Both Mullin and Malin (the names again share a similarity) engage in hallucinogenic experiences. Mullin takes acid and Malin takes part in the peyote ceremony. Mullin's experience with hallucinogens does not have the spiritual and healthy connotations of an Indian peyote ritual. Instead of receiving visions helpful and cleansing visions, Mullin's visions are nightmares of depravity that lead to murder. Even Robert does not share in the healthy experience of the ritual because he runs out before the ritual is finished. Robert talks about his \\"dreams\\" to kill, closely resembling Mullin's own sadistic visions. It is also important to point out that Malin seems to have adopted Mullin's fascination with earthquakes, as can be seen when he talks to Abby afterhe has abducted her.<br /><br />Frazier's fascination with ecology and the prevention of materialistic consumption are both ideas that are closely associated with Indian values. In the hands of Frazier, they become twisted beyond recognition and turned into a reason for murder and destruction. The hippie culture that Frazier was immersed in also presents a problem. The hippie culture attempted to co-opt many Indian ideas, especially the concept of community. While this may seem to be a noble goal, in the hands of Whites it had a propensity to occasionally produce a John Frazier or a Charles Manson. The hippie culture that Frazier was a part of actually does makes an appearance in Bone Game, when Paul takes Abby to a place called Elfland. Elfland is a place where white students go to take part in wacky \\"New Age\\" rituals. These rituals are actually pathetic attempts by Whites to copy Indian ritual.<br />Another important event in Bone Game that illustrates the idea of subversion deals with the Indians themselves, as people. Luther and Hoey run into a gang of criminals who deal in a sort of Indian slavery. The evil committed against the Indians here is twofold: not only is an Indian abducted and denied dignity as a human being by Whites, the Whites have also turned Indian against Indian. One of the gang is an Indian who has nothing but contempt for his own people.<br />A weird book but worth reading if you like Indian literature.has abducted her.<BR> <BR>Frazier's fascination with ecology and the prevention of materialistic consumption are both ideas that are closely associated with Indian values. In the hands of Frazier, they become twisted beyond recognition and turned into a reason for murder and destruction. The hippie culture that Frazier was immersed in also presents a problem. The hippie culture attempted to co-opt many Indian ideas, especially the concept of community. While this may seem to be a noble goal, in the hands of Whites it had a propensity to occasionally produce a John Frazier or a Charles Manson. The hippie culture that Frazier was a part of actually does makes an appearance in Bone Game, when Paul takes Abby to a place called Elfland. Elfland is a place where white students go to take part in wacky \\"New Age\\" rituals. These rituals are actually pathetic attempts by Whites to copy Indian ritual.<br />Another important event in Bone Game that illustrates the idea of subversion deals with the Indians themselves, as people. Luther and Hoey run into a gang of criminals who deal in a sort of Indian slavery. The evil committed against the Indians here is twofold: not only is an Indian abducted and denied dignity as a human being by Whites, the Whites have also turned Indian against Indian. One of the gang is an Indian who has nothing but contempt for his own people.<br />A weird book but worth reading if you like Indian literature.	2002-01-13
1695442:US	52012289	R3SKXRYPGAFYNO	0072346574	928960718	Medieval Europe: A Short History	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Informative	I read this text for a survey course on medieval history. I found the book to be better than most general history texts I've encountered in the past. The organization is superb and the writing is crisp and to the point. Oftentimes it was difficult to highlight anything because every sentence contains useful facts. Hollister writes with good humor in a subject that often lacks amusing anecdotes. The book starts with a brief view of Roman history and ends with the development of the Renaissance. There are chapters on Byzantium and Islam, as well as sections on medieval art, thought and architecture. Sidebars illuminate important medieval figures such as Hildegard of Bingen. Anybody reading this book will come away with a good foundation on medieval Europe.	2002-01-13
1710515:US	52012289	R3QOSW2GZ75WZ8	0312147619	916657026	Where White Men Fear to Tread: The Autobiography of Russell Means	Books	5	78	84	N	N	Good Autobiography	Most people have probably heard of Russell Means at some point. Means is the best known member of the American Indian Movement (AIM). AIM was the group that took over Wounded Knee in the early 1970's and engaged in numerous protests to try and bring attention to the plight of the Native American. This autobiography not only gives the reader a detailed description of the life of Russell Means, but insights into the philosophy of this revolutionary. While AIM has receded into the background quite a bit since its glory days, Means is still going strong. This book shows us why.<br />The book doesn't flinch from unpleasantness. We find out that Means' parents were abusive and that his father was an alcoholic. Russell himself became mixed up in drugs during his youth and quickly became sucked into the same alcoholic world that his father inhabited. Throughout his career as a member of AIM, Means drank constantly until he finally came to terms with this problem and discovered that his rage could be controlled. During the course of the book we see Russell being beaten up, shot, arrested numerous times, and imprisoned for his activities. This guy has seen it all, and the picture on the front of the book tells me that I would hate to be on this man's bad side. He's tough, but cares deeply for his people and what he believes in, a trait that is certainly noble and admirable.<br />What comes across most strongly in this book is how AIM helped Means find his spirituality. Before becoming conscious of his heritage, Means spent most of his time in bars drinking. Once he gained awareness of his heritage, Means took part in numerous rituals, such as the Sun Dance and crying for visions. The book goes into intricate detail in describing the importance of these rituals and how they are practiced. This spirituality helped Means to quit drinking and allowed him to begin taking care of his family (which is sprawling; he was married a lot and has many children). The element of spirituality in the book is important because for years many Indians were denied the right to practice their religious ceremonies by the federal government. Even now, according to Means, there is still opposition to some of the ceremonies.<br />The last several chapters of the book show why AIM became increasingly insignificant. Fractures within the group over spiritual matters escalated, and Means himself became wrapped up in trivial issues. Means associated himself with Larry Flynt, the Unification Church, and the Libertarian Party. All of these associations reflected poorly on what AIM tried to accomplish. The final straw seemed to be when Means defended the Indians in Nicaragua against the Communist Sandinista regime. The Indians there were being bombed and killed by the Communists, and Means spends a chapter or two showing how serious this was. American Leftists and other pro-Marxists vilified Means when he proved his case. These people just couldn't accept that Commies were killing indigenous people.<br />This is an excellent book that will make people think about their culture. I recommend this to anyone interested in Native American studies or political movements. Russell Means, whether you agree with his life or not, should be commended for standing up for what he believes in and never backing down. We should all be more like that.y in the book is important because for years many Indians were denied the right to practice their religious ceremonies by the federal government. Even now, according to Means, there is still opposition to some of the ceremonies.<br />The last several chapters of the book show why AIM became increasingly insignificant. Fractures within the group over spiritual matters escalated, and Means himself became wrapped up in trivial issues. Means associated himself with Larry Flynt, the Unification Church, and the Libertarian Party. All of these associations reflected poorly on what AIM tried to accomplish. The final straw seemed to be when Means defended the Indians in Nicaragua against the Communist Sandinista regime. The Indians there were being bombed and killed by the Communists, and Means spends a chapter or two showing how serious this was. American Leftists and other pro-Marxists vilified Means when he proved his case. These people just couldn't accept that Commies were killing indigenous people.<br />This is an excellent book that will make people think about their culture. I recommend this to anyone interested in Native American studies or political movements. Russell Means, whether you agree with his life or not, should be commended for standing up for what he believes in and never backing down. We should all be more like that.	2002-01-03
1715689:US	52012289	R2S1S4Q44YVO4Z	0534527272	654132286	Reading the Old Testament: An Introduction to the Hebrew Bible (with CD-ROM: Introduction to the Hebrew Bible)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Old Testament Information	I used this book as a primary textbook in two classes: one on the Hebrew prophets, the other a general survey of the Old Testament. I found the book to be quite readable and even enjoyable, in spots. Most of my fellow classmates grumbled about reading this book. They complained that it was boring and lengthy. However, if you have no knowledge of the OT, this book will certainly illuminate the intricacies of the Hebrew Bible. Bandstra manages to maintain a good degree of neutrality with his writing, a process that is not easy to do when writing about the Bible. There is a CD included with the book that has maps, tons of texts and other helpful information that supplements the text. If you are assigned this book for your class, don't worry. You could do much worse.	2001-12-29
1716579:US	52012289	R2EJ49GIZEAYMB	044990508X	382212990	Spider Woman's Granddaughters: Traditional Tales and Contemporary Writing by Native American Women	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A Great Collection of Stories	\\"Spider Woman's Granddaughters\\" is a collection of traditional and modern short stories concerning Native American women. With the exception of the traditional stories and myths, Indian women wrote all of the stories. This was just one text out of many assigned for a class I took on Native American religion. At first glance I really didn't think this book would be very interesting. Most of the stories looked so short in length that I couldn't imagine they could convey anything of value. I was wrong. Most of the stories here are powerful evocations of Indian spirituality. A few are downright moving on an emotional level. The editor of this book wisely placed traditional stories before more modern stories that are based on that particular tradition or myth. This makes it much easier to understand the context for certain stories. Some stories lack a traditional base and deal with extremely modern issues such as homosexuality. In short, whatever type of story you may be looking for, you can probably find it in this book.<br />Arguably the best story in the book is \\"Grace,\\" a moving tale about two Indian siblings adopted by a friendly Indian couple. The two children suffered terribly in an orphanage and don't know how to respond to the kindness they receive from the couple. The children are taught some things about their culture by the couple and begin to come around, but within a few months the father dies and the kids are sent back to the orphanage. A very moving story that is tough to read. This story alone is worth the price of the book.<br />Try to find this book if you're interested in Native American topics. I see Amazon has found some copies of the book recently. It was listed as out of print on Amazon for some time, but the copy I bought for class in the school bookstore was brand new. If you want to read this, you'll find a copy. Recommended (with conditions).	2001-12-29
1717399:US	52012289	R35AW2XYRPSIFW	0072342269	273347834	Vis-a-vis: Beginning French (Student Edition + Listening Comprehension Audio CD)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Learning French	Vis a Vis is the language book I used for my first year of college French. The instructor I had for French class only used the text for vocabulary and some of the verb charts. He also made us memorize some of the postcards in this book, much to the chagrin of many in class. His favorite method of instruction was having the class translate endless numbers of sentences, a process I thought was pretty effective in learning French grammar. I relied on the book to review examples of the sentences from class. I rarely used the exercises in the book, although the ones I did use seemed to be pretty effective learning aids. I still believe the best way to learn a language is total immersion in that language and culture (to learn French, live in France). Since it isn't easy to live in Europe without a job or lots of money, most of us have to rely on books like Vis a Vis. The book is similar to the one I used for Spanish in high school: lots of pictures and French text that explain French culture. I recommend auxiliary texts such as 501 French verbs and a LaRousse dictionary along with this book, or any other introductory French language book. The verb tables in the back of Vis a Vis are inadequate for truly learning the gist of verb conjugation. French is tough, and to learn it you will need all the help you can get.	2001-12-28
1720206:US	52012289	R1IC324HFVUNVK	0812092813	652020059	501 French Verbs: Fully Conjugated in All the Tenses in a New Easy-To-Learn Format Alphabetically Arranged (English and French Edition)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Ce Livre Est Essentiel!!!	This book is absolutely essential for anyone studying French. I can't tell you how many quizzes on French verbs I've aced because of this book. It's true that many French textbooks contain some verb conjugations, but not nearly as many as this book does, and not in the easy to find style this book uses. It isn't only the verb tenses that make this book a must have. Kendris throws in tons of other useful things, such as avoir and faire verb phrases and tons of subjunctive phrases. One of the most helpful sections contains highly detailed descriptions of the various tenses, with numerous examples to clarify the tense. Most of us can differentiate between present and past tenses, but what about pluperfect and subjunctive? This book takes you by the hand and explains what many books (and instructors) take for granted.<br />The book is a treasure trove of information on a difficult language. I still feel that to truly speak French one must live in France for some time to be totally immersed, but for classroom study this book will help greatly. Anyone who has studied languages knows the emphasis placed on conjugation. Don't be left out in the dark!	2001-12-26
1733035:US	52012289	RTEKKR9B4VT0Q	1570751811	552728243	Native American Religious Identity: Unforgotten Gods	Books	3	15	23	N	N	Academic Treatment of Important Issues	This book is an anthology on various topics relating to the issues of Indian spirituality. There are articles on the Sun Dance, Usen, NAGPRA issues, Indian law and property. Jace Weaver, a Yale academic and lawyer edited the book. Many of the articles come from the world of academe, but some come from ministers and the like. I had to read this book for a class on Indian religion and for the most part, the articles delivered. Some of the stuff here is quite hostile to European ideas and people. This is no surprise, as many pro-Indian intellectuals seem to define themselves in the context of opposition to European ideals.<br />In the style of many recent academic writings, some of the articles are seriously flawed with technical jargon. Words such as praxis, hermeneutic and discourse dominate. You know you're in trouble when you see \\"social construct\\" and \\"dominant culture\\" tossed around frequently. These words and ideas tell the reader he is deep in the universe of the politically correct multiculturalists. If the reader can get past these problems, there is a surprising amount of good information to be found. Of particular note is the excellent \\"Cherokee Folktale\\" found at the beginning of the book. One of the best pieces of literature I have read in some time! Other articles of note concern interesting interpretations of Scripture (that give such passages as John 1:1-4 a uniquely Indian aspect), a weird article on homosexuality and Indian culture that is sure to ruffle some feathers, and an article on Marx and Indian culture. The Marx article is especially noteworthy because it tries to show the reader that the best course for humanity is to revert to a sort of tribal Marxism independent of European culture. This article believes that Marxism, as we know and think of it, is closely tied to Capitalism because it relates exclusively to the European industrial system. In other words, get rid of the industrial mindset and return to a pre-industrial, tribal community. An interesting idea that is almost sure to go nowhere in the globalist system of today.<br />This book is sure to anger some while making others ecstatic. If you're used to plodding through scholarly journal articles, you'll make it through this relatively unscathed. For those who have zero background in modern Indian issues, this book might be too much. Of course, if you're reading this review, you are definitely ready to read this book. Recommended (with reservations).n interesting idea that is almost sure to go nowhere in the globalist system of today.<br />This book is sure to anger some while making others ecstatic. If you're used to plodding through scholarly journal articles, you'll make it through this relatively unscathed. For those who have zero background in modern Indian issues, this book might be too much. Of course, if you're reading this review, you are definitely ready to read this book. Recommended (with reservations).	2001-12-14
1747683:US	52012289	R19ENU8E94WS6N	0553277375	12279843	Future Shock	Books	4	94	106	N	N	Shock This!!	Alvin Toffler is one crackerjack sociologist. He wrote a series of books concerning the direction of society, the first being this book, Future Shock. Future Shock was written in 1970, and it must have caused a sensation at the time. Toffler examines so many sociological issues that the mere scope of this book is mind-boggling. Toffler went on to write The Third Wave and Powershift, both of which I have not read. While some of Toffler's theories in this book did not pan out, most the observations he makes are eerily true.<br />Toffler's main argument is that humanity, as of 1970, is in the midst of an enormous shift from an industrial society to a super-industrial society. This new society will be characterized by such things as an acceleration of images, words, ideas, and technologies that could possibly overwhelm mankind (Sound familiar? Watch the news tonight and see how many graphics float by on the screen). Mankind will suffer a serious disconnect when these new ideas reach their fruition (if not well before then). This disconnect is \\"future shock,\\" an inability to process the enormous amounts of information and change associated with the super-industrial revolution. Toffler likens future shock to the same sort of disorientation that a person experiences when he moves to a new area, or a new country, and suffers a severing of all he has known. While some people can adjust with seeming ease to this kind of dislocation, most of us suffer various maladies from this \\"shock.\\" Toffler ends up attributing most of societies ills to this jarring social shock. Crime, drug use, the disintegration of society, the burgeoning of quasi-religious movements: all of these are symptoms of a society that can no longer cope with the vast amounts of information and change that technology is bringing about.<br />These changes involve education, work, government and other dimensions of life. Toffler believes that we should not be afraid to scrap massive sections of any of these areas if doing so can improve our chances of adjusting and functioning within the new society. Toffler proposes forming numerous groups that would deal exclusively with trying to take charge of the situation so that a safer, slower future will come about. Toffler even supports oversight of technology so that any new products or ideas can be examined to determine their effects on society at large (a big no-no to big business).<br />Some of Toffler's visions are pretty impressive. Toffler predicts that work will increasingly be made up of short-range ad hoc committees that would tackle specific problems within a company. This is certainly true today, although the hierarchy is still alive and well in the business community. Toffler also saw the explosion in the entertainment industry, even though some of his ideas are pretty weird and have yet to be realized. Such ideas as genetic engineering and cloning are still in the formative stages, but Toffler mentions them here as well.  One of the more interesting observations in this book concerns the structure of the family. Toffler sees divorce as a problem, and he proposes the idea of short-term contractual marriages as a possible solution. I whole-heartedly support this idea if it doesn't involve alimony payments! He also believes that children could be farmed out to families whose sole purpose in society would be to take care of kids. Kind of like daycare, except the little rugrats won't come home at the end of the day.<br />There really isn't any reason to read this book today unless you're a sociologist, interested in seeing the same old day-to-day stuff in a new way, or just interested in seeing how freaky some of Toffler's ideas are. Mr. Toffler does come off as a huge socialist, and that's a bit scary. Still, this is an intelligent book written in an easy style. You could do a lot worse than reading this one.s if doing so can improve our chances of adjusting and functioning within the new society. Toffler proposes forming numerous groups that would deal exclusively with trying to take charge of the situation so that a safer, slower future will come about. Toffler even supports oversight of technology so that any new products or ideas can be examined to determine their effects on society at large (a big no-no to big business).  <br />Some of Toffler's visions are pretty impressive. Toffler predicts that work will increasingly be made up of short-range ad hoc committees that would tackle specific problems within a company. This is certainly true today, although the hierarchy is still alive and well in the business community. Toffler also saw the explosion in the entertainment industry, even though some of his ideas are pretty weird and have yet to be realized. Such ideas as genetic engineering and cloning are still in the formative stages, but Toffler mentions them here as well.  One of the more interesting observations in this book concerns the structure of the family. Toffler sees divorce as a problem, and he proposes the idea of short-term contractual marriages as a possible solution. I whole-heartedly support this idea if it doesn't involve alimony payments! He also believes that children could be farmed out to families whose sole purpose in society would be to take care of kids. Kind of like daycare, except the little rugrats won't come home at the end of the day.<br />There really isn't any reason to read this book today unless you're a sociologist, interested in seeing the same old day-to-day stuff in a new way, or just interested in seeing how freaky some of Toffler's ideas are. Mr. Toffler does come off as a huge socialist, and that's a bit scary. Still, this is an intelligent book written in an easy style. You could do a lot worse than reading this one.	2001-12-03
1752083:US	52012289	R3LR2ZK2MOI3EM	0140115765	52100239	Utz	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beautifully Constructed	(...) This slim book sure doesn&#8217;t look like much on first inspection. The main character certainly doesn&#8217;t look interesting; he is a Czech porcelain collector during the Czechoslovakian Communist era. However, looks can and are deceiving, as we all know.<br />This book is actually a strong indictment against Communism. Chatwin shows his readers lots of little annoying details of the Communist state. Utz collects porcelain figures and constantly has to be on the lookout for government officials who want to confiscate his collection on behalf of &#8220;the people.&#8221; Along the way we get a neat little history of porcelain and a heck of a surprise ending. What Chatwin seems to try and say with this book is that life in a Communist state is one of hidden personality. People and places aren&#8217;t what they appear to be. The surface image is a carefully cultivated façade that protects a person from the sudden dangers that can happen anytime within a totalitarian state. Chatwin is also a master storyteller. He is one of those rare people that can insert little stories within stories without distracting from the larger picture.<br />Sparse but full of depth, Utz is an excellent read. I suspect that Chatwin&#8217;s other novels are at least as much fun as this one. I give thanks to one of my favorite people for posting a review on this book. Now I can pass the word. Recommended.	2001-11-29
1778300:US	52012289	RPBHNYZJZJ7PZ	1883011469	393057704	Crime Novels: American Noir of the 1930s and 40s: The Postman Always Rings Twice / They Shoot Horses, Don't They? / Thieves Like Us / The Big Clock / ... a Dead Man (Library of America) (Vol 1)	Books	5	68	77	N	N	Noir, Baby!!!	The Library of America is a first-class organization. The LOA is consistently reprinting volumes of literary achievement by the most notable authors in American history. They have reprinted everything from political speeches to poetry to historical works. This volume is the first in a two volume set dedicated to American noir stories. The stories in this book were written in the 1930's and 1940's in what seems to be the golden age of the genre.<br />The first story is from James Cain, and it's a whiz-bang of a tale. I had heard of &quot;The Postman Always Rings Twice&quot; before, mainly in reference to the two film versions of the story. This is one dark read. Adultery and murder never seem to mix, and it sure doesn't here, either. Told in first person narration, a drifter gets himself mixed up with a washed up beauty queen who is tired of her Greek husband. The result is classic noir: a conspiracy to murder the poor schmuck and run off together. As usual, the murder brings about tragic consequences. This story has more twists and turns than you can imagine. The ending is especially atmospheric. This is certainly one of the best stories in the book. I always like to see a story where the blackmailer gets a good beating.<br />Horace McCoy's &quot;They Shoot Horses, Don't They?&quot; is next in line. This is another great tale that was made into a film in the 1960's starring Hanoi Jane Fonda and Gig Young. The movie is soul shattering, with depictions of dehumanization in the neighborhood of &quot;Schindler's List.&quot; The story is not quite as good, but it still packs a heck of a punch. The story is set in Depression-era America and depicts the horrors of a dance marathon. These marathons were apparently quite popular during the 1930's, until they were ultimately outlawed. Contestants were required to dance for hundreds of hours with only ten minute breaks every two hours. The couple that lasted the longest won a thousand or so dollars. The public would come and pay admission to watch this sorry spectacle. It's like poking sticks at animals in a cage. This story is loaded with dark depression and sexual innuendo. The conclusion is suitably depressing to merit a noir award.<br />&quot;Thieves Like Us&quot; was pretty substandard when compared to the other stories in this book. This one really didn't seem to have those noir elements that I like so much. Actually, it's more of a Bonnie and Clyde type story. A penitentiary break leads to a crime spree across Texas. Banks are robbed and cops are killed while the gang lives on the lam. A relationship between Bowie, the main character, and a girl named Keechie really doesn't add much interest to the story. There is some good dialogue and a bit of desolate atmosphere, but not enough to lift this to the level of noir. I don't know why this story is included here. Try and guess how the story ends (the clue is &quot;Bonnie and Clyde&quot;). I hope that Edward Anderson's other stories are better.<br />Kenneth Fearing's &quot;The Big Clock&quot; is excellent, and brings the level of the book back up to where it should be. Set in a magazine publishing house, this tale is sleek and smart. The story is told in first person narration, but Fearing shifts the narration to various characters in the story. These constantly changing viewpoints turn the story into a roller coaster ride of epic proportions. An editor at the company makes the mistake of sleeping with the boss's woman. When this lady turns up dead at the hands of same boss, all heck breaks loose. This story is riveting and has a great ending that is all suspense. A must read.<br />William Lindsay Gresham wrote &quot;Nightmare Alley&quot; after some discussions he had with some carnival workers. This story is the longest one in the book and is a decent addition to the volume. Full of unpleasant images of murder, swindle, cynicism and downright perversion, you won't be disappointed when this one comes to an end. A scheming magician decides to take his con to the big time by posing as a Spiritualist minister, and as usual, the end result is tragedy all around. This story is downright depressing, and if you don't feel sorry for Gyp, you have got a problem. I didn't really care too much for the (...) addition of the black Communist towards the end of the book. Gresham had a flirtation with the Redski movement, so this apparent insertion makes some sense in that context. It goes nowhere in the story, however. There are some other holes in the plot but overall this is an entertaining story.<br />The final tale comes from the sumptuous pen of Cornell Woolrich. &quot;I Married a Dead Man&quot; becomes instantly familiar within a few pages, mostly due to the numerous films that have copped the plot. The writing here is far superior to any of the other stories in the book. I'd say it's far superior to most writing in general. The metaphors are extraordinary. Look for the description of Bill lighting his cigarette in the doorway. Wow! The story centers on a case of mistaken identity with a strong dose of blackmail thrown in for good measure. Of course, there's also a murder. This story is outstanding.<br />Overall, if you are just starting to read noir, start with these two volumes. It is good to see some of the best noir has to offer, and you will find some of it in these pages. The book clocks in at 990 pages, but it reads really fast. There is also a nice summary concerning the careers of each author at the back of the book. Recommended.ides to take his con to the big time by posing as a Spiritualist minister, and as usual, the end result is tragedy all around. This story is downright depressing, and if you don't feel sorry for Gyp, you have got a problem. I didn't really care too much for the (...) addition of the black Communist towards the end of the book. Gresham had a flirtation with the Redski movement, so this apparent insertion makes some sense in that context. It goes nowhere in the story, however. There are some other holes in the plot but overall this is an entertaining story.<br />The final tale comes from the sumptuous pen of Cornell Woolrich. &quot;I Married a Dead Man&quot; becomes instantly familiar within a few pages, mostly due to the numerous films that have copped the plot. The writing here is far superior to any of the other stories in the book. I'd say it's far superior to most writing in general. The metaphors are extraordinary. Look for the description of Bill lighting his cigarette in the doorway. Wow! The story centers on a case of mistaken identity with a strong dose of blackmail thrown in for good measure. Of course, there's also a murder. This story is outstanding.<br />Overall, if you are just starting to read noir, start with these two volumes. It is good to see some of the best noir has to offer, and you will find some of it in these pages. The book clocks in at 990 pages, but it reads really fast. There is also a nice summary concerning the careers of each author at the back of the book. Recommended.	2001-11-09
1780584:US	52012289	R39TSI8GJ224WU	0679732489	352461005	The Grifters	Books	3	5	14	N	N	Average Noir	I'm slightly disappointed by this Jim Thompson effort. After reading many reviews on most of his books, I expected much more from his writing. Most of the reviews are glowing, so I figured that I'd have a good time reading this. I will say that this book is a fast read. I read it in a few short hours. However, my biggest problem with \\"The Grifters\\" is that it lacks dimension. With the exception of a few scenes, the characters just aren't that interesting. Also, the writing isn't as snappy as I thought it would be. After reading Chandler and some other noir stories, I expected lots of metaphors and some cool, slangy language. Having said all of this, there is still some good stuff in this book. The end of the book is especially interesting, and some of the background sketches of the characters are a lot of fun, although these sketches should have been fleshed out more.<br />There are three main characters in the book: Roy Dillon, his mother Lilly, and Roy's sometimes girlfriend, Moira. All three are pretty much without scruples. Roy works as a salesman while he runs petty cons on the side. Lilly is a cynical, scheming woman without a trace of morality. She makes her living working the racetrack. Moira is pretty much a prostitute who lives off her body and wits. When all three of these scummy characters get together, trouble follows. Thompson also throws in an Oedipal complex for Roy and some violent scenes with Lilly. I won't go into further details because I shouldn't spoil the plot.<br />This book is still worth reading because it does have some gritty atmosphere that any good noir tale should never be without. I'm not going to give up on Thompson just yet. I'll definitely get around to reading a few of his other books because I feel that there may be \\"gold in them thar hills\\" to be found. This is an average book that could (and should) have been much better. If you've never seen the film, watch it some time.	2001-11-07
1780612:US	52012289	R2B7DN32DEX4WG	0393320979	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation (Bilingual Edition)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Nothing Less Than Five Stars	I imagine almost everyone has heard of or read Beowulf. It's the kind of book that is excellent to read as a child because it's full of neat battles and lots of bravado. This new edition by Seamus Heaney seems to be a better version then the one I remember reading as a child. Many translations attempt to turn this tale into a prose story. Heaney's translation tries to show Beowulf as it really was: an oral poem that was told around endless campfires until it was finally written down. The epic of Beowulf is most notable for showing how Christianity influenced the warrior class in early Europe.<br />Beowulf contains tons of early medieval imagery. Everything from references to early Christianity to the codes of the warrior class can be found in this poem. Gold takes on a magical aura, and evil skulks incarnate in the forms of Grendel and his mother. Even if you're not looking for any symbolism, this is still a cracking good adventure/fantasy tale.<br />Mounds of books and monographs have been written on Beowulf. Even such an august personage as J.R.R. Tolkien delved into the depths of this epic. Heaney's version includes the original language of the poem, side by side with the English translation. This in itself is a real treat, as we can see where are language eventually came from (albeit through a long, circuitous route!). I dare you to decipher the original words!<br />There's not much more to say, I suppose. If you're not familiar with the poem, buy it here or check it out of a library. If you're white, you should learn more about where you came from! Recommended.	2001-11-07
1782607:US	52012289	R1BYJ9F9TRI31E	0060929782	318363039	Black Boy (The Restored Text Established by The Library of America) (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	54	64	N	N	Autobiography	Richard Wright is considered by many to be one of the premier Black American writers of the 20th century. He wrote a long string of books and essays before his death in 1960. Wright even wrote thousands of haiku poems and some plays. His best-known novel is probably \\"Native Son,\\" a novel that takes a close look at Black America and it's relation to the penal system. Wright overcame huge obstacles to take a place among the great writers of his day, although I suspect he is more appreciated these days, when minority writers are all the rage. This book, aptly subtitled \\"American Hunger,\\" is Wright's account of his tumultuous upbringing in the Jim Crow American South and his subsequent exodus to Chicago. The \\"Hunger\\" refers to both a physical hunger of poverty and a mental hunger for knowledge.<br />Most of the book concentrates on Wright's troubled childhood. His father abandoned the family at a young age, and for most of his youth Wright was bandied about amongst his frail mother, his psycho-religious grandmother, and a string of uncles and aunts. Wright rarely attended school, and when he did, he almost never stayed for more than two years in a row. His main occupation was trying to find work to feed his family and save for his trip to the North. Along the way Wright gives us many interesting stories about his youth and about the American South. Wright drank liquor heavily before he was seven, lived in a whorehouse, and even spent time in an orphanage. Despite all of these obstacles, Wright still managed to teach himself how to read and write. He was reading Sinclair Lewis and Theodore Dreiser in a time when to do so could spell disaster for a<br />Black man. His accounts of the discrimination he encountered while working in the South are pretty disturbing. Wright was threatened with bodily injury, pitted against his fellow Blacks, and forced to run errands for White workers during his lunch hour. Wright really brings home the dehumanization that a system like Jim Crow brings about. Wright himself had a tough time staying out of trouble because it was difficult for him to play \\"step `n fetchit.\\" Whites seemed to sense his intelligence and most felt threatened by his mental faculties.<br />Wright left the South behind and headed North to what he felt would be a better life. It was, to some extent. It was easier to find work, although prejudice still followed him. Be sure and read about his job at the laboratory. It's a hoot! I can sympathize with him about people stepping on floors while they're being mopped. I've gone through that and felt the same rage Wright did. It was also in the North that Wright began his long dalliance with the Communist Party. This is the best part of the book, in my humble opinion. Wright candidly reveals the failings of Communism. According to Wright, the Communist party spent more time on internal bickering than trying to bring about revolution. There's even an incident where a certified lunatic ends up in a high position in a pro-Communist group. Wright himself suffered endless character assassination because he was an \\"intellectual,\\" a big no-no in pro-Stalinist Communism. In short, Wright shows us that Communism, when taken from the ideal to reality, is a huge sham.<br />The biggest problem with this book is that it just seems to end with little fanfare. I would have been interested in hearing about Wright's trips to Europe and his stay in France. Still, this is an adequate book that gives a perspective that is often overlooked. I suspect that Wright would not be very impressed with the ghetto culture of today's world. Wright believed that Blacks have to lift themselves up and get out of poverty. Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton would not be friends of Richard Wright. Overall, this book is well written and contains interesting anecdotes. Recommended.ow brings about. Wright himself had a tough time staying out of trouble because it was difficult for him to play \\"step `n fetchit.\\" Whites seemed to sense his intelligence and most felt threatened by his mental faculties.<br />Wright left the South behind and headed North to what he felt would be a better life. It was, to some extent. It was easier to find work, although prejudice still followed him. Be sure and read about his job at the laboratory. It's a hoot! I can sympathize with him about people stepping on floors while they're being mopped. I've gone through that and felt the same rage Wright did. It was also in the North that Wright began his long dalliance with the Communist Party. This is the best part of the book, in my humble opinion. Wright candidly reveals the failings of Communism. According to Wright, the Communist party spent more time on internal bickering than trying to bring about revolution. There's even an incident where a certified lunatic ends up in a high position in a pro-Communist group. Wright himself suffered endless character assassination because he was an \\"intellectual,\\" a big no-no in pro-Stalinist Communism. In short, Wright shows us that Communism, when taken from the ideal to reality, is a huge sham.<br />The biggest problem with this book is that it just seems to end with little fanfare. I would have been interested in hearing about Wright's trips to Europe and his stay in France. Still, this is an adequate book that gives a perspective that is often overlooked. I suspect that Wright would not be very impressed with the ghetto culture of today's world. Wright believed that Blacks have to lift themselves up and get out of poverty. Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton would not be friends of Richard Wright. Overall, this book is well written and contains interesting anecdotes. Recommended.	2001-11-06
1788836:US	52012289	R2U7TF227UHCKI	0306810212	223399972	Thunder At Twilight: Vienna 1913/1914	Books	4	73	75	N	N	Excellent	In the first pages of this book, author Frederic Morton reveals the reason he has such an interest in Austrian history. His grandfather died in World War I and his father came to the United States from Vienna. If you read books such as Rebecca West's Black Lamb and Grey Falcon, you can't help but hate the Habsburg monarchy that ruled for centuries over Austria and much of Eastern Europe. The Austrians shamelessly mistreated their subjects, using divide and conquer strategies to keep their client states in line. The Austrians also looted the distant reaches of their vast holdings for Austrian benefit. Many of the difficulties found in the Balkans today can be traced to the inept government of the Austrian Empire. That's one view. The other can be found in this exquisitely majestic book. This text is not a panegyric to Habsburg rule, however. Rather, it is a tribute to the fabulous city of Vienna during the waning days of empire, when World War I was looming on the horizon of time.<br />Vienna is presented as an international city that attracted numerous historical figures. According to Morton, within a period of months Vienna was home to Adolf Hitler, Josef Broz (known to history as Marshal Tito), Uncle Joe Stalin, Leon Trotsky and Sigmund Freud. These characters lived out their own private paths to destiny within blocks of each other. Morton really makes these people come alive with his narrative. We see Hitler in a homeless hostel where he has his own personal chair that no one dares to sit in and occasionally launches into oratorical tirades against Jews and foreigners. Tito works at a car factory and likes to scope out chicks on the weekends (which is much easier to do when you don't have a chest full of medals!). Trotsky indulges himself in French literature and lively debate at the cafes, where he has a brief encounter with a dour Stalin. Sigmund Freud engages in an intellectual war with Carl Jung and writes numerous papers in psychology that would come to form much of what the common man knows about that discipline. Stalin arrives to research a pamphlet before returning to Russia and a three-year stretch in Siberia. What all of these stories ultimately prove is that Vienna was truly a hub of Europe and an important city of the time. It's still pretty neat to think about all of these huge figures moving about in the same city at the same time, though. Morton shows us how almost all of these figures were influenced by their time in Vienna. Hitler talks about it in Mein Kampf and Trotsky wrote about it as well. About the only figure that doesn't seem to be changed is Stalin, who stomps and grumbles about in shabby peasant clothes. It was interesting to learn that Stalin beat Lenin at chess seven times in a row, though!<br />What Morton succeeds in doing with this book is humanizing history. Today we only see Hitler in old newsreel footage screaming his head off at rallies. In Vienna, Hitler often gave money to his fellow boarders who can't afford food or rent. Sigmund Freud, who always looks so stodgy in those old pictures, loved to hunt mushrooms with his children while wearing outlandish local garb. Even the Habsburgs are painted with a brushstroke of decency. Franz Ferdinand, the sullen heir to the throne who was assassinated at Sarajevo in June 1914, comes off much better here than in most history books. Morton paints him as a dove surrounded by hawks. Franz constantly tries to avert war, especially with Serbia. Of particular note is the relationship the archduke had with his wife, Sophie Chotek. Chotek, who Morton constantly refers to as \\"morganatic,\\" was not of the right blood to marry a Habsburg heir. She rarely got to share in the royal activities, and when she did, courtiers of the archduke's father, Franz Joseph, belittled her endlessly.<br />The end of the book shows us the dramatic countdown to war, as the archduke and his wife drive to their deaths and into history. The account of the assassination is very interesting and well worth the read. I feel it rivals the Kennedy assassination in terms of sheer incompetence and idiocy. When someone tosses a bomb at the archduke's motorcade, these morons actually continue the procession! Franz Ferdinand's security detail should have been shot for this action alone. Of course, the procession wasn't stopped and the result was war. The whole mess reeks of conspiracy.<br />This is an excellent book that can really spark an interest in history. Morton uses lots of sources, such as newspapers, to convey the actual feel of the time. A few pictures thrown in helps to place faces with names. Often, Morton tells us what the weather was like on a certain day before he unfolds the events. This gives the text an insight often missing in scholarly accounts. We can almost see things happening. That being said, this really isn't a book I would use for research. It is more of an interpretative text to provide entertainment. If I were teaching a class on this time period, I would assign this book in conjunction with other, more serious books. Very nice, indeed!eresting and well worth the read. I feel it rivals the Kennedy assassination in terms of sheer incompetence and idiocy. When someone tosses a bomb at the archduke's motorcade, these morons actually continue the procession! Franz Ferdinand's security detail should have been shot for this action alone. Of course, the procession wasn't stopped and the result was war. The whole mess reeks of conspiracy.<br />This is an excellent book that can really spark an interest in history. Morton uses lots of sources, such as newspapers, to convey the actual feel of the time. A few pictures thrown in helps to place faces with names. Often, Morton tells us what the weather was like on a certain day before he unfolds the events. This gives the text an insight often missing in scholarly accounts. We can almost see things happening. That being said, this really isn't a book I would use for research. It is more of an interpretative text to provide entertainment. If I were teaching a class on this time period, I would assign this book in conjunction with other, more serious books. Very nice, indeed!	2001-10-31
1793902:US	52012289	R21CGWM8GMMAM5	0140188479	738503075	Black Lamb and Grey Falcon: A Journey Through Yugoslavia (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	174	182	N	N	Wonderful	Love it or hate it, anyone with an interest in the Balkans will eventually have to deal with this book. Rebecca West is one of the giants of 20th century literature. Never heard of her? I hadn't either until I read this sprawling opus. Don't be put off by the size of the book, however (West herself writes that most people probably won't read this book because of the massive length). Black Lamb and Grey Falcon is a travelogue detailing West's travels through 1930's Yugoslavia. The book goes far beyond travelogue as West intersperses massive doses of Slavic history and philosophy with her travel accounts. Not only do we see the things she sees, we understand the mentality of the people. These people she meets and places she visits become almost mystical under her magical pen. I read this book over a six week period at the end of the summer. Like West on her travels, I meandered through the book, reading it religiously at times and then setting it down for a bit to read other things. This might be the best way to read the book. It allows the reader to absorb what West is trying to say without being overwhelmed by the immense amounts of information.<br />I have to say that I was most fascinated by her discourses on Yugoslav history. Balkan history can be a challenge because most of us in the West really don't understand the people or places involved. A section on the assassination of Franz Ferdinand runs on forever and never becomes boring. In fact, I became so enraptured of this event that I started reading other works concerning the assassination. Even though there are some problems with West's interpretation of history, her accounts are so well written that it makes the reader want to go out and read more about these events.<br />Many have criticized Rebecca West for her bias and her tendency to simplify history. This is a valid concern. Her most serious transgression is her rabid hatred of anything German. It literally infects parts of the book with a somber, unpleasant tone. Right from the beginning of the book we see West criticizing a group of German tourists who are on a train with her as she travels into the Balkans. The bias finds greatest expression when West writes about her relationship with her Yugoslav guide Constantine and his wife Gerda. Constantine is a Jew and a Slav, but Gerda is a German whom West seems to believe is a Nazi. West's slanders on Gerda are endless, so much so that Constantine himself eventually turns against West. What is important to remember is that West is English and World War II was only a few years away. West actually wrote this book a few years after her trip, in 1941, so war was already raging between the two countries. If I were a German, I would be offended by West's comments.<br />Please read this book. I guarantee you'll enjoy it, at least to some extent. Even if you don't like history, the descriptions of the Yugoslav people and places are enchanting. I wanted to hop on a plane and go to Yugoslavia after reading this book, although it's important to remember that this account was written during World War II and before the Communist occupation that followed the war. I imagine things have changed quite a bit in this part of the world since the 1930's. What prose! What endless beauty! Images that flow like honey! Read this and dream!!sant tone. Right from the beginning of the book we see West criticizing a group of German tourists who are on a train with her as she travels into the Balkans. The bias finds greatest expression when West writes about her relationship with her Yugoslav guide Constantine and his wife Gerda. Constantine is a Jew and a Slav, but Gerda is a German whom West seems to believe is a Nazi. West's slanders on Gerda are endless, so much so that Constantine himself eventually turns against West. What is important to remember is that West is English and World War II was only a few years away. West actually wrote this book a few years after her trip, in 1941, so war was already raging between the two countries. If I were a German, I would be offended by West's comments.<br />Please read this book. I guarantee you'll enjoy it, at least to some extent. Even if you don't like history, the descriptions of the Yugoslav people and places are enchanting. I wanted to hop on a plane and go to Yugoslavia after reading this book, although it's important to remember that this account was written during World War II and before the Communist occupation that followed the war. I imagine things have changed quite a bit in this part of the world since the 1930's. What prose! What endless beauty! Images that flow like honey! Read this and dream!!	2001-10-27
1799890:US	52012289	R1XHGSLBZ8UQCC	0394758269	849689287	The High Window	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Whoo-Hooo!!	I decided to give this Raymond Chandler novel a shot after a vexing round of midterm examinations. If I didn't read something light and entertaining, my head would have exploded! I'd never read noir before, but I found this book to be pretty representative of what one pictures when one thinks of noir: seedy characters and snappy dialogue in a big, dark city teeming with danger. Chandler apparently gave new life to this genre when he wrote a few (an unfortunate few) crime novels starring Phillip Marlowe, a private detective who has since become immortalized in film and T.V. Chandler didn't even start writing these books until he was in his late 50's. Thank goodness he did write them, because this book is a real hoot!<br />The High Window finds Marlowe on the trail of a missing coin called the Brasher doubloon. Within a few pages we begin to see an endless parade of seedy and suspicious characters, such as Mrs. Murdock, a port-drinking hothead who hires Marlowe to find the coin. Other characters include a scummy nightclub owner, a couple of dirty dames, and a cast of supporting characters both wicked and wise. At the center of it all is Marlowe, doggedly pursuing the truth through all the deceits and danger. I really can't go into the story because doing so would probably ruin the suspense for anyone who hasn't read the book. Just be prepared to see some wacky characters and great scenes.<br />This book wouldn't be worth mentioning at all if it weren't for the dialogue. The language in this book is so clever and snappy that it literally makes the story. You'll howl out loud at some of the smart quips Marlowe tosses off as he tries to track down the doubloon. Another interesting aspect of the book is that everything occurs in the present tense. There is almost no history to know or anything in the future to worry about. This makes the story scream along at a fast pace; so fast that you won't want to put the book down. I never really thought I'd care for crime noir, but this book makes me want to read more! Recommended.this book makes me want to read more! Recommended.	2001-10-23
1820989:US	52012289	R11FHIQUBSE9ZB	0826315453	728447113	Ghost Singer: A Novel	Books	3	3	10	N	N	More Than Meets the Eye	This book is a supernatural thriller but with a twist. All of the main characters are American Indians. Actually, calling this book a supernatural thriller is sort of a misnomer, because there is much more here then chills and thrills. At various times throughout the book we get strong doses of history, philosophy, and religion. I dont really know much about the author except that she is a woman, and probably an Indian herself. Her main focus here seems to be on the Navajo tribe, as most of the really important characters are members of that tribe, and many scenes in the book take place in New Mexico and Arizona. Im pretty surprised to see that there arent any other reviews of this book on Amazon.com, especially since this book has been in print since 1988.<br />It is really impossible to condense the plot into a few sentences without resorting to mere superficialities. Ill try, however. A museum in Washington is having some scary encounters with spirit people, or Indian ghosts. It seems that artifacts from long dead tribes, which are in storage in the museums attic, still contain the essence of those to whom the items originally belonged. These spirits are upset, to say the least, and when people start committing suicide after seeing these spirits, something must be done to put a stop to the madness. That is one of the main points of the book, but it by no means includes more than a small percentage of the storyline. There are numerous subplots involving Indian slavery, Indian elders and their importance to the younger Indian generations, and tribal representatives working to get Indian artifacts returned to tribes. Almost all of these issues are examined from the viewpoint of Indians.<br />There are some serious flaws. All of the white people in the book are portrayed as either victims or ignorant boobs. At least the hate whitey rhetoric is kept to a minimum, but its still there. The Indian characters themselves are portrayed as successful, emotionally secure people. Several of the characters are university students, some are tribal representatives, and others are elders who are literal fonts of sagacity in their old age. This is in stark contrast with how most Indians live today. Many languish on reservations with nothing more than a welfare check and a ramshackle house to their name. This portrayal of Indians as largely successful people seems to do a great disservice to the many who have nothing. But its also nice to see that this isnt the usual Injun and firewater type of book that is all too common in many reading circles.<br />Still, Walters does do a good job of keeping her storyline straight, although Stephen King has written the same type of story, and hes done it better. At only 220 pages, this one is light reading with some supernatural scares. Most people will probably enjoy this book.ssful, emotionally secure people. Several of the characters are university students, some are tribal representatives, and others are elders who are literal fonts of sagacity in their old age. This is in stark contrast with how most Indians live today. Many languish on reservations with nothing more than a welfare check and a ramshackle house to their name. This portrayal of Indians as largely successful people seems to do a great disservice to the many who have nothing. But its also nice to see that this isnt the usual Injun and firewater type of book that is all too common in many reading circles.<br />Still, Walters does do a good job of keeping her storyline straight, although Stephen King has written the same type of story, and hes done it better. At only 220 pages, this one is light reading with some supernatural scares. Most people will probably enjoy this book.	2001-10-03
1824230:US	52012289	R1IP9QCCCOY07N	014044114X	30170986	Confessions (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	337	358	N	N	Uplifting	St. Augustine is one of the greatest thinkers the West ever produced. Born in North Africa in the waning years of the Roman Empire, his Confessions detail his ultimate conversion to Nicene Christianity after a ten year journey through the various trendy sects of the 4th century C.E. Augustine was a member of the Manichean heresy, a follower of Astrology, and an all around sinner. He enjoyed the barbaric games of the coliseum, was overly proud of his education and teaching positions, and just couldn't bring himself to give up the ladies. He even had a son, Adeodatus, who was born out of wedlock. In short, Augustine loved the things that most people love, and he loved the same things that we love in our decadent age. This is what makes this book so relevant today; it shows how little the human race has come in 1500 years. Augustine's struggles are our struggles.<br />Two points of interest are worth mentioning here. The first is Augustine's mother, St. Monica. Throughout the book, Monica is an omnipresent figure in Augustine's life. She is a tireless Christian, and she does many things to try and bring Augustine into the faith. She prays incessantly, has visions and dreams from God that promise Augustine's conversion, and she follows her son everywhere he goes. Augustine gives much praise to his mother, but it's important to remember that he was writing this account after his conversion. At the time, Augustine must have been sick to death of some of her antics. He actually lied to her so he could sneak off to Rome without her, although she was soon on a boat so she could catch up with him. I also felt sorry for his father, Patricius. Dad wasn't really into the Christian thing, so Monica put on the pants in the family. Augustine even says that Monica made God the 'true' father in their house.<br />A second point of interest is Augustine's actual conversion. He seems to go through two of them in quick succession. The first is an intellectual conversion, as Augustine uses the texts of Neo-Platonic authors to prove to himself the fallacy of the Manichean theology. It seems the Manicheans believed in a Christ figure that was not fully divine, as well as the idea that God was a substance. Augustine shows how substance can be corrupted, making this idea totally incompatible with the idea of a perfect God. After all, if a substance can be corrupted, how can it be perfect? After the intellectual conversion, Augustine still can't totally believe because he can't give up the fleshly sin of lust with women. This second conversion finally comes about in the famous 'pick it up and read' incident in the garden. Augustine, wracked by his sins and on the verge of some type of mental collapse over his anguish, hears a child's voice singing, 'Pick it up and read.' Seeing this as a sign from God, he picks up Paul's Epistles and reads the first thing he sees in the book. He reads a passage about the evils of fleshly vice and his conversion is complete.<br />After this conversion, the rest of the book veers off on a tangent. Augustine examines the concept of time, in great detail, and writes an incredibly dense exegesis on the first parts of the book of Genesis. This section, with the exception of his discourse on time, isn't nearly as interesting as the account of his life and the fundamental changes he goes through as he tries to find the true way to live life. I do suspect that thousands have converted after reading this book because it speaks to every human on a fundamental level. The above description I've given doesn't even begin to cover the amount of information in this book. The Confessions is both beautiful and thought provoking and I would recommend it to anyone.<br />I do have a word of warning for those who are considering giving this one a shot. Avoid, like the plague, the John Ryan translation. It is wordy, dense, and not at all clear. Read this Penguin version, written by Mr. Pine-Coffin (great name, huh?). It is a clear and concise translation. It's one thing to struggle with ideas in a book, but why should we have to struggle with the syntax? Go forth and read, young man!translation. It's one thing to struggle with ideas in a book, but why should we have to struggle with the syntax? Go forth and read, young man!	2001-09-30
1846628:US	52012289	RU7QXB1R599HW	0140447814	243721725	Venus in Furs (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	23	38	N	N	19th Century Pornography? No.	One thing is for certain: you won't read very many books that tackle a topic such as this one. Leopold von Sacher-Masoch ended up lending his name to the sexual fetish known as S&amp;M, due mainly to this book. \\"Venus in Furs\\" is a fictionalized account of Sacher-Masoch's own sexual peccadilloes. What is surprising about this book is when it was written. It was penned in the late 19th century, although the subject matter would seem more appropriate in our own decadent age.<br />The book introduces us to Severin, who has an unusual sexual proclivity. He likes to be dominated by women. He wants to be an \\"anvil\\" to a woman's \\"hammer\\". This fetish involves becoming a slave to a woman, a process that is actually consummated by a written contract. Severin meets a young, gorgeous woman by the name of Wanda von Dunajew. Dunajew is a wealthy widow who quickly becomes attracted to Severin's intellectual abilities, and the two strike up a relationship. Severin immediately tries to get Wanda to indulge his fantasy, and most of the book details the evolution of this relationship. Severin becomes Wanda's servant, even taking the name Gregor at Wanda's insistence. Severin is forced to dress as a servant, and must take care of Wanda's needs at all times. Interspersed with Severin's hardships are episodes of kicking and whippings, as well as sexual relations. Severin can think of nothing more pleasurable than to be tortured by Wanda, not only physically, but mentally as well. When Wanda strikes up relationships with other men, Severin is thrust into the pits of despair/pleasure, as he is afraid of losing Wanda to somebody else. I won't spoil the ending for you, but it does involve some twists and turns that are somewhat interesting.<br />The most important part of Severin's fantasy is that Wanda must wear furs while she tortures him. Why does Severin insist on furs? I suspect that it has something to do with the raw power of the animal world. In short, fur symbolizes natural power. This is what S&amp;M is all about anyway. Love must be reduced to a power relationship, and some people really get off on that. If Sacher-Masoch were alive today, his Wanda would most likely wear Nazi paraphernalia or leather, which is the modern equivalent of the sort of power that Sacher-Masoch found in animal fur.<br />Overall, this book really isn't my cup of tea. I'm not into S&amp;M, so that part of the book doesn't appeal to me. I did enjoy the numerous descriptions of Wanda, with her red hair and green eyes. I love women with red hair and green eyes! This is a quick read at a little over 100 pages, but certainly not a book for everyone.This is what S&amp;M is all about anyway. Love must be reduced to a power relationship, and some people really get off on that. If Sacher-Masoch were alive today, his Wanda would most likely wear Nazi paraphernalia or leather, which is the modern equivalent of the sort of power that Sacher-Masoch found in animal fur.<br />Overall, this book really isn't my cup of tea. I'm not into S&amp;M, so that part of the book doesn't appeal to me. I did enjoy the numerous descriptions of Wanda, with her red hair and green eyes. I love women with red hair and green eyes! This is a quick read at a little over 100 pages, but certainly not a book for everyone.	2001-09-07
1872842:US	52012289	R2ZEVEUKK77AJ2	0140185232	579488546	The Razor's Edge	Books	5	269	283	N	N	Amazing Stuff	William Somerset Maugham is considered one of the best authors of the 20th century. After reading this book, I can understand why. His grasp of the human condition is simply phenomenal. He is one of those rare authors that can make his characters leap off the page and become living, breathing creatures. The introduction to this Penguin edition spends much time trying to place the fictional characters into the context of Maugham&#8217;s life. I&#8217;m sure the characters in this story are somewhat based on real people, as any author worth his salt always draws on real experience to create a story. Personally, I couldn&#8217;t care less if these characters were based on real people, as it wouldn&#8217;t make them any less interesting to me.<br />&#8220;The Razor&#8217;s Edge&#8221; really has a simple message. It asks us to reflect on how we lead our lives. Do we follow the masses or seek inner fulfillment? Is it right or wrong to drop out of society and follow our inner selves? Maugham makes us ponder these questions as he introduces us to his characters ... When I think of the overall plot of the book, even after reading it, it doesn&#8217;t really seem that interesting. But when I think all of the little things within the book, I realize how excellent the novel is. Read this book, even if it is the only Maugham book you ever read (which is a pretty pretentious statement on my part, as this is the only one I&#8217;ve read). The prose is excellent, and the psychological insights are really amazing. Recommended.	2001-08-18
1876802:US	52012289	R13UB76V1HDMTH	0140189025	53359311	Babbitt (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	84	87	N	N	Highly Entertaining	Sinclair Lewis wrote a series of satires that exposed the hypocrisy of early 20th century America. &#8220;Babbitt&#8221; is a snapshot of the life of George F. Babbitt, a somewhat prosperous middle class businessman who lives in Zenith, Ohio. Zenith has a population of 300,000+, and has an active business community. This community has its own rituals and ironclad rules. These rules consist of being one of the gang, being a member of all the right clubs and organizations, and never deviating from the ideals of business and money. These rules cause enormous difficulties for Babbitt when he goes through a midlife crisis at the end of the book and begins spouting liberal ideas and associating with the &#8220;wrong&#8221; crowd.<br />This is my first encounter with Sinclair Lewis. I really don&#8217;t know why I chose to read &#8220;Babbitt&#8221; first, as I also have copies of &#8220;Main Street&#8221; and &#8220;Arrowsmith&#8221;. I think it was the unusual cover of the Penguin edition, which is a picture of a painting called &#8220;Booster&#8221; by Grant Wood. To me, that picture IS Babbitt, and I&#8217;ll always be able to see Babbitt in my head whenever I&#8217;m reminded of this book.There really isn&#8217;t a lot of symbolism here (and the symbolism that is here is pretty easy to decipher) and the prose is much closer to our present day writing and speech. This is brilliant satire, and you&#8217;ll laugh out loud at many of the situations Babbitt gets himself into. An especially hilarious incident occurs when one of the local millionaire businessmen finally accepts an invitation to dine with Babbitt. The evening goes badly because Babbitt is in a lower social class. Lewis then shows Babbitt going to a dinner at an old friends house who is in a lower class then him. It&#8217;s hilarious to see the similarities between the two events, and it brings home how class is strictly enforced in Zenith, and by extension, America.<br />Babbitt is a person that I found myself both hating and liking, often within the space of one page. He&#8217;s ignorant, in that he is a major conformist who often repeats slogans and phrases merely because others in his circle say the same things. He&#8217;s a namedropper who refers to people he doesn&#8217;t even know as though they were his best friends. He&#8217;s also high volume. Babbitt is one of those people we all know who is always boisterous and noisy so they can hide their own insecurities or ignorance. Just when you think you can&#8217;t stand Babbitt for another second, Lewis tosses in a situation that makes you feel for the man. Babbitt is the boss at a real estate company, and he worries about his employees liking him. When a confrontation arises with one of his salesmen, Babbitt frets and doesn&#8217;t want to fire the guy, although the rules of business eventually force him to do exactly that. He wants all of his employees to like him. He also feels bad about cheating on his wife while she is away and worries about what his children will think of him when he comes in drunk after a night of carousing. Ultimately, although Babbitt can be a major heel, the reader is almost forced to sympathize with him. This is true especially at the end of the book, when Babbitt renounces his liberal ways and rejoins his old colleagues. His return to the pack is not quite complete, however. Babbitt is changed by his transgression, and has learned a few lessons that he imparts to his son on the last page of the book, thus ending the tale on an upbeat note.<br />I would like to have seen a better section of explanatory notes in this Penguin edition. While some of the more obscure references are defined, many are not. Also, some of the language in the book is very 1920&#8217;s slang, and for a 21st century ear, it can be difficult to pick up on some of them. This book is both funny and sad, but well worth reading. Sinclair Lewis eventually won Pulitzer and Nobel prizes for his literary endeavors. It&#8217;snot hard to see why. Recommended.7;s not hard to see why. Recommended.	2001-08-15
1881924:US	52012289	R2F36CDT1DLAL	0140390847	551860371	Moby-Dick: or, The Whale (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Just Read It!	This may be the most difficult review I've ever written for Amazon.com. I mean, this is Moby Dick, after all. So many have already written about it, and so many people have preconceived notions about this book, even those who know little about this masterpiece of literature. I will say I tore into this book with an Ahab-like vengeance, and finished it in a mere four days. I broke away only for sleep, food, and work. I actually started this book before I made my final assault on Oswald Spengler's \\"Decline of the West\\", a book that has provided its own difficulties. As usual, while taking a break from one difficult book, I decided to read one of the most difficult novels ever written!<br />There is no denying it; Moby Dick is a challenge, albeit not as severe of one as some would make you think. Since almost everyone has a general idea of the plot, let's focus on what people detest about the book. First, many seem to have a problem understanding Melville's symbolism. Symbolism is often difficult, and I'm under no illusions that I picked up even half of Melville's symbolic usages. What is important to remember about symbolisms, however, is that only the author knows for sure every symbolic stroke of the pen. The rest of us have to do the best we can. Take Queegqueg's harpoon, for instance. He carries it with him wherever he goes, so it must mean something. Since Queegqueg is non-white, and this book was written as the United States was embarking on its last hurrahs over slavery before the Civil War broke out, is Melville trying to tell us something? Maybe Queegqueg's harpoon is his defense against any threats he may receive as he makes his way through white territory. Or is it a phallic symbol? Who knows? Don't be intimidated by the heavy symbolism. It is still possible to get so much out of this book without worrying about arcane references. Many times, Melville hits the reader as hard as he can with symbolism, so that it is easy to get the reference. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out what the substitution of the coffin for the life buoy means. I do hope any who read this book are at least somewhat familiar with the Bible, because scriptural knowledge will help immensely.<br />Secondly, some have criticized Melville's prose, claiming it is \\"turgid\\" or overly wordy. This is such a wrongheaded criticism that it makes me wonder if the people who make these claims have ever read anything written before 1980. Quit trying to superimpose modern literary style back into the 19th century. Instead, try and get a feel for the time in which the work was written. Life moved more slowly during the 19th century, and brevity was not considered a necessity in writing. I'm often saddened when I read modern literature, which is such a vacuum of description that most of the books churned out today lack the majesty that the English language can often summon up under a brilliant pen (such as Melville). Melville's prose is eye candy, although I do think that Thomas De Quincey is even more spectacular (a quick plug for \\"Confessions of an English Opium Eater\\"!). Take this quote from the final showdown between Ahab and the whale:<br />\\"Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell's heart I stab at thee; for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee. Sink all coffins and all hearses to one common pool! And since neither can be mine, let me then tow to pieces, while still chasing thee, though tied to thee, thou damned whale! Thus, I give up the spear!\\"<br />This is brilliant stuff! I get chills by just rereading this! Does it not show the absolute depth of hatred that Ahab has for his foe? It sure beats, \\"I'll be back\\" any day! Moby Dick contains some of the best prose work ever written. Learn to appreciate it!<br />Finally, I'm now at a loss when I read reviews that say the 400 or so pages in the middle of the book are boring, useless, or just plain unnecessary. This is just wrong. Many argue that these pages are loaded with scads of cetology and minutiae on the whaling industry. While there is some of this to be found, Melville often takes us back to the Pequod. Who can say that the Town-Ho story is boring? Or that Tashtego's mishap in the head of the whale is totally without interest? I just don't get it! I say it clearly so all can hear: most of the 400 or so pages that make up the centerpiece of this book do not concern whaling minutiae or useless description. There is some, but it is important to know it to understand the unfolding plot. Personally, I found his descriptions of whales interesting and I loved his historical examinations of the whale. Can Moby Dick be read without reading this central section? Yes, in that you will get a bare bones account of a whale hunt led by a crazy old coot named Ahab. What you won't get is why this hunt occurs, and you won't see the gradual disintegration of Ahab as he drags the Pequod and all on it to their doom.<br />I see Moby Dick as a universe, a total macrocosm in which only those who lead the life can understand this universe. This world has its own laws, its own religions, and its own meanings. Melville wrote this book so that the outsider, the \\"landlubber\\", can get a glimpse into this world. What most saw as a somewhat seedy profession, Melville saw as an all-encompassing worldview. Even this short description does not do this book justice because there is so much here. Maybe that is why teachers force this book on students. It is easy to take any method or system and find evidence of it here. I pity those who are forced to read this book. Forced reading is always a chore, and Melville should not be a check mark on a laundry list of literature. Read this because you want to read it, because you want to see into another world, because you believe your horizons will be expanded. It will make all the difference!ong. Many argue that these pages are loaded with scads of cetology and minutiae on the whaling industry. While there is some of this to be found, Melville often takes us back to the Pequod. Who can say that the Town-Ho story is boring? Or that Tashtego's mishap in the head of the whale is totally without interest? I just don't get it! I say it clearly so all can hear: most of the 400 or so pages that make up the centerpiece of this book do not concern whaling minutiae or useless description. There is some, but it is important to know it to understand the unfolding plot. Personally, I found his descriptions of whales interesting and I loved his historical examinations of the whale. Can Moby Dick be read without reading this central section? Yes, in that you will get a bare bones account of a whale hunt led by a crazy old coot named Ahab. What you won't get is why this hunt occurs, and you won't see the gradual disintegration of Ahab as he drags the Pequod and all on it to their doom.<br />I see Moby Dick as a universe, a total macrocosm in which only those who lead the life can understand this universe. This world has its own laws, its own religions, and its own meanings. Melville wrote this book so that the outsider, the \\"landlubber\\", can get a glimpse into this world. What most saw as a somewhat seedy profession, Melville saw as an all-encompassing worldview. Even this short description does not do this book justice because there is so much here. Maybe that is why teachers force this book on students. It is easy to take any method or system and find evidence of it here. I pity those who are forced to read this book. Forced reading is always a chore, and Melville should not be a check mark on a laundry list of literature. Read this because you want to read it, because you want to see into another world, because you believe your horizons will be expanded. It will make all the difference!	2001-08-11
1888930:US	52012289	R17KJCDS2ILESJ	0964010488	822915176	Diplomacy by Deception	Books	1	26	52	N	N	Yuck!	I went back through each of my reviews to ascertain whether I ever gave a book or film one star. I haven't, until now. I like to read books on radical politics, conspiracy theories and other unusual stuff. However, nothing could prepare me for this car wreck of a book. This book reeks, and it reeks to high heaven. I will say that if John Coleman actually holds a Ph.D. (he goes by \\"Dr.\\" John Coleman), I should be a shoo-in at Harvard or Yale when I begin applying for admission to graduate school.<br /><br />Where should I start in criticizing this debacle? How about Coleman's grammar? This book is so loaded with every kind of grammatical error that it is hard to even understand what points the author is trying to convey. Misplaced commas, misspelled words, confusing sentences, and a total lack of organization are staples here. In one chapter, for instance, Coleman inserts a fairly lengthy section about the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. While this might not be a problem if done correctly, why isn't this put in his later chapter about assassinations? One sentence that sticks out in my mind, and which is indicative of the whole book, is one in which the word \\"livers\\" is substituted for \\"lives.\\" Horrible, absolutely horrible. If someone actually edited this book, they should be executed.<br /><br />Coleman tries to make plenty of connections to another book he wrote about the so-called \\"Committee of 300\\", a secret cabal of power brokers who are trying to bring about a world-socialist system in which they rule over a world of slaves. That is one of the big problems in this book. Coleman drops information into the text that leaves the reader scratching his head in wonder. This \\"Committee\\" is never explained or elaborated on in any way. Apparently they consist of British and American officials, with the Brits coming under especially stern criticism. MI5 and MI6 are made out to be nothing short of the spawn of Satan, and the CIA is also taken to task. Coleman also homes in on the oil industry, blaming them for the revolutions in Mexico, the Middle East crisis, and the subversion of governments worldwide.<br /><br />I just realized I could write more, but I don't want to think about this book any longer. I'll use it to help light logs in my fireplace this winter. It's a shame, because some of Coleman's ideas do have merit. We all know that the oil industry has had dirty hands for years, and anyone who thinks the Gulf War had nothing to do with oil is living in fairyland. This book can actually cause blindness and a precipitous drop in IQ. Avoid!oil industry, blaming them for the revolutions in Mexico, the Middle East crisis, and the subversion of governments worldwide.    I just realized I could write more, but I don't want to think about this book any longer. I'll use it to help light logs in my fireplace this winter. It's a shame, because some of Coleman's ideas do have merit. We all know that the oil industry has had dirty hands for years, and anyone who thinks the Gulf War had nothing to do with oil is living in fairyland. This book can actually cause blindness and a precipitous drop in IQ. Avoid!	2001-08-06
1898616:US	52012289	R2TXH2NX6KRKF3	0912986212	348902755	The Creature from Jekyll Island : A Second Look at the Federal Reserve	Books	4	724	739	N	N	Scary	G. Edward Griffin is to be commended for this splendid work. At first glance The Creature from Jekyll Island is a huge book. While this may be daunting to some, once the book is actually started, it flows smoothly and reads quickly. There are so many fascinating tidbits of information here that the reader won't even be concerned about the size of the book. The title refers to the formation of the Federal Reserve System, which occurred at a secret meeting at Jekyll Island, Georgia in 1910. It was at this meeting, as Griffin relates, that the \\"Money Trust\\", composed of the richest and most powerful bankers in the world, along with a U.S. Senator, wrote the proposal to launch the Federal Reserve System (which Griffin calls a banking cartel) to control the financial system so that the bankers will always come out on top.<br />While Griffin starts with this event, he quickly moves into the present day to detail several financial crises that resulted in a quick government intervention at the behest of the bankers from the Fed, who told all who would listen that if the government (read: taxpayers) didn't bail out the banks that had made bad loans, it could cause the entire system to collapse. Massive loan defaults; bank runs, and a major economic depression would manifest this collapse. Griffin shows how time and time again the taxpayer is bilked so that bankers can make billions in profits off of these financial scares. Griffin also shows how the supposed safeguards against these woes, such as the FSLIC, are scams to reassure the average person that their banks are safe. In actuality, these insurances against bank closures are so inadequate that there isn't enough money to even come close to paying off investors in case of a collapse.<br />The biggest problem in modern banking, according to Griffin, is and has always been the creation of fiat money. Fiat money is money that is \\"declared\\" money by the government. It is not backed by anything but promises and deceit. All societies were sound financially when they used gold or silver to back their currency. When the bankers finally get their way and install fiat money, the result is inflation and boom and bust cycles. Griffin gives numerous examples of this, such as repeated failures by American colonies and European states in using fiat money. The purpose of fiat money is so that the government can spend more then they take in through taxes.<br />Without writing reams on this book, it is sufficient to say that this is a must read for anyone who is interested in learning how the money system operates. Griffin gives comprehensive accounts of how the Fed creates money, and how this affects everyday life. I would have to say these sections are better than Murray Rothbard's book, The Case Against the Fed, because Griffin gives himself more room for explanation.<br />Griffin does believe in the conspiratorial view of history, and he believes that the bankers are working in concert with such groups as the Council on Foreign Relations and the Trilateral Commission to bring about a socialist-world system in which an elite composed of intellectuals and bankers will rule over the entire planet. Griffin even spends a chapter outlining how this system could come about, and the consequent results of this socialist system. These chapters are a bit unsettling, but even if you aren't interested in this worldview, you can still learn much about the economy from this book. Recommendedcieties were sound financially when they used gold or silver to back their currency. When the bankers finally get their way and install fiat money, the result is inflation and boom and bust cycles. Griffin gives numerous examples of this, such as repeated failures by American colonies and European states in using fiat money. The purpose of fiat money is so that the government can spend more then they take in through taxes.<br />Without writing reams on this book, it is sufficient to say that this is a must read for anyone who is interested in learning how the money system operates. Griffin gives comprehensive accounts of how the Fed creates money, and how this affects everyday life. I would have to say these sections are better than Murray Rothbard's book, The Case Against the Fed, because Griffin gives himself more room for explanation.<br />Griffin does believe in the conspiratorial view of history, and he believes that the bankers are working in concert with such groups as the Council on Foreign Relations and the Trilateral Commission to bring about a socialist-world system in which an elite composed of intellectuals and bankers will rule over the entire planet. Griffin even spends a chapter outlining how this system could come about, and the consequent results of this socialist system. These chapters are a bit unsettling, but even if you aren't interested in this worldview, you can still learn much about the economy from this book. Recommended	2001-07-30
1911426:US	52012289	R2YGC3QMYAKM4D	094437929X	86622779	You Gentiles	Books	5	39	47	N	N	Gentile vs. Jew	This obscure book is a fast read on a controversial topic: the relationship between Jewish and Gentile society. I believe it was written sometime in the 1920's, although the copy I have has no publishing information listed in the book. You Gentiles was written by Maurice Samuel, a Jew who decided to put pen to paper to articulate the profound and fundamental differences he observed between his people and Gentile society. For a Jew to say some of things that are written in this book is bound to raise eyebrows, and I'm sure Samuel has been labeled an \\"anti-Semite\\" by some of the more hysterical harpies that we know as liberals.<br />Samuel begins his book by asking what the difference between Jewish and Gentile society actually is. What Samuel postulates is that Jews are God-people, and that all of their behavior is directed to this God idea. Gentiles are not even remotely close to being God-people, but are more like children; they are not as serious and their worldview is shaped by sport. This sporting mentality manifests itself in war, competition, business, religion, scholarship and a host of other worldly activities. Samuel believes that Jews can partake in these affairs as well, but they aren't as good at it as the Gentiles. This is because Jews see these sporting activities as ridiculous. All activity for a Jew should be directed to religious study and reflection on God. Jews will fight in a war, but only if they have to, and then they want to finish the business as quickly as possible. A Jew, according to Samuel, will never revel in the sporting \\"rush\\" from an event as much as a Gentile will. Samuel does make an interesting observation when he examines Plato's idea of utopia that is found in The Republic. Samuel is amazed that in this ideal society, war still exists. This is because of the sporting mentality. Even in our ideals, we have to have competition through sport.<br />The whole book revolves around these two contrasts. Samuel goes on to say that Gentiles hate the idea of assimilating Jews because Gentiles are afraid that the alien Jewish mentality will reemerge in Gentile society. Gentiles also fear westernized Jews because they are harder to identify as Jews. Samuel points out a paradox in that Gentiles want Jews to be like themselves, but they don't want to go through the steps of assimilating them. Often, the result of this paradox is violence against Jews or expulsion of Jews from Gentile territory.<br />Samuel is not optimistic that this fundamental difference can be resolved. He certainly believes that if it were to be resolved, it won't be anywhere near our lifetimes. This is an amazing book, and one that falls way off the beaten path. Recommended.s hate the idea of assimilating Jews because Gentiles are afraid that the alien Jewish mentality will reemerge in Gentile society. Gentiles also fear westernized Jews because they are harder to identify as Jews. Samuel points out a paradox in that Gentiles want Jews to be like themselves, but they don't want to go through the steps of assimilating them. Often, the result of this paradox is violence against Jews or expulsion of Jews from Gentile territory.<br />Samuel is not optimistic that this fundamental difference can be resolved. He certainly believes that if it were to be resolved, it won't be anywhere near our lifetimes. This is an amazing book, and one that falls way off the beaten path. Recommended.	2001-07-20
1913116:US	52012289	R24Y7314LSX072	0962877204	869250481	Committee of the States: Inside the Radical Right	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Useful Up To A Point	I was extremely interested in reading this book after I saw it mentioned in several other works on the radical right, especially Barkun's excellent history on Christian Identity. I tracked down a used copy and finally got around to reading it this summer. Overall, I have to say I was, for the most part, pretty disappointed in this book. Cheri Seymour was a journalist in Mariposa, California in the early 1980's and became involved in this project when a federal raid took place at a local church headed up by William Potter Gale. Gale is one of the founding fathers of Christian Identity, ranking right up there with Wesley A. Swift and Richard Butler. The raid was a response to the Committee of the States, supposedly formed under the auspices of Gale and some violent anti-tax advocates. The Committee of the States was an attempt to subvert the power of the federal government by claiming that the Articles of Confederation, the document that was eventually rejected by our founding fathers when they created the present Constitution, allowed for a second Congress made up of citizens that could oversee the federal Congress and could remove them from office for any number of reasons. As far-fetched as this concept may seem, some of the members of this Committee took it quite seriously. Committee of the States members sent some threatening letters (on which they actually signed their names) to IRS agents and other government officials, resulting in a huge government operation that was to eventually result in not only the conviction of Gale on numerous federal charges, but the Fort Smith, Arkansas trial several years later in which a number of important members of the radical right were charged, and eventually acquitted, of sedition charges.  Seymour followed the Gale trial, which took place in Las Vegas, and did quite a bit of background investigation to see what made the Committee of the States tick. She quickly found out that the Committee was only one element in a vast network of radical political activity in the United States. The book can be divided into essentially two parts: a biography on William Potter Gale, and the Las Vegas trial of the Committee of the States.<br />Seymour did do a pretty good job of investigating and researching this book. She conducted numerous interviews and seems to have earned the trust of people who usually don't trust anyone. Without a doubt, the best part of the book is the biography on Gale. We find out that Gale was a Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Army during WWII, and that he actually served on the staff of Douglas MacArthur in the Philippines. It was Gale that organized the local Filipino resistance to the Japanese that culminated in the return of MacArthur and the eventual defeat of the Japanese Army. Gale went on to work in the defense industry where his military knowledge and can-do spirit led him to move to California, which in post-war America became a crucible for Christian Identity and radical politics. Gale's associations read like a \\"who's who\\" of far right politics: San Jacinto Capt, Bertrand Comparet, Richard Butler, Gerald L.K. Smith, and Wesley Swift. These people were to become the crux of radical politics for the next five decades, and their influence is still felt today in far right political movements. The information Seymour gleans from Gale on this time is invaluable and absolutely fascinating. Alas, the book quickly takes a turn for the worse after this section.<br />The account of the trial in Las Vegas is boring and generally superfluous. I found myself not really caring how the trial came out, as Seymour bogs the reader down with lots of legal theories, excerpts of testimony, and the blathering of Richard Van Hazel, one of the defendants in the trial who is buffoonish, to say the least. The trial did result in widespread convictions, as can be expected when one goes up against the government, but Gale died of complications from emphysema before he could appeal hisconviction.<br />I would be remiss if I failed to make a few comments about the style of this book before I end this review. It is irritating beyond all belief. Seymour always refers to herself in the third person and it grates like nails on a chalkboard. Apparently she failed to realize she was writing a book, not an article. Her organization is likewise annoying. The book seems to swirl in timeless circles, which creates an aura of incoherence. Several times I had to stop and try and place events in their proper perspective, almost never a good thing when reading a book. Seymour does make an excellent conclusion when she deduces that the Fort Smith trial caused a fracture in Christian Identity circles, with a conservative, militant Identity embodied by Richard Butler's Aryan Nations/Church of Jesus Christ Christian vying with a liberal Identity creed like Pete Peters or Ted Weiland, who rejected the militancy of previous Identity incarnations, while keeping its anti-Jewish mentality.<br />Buy this for the information on William Gale, but be prepared to be yawning by the time you get to the Committee of the States section. Recommended (with reservations).conviction.<br />I would be remiss if I failed to make a few comments about the style of this book before I end this review. It is irritating beyond all belief. Seymour always refers to herself in the third person and it grates like nails on a chalkboard. Apparently she failed to realize she was writing a book, not an article. Her organization is likewise annoying. The book seems to swirl in timeless circles, which creates an aura of incoherence. Several times I had to stop and try and place events in their proper perspective, almost never a good thing when reading a book. Seymour does make an excellent conclusion when she deduces that the Fort Smith trial caused a fracture in Christian Identity circles, with a conservative, militant Identity embodied by Richard Butler's Aryan Nations/Church of Jesus Christ Christian vying with a liberal Identity creed like Pete Peters or Ted Weiland, who rejected the militancy of previous Identity incarnations, while keeping its anti-Jewish mentality.<br />Buy this for the information on William Gale, but be prepared to be yawning by the time you get to the Committee of the States section. Recommended (with reservations).	2001-07-19
1915271:US	52012289	R100TUH12UB2EU	0742503402	65522091	Encyclopedia of White Power: A Sourcebook on the Radical Racist Right	Books	4	12	12	N	N	An Expensive Look at National Socialism	The editor of this encyclopedia, Jeffrey Kaplan, has written several books that deal with the topics of National Socialism and the connections between the European and American fascist movements. While I haven't gotten around to reading any of these works, I did take the time (and spent a considerable sum of money) to read this encyclopedia on the \\"White Power\\" movement. What is especially interesting about this collection of entries and essays is that actual movement members and associates were asked to contribute articles. In all of the polemical pap on this topic that has been churned out over the years (such as anything Morris Dees has written), this has rarely been done. It gives this book a dimension that most lack. Also, the second half of the book contains several documents and tracts that to my knowledge have never been collected in one place before. Of particular interest here is the inclusion of the Deguello Report, a mysterious document sent to many important figures involved in the radical right in the 1970's. There are also several internal movement histories, the best of which is written by Rick Cooper. Cooper could certainly have attained a high status as a professional historian based on the research ability he shows in his written work.<br />Kaplan limits his scope by including only groups and figures that posit a National Socialist position or those who have had some influence in post-war National Socialism. Of course we see the names of William Pierce, Adolf Hitler, George Lincoln Rockwell and other well-known figures. We also get entries on lesser-known personas such as Harold Covington, Matt Koehl, Savitri Devi, and Colin Jordan. The entries vary in size depending on what influence or notoriety was attained by the person or group in question. Most of the entries are well written and within a few pages it becomes apparent that these groups and people are all connected together in one way or another. That is what this encyclopedia does best; it shows the webs that connect the National Socialist movement. One can see how William Pierce moved through Rockwell's American Nazi Party and through Willis Carto's National Youth Alliance to the place he is today; as head of the National Alliance, the most well-known, effective National Socialist organization in the world.<br />Some of the entries do seem to be forced, though. The inclusion of Scandinavian black metal groups had me scratching my head. It's hard to imagine that these music groups, who fused Satanism and National Socialism, could have much of an influence on international Nazism. I suspect these were included as part of Kaplan's stay in Finland, where he is working on a Fulbright scholarship, although White Power music is becoming one of the most important conduits through which new members are recruited into these organizations.<br />In a work of this scope and size, there are always going to be omissions. I kept wondering where the entries on George Dietz and Dr. Revilo Pendleton Oliver were. The omission of Dr. Oliver is one of the most egregious. Oliver has had a wide influence in the world of National Socialism through his copious writings and speeches, which often appeared in George Dietz's Liberty Bell publication. Although both of these seminal figures are mentioned in passing (with Dr. Oliver's name misspelled as \\"Revillo\\"), they both deserved a separate entry.<br />Overall, a competent collection that does serve an important scholarly purpose. Like any book on the radical right, many of the entries will be hopelessly out of date in no time, but most of the information in this book is timeless. The only drawback on adding this book to your collection is the price, which is a real wallet buster. If you're truly serious about learning more on post-war National Socialism, you should find a way to fork over the dough for this book.hows the webs that connect the National Socialist movement. One can see how William Pierce moved through Rockwell's American Nazi Party and through Willis Carto's National Youth Alliance to the place he is today; as head of the National Alliance, the most well-known, effective National Socialist organization in the world.<br />Some of the entries do seem to be forced, though. The inclusion of Scandinavian black metal groups had me scratching my head. It's hard to imagine that these music groups, who fused Satanism and National Socialism, could have much of an influence on international Nazism. I suspect these were included as part of Kaplan's stay in Finland, where he is working on a Fulbright scholarship, although White Power music is becoming one of the most important conduits through which new members are recruited into these organizations.<br />In a work of this scope and size, there are always going to be omissions. I kept wondering where the entries on George Dietz and Dr. Revilo Pendleton Oliver were. The omission of Dr. Oliver is one of the most egregious. Oliver has had a wide influence in the world of National Socialism through his copious writings and speeches, which often appeared in George Dietz's Liberty Bell publication. Although both of these seminal figures are mentioned in passing (with Dr. Oliver's name misspelled as \\"Revillo\\"), they both deserved a separate entry.<br />Overall, a competent collection that does serve an important scholarly purpose. Like any book on the radical right, many of the entries will be hopelessly out of date in no time, but most of the information in this book is timeless. The only drawback on adding this book to your collection is the price, which is a real wallet buster. If you're truly serious about learning more on post-war National Socialism, you should find a way to fork over the dough for this book.	2001-07-17
1916754:US	52012289	RM4F6YO0C42DQ	0906832012	706131922	America's Decline: The Education of a Conservative	Books	4	35	36	N	N	A Racialist View of the World	There is certainly one thing that all can agree on when discussing the writings of Dr. Revilo Pendleton Oliver; he is extremely erudite and witty. After this universal agreement on style, vehement disagreement on Oliver&#8217;s content is bound to ensue. This book, which is one of many that Oliver wrote during his long career as an academic at the University of Illinois, deals with his association with the John Birch Society, an organization founded to fight Communism. Oliver was a founding member of this patriotic organization and he not only edited their flagship publication, American Opinion, but also wrote numerous book reviews and articles. Oliver also spent many years traveling the Birch speaking circuit, trying desperately to persuade Americans of the dangers of Communism and the values of conservatism. Eventually, Oliver became disillusioned by the conservative movement and John Birch founder Robert Welch, and he turned his energies to what he perceived were the real issues in the struggle against Communism: Jews and the complete ignorance of the white race to recognize its greatness and destiny. The book serves to show the reader the path that Oliver traveled in his political beliefs, from conservative to racialist.<br />The first essay in the book is a long treatise on 20th century history. Entitled America&#8217;s Holy War, this essay was certainly written after Oliver turned to racialist ideas, as it blames the Jews for America&#8217;s involvement in both world wars, as well as identifying Jews as the masters of the world who pull the strings of all world leaders. Woodrow Wilson is presented as an inept academic who was elevated to the White House because he said (and did) what the Jews wanted. Franklin Roosevelt comes under especially severe rebuke, both as a Jewish puppet and a murderous thug who collaborated with Winston Churchill to drag America into the European conflict of 1939-45. The purpose of this collaboration, as Oliver sees it, was to beat down the Germans so that Communist Russia could expand its influence in both Europe and the world.<br />The rest of the book consists mostly of book reviews, most of which are pretty interesting and relevant. These reviews, as mentioned above, were written in Oliver&#8217;s conservative days, so little mention is made of Jewish conspiracies, although there does seem to be an undercurrent of embryonic anti-Jewish thought at times. Oliver does deal devastating attacks to such [people] as Sigmund Freud, a [man] who has done more to set back the study of psychology than any other figure. Oliver also reveals the moral and intellectual deterioration of our universities and schools by liberal ideas. Since these articles were written in the 1950&#8217;s and 1960&#8217;s, these writings predate the current spate of books written about the culture wars and academic anemia by at least twenty years.<br />A separate section deals with the study of various philosophies of history, and I absolutely loved this section. Oliver is, without a doubt, brilliant in his analyses of Toynbee, Spengler (which I&#8217;m reading now) and other authors who attempted to posit theories on why things happen the way they do. Oliver has an excellent grasp of history and his classical education really shines through here as he debates the ideas of what he refers to as &#8220;historionomy&#8221;. While Oliver finds much to like in Spengler, he finds much to despise in Toynbee. Oliver details how some of Toynbee&#8217;s writings outside of his magnum opus are actually pro-Communist and show shallowness in its research. Dr. Oliver&#8217;s biggest problem in these analyses seems to come from the fact that almost none of the authors who undertook a systematic study of history ever focused on the intermixing of races as a possible cause of collapse. I kept expecting Dr. Oliver to mention Arthur de Gobineau, a Frenchman who wrote a series of books in the 19th century detailing the effects of mixed races on human history. Since this section was incomplete due to some cold feet at the Birch Society, perhaps Oliver would have mentioned him if he had finished writing the series.<br />The other articles in the book deal with Dr. Oliver&#8217;s acrimonious split with Robert Welch. Apparently, Oliver became aware of sinister machinations at the Birch Society, as Welch began to run the organization with an iron fist, expelling members who disagreed with him and censoring contributions to the organization&#8217;s periodicals. Oliver lays the blame at the feet of the Jews, who he says controlled the organization so that it could never accomplish its goal of fighting Communism.<br />Despite misgivings some may have with this book, I guarantee you will laugh out loud at some of the piercing observations Oliver makes in this book. His wordplay is excellent and his views on historical study are exquisite. A good read for those interested in racialist thought.uman history. Since this section was incomplete due to some cold feet at the Birch Society, perhaps Oliver would have mentioned him if he had finished writing the series.<br />The other articles in the book deal with Dr. Oliver&#8217;s acrimonious split with Robert Welch. Apparently, Oliver became aware of sinister machinations at the Birch Society, as Welch began to run the organization with an iron fist, expelling members who disagreed with him and censoring contributions to the organization&#8217;s periodicals. Oliver lays the blame at the feet of the Jews, who he says controlled the organization so that it could never accomplish its goal of fighting Communism.<br />Despite misgivings some may have with this book, I guarantee you will laugh out loud at some of the piercing observations Oliver makes in this book. His wordplay is excellent and his views on historical study are exquisite. A good read for those interested in racialist thought.	2001-07-16
1935538:US	52012289	RSDOSCM0QNGIU	0664220282	787830148	Calvin: Institutes of the Christian Religion (2 Volume Set)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Simply Exquisite!	This book is certainly not for the light-hearted! Divided into two volumes that add up to around 1500 pages in length, this is a definitive work of the Reformation movement that fundamentally challenged the Catholic Church in Europe and altered every aspect of life up to today. The author of this massive work, Jean Cauvin, known in English as John Calvin, was one of the great thinkers of the Reformation, second only to Martin Luther in influence. Calvin was born in France and received an education in the classics (common for the time) and went on to train as a lawyer. Both of these influences help shape this book. Many classical references abound, and Calvin's legal thought helps him organize and argue his positions. Calvin left France under less than ideal circumstances, and he quickly set up shop in Geneva and became a central figure there to other Reformation figures, as well as formulating a church system quite different from the Catholic Church. Probably the most impressive aspect of Calvin is how prolific he was. He wrote this book over the space of several decades, but also wrote numerous sermons, tracts and letters. He also wrote commentaries on nearly every book in the Old and New Testaments, a collection that stuns the eye and one that would cause many bookcases to collapse under its sheer weight.<br />The main purpose of the Institutes is to establish a theology, but it also is a detailed rebuttal of many arguments by both Catholic theologians and Reformation figures. The language is bracing; Calvin calls his foes dogs and even says that some of them are sick enough to require medication! What is most impressive about this book is the number of scriptural references Calvin makes. It seems as though he knows the Bible by heart, and he uses this knowledge to excellent effect. He also quotes Aquinas, Augustine, Cicero, Luther, and a million other figures both major and minor. His knowledge is truly amazing and puts most modern scholars to shame.<br />It just isn't possible to summarize Calvin's theological positions in this review. There isn't enough room for it. It is safe to say that Calvin believes that the Bible is the absolute word of God, and that to know God, we have to read the Bible. But Calvin also believes in the sovereignty of God, which is that we can't know what God thinks or does, or even understand much of what God does. We have to have faith that God does what God does because he has a plan. Calvin also touches on faith, justification and salvation, and predestination. His doctrine of predestination was (and still is) very controversial, as it strikes directly at the heart of Catholic dogma. Essentially, Calvin believes that some have been predestined to salvation, and that many of us have not.<br />There is so much I'm skipping out on, and some could probably argue with the little that I've written. I particularly enjoyed Calvin's argument that most of the Old Testament figures were actually proto-Christians, as well as his examination on how the Catholic Church became a hulking corruption. Calvin goes so far to call the office of the pope an Anti-Christ! You have to admire Calvin for making such brave accusations in a time when doing so could cost you your life. I read this book over an entire semester for a class on John Calvin. Whether you are a Catholic or a Protestant, or even of no faith, you could find much to enjoy in this book. Recommended.isn't possible to summarize Calvin's theological positions in this review. There isn't enough room for it. It is safe to say that Calvin believes that the Bible is the absolute word of God, and that to know God, we have to read the Bible. But Calvin also believes in the sovereignty of God, which is that we can't know what God thinks or does, or even understand much of what God does. We have to have faith that God does what God does because he has a plan. Calvin also touches on faith, justification and salvation, and predestination. His doctrine of predestination was (and still is) very controversial, as it strikes directly at the heart of Catholic dogma. Essentially, Calvin believes that some have been predestined to salvation, and that many of us have not.<br />There is so much I'm skipping out on, and some could probably argue with the little that I've written. I particularly enjoyed Calvin's argument that most of the Old Testament figures were actually proto-Christians, as well as his examination on how the Catholic Church became a hulking corruption. Calvin goes so far to call the office of the pope an Anti-Christ! You have to admire Calvin for making such brave accusations in a time when doing so could cost you your life. I read this book over an entire semester for a class on John Calvin. Whether you are a Catholic or a Protestant, or even of no faith, you could find much to enjoy in this book. Recommended.	2001-07-03
1951201:US	52012289	R3C8F3CQBAF8UF	0807121681	252105327	Gerald L. K. Smith: Minister of Hate	Books	4	22	25	N	N	A Well Researched Biography	This book is a biography on the late Gerald L.K. Smith and is the culmination of over a decade of research on this controversial figure. Glen Jeansonne is to be commended for this book. He is really a historian's historian, in that he probed every available archive to compile this biography. Jeansonne admits that he spent ten months of fulltime work in the University of Michigan archives to uncover anything he could to illuminate Smith's life. He waded through 10,000 pages of FBI files to turn up new information on Smith as well. I've spent some time myself probing through dusty boxes in an archive, so I can appreciate the effort Jeansonne went through. This exhaustive research gives a full account of Smith's career as a demagogue, an anti-Communist crusader, a strident anti-Semite, and a builder of religious shrines.<br />The book traces Smith's life from his humble beginnings as a poor farm boy who was a descendent of a long line of preachers up to his retirement in Eureka Springs, Arkansas, where he built a statue of Christ and oversaw the construction and presentation of \\"The Passion Play\\", which still runs to this day. What comes across most strongly in this book is the intense energy that Smith had throughout his life. He graduated from Valparaiso in less than three years. While this may not seem significant, during this time he held down several jobs and also preached at several congregations during this time. This boundless energy lasted until the end of his life, as Smith ran numerous anti-Communist organizations, made endless speeches, and produced enough tracts and pamphlets to fill a stadium. Jeansonne says Smith's output eclipsed both Toynbee and the Durants, a notable achievement, to be sure! I especially enjoyed the full account of Smith's alliance with Charles Coughlin and Francis Townsend in an attempt to unseat Franklin Roosevelt in 1936. It was during his tenure with the Union party that Smith became a national figure, and he coasted on this acclaim for years afterwards.<br />Smith's primary allure was his oratory, which was so extraordinary that he outdid some of the greatest orators in American history. Huey Long, who employed Smith to proselytize for his Share the Wealth program, quickly recognized Smith was a better speaker then he. H.L. Mencken wrote that Smith was better than William Jennings Bryan, Robert Lafollette, Billy Sunday, and a host of other speakers. Smith even upstaged Coughlin at the Union party convention; an impressive feat when one considers that Coughlin had the largest radio audience in American history. George Lincoln Rockwell, the founder of the American Nazi Party, wrote that he would walk miles to hear Smith speak. Jeansonne points out that while Smith's oratory was impressive, it seldom moved many to sustained action. Smith's primary goal with his oratory was to win converts to his own cause and help build his mailing list. Although Smith did wield some power with his voice, his attempts to turn this power into political influence largely failed. Smith had a canny way of turning powerful people who initially wanted to help him, against him. He managed to alienate Douglas MacArthur, Henry Ford, Sr., and Charles Lindbergh, which led to Smith's rapid expulsion to the fringes of political life. His anti-Semitism didn't help, either. Smith once called Eisenhower a \\"Swedish Jew\\", and he had a tendency to call anyone he didn't like a Jew or a Communist.<br />Jeansonne intersperses his book with attempts to discover why Smith was the way he was. Jeansonne seems to think that Smith's stern religious upbringing made his value system so rigid that he saw any attempts at change as an attack upon his own values. Even into old age, when many people tend to moderate their views to some extent, Smith was as vitriolic as ever. His attacks on Jews escalated into the world of bizarre fantasy, and his paranoia reached epic proportions, as Smith saw conspiracies against him and America under every stone.<br />The biggest downfall with the book is the choppy way it was put together. You can tell that some of the chapters were articles before becoming part of this book. The book really should have been edited better, as there are several repetitive sections that should have been removed. Highly recommended for someone interested in depression-era politics or far right movements.one.<br />The biggest downfall with the book is the choppy way it was put together. You can tell that some of the chapters were articles before becoming part of this book. The book really should have been edited better, as there are several repetitive sections that should have been removed. Highly recommended for someone interested in depression-era politics or far right movements.	2001-06-20
1952430:US	52012289	R302P8ZCTUEA8V	0375501770	90327779	Newjack: Guarding Sing Sing	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Look at the Penal System	This is one of the best books I've had the pleasure to read in some time. Ted Conover is to be commended for writing this insider's view on the current condition of America's penal system. Not only is Conover a fantastic writer, he also is to be commended for his bravery in writing this book. To get an accurate view of his topic, he actually went \\"undercover\\", so to speak, and became a full-time corrections officer so that he could immerse himself in his topic. This guy has certainly got gumption! I couldn't imagine working in a prison, let alone as an officer right in the front lines of the worst parts of the prison. To top it off, Conover didn't work at some country club prison, but went to Sing Sing, one of the worst prisons in the country.<br />I was so fascinated by this book that I read it in about a day. It was so hard to put down that I wanted to call in sick to work so I could keep going. It isn't accounts of blood and guts that propel this book, although there are some fights and other nasty incidents that Conover mentions during the course of the book. What are fascinating are the characterizations of both fellow officers and convicts. Conover begins his book by giving the reader a detailed account of his training program at the Academy, where recruits are taught how to become correctional officers. As in many jobs, training and reality are often much different. The same picture emerges at the Academy. Recruits are told to never speak to inmates, which Conover soon finds is an impossible directive to follow when he begins working at Sing Sing. The problem with training vs. reality here is that recruits will be dealing with convicted felons and will face life threatening situations everyday. It soon becomes apparent that new officers aren't learning the things they need to know to do their jobs.<br />And what a job it is! Conover's descriptions of his first day on the job are chilling. He is thrown into the prison and basically left to his own devices. Senior officers are openly hostile to the \\"newjacks\\" and won't help or answer questions. Even worse, Conover is in charge of watching a gallery, or section, of the cellblock. His job is to make sure inmates are doing what they are supposed to be doing. He also has to make sure inmates that are under \\"keeplock\\", or confinement to their cells, stay there. And he has to be available to open gates for other officers who need to respond to emergencies in other parts of the prison. Without a doubt, there are too few officers to effectively control the inmates. One problem is the seniority system, which allows long time officers to transfer to safer facilities, leaving the most dangerous jobs to new recruits. In other words, people with less than a year of experience are guarding society's most dangerous members.<br />Conover also talks about some of the inmates, such as a few transsexuals and a black intellectual whom Conover develops a rapport with. Conover also discusses the stress of the job, and that even he experienced it within a few months on the job. Conover even has a few situations with his own family that revealed to him how dangerous this job is to the officers. The work of a corrections officer is impossible to leave at the prison. One of the best parts of the book is the history of Sing Sing prison, from its foundation under brutal warden Elam Lynds to the somewhat benevolent rule of Charles Mott Osborne and Lewis Lawes.<br />One of my only regrets about this book is we never find out what happens to the people Conover writes about. I would have been interested to find out what Larson, the black intellectual, had to say about Conover's book. To get his job and do his research, Conover had to go completely underground. No one knew he was an author or that he was going to write a book about his experiences. If the system had known about his project, Conover would never have been allowed to work in the penal system. I'm sure some people in the book were disgustedwhen they learned what Conover had done. I would have liked to read about that. I guess in the final analysis, most of the people in this book are still doing the same thing; serving time at Sing Sing. That goes for both officers and inmates.<br />Go out of your way to read this book. It is extremely informative and well worth the time.when they learned what Conover had done. I would have liked to read about that. I guess in the final analysis, most of the people in this book are still doing the same thing; serving time at Sing Sing. That goes for both officers and inmates.<br />Go out of your way to read this book. It is extremely informative and well worth the time.	2001-06-19
1967037:US	52012289	R1WM5TMKKYUJCS	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	3	16	32	N	N	A Leftist View of Fast Food	This book is an examination of not only the fast food industry, but also how that industry has had an effect on agriculture and meatpacking. The book also examines how people have been changed by this American phenomenon. It should be noted that Eric Schlosser is extremely liberal in his outlook. He is by turns an anti-corporatist, an anti-free market advocate, and a pro-union lackey.<br />The first part of the book is probably the best part. Schlosser gives a detailed history of the emergence of the fast food industry, from the heady days of the 40's and 50's, when these restaurants emerged to serve a booming post-war generation, to the over saturation of restaurants we see today. The description of Schlosser's visit to the McDonald's museum was particularly interesting. This is the place where McDonald's has erected a shrine to Ray Kroc, the tireless visionary who turned the McDonald's idea into the gigantic powerhouse it is today. The museum attempts to turn Kroc into some sort of god, which is pretty warped when one thinks about it. Schlosser also reveals the labor practices of fast food, which is one of low wages and an anti-union mentality. A chapter on teenagers shows that the restaurants exploit some of these young people to make a profit. Working in a fast food restaurant, according to Schlosser, can create a lifelong aversion to work, due to the repetitive nature of the work. Many kids are spending more time at these jobs then they are spending in school. The restaurants also turn a blind eye to dangerous workplace habits. Kids are dumping hot fry grease and using equipment that the law prohibits them from using.<br />The last part of the book shows how the demand for fast food by a hungry public is changing other business industries. Meatpacking is probably the one best documented by Schlosser. This industry, which once boasted some of the highest wages in the country, has now become a shelter for immigrants (mainly illegal ones) who get paid almost nothing for the dangerous work they do. Schlosser gives a run down on the job conditions that permeate these packinghouses. People die from chlorine exposure; limbs are mutilated or lost in equipment, and meat is exposed for time periods that result in bad product that can and does cause sickness. Schlosser makes sure to mention meat recalls that have occurred in recent years as proof that changes must be made to make those fast food burgers safe.<br />Overall, this book isn't too bad. The cover caught my eye and I bought it hoping for some good insight. With a subtitle of \\"The Dark Side of the All-American Meal\\" how can you go wrong? Well, this book could have been better. I wish Schlosser had refrained from wearing his heart on his sleeve. He also makes some questionable statements. One of the worst ones involved a claim that tainted beef has caused more pain than illegal drug use. I'm sorry, but I don't think that is anywhere near true. Read this book for the history and read the rest with a jaundiced eye.ng for the dangerous work they do. Schlosser gives a run down on the job conditions that permeate these packinghouses. People die from chlorine exposure; limbs are mutilated or lost in equipment, and meat is exposed for time periods that result in bad product that can and does cause sickness. Schlosser makes sure to mention meat recalls that have occurred in recent years as proof that changes must be made to make those fast food burgers safe.<br />Overall, this book isn't too bad. The cover caught my eye and I bought it hoping for some good insight. With a subtitle of \\"The Dark Side of the All-American Meal\\" how can you go wrong? Well, this book could have been better. I wish Schlosser had refrained from wearing his heart on his sleeve. He also makes some questionable statements. One of the worst ones involved a claim that tainted beef has caused more pain than illegal drug use. I'm sorry, but I don't think that is anywhere near true. Read this book for the history and read the rest with a jaundiced eye.	2001-06-08
1999503:US	52012289	RFASNR6G83YKQ	0465041965	357546778	How We Got Here: The 70's: The Decade that Brought You Modern Life (For Better or Worse)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent History	It is going to be very difficult to review this book because its scope is so massive. It encompasses so many facets of American society from the 1970&#8217;s that to do a proper review would take much more space .... I did enjoy the book, and I thought Frum&#8217;s analyses of many of the problems we face today originate with the 1970&#8217;s is dead on. A brief caveat to those planning to read this book: it is a history that embraces a conservative view of events. Frum casts many aspersions on the liberal policies of Lyndon Johnson and John Kennedy. He also attacks the 1960&#8217;s subversives who brought about so much woe at the time (and still are today through their hegemonic behavior through their positions in government, education and media). Frum does recognize that these subversives came about because the old regime made so many mistakes that it allowed for a questioning of the system. ....<br />Most people cringe when they think about the 1970&#8217;s. I know I do. I was born in 1970 and can still remember the clothing (I have pictures of myself wearing things I wouldn&#8217;t wear on a dare. I blame my parents!). But Frum shows that this decade was much more influential for us today. The 1970&#8217;s weren&#8217;t just music, clothes and pet rocks. It was the logical extension of the counter-culture of the 1960&#8217;s and the precursor for our touchy-feely culture today.<br />The 1970&#8217;s were also a time solely its own. It was a time in which belief in government dropped to outstanding lows. This was due in part to revelations about all of the dirty work the CIA had done, as well as widely reported stories on corruption in politics. Birth rates dropped like a stone, as feminism reared its ugly snout and commanded women to go forth and conquer in the workplace. A series of reports and books like The Population Bomb also led to fear for the future and a hopelessness that reflected itself in fewer births. Hopelessness is one of the big themes in this book. All of the degeneracy in morals, best exhibited by the rise of Studio 54, came about because people believed that America was in the gutter and could never become great again. Frum outlines three themes that caused this sense of despair: Vietnam, Inflation and Desegregation. America not only lost the war in Vietnam, but the scars of that loss never healed. The war caused divisions between generations and instilled in Americans a sense that they were losers. Inflation showed America that its institutions that worked in the 1940&#8217;s and 1950&#8217;s no longer worked in the 1970&#8217;s. The fallout from this shattering of the economic dream moved many to sober reflection on what exactly the American system meant. Desegregation revealed America to be deeply flawed. For a country that smashed fascism in the 1940&#8217;s, it was tough to admit that injustices based on race existed at home. This led to a questioning of the social system and an attempt to find solutions at any cost, of which one result was forced busing. Frum gives a nice expose of how much of a failure this idea was, especially in Boston, that paragon of Kennedy liberalism. Frum shows how busing alienated people because it showed how much power had been transferred from elected officials to appointed officials. The judges with lifetime appointments ignored the overwhelming demands of the people and enforced their warped views on the public under the guise of law. This led to a deep cynicism in the system because people felt they no longer had a say in how they wanted their society to run. The fact that this problem is ten times worse today serves as confirmation of what Frum writes here.<br />I&#8217;ll stop at this point. There is much more to ponder while reading this book. I liked this book and I would recommend it to others in a heartbeat. Very impressive!ook. All of the degeneracy in morals, best exhibited by the rise of Studio 54, came about because people believed that America was in the gutter and could never become great again. Frum outlines three themes that caused this sense of despair: Vietnam, Inflation and Desegregation. America not only lost the war in Vietnam, but the scars of that loss never healed. The war caused divisions between generations and instilled in Americans a sense that they were losers. Inflation showed America that its institutions that worked in the 1940&#8217;s and 1950&#8217;s no longer worked in the 1970&#8217;s. The fallout from this shattering of the economic dream moved many to sober reflection on what exactly the American system meant. Desegregation revealed America to be deeply flawed. For a country that smashed fascism in the 1940&#8217;s, it was tough to admit that injustices based on race existed at home. This led to a questioning of the social system and an attempt to find solutions at any cost, of which one result was forced busing. Frum gives a nice expose of how much of a failure this idea was, especially in Boston, that paragon of Kennedy liberalism. Frum shows how busing alienated people because it showed how much power had been transferred from elected officials to appointed officials. The judges with lifetime appointments ignored the overwhelming demands of the people and enforced their warped views on the public under the guise of law. This led to a deep cynicism in the system because people felt they no longer had a say in how they wanted their society to run. The fact that this problem is ten times worse today serves as confirmation of what Frum writes here.<br />I&#8217;ll stop at this point. There is much more to ponder while reading this book. I liked this book and I would recommend it to others in a heartbeat. Very impressive!	2001-05-14
2001075:US	52012289	R32Q18NB8VTZDE	0812828348	550035929	Julius Streicher	Books	4	63	93	N	N	&quot;The World's Number One Jew-Baiter&quot;	Many people are familiar with the fact that Julius Streicher was one of the Nazis executed as a result of the Nuremberg trials. Most aren't clear on what Streicher's crimes were, however. In this book Randall Bytwerk reveals what it was that Streicher did to deserve having his neck snapped like a twig on the gallows in 1946.<br />Julius Streicher was one of Hitler's earliest comrades during the Nazi rise to power in the 1920's and 1930's. Streicher helped Hitler gain a foothold in Nuremberg, which helped the Nazi regime consolidate its hold on Germany. Streicher's main role, however, was as a sort of common man's Joseph Goebbels. Streicher was a teacher by trade, and a fairly effective one at that. He had the rare ability to motivate his students by instilling his enthusiasm for any subject into the minds of his pupils. Streicher used this ability later in his duties for the Nazi party. Streicher published the notorious anti-Jewish newspaper Der Sturmer, which pumped out the most strident and hateful propaganda on the \\"Jewish Problem\\" for over twenty years. Bytwerk examines how effective Der Sturmer was on the common German, and how the newspaper went about reducing Jews to the status of non-humans. When this status was reached, the result led to the concentration camps and mass murder.<br />Included in the book are many reproductions from Der Sturmer, most of which are cartoons that present Jews as animals or as evil, deformed creatures bent on the destruction of Germany. Many cartoons attempt to show Jews as a threat to German women or girls, thereby appealing directly to German manhood and nobility. Bytwerk convincingly argues that these cartoons and articles were quite effective in conditioning the German people into a state in which they regarded the Jews as pure evil. As propaganda, Der Sturmer was a masterpiece. Bytwerk points out that while it convinced Germans that Jews were evil, its most important accomplishment was that it created an atmosphere of indifference. Most Germans didn't run out and attack Jews after reading this stuff. What they did do was not stand up when laws began to appear that stripped Jews of their rights. In other words, Der Sturmer convinced most Germans to do nothing to help Jews.<br />One of the best parts of the book is when Bytwerk examines the history of German anti-Semitic thought. The Nazis were building their particular programs on a foundation that had been created by other authors in the past. This foundation allowed Streicher's propaganda to work much faster and accomplish more in a shorter time. The dislike and distrust were already in place. All Streicher did was to bring it up to date and articulate it in a way that was easy for the common German to understand. Since Der Sturmer was so effective, I disagree with Bytwerk when he states that Streicher was not a bright man. Streicher may have not been a brilliant party organizer, but he certainly accomplished what he set out to do. With all that Streicher got accomplished, and the way he did it, I'd say he was a genius at propaganda, and one who rivaled Joseph Goebbels, who Bytwerk seems to think was Streicher's intellectual \\"better\\".<br />This book is a worthy read, although it is out of print and might be somewhat difficult to find on a local level. Try Amazon.com's search service. Wherever you look, try and pick up a copy. It will be well worth the time.erence. Most Germans didn't run out and attack Jews after reading this stuff. What they did do was not stand up when laws began to appear that stripped Jews of their rights. In other words, Der Sturmer convinced most Germans to do nothing to help Jews.<br />One of the best parts of the book is when Bytwerk examines the history of German anti-Semitic thought. The Nazis were building their particular programs on a foundation that had been created by other authors in the past. This foundation allowed Streicher's propaganda to work much faster and accomplish more in a shorter time. The dislike and distrust were already in place. All Streicher did was to bring it up to date and articulate it in a way that was easy for the common German to understand. Since Der Sturmer was so effective, I disagree with Bytwerk when he states that Streicher was not a bright man. Streicher may have not been a brilliant party organizer, but he certainly accomplished what he set out to do. With all that Streicher got accomplished, and the way he did it, I'd say he was a genius at propaganda, and one who rivaled Joseph Goebbels, who Bytwerk seems to think was Streicher's intellectual \\"better\\".<br />This book is a worthy read, although it is out of print and might be somewhat difficult to find on a local level. Try Amazon.com's search service. Wherever you look, try and pick up a copy. It will be well worth the time.	2001-05-13
2038766:US	52012289	RJYQA10AYIBKA	0140275010	382334052	Cod: A Biography of the Fish that Changed the World	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Superb Book	While I won't go so far as to say that this book changed my life, I will say it is one of the more interesting books I've read recently. Mark Kurlansky has taken an unusual and little thought about topic and explained it's importance in not only economic systems, but cultural and social systems as well. I always enjoy books that think outside the box, and this is one of those books.<br />Kurlansky is at his best when he explains how cod had an effect on diverse areas such as exploration and settlement. Kurlansky shows how much of the exploration to the New World was related not only to the hope of finding a trade route to Asia, but to find the rich cod beds that Basque fishermen had been exploiting for centuries. The improvements in treating cod in salt and drying cod also allowed for early explorers to travel farther and expand their discoveries, as sailors no longer had to worry about foraging for supplies on the coast. Kurlansky also shows how early American settlements exploded in size and economic power due to the teeming cod banks off their coasts. The early Puritan settlers had a rough go of it for years until cod processing took off, then they never looked back. From Kurlansky's analysis, it could almost be said that these early settlements would never have grown so quickly without cod. Without this wonder fish, the growth of what would eventually become the United States would have been seriously retarded, at least in the northern part of the country.<br />The second part of Kurlansky's book deals with the serious problem of fish depletion. As much as I hate to admit it, he gives a convincing argument that corporate greed coupled with nationalistic ambition and plain ignorance has seriously weakened the world supply of cod, as well as other fish. The devices modern corporations use actually argue against using the term \\"fishing\\", as they are more often harvesting fish. The use of huge trawlers with miles-wide nets may be an efficient way to catch fish, but it sure doesn't leave much behind to build up a new generation of fish. The practice of discarding tons of fish caught in nets due to low market prices is absolutely appalling, and should be a criminal offense. This isn't the random discarding of a few hundred pounds of damaged or mangled fish; this is the wholesale destruction of thousands of TONS of fish.<br />I recommend this book to anyone interested in history, and unusual history at that. I also think many other kinds of readers would get something out of this book. Who knew fish could be so interesting? Give this a shot.it sure doesn't leave much behind to build up a new generation of fish. The practice of discarding tons of fish caught in nets due to low market prices is absolutely appalling, and should be a criminal offense. This isn't the random discarding of a few hundred pounds of damaged or mangled fish; this is the wholesale destruction of thousands of TONS of fish.<br />I recommend this book to anyone interested in history, and unusual history at that. I also think many other kinds of readers would get something out of this book. Who knew fish could be so interesting? Give this a shot.	2001-04-10
2045224:US	52012289	R1H6UJUGS2N2E4	0802713548	739246021	Lionhearts: Richard 1, Saladin, and the Era of the Third Crusade	Books	3	22	23	N	N	A Good Look at the Third Crusade	Geoffrey Regan, who is primarily a military historian, takes a foray into the Third Crusade, which involved the conflict between the great Muslim general Saladin, and Angevin monarch King Richard I. The Third Crusade occurred after Saladin crushed most of the Christian army at Hattin in 1187, and then conquered Jerusalem after a century of Christian domination. In this well written book, Regan examines the two dynamic personalities that were Saladin and Richard. Regan's prose is rigorous and extremely clear. In fact, his clarity is probably the best thing about this book, as many books on this topic tend to bog the reader down in endless names and other minutiae.<br />Regan begins his book by examining the rise of Richard to the throne of the powerful Angevin empire, which consisted of England and large chunks of France. Regan adequately details the power struggles amongst Richard's father, Henry II, his mother Eleanor of Aquitaine, and his brothers John and Geoffrey. For those not in the know about this time in history, this family makes the Torrance family from The Shining look like Ozzie and Harriet. Everyone in the family intrigues against the others, and Henry even went so far as to make his wife a virtual prisoner for years due to her role in trying to put Richard on the throne at the expense of Henry. Richard fights several battles with his brothers, all in an attempt to jockey for power. Regan explains that Henry was very stingy with his office as king, and although he gave his sons land and titles, he tried as hard as he could to keep them from getting any real power. In this dysfunctional environment, we see how Richard's character was shaped. Although Richard is now synonymous with the English throne, he was actually French and spent most of his time in Aquitaine, where he fell under the spell of his mother and what Regan calls a &quot;feminist culture&quot; that flourished in Aquitaine during this period. We also see how Richard inherited his father's terrible temper. This temper would cause Richard to make many rash decisions when he went on crusade as king. Richard did seem to have an ability to pick and keep able advisors and officials, and when he became king he shrewdly forced officials to place monetary bids in an effort to keep their positions. This not only allowed Richard to place his own people in high offices, but also gave him a sizeable revenue which later helped him finance his crusade, which was to be one of the best organized in the entire history of crusading.<br />Regan gives us the same detailed treatment of the rise of Saladin. Saladin arose due to his abilities as a capable general under the ruler Nur al-Din, who ruled Syria and was fighting a vigorous campaign against the Christian settlements of Palestine as well as trying to bring Egypt back under his control. Saladin went to Egypt and launched successful military campaigns. They were so successful that Nur al-Din felt threatened and an uneasy period of back and forth diplomacy followed. When al-Din suddenly died, Saladin made his move, marching into Syria and conquering and bargaining his way to power. When Saladin finally succeeded, he had managed to reunite Syria with Egypt, and Saladin proceeded with a jihad, or holy war, against the Christian settlements in Palestine. Regan is careful to emphasis that this concept of jihad was the sole goal of Saladin, and that it shaped all of his decisions and policies. Saladin had great early successes against the Christians at Hattin and Jerusalem. Regan points out that after these battles, Saladin made some errors that probably resulted in the continued existence of the Christians in Palestine. One of Saladin's biggest errors was failing to move swiftly against the Christians that fled to Acre, and he worried incessantly about the German crusaders under Frederick Barbarossa. The German crusade fell apart, and Saladin's worries cost him dearly.<br />Regan gives an excellent account of Richard's march along the coast, and the ensuing battle of Arsuf, where the Christians dealt Saladin a devastating defeat. At the battle of Jaffa, Richard was so feared by the Muslims that when Richard rode in front of the entire Muslim battle line, not one Muslim would meet his challenge for a duel. Regan points out that this is one of the most amazing incidents in the entire history of military affairs during the crusade, or even during the medieval period.<br />This is a good book, and Regan is to be commended for his detailed research and excellent prose. He does make a controversial statement about Richard's massacre of Muslims after the siege of Acre, in which Regan says that this mass murder showed \\"moral courage\\". While these killings were hardly moral, it probably was necessary in the context of the times, a fact that Regan does point out. For anyone interested in crusading history, check this one out.h along the coast, and the ensuing battle of Arsuf, where the Christians dealt Saladin a devastating defeat. At the battle of Jaffa, Richard was so feared by the Muslims that when Richard rode in front of the entire Muslim battle line, not one Muslim would meet his challenge for a duel. Regan points out that this is one of the most amazing incidents in the entire history of military affairs during the crusade, or even during the medieval period.<br />This is a good book, and Regan is to be commended for his detailed research and excellent prose. He does make a controversial statement about Richard's massacre of Muslims after the siege of Acre, in which Regan says that this mass murder showed \\"moral courage\\". While these killings were hardly moral, it probably was necessary in the context of the times, a fact that Regan does point out. For anyone interested in crusading history, check this one out.	2001-04-04
2055974:US	52012289	R3MEJRMUQ4BBXI	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Claret Is Definitely Flowing In This One!	I had almost given up on Stephen King. I haven't read any of his new stuff since Rose Madder and Insomnia. I felt he had veered way off into the land of touchy-feely feminism. When I read the description for Dreamcatcher, I immediately got the old feeling, a feeling that maybe this one was going to delve into true bone chilling horror. I certainly wasn't disappointed, either. This is the best Stephen King novel I've read in eons. It certainly harkens back to his groundbreaking work in such novels as It, The Tommyknockers, and even his masterpiece The Stand. I don't know where the magic went, but Stephen King found it and is back in true style. He'll make your spinal column vibrate like a weather vane struck by lightening with this gruesome tale.<br />Since many may have not read this book yet, I'll coast quickly through the plot details. Four friends gather together for their annual hunting trip in the Maine woods, not far from their childhood home, Derry (home of Pennywise the clown from It). These four friends were brought together during their childhood by a boy with Down's syndrome. Something amazing happened that has linked them together ever since. When a stranger comes into their cabin and unleashes something truly horrible, the roller coaster ride begins. Apparently, some space aliens have crash landed in Maine, and all heck is breaking lose, with the locals and the military caught up in the hijinks.<br />As usual, King dwells on childhood and it's innocence as a major theme of the book. The destruction of the Hole in the Wall is symbolic for the destruction of childhood innocence (you can never go home again). King also ties in other books to the story, such as It. I loved this, as It is one of my favorite books by Stephen King (is Pennywise actually still around?!!?!). We even have the office of the Tracker brothers playing a big role in this one. I actually expected Richie Tozier or another member of the Loser's Club to stick his head into the picture! And what else can you say about some of King's hilarious phrases? You get several in this book, such as \\"The claret is starting to flow\\"! Classic!<br />It also wouldn't be a Stephen King book without the major sociopath/freak. We get one in the guise of Abraham Kurtz, the honcho in charge of cleaning up the mess that the aliens have started. Kurtz (gotta love that name! The horror, the horror!) is a serious nutcase, and every time King gives us an insight into him is just pure fun. The last part of the book is a gut wrenching car chase that leads up to an amazing end. It was really tough to put this book down. It is that good.<br />I also have to comment on some of the gore in this book. I can't remember the last time I was so nauseated. King has really topped himself with some of the sick scenes in this novel. The s**t weasels are absolutely gross, and I still cringe when I think of the scenes with them doing their destructive work. There are also plenty of heads and other body parts either being blown up or shot off to keep any gorehound's attention. There are plenty of chills as well. The scenes with Beaver and Jonesy at the Hole in the Wall encountering the alien presence for the first time is downright scary. Anyone who loves horror/scares will not go wrong with this book.<br />Also, King works in, through the character Jonesy, much of the agony he experienced when he was struck by a van while walking in Maine in 1999. This makes the book, in my opinion, much more of a personal work. I actually got a feel for how King must have felt as he went through the painful steps of rehab after his operations. Thank goodness King is still in this mortal coil doing what he does best! Highly Recommended!d what else can you say about some of King's hilarious phrases? You get several in this book, such as \\"The claret is starting to flow\\"! Classic!<br />It also wouldn't be a Stephen King book without the major sociopath/freak. We get one in the guise of Abraham Kurtz, the honcho in charge of cleaning up the mess that the aliens have started. Kurtz (gotta love that name! The horror, the horror!) is a serious nutcase, and every time King gives us an insight into him is just pure fun. The last part of the book is a gut wrenching car chase that leads up to an amazing end. It was really tough to put this book down. It is that good.<br />I also have to comment on some of the gore in this book. I can't remember the last time I was so nauseated. King has really topped himself with some of the sick scenes in this novel. The s**t weasels are absolutely gross, and I still cringe when I think of the scenes with them doing their destructive work. There are also plenty of heads and other body parts either being blown up or shot off to keep any gorehound's attention. There are plenty of chills as well. The scenes with Beaver and Jonesy at the Hole in the Wall encountering the alien presence for the first time is downright scary. Anyone who loves horror/scares will not go wrong with this book.<br />Also, King works in, through the character Jonesy, much of the agony he experienced when he was struck by a van while walking in Maine in 1999. This makes the book, in my opinion, much more of a personal work. I actually got a feel for how King must have felt as he went through the painful steps of rehab after his operations. Thank goodness King is still in this mortal coil doing what he does best! Highly Recommended!	2001-03-25
2060901:US	52012289	R38M7KYRDNEWJB	0517886367	53342475	The Greening of America, 25th Anniversary Edition	Books	3	61	73	N	N	Idealistic but Flawed	This is the kind of book that had I read it ten years ago, it would have changed my life. However, having a little education and some wisdom that comes with age, this book quickly reveals it's true colors. Charles Reich was (and may still be) a professor at Yale University. I originally got the idea to read this book when one of my history professors related a story about Reich gadding about campus in his bare feet during the early 1970's. My professor, with a wry grin, related how shocked he and some of his fellow students were that someone of Reich's stature would do such a crazy thing. After reading this book, this behavior fits right in with Reich's codification of what he calls a &quot;new consciousness&quot;.<br />This new consciousness, which is essentially the hippie lifestyle, is a new extension of man that has grown from a technological and corporate society run amuck, and two prior forms of consciousness that failed to properly allow man to run a high-tech world. This first consciousness was what our founding fathers had: a sense of individuality and hard work. With the advent of industrialism, this consciousness gave way to the second form. This is the one most of us are familiar with today. It a way of strict conformity to hierarchy, a rigid adherence to rules and regulations, as well as heavily materialistic and goal-oriented. Reich argues that this way of being was too stilted and crushed individuality and free expression. The result was the third phase of consciousness: the hippie. Doing your own thing, freedom, and a desire to make technology work for humanity were the ultimate goals of this group. Reich examines their clothing (of which shoeless activity is perfectly acceptable for a college professor) and music. He sees in all of this an articulation of rebellion and rage against the Corporate State, a mindless automaton that runs roughshod over all of humanity. The glorious hippies will rise up and put a stern hand on this rudderless beast and all will be well. Reich makes sure he points out that the current system is beyond reform (which I agree with) and that the only way to bring about a &quot;Greening of America&quot; is to restore humanity to society.<br />This book certainly has some high points. Reich is absolutely right about the banality of the system and that democracy and law have been bent and subverted to agree with and reinforce the system, just as humans have. His solution of the hippie, especially seen through the lens of time, is laughable. We all know what happened to the hippies. Those that didn't die from drug overdoses in the early 1970's sold out and actually expanded the system that Reich rails against. Who do you think the Yuppies were? Aging hippies that absolutely wallowed in materialism and excess. Think of how advertising has expanded in the last twenty years. How many television channels do we have now? How many of them are full of unhealthy images and advertising? The freedom that the hippies so strived for through the music of Jefferson Airplane and The Grateful Dead has given way to Marilyn Manson and the hateful, pornographic throbbings of rap music. As we can see, what Reich crows about has actually morphed into a nightmare. At least Reich did foresee it, as he states that if the hippies couldn't move their ideas past youth, they would fail. They did, in spades.<br />This book should be read, and it is interesting and exciting at times. I love how he demolishes the New Deal, although he basically does it by saying they didn't do enough because they tried to work within the system. The flaws in the book are destructive to his overall ideas, and the outcome of history has showed us that Reich completely failed in his objectives. At best it can be said that he was amazingly astute in his observations of the time.l will be well. Reich makes sure he points out that the current system is beyond reform (which I agree with) and that the only way to bring about a &quot;Greening of America&quot; is to restore humanity to society.<br />This book certainly has some high points. Reich is absolutely right about the banality of the system and that democracy and law have been bent and subverted to agree with and reinforce the system, just as humans have. His solution of the hippie, especially seen through the lens of time, is laughable. We all know what happened to the hippies. Those that didn't die from drug overdoses in the early 1970's sold out and actually expanded the system that Reich rails against. Who do you think the Yuppies were? Aging hippies that absolutely wallowed in materialism and excess. Think of how advertising has expanded in the last twenty years. How many television channels do we have now? How many of them are full of unhealthy images and advertising? The freedom that the hippies so strived for through the music of Jefferson Airplane and The Grateful Dead has given way to Marilyn Manson and the hateful, pornographic throbbings of rap music. As we can see, what Reich crows about has actually morphed into a nightmare. At least Reich did foresee it, as he states that if the hippies couldn't move their ideas past youth, they would fail. They did, in spades.<br />This book should be read, and it is interesting and exciting at times. I love how he demolishes the New Deal, although he basically does it by saying they didn't do enough because they tried to work within the system. The flaws in the book are destructive to his overall ideas, and the outcome of history has showed us that Reich completely failed in his objectives. At best it can be said that he was amazingly astute in his observations of the time.	2001-03-21
2065812:US	52012289	R1OMB78CINSZ3B	0141180374	855781794	Kalki (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Not The Best Vidal Has To Offer	I figured I would give this one a shot after reading Vidal's masterpiece Burr. Burr was absolutely brilliant and flowed like rich cream. This book, which deals with an apocalyptic scenario set against the background of 1970's pop culture, was much less impressive. Maybe I should stick to Vidal's historical fiction pieces and not expect much out of his social satire work. Having started this review with this somewhat negative comment, I should say there is some good stuff about this book. There is still plenty of \\"Vidalian\\" wit to enjoy, and some of the imagery and references to 70's culture is pretty amusing. I always get a kick out of end of the world books too, so I am biased in that regard. Still, for this genre, Kalki is pretty out there.<br />The main character of Kalki is Teddy Ottinger, a smart mouthed feminist who is a world-renowned aviatrix, an author of a feminist tract called \\"Beyond Motherhood\\" and an avowed bisexual. It isn't hard to see that Vidal is borrowing heavily from 1970's feminism, with its calls for the ERA and loud blustering. The big news of the day in Teddy's world is an American who is calling himself Kalki, or the avatar of the Hindu god Vishnu. Kalki has returned to the world to end the last cycle of mankind and usher in a new Golden Age of man. Kalki recruits Ottinger as his personal pilot while she is writing a story about him for an American newspaper. Needless to say, lots of hijinks follow, as secret government agents, drug lords and a freaky dude by the name of Dr. Ashok, run around and provide lots of plot twists and turns. Vidal drops lots of clues to what will happen in the end of the book, but the apocalypse Vidal unfolds here is not what Stephen King would have had in mind.<br />What is interesting about this book is that it serves as a snapshot of late 1970's culture. I can just imagine that if this book is still read several centuries from now, that there will be fifty pages of footnotes in the back, defining such terms as Reverend Moon, est, and other events that were so relevant in the 1970's. The book also attacks the widespread attention that religious cults were attracting during the time this book was written. It's not surprising that Vidal picks a religion from the East as his delivery device for destruction. Lots of people were turning to Katmandu for guidance, apparently as the 1960's and early 1970's faded and new ideas of \\"turning on\\" were hard to find. Vidal savagely attacks the shallowness of cults and people that believe mindlessly in any type of contrivance that promises them something. In this way the book works, but it fails in other ways.<br />As mentioned above, this book lacks Vidal's usual magic. Maybe this sub par book is part of the larger malaise that gripped the U.S. in the late 1970's. Maybe it is part of the national hangover that occurred during this time, as America woke up from the 1960's with a dry mouth, a nasty headache, and wondered where it had been the night before. Even better, maybe Vidal planned his book to read this way to reflect the weariness of the time, although I'm probably giving him way more credit then he deserves with this theory. Anyway, it just lacks his typical majesty, although the book was hard to put down at times, and I did care somewhat about how things turned out, which isn't too bad. I can't say I cared much for Teddy, who quickly became annoying with her smart mouthed comments and her constant references to ghostwriter Weiss (who helped her write Beyond Motherhood). Maybe Gore was dealing with memories of his own experience with a ghostwriter? Whatever it is, it became wearisome very quickly.<br />Would I recommend Kalki to someone else? It depends on whether that someone is a Gore Vidal fan. It also depends on whether someone knows the 1970's and likes apocalyptic literature. If none of the above criteria are met, skip this book. Recommended (with reservations).Reverend Moon, est, and other events that were so relevant in the 1970's. The book also attacks the widespread attention that religious cults were attracting during the time this book was written. It's not surprising that Vidal picks a religion from the East as his delivery device for destruction. Lots of people were turning to Katmandu for guidance, apparently as the 1960's and early 1970's faded and new ideas of \\"turning on\\" were hard to find. Vidal savagely attacks the shallowness of cults and people that believe mindlessly in any type of contrivance that promises them something. In this way the book works, but it fails in other ways.<br />As mentioned above, this book lacks Vidal's usual magic. Maybe this sub par book is part of the larger malaise that gripped the U.S. in the late 1970's. Maybe it is part of the national hangover that occurred during this time, as America woke up from the 1960's with a dry mouth, a nasty headache, and wondered where it had been the night before. Even better, maybe Vidal planned his book to read this way to reflect the weariness of the time, although I'm probably giving him way more credit then he deserves with this theory. Anyway, it just lacks his typical majesty, although the book was hard to put down at times, and I did care somewhat about how things turned out, which isn't too bad. I can't say I cared much for Teddy, who quickly became annoying with her smart mouthed comments and her constant references to ghostwriter Weiss (who helped her write Beyond Motherhood). Maybe Gore was dealing with memories of his own experience with a ghostwriter? Whatever it is, it became wearisome very quickly.<br />Would I recommend Kalki to someone else? It depends on whether that someone is a Gore Vidal fan. It also depends on whether someone knows the 1970's and likes apocalyptic literature. If none of the above criteria are met, skip this book. Recommended (with reservations).	2001-03-17
2072222:US	52012289	R1NN5OOEBGRUSF	0614210984	970225064	Arab Historians of the Crusades	Books	4	70	82	N	N	Very Informative	I read this book for a class on the Crusades. This is an extremely informative book that provides a different viewpoint on the European invasions of Palestine and Egypt from 1098-1303. Gabrieli includes excerpts from several Islamic historians who wrote copiously on this topic, and the information they provide gives the reader a different view of the fight for the Holy Land.<br />This book reads quite fast, as the excerpts for the most part are very short. The best section of the book has to be the detailed information on Saladin, the Arab general and sultan who dealt the Christians a punishing blow at Hittin in 1187, and who eventually retook Jerusalem. Lots of stories provide an interesting character study of this Islamic hero. We read about his military heroism, his religious piety, his sense of justice and honor, and his relationship with the Christians. There is the interesting story of how Saladin helped a Christian woman recover her child. The child was seized and was almost sold into slavery until Saladin intervened on her behalf and returned the child to its mother. The other sections of the book deal with the initial campaigns of the Christians during the First Crusade, such as the taking of Antioch and the legend of the Holy Lance, a ridiculous story that the Arab historians rightly perceive as total bunk. The last part of the book deals with the Egyptian campaigns of Louis IX and the eventual collapse of the Christian occupation in Palestine.<br />Most of these writings are pretty interesting, but there are a few drawbacks. Many of these accounts are propaganda meant to paint the Muslims in the best possible light. Also, this would be a useless review unless I mentioned the amazingly horrible writings of Imad ad-Din, who served as a close official to Saladin. His prose is so turgid and congealed that it is very taxing to get through. He spends a whole page giving EXTREMELY gory descriptions of the dead Christians at Hittin. There are only so many descriptions of bashed in heads and ripped livers a person can take! His prose is so difficult that it is hard to glean the actual history out of his writing. A final downfall of the book, which is more my fault then anything else, is the complicated names of the Arabs. These guys have more names then you can shake a stick at. It takes a leviathan effort to wade through them.<br />Overall, this is a very worthy book for someone interested in this time period. Any serious historian should always look at as many sides of an event as possible, and this book will give many insights. Just be prepared for Imad's interesting accounts!tions of bashed in heads and ripped livers a person can take! His prose is so difficult that it is hard to glean the actual history out of his writing. A final downfall of the book, which is more my fault then anything else, is the complicated names of the Arabs. These guys have more names then you can shake a stick at. It takes a leviathan effort to wade through them.<br />Overall, this is a very worthy book for someone interested in this time period. Any serious historian should always look at as many sides of an event as possible, and this book will give many insights. Just be prepared for Imad's interesting accounts!	2001-03-12
2075349:US	52012289	R3JWM4GQYI01WP	0425160106	826412245	The Oxford French Dictionary	Books	3	2	2	N	N	An Average Dictionary	I've just started to learn French, and I picked up this dictionary before classes started because it was cheap and I figured I would need something to get started.<br />This dictionary does a pretty good job for the money. The verb tables could have been fleshed out a bit more, as there isn't many conjugations at all to rely on. Also, the instructor I have is big on phonetics, and many times this dictionary has had inaccurate or missing phonetic characters. Still, the scope of the dictionary is good, and it does give plenty of words to help somebody get through some French translation or sentence construction. It even includes a few short phrases in many of the word definitions, which always helps. It wasn't long before I picked up a huge Larousse dictionary, and I would recommend upgrading quickly for anyone interested in pursuing French past a basic level.	2001-03-09
2078677:US	52012289	R3TI2QQ0Q47MPF	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Couldn't Put This One Down	I've never even come close to reading this classic by J.D. Salinger until I picked up this cheap little copy a few days ago. My only knowledge of the book came from Mark David Chapman and the killing of John Lennon two decades ago. I sat down with it right away and quickly became engrossed in the story told by narrator and main character Holden Caulfield. It's absolutely incredible that this was written in 1951. The language is slangy and fresh enough to make anyone believe that it was written close to today.<br />The book is an account of a few days in the life of Holden Caulfield, teenager and cynic. Caulfield gets kicked out of his prep school and wanders around New York City for a few days, trying to avoid his parents and having a few interesting encounters along the way. All of these events are related to use directly through Holden's worldview. This worldview is depressingly downbeat, as Holden views most who tramp through this world as &quot;phonies&quot;. To use one of Holden's favorite phrases, what &quot;killed me&quot; about this book is Salinger's ability to transform extremely arcane sensations and emotions into prose. When Caulfield talks about his dead brother Allie, he mentions how red his hair was. To show the reader how red it was, Holden talks about a day he was golfing and turned around and saw Allie about 150 yards away watching him. Great imagery! I could actually see his red hair while I was reading this. I loved Caulfield's hunting cap, the imagery of his being the catcher in the rye, and the ducks and frozen fish in Central Park. All point at Caulfield as something deeper than an angst-addled teenager slumming through New York. Caulfield is on a quest to save kids from his own fate. He achieves this in a sense at the end with his kid sister Phoebe.<br />I'm thirty years old, which is still young enough to understand how Holden feels. I went through a stage where I felt exactly like Holden. Everybody does to some extent, I think. The trick is to survive it and not let it destroy you. I really thought this book would end on a bad note, but it seemed uplifting in a way. Read this book, if for nothing else then to say you've read it. Once you get started on this one, you will have a tough time putting it down. Recommended.to survive it and not let it destroy you. I really thought this book would end on a bad note, but it seemed uplifting in a way. Read this book, if for nothing else then to say you've read it. Once you get started on this one, you will have a tough time putting it down. Recommended.	2001-03-06
2083126:US	52012289	R3K30X2F7TZFO1	1561387169	967454243	The H.G. Wells Reader (Courage Classics Giant)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Greatest Hits	This book contains the best-known short stories of H.G. Wells, as well as a lesser-known work called The Crystal Egg. The Time Machine, The Island of Doctor Moreau, The Invisible Man, and War of the Worlds make up the heavy hitting line-up in this book. Wells wrote most of these stories in the 1890's, which solidified his position as grandfather of the science fiction genre. His work still holds up amazingly well today.<br />As I worked my way through these stories, I quickly came to realize that I was adversely affected by seeing film versions of the stories. It was impossible to read The Island of Dr. Moreau without seeing Brando in that outrageous get up. I didn't enjoy The Time Machine nearly as much as I would have if I hadn't seen that old film version. Despite this, I still enjoyed the stories. My favorite tale was The Island of Dr. Moreau, when we see the horrible effects of what happens when man decides to play God with nature. My least favorite tale was the Invisible Man, which I thought moved slowly and didn't have as much of the technological aspects as the other stories had. War of the Worlds is good as well, although a map of England would certainly come in handy, as Wells drops location names all over the place. A surprise was The Crystal Egg, which was the shortest work in the book. It made me think of Lovecraft with its bizarre plot of looking in on another world.<br />I won't go into detailed plot outlines, but it is sufficient to say that a person could do much worse than reading this book. If you like science fiction, this is must read material. I would certainly read other stories by Wells, and he wrote some very serious material that would probably be profitable to peruse.	2001-03-02
2099966:US	52012289	RP1G5WLX36VJ0	0140445870	933964530	The Princesse de Cleves (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	33	46	N	N	A 17th Century Soap Opera	This is an interesting book. A very fast read at just 176 pages, The Princesse de Cleves was written as a sort of snapshot of the behavior that was common in royal courts throughout Europe. Full of intrigue, love, treachery and death, this book reads exactly like a soap opera. The introduction says that it first appeared in 1678 and was one of the first romance books written in French. I decided to read it due to some courses in history that I've taken that concern this time period.<br />The main character is a woman of extraordinary beauty who quickly captures the hearts of men at the court of Henri II of France. She marries Monsieur de Cleves, even though she doesn't really love him. The marriage is more for position than emotion, although it's hard not to sympathize with her husband, as he treats her well and always tries to win her heart. His wife quickly becomes enraptured with the Duc de Nemours, a court dandy who has the reputation of loving 'em and leaving 'em. He falls in love with her, and the rest of the book is spent explaining their machinations as the Duc tries to get close to her, and Mme. de Cleves tries to keep him at arms length and honor her marriage to her husband. Everything comes to a head in the end, which is bleak and not at all happy as one would expect.<br />This book is fairly one-dimensional in shape. There is little character development beyond love affairs, and almost no description of scenery. This is an intensely character driven book, without the character, and very complex once the political intrigues enter the picture. All royal courts had intrigue, and France was probably one of the worst. When love affairs bloom, the webs become even more convoluted. It really is like a soap opera, although I couldn't help but notice that a deep cynicism runs throughout the book. Love as an emotion is reduced to mere politics, or a relationship in which power over another person is the sole goal. This is probably how it really was, though. The love between Mme. de Cleves and M. de Nemours is more genuine, but the system, and Mme. De Cleves misplaced honor, ultimately keeps them apart.<br />I'm not sure if I can recommend this book. You not only have to have an interest in history, but also the right frame of mind. The Penguin version is apt, although chapter breaks would have been helpful.ve between Mme. de Cleves and M. de Nemours is more genuine, but the system, and Mme. De Cleves misplaced honor, ultimately keeps them apart.<br />I'm not sure if I can recommend this book. You not only have to have an interest in history, but also the right frame of mind. The Penguin version is apt, although chapter breaks would have been helpful.	2001-02-17
2103021:US	52012289	R3E1IDR9KHKOMQ	0140433627	655343360	Frankenstein: Or the Modern Prometheus	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Amazing Horror Story	I've never really seen the movie version of this literary classic, let alone thought about reading the book. I picked up what I thought was the story of Frankenstein by osmosis. It is now obvious that what I learned didn't come from the book, as the story is totally different from the movie versions. Mary Shelley has written an interesting tale that attacks not only technology, but the misguided belief that man can control such technology.<br />The story has three narrators, so readers get different viewpoints on the story. The first narrator comes across Victor Frankenstein in the arctic as he is tracking down his beastly creation. This narrator is Walton, the captain of a ship and a man on his own dangerous mission. We then get to hear Victor Frankenstein's story. This section details Victor and his education, where he is enraptured by alchemy and natural science. During the course of his studies he figures out how to animate objects, and creates a man that is to become his nightmare and his undoing. The last section is narrated by the creature that Victor has created, and the Creature's attempts to become part of society and learn to educate himself is one of the more interesting parts of the book. The creature is spurned, of course, and decides to take his wrath out on humanity in general, and Victor in particular. It isn't hard to see the theme of the story, which is that man shouldn't attempt to play God. If man is imperfect, the creatures he could create would be even more imperfect. I think the book has a nice message to events today, in that those who advance technology almost never suffer themselves. It is the rest of us that have to adjust our lives to accomodate the Bill Gates' of the world. Bill Gates and a few thousand other people really benefit. In Frankenstein, others do indeed suffer, but so does Victor. No one benefits from this beastly creation. Even the beast suffers in the extreme.<br />This book is indeed well written, although as with most 19th century literature, the prose takes some getting used to. It sure beats the garbage being passed off as literature today. The Penguin version, which is the one I read, is pretty good. It includes appendices that contain extra text, as well as some short horror stories written by Shelley's friends Lord Byron and Polidari. The introduction is pretty good as well, and points out some connections that the book has to other works that were circulating at the same time. Do yourself a favor and read a book like this. you'll increase your I.Q. and feel better about yourself in the process!th century literature, the prose takes some getting used to. It sure beats the garbage being passed off as literature today. The Penguin version, which is the one I read, is pretty good. It includes appendices that contain extra text, as well as some short horror stories written by Shelley's friends Lord Byron and Polidari. The introduction is pretty good as well, and points out some connections that the book has to other works that were circulating at the same time. Do yourself a favor and read a book like this. you'll increase your I.Q. and feel better about yourself in the process!	2001-02-14
2104149:US	52012289	R3QCJP2OV5IQWM	0060391634	303485416	Slouching Towards Gomorrah	Books	5	49	77	N	N	Revelations on the Pathology of the Left	Robert Bork, who had his character assassinated by Joe Biden during his nomination hearing for the Supreme Court, has written this sweeping epic against Liberalism and its various manifestations in American society. Bork is systematic in his attacks, and his arguments demolish the mythos of Leftism.<br />Bork believes that modern Liberalism has two manifestations: radical egalitarianism and radical individualism. Sometimes these two features act independently, other times they act in concert. The result, however, is the same: the undermining of American values and morals. Liberalism exists to constantly break down constraints. Eventually, there won't be any constraints still in existence to hold it back. The results of this breaking down process will be anarchy or a totalitarian form of government.<br />Bork looks at John Stuart Mill and the history of Liberalism to see how it has changed and why. He believes that the American strain, which is a particularly virulent pathogen, reached an acme in the 1960's, when several factors came together that greatly accelerated the process that has brought us to where we are today. Bork believes that the huge baby boom population greatly outstripped social mechanisms that would have assimilated them into traditional American values. In other words, there were too many people and not enough schools, churches and other institutions that act as delivery devices for our culture. The Vietnam War also acted as a catalyst that allowed these spoiled brats to express their anti-institutional views, and also acted as a unifying force that helped to coalesce the various forces that were to constitute the New Left. Today, these people now run government, universities and other social institutions. They also control the media systems, which gives them a wide audience in which to disseminate their propaganda. Bork also examines Feminism, which he reveals as an academic and social fraud that is not only unhealthy, but also dangerous to the country at large. Bork pretty much leaves no stone unturned, and of several books that I've read on the Culture Wars, this is one of the best.<br />What I like best about this book is that Bork is a realist. On many occasions he states that things may have gone too far, and fixing the problems may well be impossible. He also states that a democratic society may not have the legal means to fix some of these problems. This is what happens when so many people are on handout programs from the Government. I like this clear-headed analysis, and it gives the book a different cast from other similar texts. I highly recommend this book to anyone concerned about our future.ountry at large. Bork pretty much leaves no stone unturned, and of several books that I've read on the Culture Wars, this is one of the best.<br />What I like best about this book is that Bork is a realist. On many occasions he states that things may have gone too far, and fixing the problems may well be impossible. He also states that a democratic society may not have the legal means to fix some of these problems. This is what happens when so many people are on handout programs from the Government. I like this clear-headed analysis, and it gives the book a different cast from other similar texts. I highly recommend this book to anyone concerned about our future.	2001-02-14
2112020:US	52012289	R1NQJ7VR0KYW5B	0300047002	265189658	The Crusades: A Short History	Books	3	57	63	N	N	A Good Introduction to the Crusades	As the back of this book states, this is a very concise account of the history of the crusading movement that occurred from the 12th to the 18th century. Riley-Smith really knows his stuff and his writing style is lucid and the book flows well.<br />This is somewhat of a survey book, in that the reader gets a good overview of the Crusades. The text goes beyond a survey however, in that there are vast amounts of names, places and dates. I read this book for a class on this topic, and I had some problems with the amount of minutiae that Riley-Smith included in this book. I'm just starting to learn about this topic; so obscure names are tough to slog through. What saves the book is that it is still possible to come away with a good understanding of the general themes of the text. I was amazed at the number of crusading campaigns that were undertaken, and not just in Palestine. There were movements in the Baltic, in Germany, and in North Africa. The attempts by the Spaniards to get the Moors out of Spain was considered a crusade, as was attempts to put down heresies against the Catholic Church in France.  Eventually, the Church saw heresy as more of a threat against Christianity than the Muslim menace in the East. It is also interesting to see how the Church escalated the promises of indulgences to get people to go on crusade. I wasn't too happy about the author's tendency to skip about and play loose with his timeline. It made for some fairly confusing reading.<br />A tough book for a beginner, but it does have moments of brilliance. It probably is a good starting point for this topic, but since it is the first book I've read on the topic, I'm guessing on this point. Informative.	2001-02-07
2116836:US	52012289	R7GBUKKL6D544	0679746498	419371050	What It Takes: The Way to the White House	Books	4	10	11	N	N	The American Presidency	This is one massive tome. Clocking in at over 1000 pages, in dense ten point font, Richard Ben Cramer packs an enormous amount of information into his account of the 1988 presidential race. The scope of the book is amazing. We don't just get to see the candidates on the campaign trail, but we learn about their lives, and what experiences they endured that have created the right balance of traits that make them want to run for the American Presidency. Cramer starts out by looking at George Bush and Bob Dole, and then concentrates on Democrats such as Michael Dukakis, Richard Gephardt, Gary Hart and Joe Biden.<br />Cramer has a cocky and cynical writing style that doesn't hesitate to shoot daggers at those deserving of scorn. One of his biggest targets is the media, and the so-called power brokers that can make or break presidents (Cramer calls them \\"big-feet\\"). People like David Broder, Jack Germond and Howard Fineman all fall under Cramer's critical eye. Cramer shows how the media obliterates people for their own benefit. Bringing down a candidate isn't done for the good of the country over serious issues, but rather to build careers and increase the salaries of the media darlings. The question \\"Who is watching the media?\\" looms large in this book. Cramer also targets the campaign teams who mold and buff a candidate so that he can be elected, no matter what the cost. These are the folks who are brought in to dig up dirt, lie, and raise lots of money so they can buy elections. People like John Sasso and Lee Atwater are the most prominent of these figures, and are painted in less than flattering terms by Cramer.<br />Some of Cramer's observations can get tiresome. How many times do we need to hear about George Bush making new friend because it \\"will be neat\\"? His cynicism can get old too, but since he's dealing with politics, it's totally understandable. I've seen several of the people talked about in this book on TV recently, and I immediately thought of them in terms of this book (Hey! There's Joe Biden! I wonder if he's buying a new house!). I also laughed out loud whenever Cramer talked about Elizabeth Dole. He would write her words in North Carolina accent, and you could almost hear her talking!<br />Only those interested in politics will probably enjoy this book. Since some of the people in this book are still involved in politics today, this book still has merit. I read the other day that Joe Biden might be an early prospect for president in 2004. Clear your calendar, too, as this is a long read. Recommended.s of this book (Hey! There's Joe Biden! I wonder if he's buying a new house!). I also laughed out loud whenever Cramer talked about Elizabeth Dole. He would write her words in North Carolina accent, and you could almost hear her talking!<br />Only those interested in politics will probably enjoy this book. Since some of the people in this book are still involved in politics today, this book still has merit. I read the other day that Joe Biden might be an early prospect for president in 2004. Clear your calendar, too, as this is a long read. Recommended.	2001-02-03
2132669:US	52012289	R1SI9O11ARJQR	0375708731	819615677	Burr: A Novel	Books	5	22	27	N	N	Awesome	I can't say enough good things about this Gore Vidal novel. It's certainly the best fiction book I've read in some time. It's so good that there were numerous times while reading the book that I forgot that it was fiction! This is a historical fiction novel, so the characters in the story actually existed. George Washington, Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton all make appearances. I've never read any of Gore Vidal's writings before picking up this book, mainly due to some preconceived notions...<br />The book's main character is Charlie Schuyler, a law clerk and budding journalist in the employ of the aging Aaron Burr, who is still living down his famous duel with Alexander Hamilton. The story is set in the 1830's, well after the American Revolution and towards the end of Burr's life. Schuyler has some powerful friends that want him to get Aaron Burr to admit that he is the father of Martin Van Buren, who is running for president. They hope to discredit Van Buren by linking him to the hated Burr, as well as painting Van Buren as a bastard. The whole book is Burr's recollections to Charlie about his life in the American Revolution, as vice-president to Thomas Jefferson, and his supposed attempt to split the United States and make himself emperor of Mexico. These recollections are interspersed with Charlie's relationship with Burr and with Helen Jewett, a prostitute that Charlie wants to marry.<br />The brilliance of this book is definitely it's grand writing style. Vidal writes with passion and humor, and he paints our founding fathers in acidic language. Washington is revealed to be an ineffectual general and a somber figure that does whatever it takes to put his own interests and goals over everyone else. Jefferson comes off as a humorless schemer who wouldn't mind suspending the Constitution if it would suit his political interests. These descriptions would probably be insulting to many people if they didn't come across as being so realistic. Remember, these people were politicians, and had as much of a vested interest in power as do politicians of our own time. The end of the book is nothing short of phenomenal, and I actually shouted out loud as I read the last page. I still can't believe how it ended. I never saw it coming! HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!people were politicians, and had as much of a vested interest in power as do politicians of our own time. The end of the book is nothing short of phenomenal, and I actually shouted out loud as I read the last page. I still can't believe how it ended. I never saw it coming! HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!	2001-01-21
2143145:US	52012289	R2F23V9WAFM12Q	0688082742	448089741	Four Arguments for the Elimination of Television	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Brilliant	This book is absolutely, without a doubt, amazing in scope. This is the kind of book that you find deep and startling revelations that shock your sense of self. It's that powerful, in certain spots, and Jerry Mander is to be commended for this splendid treatise on what ails mankind towards the end of the twentieth century.<br />While this is a strong polemic against television, it quickly becomes apparent that television is really a symptom of a bigger problem. This problem, according to Mander, is how mankind has removed himself from reality through the creation of a new world of office buildings, cars and other unnatural contrivances that cause mankind (and womankind) to become alienated, frustrated creatures that are quickly losing touch with the environment in which we evolved as living beings for millions of years. Mander likens this alienation to a sort of sensory deprivation similar to those psychological experiments that placed people in tanks in which all sensory input was prevented. As most of us know, when the human senses are cut off, the eventual outcome is insanity. Mander says this is what will also happen to humanity in their new environment. Mander even points to mindless health studies about how breast milk is better for a baby then Similac. He says these kinds of studies show that humans no longer believe their own sensory perceptions. They now have to be told by science what is right or wrong, or healthy or unhealthy. It is this alienation from reality that makes the machinations of television possible. Only \\"unreal\\" people could fall prey to television, because television can only deal in unrealities. This is when Mander launches into a sustained attack on television, and what an awesome attack it is. Mander shows how television simply can't be a useful instrument. The technology of television just isn't capable of delivering more than ads and mind numbing pap. In fact, Mander points out that the actual use of television is to act as a delivery device for advertising. Mander gives an in-depth analysis of the tricks that advertising companies use to get people to stay tuned in. You'll certainly look at television is a different way after reading this section.<br />Mander also examines how television can mentally and physically damage the human body. Mander shows how different spectrums of light can have different effects on the human body. Some spectra can be healthy, but others have caused increased cancer risk in lab animals. What's ultimately alarming is the dearth of information that Mander turned up. There just hasn't been that many studies on how constant exposure to non-natural light, such as television light, to know for sure how much damage television can cause. With so much time spent in front of the television, you'd figure more would have been done. Mander says this is proof of how invasive television has become.  Mander also mentions that studies proved that television sets emit X-rays. As everyone knows, overexposure to X-rays can kill.<br />This is a great book, and at a price low enough that there is no excuse not to shut your television off and pick up a copy. The book is dated, since it was written in the 1970's. Therefore, there is nothing about the Internet or the effects that that medium may have upon humanity. I would suspect Mander would see the Internet as another step along the path to sensory deprivation and alienation. I think Mander would also have something to say about the recent spate of \\"reality\\" shows, shows that would seem to exponentially increase the alienation factor he discusses in this book. I also wonder if more studies on the effects of television have been done since this was written. I wonder why the television media haven't reported anything about this?<br />Mander is one smart cookie, and his education in economics shows in how he presents his arguments: logically and forcefully with little fluff. If you only read two books this year, read this one... Go forth and read!d read!	2001-01-12
2147556:US	52012289	R1NR70V9IFSM16	0345402391	522278364	Sharky's Machine	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Fun but Mindless	This is the book they made into a movie starring Burt Reynolds back in the early 1980's. The movie shares a lot with this book, which is usually pretty rare for Hollywood. I quickly got sucked into the story, even though I already knew the high points of the tale.<br />The book is about a cop named Sharky, who works the narcotics beat. After a shootout with a dealer, Sharky gets demoted to the vice department, where he quickly hooks up with several hard bitten cops that carry grudges because they are considered the lowest of the low in the police department. A phone tap on a prostitute leads to a rapid series of events that involves stolen gold, Mafia killers, a presidential candidate, and a shadowy figure that wants unlimited power. All of this activity unfolds in Atlanta, Georgia.<br />This book is absolutely overflowing with pornographic sex and gory violence. Heads get blasted off, fingers are chopped off and people get beaten to bloody pulps. The sex scenes are definitely X-rated stuff. It's one of the sauciest books I've read in a long time. Anyone looking for quick action certainly won't be disappointed with this book. I haven't read any other books by William Diehl, but if they're anything like this one, they'll raise eyebrows.<br />This thriller has several corny moments. The whole story unfolds in a very short time frame (a couple of days) and there are so many lucky breaks for the cops and amazing coincidences that it's impossible not to groan out loud a few times. I had to chuckle to myself when the vice squad investigates a murder and doesn't call the homicide department because they don't want them to take all the credit. Come on! Totally unbelievable! But these books aren't written as paragons of literature. They're a quick, fun and mindless diversion, and this book certainly fits that bill. Be sure and keep an eye out for Friscoe, the head of the vice department. He's hilarious and makes for effective comic relief.	2001-01-09
2148760:US	52012289	R1ISMEY0NA6Q53	0963215809	743678423	The Franklin Cover-up: Child Abuse, Satanism, and Murder in Nebraska	Books	4	55	68	N	N	Scary Stuff	I live in Omaha and I well remember when this story broke in the press. It was big news; Lindbergh baby headlines, in fact. When I saw this book was available, I knew I had to read it and find out the information that the press refused to carry. John DeCamp names names and skewers people with little regard for his own personal safety.<br />I won't go into too much detail on what happened. Read the book to find that out. It is sufficient to say that there were many allegations of child abuse, homosexual encounters, drug abuse and embezzlement of monies involved. The people accused of the abuse were very prominent people in Omaha society, and still  are today. DeCamp lays it all out for everyone to see. He cites sources and makes devastating charges against all those involved. He even indicts the federal government as a willing participant in this cover-up. DeCamp is most impressive when he outlines the scandals of Bob Kerrey's tenure as Nebraska governor in the early and mid 1980's. Several bank scandals and questionable loans cast Kerrey in a fairly sinister light. DeCamp says Kerrey used NIFA (Nebraska Investment Finance Authority) to make loans to his buddies and corporate interests. This is the same thing Bill Clinton did in Arkansas with the ADFA while he was governor, around the same time! Those wacky Democrats! What will they come up with next!<br />Needless to say, some of the revelations in this book are tough to read and pretty shocking. There are explicit descriptions of unnatural acts and violent incidents. There are big drawbacks to this book, however. For one thing, DeCamp has an ego the size of a house. He is constantly patting himself on the back and makes sure everyone knows how much money he could make, how successful his career is, and how many big names he can drop. It gets old real fast and hurts the book, in my opinion. He also gets off on some weird tangents. It's one thing to brag about your involvement in the Gordon Kahl case, or the militia movement. When you start talking about a CIA project called Monarch, in which America's youth are being programmed to kill and maim, you are really stretching credulity. I even roared out loud with derision when I got to the section on Monarch. Attempting to tie one of the Franklin kids into Monarch isn't a good idea, either. It erodes credibility. Despite these parts, the book is a good examination of the entire scandal. No matter what anyone ever says, the death of Gary Caradori is EXTREMELY suspicious. No one can argue that Peter Citron isn't a pedophile, either, as he served time in prison for that crime. These two events alone cast sinister suspicion that something was going on, although whether anyone will ever know the true scope of the scandal is highly unlikely.<br />Would I recommend this book? Yes, especially for the Kerrey info and the actual discussions of the Franklin cover-up. Just be sure and read this book with caution. Never believe everything you hear, see, or read!movement. When you start talking about a CIA project called Monarch, in which America's youth are being programmed to kill and maim, you are really stretching credulity. I even roared out loud with derision when I got to the section on Monarch. Attempting to tie one of the Franklin kids into Monarch isn't a good idea, either. It erodes credibility. Despite these parts, the book is a good examination of the entire scandal. No matter what anyone ever says, the death of Gary Caradori is EXTREMELY suspicious. No one can argue that Peter Citron isn't a pedophile, either, as he served time in prison for that crime. These two events alone cast sinister suspicion that something was going on, although whether anyone will ever know the true scope of the scandal is highly unlikely.<br />Would I recommend this book? Yes, especially for the Kerrey info and the actual discussions of the Franklin cover-up. Just be sure and read this book with caution. Never believe everything you hear, see, or read!	2001-01-08
2152470:US	52012289	R3BF7SZ9XHLZOD	046509838X	545172516	Not Out Of Africa: How ""Afrocentrism"" Became An Excuse To Teach Myth As History (New Republic Book)	Books	5	35	43	N	N	Exploding the Afrocentric Myth	Everyone knows Afrocentricity is a sham. Even the &quot;professors&quot; that teach this pap admit it's purpose is to build esteem rather than provide historically accurate information. Actually, the existence of this book, by classical scholar Mary Lefkowitz, shows how far down the path to ruin we've come. To even have to debate the ridiculous idea of Afrocentric ideology exposes the deep corruption of higher education. At least Lefkowitz delivers powerful, punishing blows to the Afrocentric scholars in this book.<br />The central idea of Afrocentric thought is that the Greeks, those wonderful people who contributed so much to Western thought, actually stole much of their ideas and concepts from the Egyptians. Since Egypt is in Africa, that means the Greeks took these ideas from blacks. Lefkowitz shows, in minute detail, how this is just not true. She also refutes the Afrocentric belief that Cleopatra and Socrates were black. One of the funniest parts of the book takes place during her discussion on Cleopatra. Some Afrocentric scholars actually use Shakespeare as a source! As a historian myself, I find this absolutely hysterical. Note to others: you know you're in trouble when you have to use a 16th century English playwright as a reference for historical information on 1st century AD figures. Lefkowitz goes on to show that Afrocentric scholars actually get most of their theories from a French Freemason. The origins of Afrocentric belief comes from a white European! Could it get anymore delicious? It does, actually. Lefkowitz also talks about how early Hebrews actually tried to do the same thing the Afrocentrists are doing now; that is, trying to take credit for Greek ideas and beliefs. The Greeks were so great that people have been trying to take credit for their ideas for two millenia! Jealousy knows no bounds! As for Africans developing these ideas themselves, forget about it. It has been proven that Africans never even developed a written language. It's hard to pass on a belief system without a written language. This isn't to say that Africans didn't have development. Mali and Songhey were powerful and rich kingdoms. But they just don't compare with the Greeks. There is nothing wrong with that. Why can't Afrocentric scholars be pleased with those developments that really occurred in Africa? Apparently, some of them have frail egos.<br />I'm really glad Mary Lefkowitz took the time to write this book. She should be commended for her bravery in standing up to this threat to academe. She'll suffer many slings and arrows for her beliefs. I'm also glad I had some Greek history and language under my belt. She delves pretty deep into Greek names and ideas. Still, this is a quick read on an important topic. Recommended.pass on a belief system without a written language. This isn't to say that Africans didn't have development. Mali and Songhey were powerful and rich kingdoms. But they just don't compare with the Greeks. There is nothing wrong with that. Why can't Afrocentric scholars be pleased with those developments that really occurred in Africa? Apparently, some of them have frail egos. <br />I'm really glad Mary Lefkowitz took the time to write this book. She should be commended for her bravery in standing up to this threat to academe. She'll suffer many slings and arrows for her beliefs. I'm also glad I had some Greek history and language under my belt. She delves pretty deep into Greek names and ideas. Still, this is a quick read on an important topic. Recommended.	2001-01-05
2152593:US	52012289	R3NS7GOF0IKOCH	0895264870	622116898	The Fall of the Ivory Tower: Government Funding, Corruption, and the Bankrupting of American Higher Education	Books	4	7	10	N	N	An Attack on Government Funding	George Roche, the author of this book, is the president of Hillsdale College, a school that has fought tooth and nail to keep the damaging hands of the federal government out of their institution. Roche wrote this book to expose why a school should try and avoid federal intervention through funding. The reason, quite simply, is the corruption and loss of control that the school will suffer as a result of this intervention.<br />The amount of information this book throws at the reader is absolutely astounding. By piling on statistic after statistic, Roche shows how corrupt our system of higher education has become. These statistics show how deeply in debt universities have become by greedily sucking up federal money, and then expanding their programs, facilities, and tuition discounts and financial aid programs. When funding is reduced due to a lackluster economy, schools are finding themselves in serious economic trouble. Many have to make massive cutbacks in programs and faculty to stay afloat. Some smaller schools have had to merge to survive. Some have closed their doors. Roche attributes all of these problems to the reliance of universities on federal funding. Roche shows how schools have become so dependent on funding by tracing a history of incremental encroachment by the government into education. Beginning with the Morrill Act  through the G.I. Bill and the 1992 Educational Acts, Roche reveals a sinister plan to use federal monies to exert control over education. This control is expressed in such travesties as Affirmative Action, diversity studies, multiculturalism, and other infections that have sapped higher education of it's primary mission: educating America's youth.<br />Roche also examines how athletics has grown so powerful that it not only sucks up funds that should be going to academics, but that it is also loaded with corruption that undermines the academic potential of its athletes. He also exposes how weak the administration is in dealing with faculty and students. Roche explains that the president of the university is reduced to a fundraiser, and that any attempt by officials to make decisions that may have an effect on academics are often shouted down by faculty or student groups. Most college presidents last about three years before they are forced to move on in the face of opposition from their own schools. This is in contrast to a time when an administrator would stay for an entire career and actually be able to shape the vision of a school.<br />Roche uses mountains of sources to make his arguments. While this is an effective way of waging his battle, it also serves to make some of the reading extremely boring. I have a tendency to glaze over a bit when confronted with statistics, so some parts of the book were tough to get through. It is worth sticking it out, since the last part of the book is when Roche lambasts all of the politically correct junk that academe has been trying to stuff down our throats for years. Just try and read the list of &quot;research&quot; books that scholars have published over the years without laughing!<br />A good book, if somewhat dated. Worth reading.culty and students. Roche explains that the president of the university is reduced to a fundraiser, and that any attempt by officials to make decisions that may have an effect on academics are often shouted down by faculty or student groups. Most college presidents last about three years before they are forced to move on in the face of opposition from their own schools. This is in contrast to a time when an administrator would stay for an entire career and actually be able to shape the vision of a school.<br />Roche uses mountains of sources to make his arguments. While this is an effective way of waging his battle, it also serves to make some of the reading extremely boring. I have a tendency to glaze over a bit when confronted with statistics, so some parts of the book were tough to get through. It is worth sticking it out, since the last part of the book is when Roche lambasts all of the politically correct junk that academe has been trying to stuff down our throats for years. Just try and read the list of &quot;research&quot; books that scholars have published over the years without laughing!<br />A good book, if somewhat dated. Worth reading.	2001-01-04
2155164:US	52012289	R271EH940S2YD2	0300085079	954724686	The Serbs: History, Myth and the Destruction of Yugoslavia, Second Edition (Yale Nota Bene)	Books	3	83	100	N	N	Tim Judah Looks at Serbia	Tim Judah is a journalist who has lived in Yugoslavia and has had plenty of time to observe that country's disintegration and the subsequent wars in Croatia and Bosnia. This book is his attempt to explain why these wars took place and what the results were to both Serbia and the rest of the former Yugoslavia.<br />I was a bit intimidated at first by this book. I've taken a class on Balkan history (which wasn't very good) but didn't think I was well prepared to dive into dense explanations of Serbian history. I'm much more familiar with Albanian history, which does overlap with Serb history somewhat, but not enough to make me an expert on Yugoslavia. I had no need to worry, as Mr. Judah made this book easy to follow. He keeps the information flowing and only focuses on major figures, which helps keep events in perspective. I would expect that even someone with zero knowledge of the region would be able to keep pace with this book.<br />Judah's main argument is that the wars in fractured Yugoslavia aren't due exclusively to nationalism, but mostly to greedy, powerful politicians that are exploiting the Serbian people to make themselves wealthy. Judah does acknowledge that the Serbian people have a long history of nationalistic tendencies, and he explains this tendency in some detail in the first part of the book. This nationalism was carried down through time by the Serbian Orthodox Church,which acted as both a preserver of culture and a bulwark during the long occupation of Serbia by the Ottoman Turks. Judah also shows how Serbian epic poetry that retold the tales of Serb martyrs Milos Obilic and Prince Lazar reinforced the idea of the Serbian people as victims who would one day receive their just rewards. Politicians such as Slobodan Milosevic and Radovan Karadzic used this victimhood to launch wars against Croatia and Bosnia. Behind the scenes, politicians, in league with mafia-type gangs, were looting the country. Judah even reveals that some Serb military officers were selling weapons to the enemy during these fierce wars.<br />Judah is at his best when he is describing the Bosnian Serb government in Pale during the Bosnian war. He shows how ineffective they were in conducting a war, and also how corrupt they were. He also exposes the atrocities that were committed by Serbian militias that detained Muslims in camps and carried out mass executions.<br />I had several problems with this book. First, Judah has  a definite bias against the Serbs. Judah sees the Serbs as the major destructive force behind all of the conflicts in the region. But the Serbs weren't operating in a vacuum. Croatians and Muslims also committed atrocities and should be held in equal contempt if one wants to start throwing human rights charges about. Also, Mr. Judah doesn't seem to grasp the concept of war very well. War is an ugly thing, and atrocities are always committed by everyone involved. That's why it's called war. Also, war profiteering always occurs during a conflict. The Serbs by no means have a lock on this particular bit of unpleasant behavior. To try and paint them as such is irreponsible, in my opinion. Also, Judah heaps much scorn on Sonja Karadzic. Judah says that she hurt the Bosnian Serb cause by refusing journalists access to areas the journalists wanted to see. This is an error. Sonja didn't hurt the cause. The journalists did. This is a standard media trick. When the media  doesn't get what they want, they throw a fit and the next thing you know, they start smearing people. In the final analysis, it's important to remember that the vast majority of Serbs only want to live and raise their families like everyone else. If anything, Judah proves the old truth that it is always politicians that start wars, and it is the people who suffer from them. Finally, I wish this book had better maps! The ones that are included aren't sufficient. Hopefully, future reprints will repair this deficiency.<br />I really shouldn't bash the book too much, though. It inspired me enough to go out and by a biography on Tito. I'd also like to read Judah's book on Kosova. I recommend this book for its reader friendly, if somewhat misguided, introduction to Serbia and her wonderful people.h, though. It inspired me enough to go out and by a biography on Tito. I'd also like to read Judah's book on Kosova. I recommend this book for its reader friendly, if somewhat misguided, introduction to Serbia and her wonderful people.	2001-01-03
2160196:US	52012289	R2CCS98PE4M9IC	1878993631	888410406	The Clinton Chronicles Book	Books	3	28	37	N	N	The Dark Side of the Clinton Regime	This book is actually an anthology of writings by a series of people who claim to know the real Bill and Hillary Clinton. The writers of these articles are: a former Arkansas Supreme Court judge, a retired military officer who examines the reasons why Bill Clinton is a terrible Commander-in-Chief of our nation's military apparatus, as well as a few others, such as the son of Jerry Parks. Jerry was assassinated, apparently to prevent information damaging to Bill Clinton from seeing the light of day. The book is the written record of the Clinton Chronicles video tape, which made waves early in the Clinton administration, and which Amazon.com carries for a pretty reasonable price. I should mention that I haven't seen the video tape, but decided to read the book instead.<br />This is pretty standard fare for the anti-Clinton brigade. We are shown the usual portrait of Bill Clinton; the draft dodging, the financial scams involving Don Tyson, the infamous Mena drug trafficking scam, the Jerry Parks assassination, the cocaine addiction, and the Dan Lasater connection. Probably the best part of the book, as well as the longest article, is the one that shows why Bill Clinton is unfit to be the head of our nation's military. In this article we see how Clinton pulled every string in the book to avoid serving in Vietnam, which includes his famous letter to his draft board. We also find out that Clinton took a trip behind the Iron Curtain, and even went to Moscow. The details of what happened during this trip are shrouded in mystery, but it is pointed out that this trip alone would be enough to deny anyone a security clearance. Since Clinton is the chief executive, he is immune to the checks that would block a security clearance. We also see Clinton's foreign policy blunders in Haiti and Somalia. The Somalia fiasco cost American lives, since Clinton officials insisted that the Rangers involved in the operation sholdn't have armored carriers or tanks as back-up. Clinton and his touchy-feely administrators apparently didn't want any Somali people to get shot. These critiques are devastating and are appropriate accusations that should have been raised. The media is too busy to raise these questions, as they spend most of their time standing around gazing at the Clinton family with stars in their eyes.<br />An average book, but necessary for those who are examining the Clinton regime, and want to understand how one man has caused so much damage to our country. It also reveals some nice tidbits. Did you know that Clinton never finished his Rhodes scholarship? He didn't. So much for Mr. Intellectual, I guess.ouchy-feely administrators apparently didn't want any Somali people to get shot. These critiques are devastating and are appropriate accusations that should have been raised. The media is too busy to raise these questions, as they spend most of their time standing around gazing at the Clinton family with stars in their eyes. <br />An average book, but necessary for those who are examining the Clinton regime, and want to understand how one man has caused so much damage to our country. It also reveals some nice tidbits. Did you know that Clinton never finished his Rhodes scholarship? He didn't. So much for Mr. Intellectual, I guess.	2000-12-30
2162587:US	52012289	R1VI9UX09YMZHV	0140234497	761009664	The Racist Mind: Portraits of American Neo-Nazis and Klansmen	Books	2	21	41	N	N	A Waste of Time	Raphael &quot;Rafe&quot; Ezekiel wrote this book as a result of his numerous field studies on hate groups and their members. What promises to be an interesting look inside the so-called &quot;far right&quot; ends up being a pretty dull look at a group of punks that try and pass themselves as Nazis.<br />The book is divided into three sections. The first section is Ezekiel's reactions to his attending several high profile meetings of racial organizations. The first meeting is a KKK rally at Stone Mountain, Georgia. The other meeting is one of the congregations held by the now defunct Aryan Nations in Idaho. He also attended the sedition trial at Fort Smith, Arkansas. All we get from these events is a bunch of psycho babble from &quot;Rafe&quot; about how he feels about interviewing a bunch of racists. He makes sure to talk to the wackiest people he can find, and then make blanket statements about everybody involved as a whole. The second part of the book consists of interviews with national leaders in the Movement, such as Tom Metzger of WAR, and Richard Butler of Aryan Nations. The last part of the book, and by far the largest part, deals with a gang of whites that have taken the name &quot;Death's Head Strike Group&quot;, who are located in Detroit. Rafe (I'm not being snide when I refer to him as Rafe. Several people in the book refer to him by this nickname) makes much of his Jewish heritage and how it is constantly insulted by these people. They're racists! Of course a Jew would be offended! I would be too if I were a Jew. You'd think someone of Jewish background would be aware of this before they started. But the point of writing a work like this is to try and present an unbiased account of the subject matter. This topic is by its very nature heated, and strong words have been written on both sides of the fence. This reader wasn't looking for another polemic. I was hoping for some real insights. Instead I get hurt feelings and some really wacked out testimony by sixteen year old high school dropouts on what it means to be a Nazi. At least the interviews of the leaders were worth reading. Especially Tom Metzger, who comes off as pretty intelligent, although somewhat cynical.<br />Ezekiel should be careful about passing off everyone in the National Socialist Movement as some idiot that can't even spell his name. With the advent of the Internet, there are young, wealthy and intelligent people that are quickly becoming adherents. I remember seeing a news program about Matt Hale, the head of the World Church of the Creator (and a law school graduate) working with another young college grad in his office. They were both listening to Mozart while they prepared flyers. This is the new face of the Movement, not what is presented here by Mr. Ezekiel.<br />Read this book for the three interviews with the national leaders and skip the rest. This book could have been a lot better. Instead, all we get is pap.y sixteen year old high school dropouts on what it means to be a Nazi. At least the interviews of the leaders were worth reading. Especially Tom Metzger, who comes off as pretty intelligent, although somewhat cynical.<br />Ezekiel should be careful about passing off everyone in the National Socialist Movement as some idiot that can't even spell his name. With the advent of the Internet, there are young, wealthy and intelligent people that are quickly becoming adherents. I remember seeing a news program about Matt Hale, the head of the World Church of the Creator (and a law school graduate) working with another young college grad in his office. They were both listening to Mozart while they prepared flyers. This is the new face of the Movement, not what is presented here by Mr. Ezekiel.<br />Read this book for the three interviews with the national leaders and skip the rest. This book could have been a lot better. Instead, all we get is pap.	2000-12-28
2164948:US	52012289	R1WLQGMWOM2K8K	0684840057	505830594	Radical Son: A Generational Odyssey	Books	3	74	96	N	N	A Look at the New Left	David Horowitz is now known for his scathing attacks on Leftists and Liberals. This was not always so, as Horowitz was once a rabid Communist and agitator. He wrote the screed &quot;Students&quot; that became a handbook for Leftist activists who tore this country down in the 1960's. Horowitz eventually discovered sanity and became fairly conservative in his outlook. This book, his autobiography, shows this evolution as it occurred against the backdrop of his childhood, political activities in the 60's, and his work with the Black Panther Party.<br />Horowitz spends much time showing how his childhood led him into the Communist folds. Both of his parents were Communists of the card carrying type. They quickly indoctrinated young David into their evil ways. Horowitz even attended a school for children of Marxists! Horowitz shows how disillusionment began to set in even at this young age. The murderous regime of Stalin and the subsequent repudiation by Khrushchev seriously undermined American Marxism, as did the McCarthy hearings of the 1950's. But Horowitz also shows how the very system that his parents hated eventually helped them gain redress for being cast out of their jobs due to their Communist sympathies. His parents never seemed to realize that the system and country that they hated paid their salaries and provided their comforts.<br />The best part of the book is when Horowitz goes off to college and hooks up with those wacky New Left Commies. Horowitz quickly makes friends with characters such as Bob Scheer, who later ran the magazine Ramparts, and who was a lover of such diverse Communist statesmen as Kim Il Sung of North Korea and Chairman Mao of the murderous Chinese Communist Party. We also get a look at Tom Hayden, Jane Fonda's hubby and a sort of agent provocateur of the Chicago riots at the Democratic National Convention in 1968. Horowitz took part in demonstrations, but his main role was one of ideologue. He wrote the tracts that moved 'em out into the streets. In other words, Horowitz showed people where the bricks were located, and which ones to pick up and throw.<br />We quickly find our man Horowitz at Ramparts, the aforementioned journal run by Mr. Scheer. Ramparts was a slick, glossy Communist magazine that ran stories on such all-American kids as the Black Panther Party. Horowitz acted as book reviewer and watched the hijinks unfold. It was interesting to note that one of the people who wrote articles for the magazine was none other then Brit Hume, who can be seen working the political beat on the FOX news cable channel. Who knew Hume was a closet Communist? This might be a bit of a let down for some of the reviewers here at Amazon.com who say that Fox is a Republican-slanted news outlet. But this is how the book is. Horowitz names names.<br />Eventually, with the end of the Vietnam connflict, most of the New Left movement faded into obscurity, but the individuals involved held on to their belief systems. In the 1970's, Horowitz began his affliation with the Black Panther's. A group of murderous thugs who ran drug and prostitution rings while paying lip service to Marxist rhetoric, the Panthers, under the aegis of Huey Newton, quickly suckered white leftists into supporting their mumbo-jumbo. The Left saw Newton and the Panthers as a militant vanguard that would throw out the old system and usher in a Marxist America. Horowitz was one of these suckers. He helped them raise funds for a school and provided moral support and advice to Newton. He even supplied labor for the group. One of these people was Betty Van Patter, a white woman who went to work balancing the books for the Panthers. She must have seen something she shouldn't have, though, because the Panthers caved her skull in and tossed her into the ocean. Horowitz was devastated and this event led him on his long journey away from the Left and into the Right.<br />Throughout the book Horowitz examines his family relations and marriages. He writes about his father, who was a distant man that rarely gave David the support he so craved. His mother was a strong woman who ran the household and provided support to David when he needed it. His marriage to first wife Elissa is examined in great detail. They eventually divorced when Horowitz cheated on her with other women.<br />This book is great when it exposes the New Left for what it really is; a shallow, dangerous force that has done more to tear this country apart then any other force in history. Some of the personal reflections are pretty good, too. There are troubling passages, though. When David first sees Elissa, he talks about how she had magnificent breasts, and he describes how he wanted to rub his face in them. This statement is pretty jarring and really doesn't belong in this book, in my opinion. Still, the book is not bad. It also has a happy ending, with a Commie rejecting the error of his ways and coming back to sanity. A Hallmark movie of the week if I ever saw one! Give it a shot.out his father, who was a distant man that rarely gave David the support he so craved. His mother was a strong woman who ran the household and provided support to David when he needed it. His marriage to first wife Elissa is examined in great detail. They eventually divorced when Horowitz cheated on her with other women.<br />This book is great when it exposes the New Left for what it really is; a shallow, dangerous force that has done more to tear this country apart then any other force in history. Some of the personal reflections are pretty good, too. There are troubling passages, though. When David first sees Elissa, he talks about how she had magnificent breasts, and he describes how he wanted to rub his face in them. This statement is pretty jarring and really doesn't belong in this book, in my opinion. Still, the book is not bad. It also has a happy ending, with a Commie rejecting the error of his ways and coming back to sanity. A Hallmark movie of the week if I ever saw one! Give it a shot.	2000-12-26
2165810:US	52012289	R3JJ9A9TIV14WR	0895264390	369414505	Boy Clinton: The Political Biography	Books	5	27	32	N	N	A Scathing, Snide attack on the Clintons	This is one of the weirdest books I've read in a long time. Written by R. Emmett Tyrrell of American Spectator fame, this has to be one of the most scathing attacks on Bill and Hillary Clinton ever written. I gave it five stars because it kept me in open mouthed awe throughout the entire read, as well as illiciting huge belly laughs over some of Tyrrell's word play, which can be truly brilliant. This book isn't a knee to the Clinton groin, it's a shotgun blast to the Clinton groin.<br />The book starts out with the L.D. Brown story. Brown was a close confidant of Clinton when he was Governor Clinton of Arkansas. Brown, with Clinton's help, attained a job with the CIA. Brown quickly became entangled in the Barry Seal/Mena drug trafficking operation. Brown is an important figure because he can link Clinton into the drug operations. This part of the book is essentially the same account that can be found in Ambrose Evans-Pritchard's &quot;The Secret Life of Bill Clinton&quot;. If Brown is to be believed, this is a devastating indictment of Bill Clinton and sets the tone for Tyrrell's examination of the Clintons.<br />The rest of the book traces Bill's ascension to the White House. We get an account of Bill and his education at Oxford and Yale, where he quickly hooked up with what Tyrrell calls the &quot;Coat and Tie Radicals&quot;, which are those New Left hippies that smoked dope and engaged in Marxist thought on the weekends, but spent the rest of their time carefully cultivating their public image so as to land good positions in government, law and corporate America. Tyrrell shows that during the time between the 1960's and the 1990's, these Commies never changed their attitudes or beliefs. They simply waited through the Reagan years for their chance to impose their warped values on America. Their beliefs can be summed up in what Tyrrell calls the &quot;kultursmog&quot;, a choking mess of touchy-feely and Marxist/Socialist ideas that clouds traditional American values. Tyrrell continues his assault on the Clintons by showing their financial scams, their rabid pursuit of power over everything else, how they are products of the corrupt &quot;Ole Boy&quot; network of Arkansas politics, and how the first year of the Clinton presidency, 1993, was an utter disaster for America. Tyrrell outlines all of the scandals and flubs that made the Clinton presidency the most corrupt and inept administration in American history. Tyrrell also looks at Clinton's childhood, throwing aspersions on Clinton's mother Virginia, who is portrayed as a loose woman without any morals. He also points out that we can't be sure who Clinton's father really is.<br />A separate chapter offers a treatment of Hillary Clinton and reveals the true colors of our illustrious First Lady. She is exposed as a closet Communist who clerked for a well known Marxist lawyer who defended the Black Panther Party. Hillary also edited a journal at Yale that was extremely hostile to authority figures. One edition depicted police officers as racist pigs who should be killed. Hillary's infamous behavior is also closely detailed. Apparently, our First Lady has a temper problem, and likes to heave objects in fits of volcanic anger.<br />Tyrrell explodes the Clinton mythos and shows them to be two black holes in power suits. The portrait painted here reveals them to be grasping, petty, manipulative power seekers without a shred of decency. They dragged America through the mud, and the country will forever be stained by the Clinton legacy. And this was written in 1996, well before the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal broke.<br />It's important to note that Tyrrell uses an astounding vocabulary throughout the book. Words such as foozle, avuncular, and lumpen predominate. The style is also extremely snide and can get pretty ugly. Tyrrell pulls no punches in this treatise, and liberals will scream bloody murder while reading this, if they can finish it in the first place. It is, without a doubt, apolemic, and should be read accordingly. I have to give it five stars for its sheer audacity. I'll read it again.polemic, and should be read accordingly. I have to give it five stars for its sheer audacity. I'll read it again.	2000-12-25
2166894:US	52012289	RUE31791VQ7ZK	046508995X	469991966	The Vision of the Anointed: Self-Congratulation as a Basis for Social Policy	Books	5	41	47	N	N	Fascinating	Thomas Sowell is one of the very few intellectuals alive today that can present wide ranging topics in clear, precise terms. Trained as an economist, Sowell became disillusioned with academia and has spent most of his career making precision attacks on those of the political left. In this book, Sowell examines the underlying vision of liberals. We all know what liberals do. Sowell shows us WHY liberals do what they do. This isn't an easy book to read, but it may be one of the most important books written in the last ten years. After I read this book I wondered how the Left could survive. Sowell exposed all of their tricks in this book. Regardless of how the Left reacts, this book is extremely important. You'll be able to recognize the rhetoric of Leftists after reading this book.<br />Several areas of this book make quite an impression. One of the best areas is the so-called &quot;Aha! statistics&quot;, which is when liberals distort statistical information to back up their ideas and programs. Many times, Sowell explains, they use the statistics to try and show that a certain institution is &quot;racist&quot;. Sowell shows how statistics can be manipulated and informs the reader on how to spot potential problems. One of the biggest problems is confusing causation with correlation. Many times liberals try and show that a certain event is caused by one other event. It is seldom that cut and dried. Many events have numerous causes that are difficult to track down. Leftists love to have one cause to point a finger at because it allows them to marshal all of their forces and aim them at one spot.<br />In my opinion, the best part of the book is when Sowell lays out his theory of the two great visions on how the world operates. According to Sowell, these visions are the tragic view, and the view of the anointed. The tragic view sees the world as a series of events that can't be controlled by humans. This worldview involves trade-offs that must be made in order to try and come up with the outcome that benefits the most people most of the time. Those who believe in the tragic view realize that every problem can't be solved to perfection. Every decision will create suffering for others, but the idea is to find a way in which the LEAST amount of people suffer. Those with the vision of the anointed believe in &quot;all-or-nothing&quot; solutions, in which every problem must be solved so that ALL people benefit, and that there will be no suffering to any people. As one can see, the vision of the anointed just isn't realistic.<br />I enjoyed many of Sowell's examples of how the anointed are trying to exert their control over everyone else. Sowell shows how the judiciary has been completely compromised by the vision of the anointed. Judges are now creating laws instead of making rulings by the law. A big part of judicial rulings today consists of &quot;interpretations&quot;, which lead to confusing and contradictory judgments that have caused more harm than good. One example is the Kreimer ruling, in which an obnoxious bum that was causing problems in a New Jersey library won a lawsuit against that town because they had tried to keep him out of the building. Instead of making a ruling that would have benefited the many who were disrupted by the behavior of this miscreant, the judge ruled in favor of the bum. Sowell presents this as one example in which those that the Left has chosen as mascots (AIDS victims, bums, minorities, women, etc.) have been elevated over the needs of everyone else.<br />There is much more meat in this book then what I've detailed here. It is sufficient to say that Sowell has a huge intellect, and is absolutely devastating in his attacks on the Left. I almost felt sorry for them while I was reading this book. If they weren't causing this country so much damage and grief, they would deserve our pity. I almost always recommend the books that I review for Amazon.com, but I really recommend this one. It's that good.come up with the outcome that benefits the most people most of the time. Those who believe in the tragic view realize that every problem can't be solved to perfection. Every decision will create suffering for others, but the idea is to find a way in which the LEAST amount of people suffer. Those with the vision of the anointed believe in &quot;all-or-nothing&quot; solutions, in which every problem must be solved so that ALL people benefit, and that there will be no suffering to any people. As one can see, the vision of the anointed just isn't realistic.<br />I enjoyed many of Sowell's examples of how the anointed are trying to exert their control over everyone else. Sowell shows how the judiciary has been completely compromised by the vision of the anointed. Judges are now creating laws instead of making rulings by the law. A big part of judicial rulings today consists of &quot;interpretations&quot;, which lead to confusing and contradictory judgments that have caused more harm than good. One example is the Kreimer ruling, in which an obnoxious bum that was causing problems in a New Jersey library won a lawsuit against that town because they had tried to keep him out of the building. Instead of making a ruling that would have benefited the many who were disrupted by the behavior of this miscreant, the judge ruled in favor of the bum. Sowell presents this as one example in which those that the Left has chosen as mascots (AIDS victims, bums, minorities, women, etc.) have been elevated over the needs of everyone else.<br />There is much more meat in this book then what I've detailed here. It is sufficient to say that Sowell has a huge intellect, and is absolutely devastating in his attacks on the Left. I almost felt sorry for them while I was reading this book. If they weren't causing this country so much damage and grief, they would deserve our pity. I almost always recommend the books that I review for Amazon.com, but I really recommend this one. It's that good.	2000-12-23
2168493:US	52012289	R37FOCMDWTF3DF	0345311485	12581581	On the Beach	Books	4	195	202	N	N	Emotionally Shredding	I think most people here have already summed up this book, and there is little I can add to what they've said. I'll try anyway.<br />On the Beach tells the story of the aftermath of an all-out nuclear war. The setting is Australia, one of the few places in the world to escape not only the bombs, put the deadly clouds of radioactive fallout from the war. But they'll only survive for a little while, because the global wind currents are slowly pushing the deadly fallout down to Antarctica. The Aussies only have a short time before they all come down with radiation sickness and die. The whole book is an emotional rollercoaster as the dreaded day of death looms ever closer, with absolutely nothing to prevent doom. Most people are resigned to their fate, and try and stay busy with various daily rituals in an effort to keep their sanity.<br />The two main characters of the book are Dwight Towers, a U.S. submarine commander who has survived the war and is in refuge in Australia, and Moira Davidson, a young Australian girl who is bitter about her fate and seeks consolation with Dwight. Other characters are introduced, such as a young couple with a baby and a scientist who likes racing cars. The reader is quickly drawn into these people's lives, and really comes to care about what happens to them. Needless to say, the ending isn't warm and cheery. I had to stop reading the book several times and take a little break to get rid of the huge lump in my throat. It is a VERY tough read at the end. If you don't get emotional, you just might be dead.<br />There are several small points to make about the book. The author, Nevil Shute, isn't exactly the best writer in terms of grammar. There are awkward sentences and errors, and it sometimes detracts from the story. He also wrote this book in the late 1950's, and he's English, so there are words that don't make much sense today. Despite these flaws, the story is still gut wrenching and compelling. I really appreciated Shute's sense of irony. Moira first meets Dwight because she is enlisted to keep his mind off of his dead family in America. However, Moira ends up being the one who starts to break down. More irony appears when people make plans that they know they won't be alive to keep. The scene when Peter and Mary are planning their garden is is a good example of this irony, and you'll groan in anguish over it. Overall, I haven't been this upset over something since I watched the film &quot;Cutting Moments&quot;.<br />I'm surprised more people haven't heard of this book. I gave it to my Mom to read first, and she bawled like a baby at the end. You may not bawl, but you'll certainly be affected.irony. Moira first meets Dwight because she is enlisted to keep his mind off of his dead family in America. However, Moira ends up being the one who starts to break down. More irony appears when people make plans that they know they won't be alive to keep. The scene when Peter and Mary are planning their garden is is a good example of this irony, and you'll groan in anguish over it. Overall, I haven't been this upset over something since I watched the film &quot;Cutting Moments&quot;.<br />I'm surprised more people haven't heard of this book. I gave it to my Mom to read first, and she bawled like a baby at the end. You may not bawl, but you'll certainly be affected.	2000-12-21
2170501:US	52012289	R2TPDMU1RP6VE3	0910884293	598448773	The Anti-Capitalistic Mentality	Books	4	151	162	N	N	A Great Work	Ludwig Von Mises is considered one of the giant figures in economic thought. He is an acolyte of the Austrian school of economics, which began as a response to Marxist economic thought. The Austrian school advocated the idea of marginal utility and the importance of the consumer in the production process. This book, which is a fairly short read, is Von Mises's look at the people who advocate the imposition of a planned, or socialistic, economic system. Needless to say, Von Mises launches massive attacks against these people.<br />As some of the other reviews stated, Von Mises believes that the reason some people in a capitalist society hate free markets and advocate socialism is due to their own shortcomings. As everyone with an ounce of sense knows, reality does not make everyone equal. Everyone has flaws and shortcomings. These shortcomings, according to Von Mises, manifest themselves in inner turmoil that finds release through attacking the system in which others succeed where these people fail. These people look at the successful entrepreneurs and resent them deeply. Since they can't attack them directly without exposing their own deep flaws, they attack the capitalist system which they think &quot;created&quot; these successful businessmen. Von Mises goes on to show several ways how this hostility expresses itself. One way is through literature. Von Mises makes a very perceptive observation while examining literature. He shows how the genre of detective stories is actually an expression of hatred for the capitalist system. The detective in most of these stories is usually a down and out type (one of the downtrodden workers of Marxian fame) who shows up the police (who represent the ineffective ruling system) by proving the guilt of a successful, rich person who nobody would ever suspect (the triumph of the worker over the rich). Very insightful stuff.<br />Von Mises destroys the socialist worldview in this book. It reads quick, and it's my first Von Mises book, so I'm not sure I picked up on every point he was trying to make. It's well worth the time and I highly recommend it. The only downfall is that some of the sentences are a bit awkward, which makes since if Von Mises wrote this in English. You see, he didn't even come to the U.S. until he was 60. He fled Hitler when the Nazis took Austria in 1940. Von Mises's primary language was German.so I'm not sure I picked up on every point he was trying to make. It's well worth the time and I highly recommend it. The only downfall is that some of the sentences are a bit awkward, which makes since if Von Mises wrote this in English. You see, he didn't even come to the U.S. until he was 60. He fled Hitler when the Nazis took Austria in 1940. Von Mises's primary language was German.	2000-12-19
2173924:US	52012289	RAZLJKK78TABT	0895264080	990708954	The Secret Life of Bill Clinton: The Unreported Stories	Books	4	34	44	N	N	Volatile Accusations	I have to admit that I'm no friend of Bill Clinton. Although I voted for him in 1996, I've since had a sea change in attitude towards Mr. Clinton. Even with my new attitude, I've avoided reading the slew of books that have made serious charges against Bill and Hillary, mainly due to a lingering liberal sentiment that these accusations just can't be true. With Bill almost out of office, I decided to read a few of these accounts. This book, by British journalist Ambrose Evans-Pritchard, levels devastating accusations against the first couple. Bill Clinton is linked to the Oklahoma City bombing, the death of Vince Foster, and drug trafficking.<br />Even though I despise Bill and Hillary, I'm leery of some of the charges made against them in this book. The first section of the book takes an in-depth look at the Oklahoma bombing. Evans-Pritchard blames the American far right, placing his focus on Elohim City, a Christian Identity compound in Oklahoma. He also uses evidence from ATF informant Carol Howe, who lays the blame for the bombing on several people, none of whom are Tim McVeigh. The FBI, for whatever reason, obsfucated the evidence and testimony so that the other people involved in the bombing would never be brought to justice. I can't really see how this can be linked to Clinton. The president simply can't be involved with every covert investigative action that the government takes. Evans-Pritchard seems to blame Clinton for creating a culture in which this kind of behavior (FBI tampering with evidence) is not only allowed, but condoned, and with that I would agree. But to try and tie Clinton in a more direct manner is impossible.<br />Of much more concern is the weird case of Deputy White House Counsel Vincent Foster. Foster, a childhood friend of Bill and co-worker at the Rose law firm with Hillary, was found dead in Fort Marcy park in 1993. The evidence laid out in the book will chill your blood. I was so astonished at the overwhelming evidence of foul play, that every time I turn on the T.V., I can't believe the news media isn't talking about it. The amount of eyewitness testimony, as well as intimadation of these same witnesses, should be raising serious questions about this case. Evans-Pritchard also shows how our news media is absolutely worthless when it comes to investigating anything about Bill Clinton. I'm pretty sure we can expect the same treatment of Senator Hillary Clinton.<br />The final indictment that is laid at Clinton's feet involves the Mena drug trafficking operation. Evans-Pritchard tries to tie Clinton into the Iran-Contra affair of the Reagan/Bush regimes. He's on tenuous ground with this one. It is well known that the Iran-Contra arms deals were part of Reagan's administration. Bill Clinton was governor of Arkansas at the time, but it is a far stretch to tie Clinton into the scandal. I think we need to be careful anytime there are investigations into the shadowy world of intelligence/undercover operations. There are too many lies and layers of lies involved. I'm not saying that these incidents should never be investigated, but journalists, like Evans-Pritchard, should be very careful about making concrete conclusions from his findings.<br />Overall, an excellent book. I'd definitely want Ambrose on my side if I were in any kind of trouble. I trust his instincts, and most of his allegations smack of the truth. I'll bet Bill Clinton absolutely hates this guy!hat every time I turn on the T.V., I can't believe the news media isn't talking about it. The amount of eyewitness testimony, as well as intimadation of these same witnesses, should be raising serious questions about this case. Evans-Pritchard also shows how our news media is absolutely worthless when it comes to investigating anything about Bill Clinton. I'm pretty sure we can expect the same treatment of Senator Hillary Clinton.<br />The final indictment that is laid at Clinton's feet involves the Mena drug trafficking operation. Evans-Pritchard tries to tie Clinton into the Iran-Contra affair of the Reagan/Bush regimes. He's on tenuous ground with this one. It is well known that the Iran-Contra arms deals were part of Reagan's administration. Bill Clinton was governor of Arkansas at the time, but it is a far stretch to tie Clinton into the scandal. I think we need to be careful anytime there are investigations into the shadowy world of intelligence/undercover operations. There are too many lies and layers of lies involved. I'm not saying that these incidents should never be investigated, but journalists, like Evans-Pritchard, should be very careful about making concrete conclusions from his findings.<br />Overall, an excellent book. I'd definitely want Ambrose on my side if I were in any kind of trouble. I trust his instincts, and most of his allegations smack of the truth. I'll bet Bill Clinton absolutely hates this guy!	2000-12-16
2177915:US	52012289	R1DLAJMJLCTN04	0684813726	82788515	Death of Outrage: Bill Clinton and the Assault on American Ideals	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Very Topical	William Bennett, former drug czar and Secretary of Education under Ronald Reagan wrote this book in the midst of the Lewinsky-Clinton media circus. The book takes a close look at the comments made by FOB's (Friends of Bill) in the media who rushed to excuse the ...  behavior of our &quot;Commander-in-Chief&quot;. The book is a very quick read. I breezed through it in two hours.<br />Bennett organizes his book under broad topics, such as &quot;Law&quot; or &quot;Ken Starr&quot;, and then proceeds to list the vacuous comments made by such &quot;intellectuals&quot; as Geraldo Rivera or ... James Carville. Bennett then goes into attack mode, and demolishes every argument and exposes every hypocrisy that these people [Rivera, Carville, et al] present. What's amazing is that Bennett does it in such a laid back, non-threatening style. I kept wishing he'd get a little angry with his comments, or deliver some stinging slaps on the mug of the media. I think that Bennett is the consumate conservative; restrained, calm and thoughtful. ...  Bennett's book might have had more punch if he had jacked up the tone a bit. In the media saturated culture we live in, it is almost necessary to resort to screaming just to get yourself heard. Still, Bennett delivers his broadsides with deadly accuracy. I roared with laughter when he quoted Dan Quayle's comment that the new crime bill should be &quot;three interns and you're out&quot;. Who knew Quayle had it in him?<br />The best part of this book can be found in an appendix, where Bennett shows the similarities between the Clinton and Nixon scandals. He uses comments made by Nixon and Clinton that both say the same thing about a certain accusation made against them. We all know what happened to Nixon. Why didn't the same thing happen to Clinton? Bennett shows in his arguments that when it was a Republican under fire, all is fair. When the tables are turned, it is a different story.<br />Read this book.	2000-12-13
2179143:US	52012289	R10459MCHHJFB8	9996616606	115311156	Nea: Propaganda Front of the Radical Left	Books	4	5	11	N	N	The NEA Under Fire	This small book, written by Sally Reed in 1984, is a polemic directed squarely at the National Education Association. The book is very short and reads more like a pamphlet. It was produced by a group called the NCBE, or the National Council for Better Education, a conservative educational reform group that has apparently become extinct since this was written.<br />Several arguments are made against the NEA. The biggest problem with the NEA, according to Reed, stems from its exclusion of parents in important issues that affect their children. The NEA not only wants to control what children are taught, they want parents to butt out and mind their own business. Reed uses many primary source materials from the NEA itself to show their hostility to traditional parent-child relationships. Reed also shows how the NEA indoctinates children with unhealthy ideas ranging from Communist/Socialist drivel to attempting to remove testing as a requirement in education.<br />Much is made of the links between the NEA and Communist organizations. Reed even quotes Saul Alinsky, who is better known today as Hillary Clinton's ideological guru. Alinsky argues that Communists must control education in America if it wishes to subvert American democracy. The NEA even allowed a Communist organization to use some of its office space in Washington. Reed also makes mention of a Solidarity Day &quot;Peace Festival&quot; held in New York in 1982. What is interesting is the list of names that Reed supplies of people present at this Communist event. One of the people was Donna Brazile, better known today as Al Gore's capmpaign manager in the 2000 election. Some of Reed's revelations are pretty alarming stuff.<br />The book ends with a list of suggested reforms that can be made to reorganize and rebuild the educational system. Most of the reforms involve bringing parents back into the mix, as well as giving accomodation to teachers that don't have a degree in education. Control of the schools would be returned to the local level, with little federal intervention.<br />A nifty little book. I gave it four stars because there were grammar errors and confusing sentences that should have been edited out. On the plus side, there were also a few amusing references that show how dated the book is. Gus Hall, then the candidate of the U.S. Communist Party, talks about how Ronald Reagan will be swept out of office in 1984 by a groundswell of socialist activity. I also admire any book that refers to Jimmy Carter as &quot;Golden Boy Jimmy&quot;. Reed does make the statement that Carter was immoral and ineffective, which in the light of Carter's activities out of office, pretty much falls flat.<br />Recommended if you can find a copy, which isn't too hard. Amazon.com's out of print book service can easily find a copy.e returned to the local level, with little federal intervention.<br />A nifty little book. I gave it four stars because there were grammar errors and confusing sentences that should have been edited out. On the plus side, there were also a few amusing references that show how dated the book is. Gus Hall, then the candidate of the U.S. Communist Party, talks about how Ronald Reagan will be swept out of office in 1984 by a groundswell of socialist activity. I also admire any book that refers to Jimmy Carter as &quot;Golden Boy Jimmy&quot;. Reed does make the statement that Carter was immoral and ineffective, which in the light of Carter's activities out of office, pretty much falls flat.<br />Recommended if you can find a copy, which isn't too hard. Amazon.com's out of print book service can easily find a copy.	2000-12-12
2182749:US	52012289	R1WIGYPAS6RW2T	0570046033	710435398	Modern Fascism: Liquidating the Judeo-Christian Worldview (Concordia Scholarship Today)	Books	4	67	70	N	N	Amazing Connections	Dr. Veith wrote this well researched book to explain why fascism as best personified by Nazi Germany in the 1930's and 40's can be seen in today's culture. Veith uses an amazing amount of source material to craft an intricate series of arguments that expose the philosophical underpinnings of fascism, as well as arguing how that philosophy has been adopted by intellectuals today.<br />Fascism, and especially Nazism, have been made out to be the ultimate evil, due to its actions in Europe during the early part of the twentieth century. What few people seem to know is that fascism is an ideology, one that has a philosophy. Veith makes a good point that concentration camps and war were effects of fascism. These effects sprang from the ideas of fascism.<br />I was especially interested in how Veith showed that Communism and National Socialism are really two sides of the same coin. The difference is in their outlook. Communism has an international outlook, while National Socialism deals with a localized outlook (the nation). While there are flaws in this argument, Veith does a pretty good job of supporting himself with evidence.<br />Much of the book is spent discussing these philosophical ideas. There is much discussion of the ideas of Martin Heidegger and Frederich Nietzsche, and how they were the leading theorists of fascist thought. Many of today's intellectuals are vigorously trying to clean up Heidegger's writings to try and hide his obvious affinity for fascism. They just can't understand how he could embrace this mode of thought. Veith shows how his writings that are so loved by intellectuals today are outgrowths of fascist thought. He also shows that by adopting Heidegger's tenets, intellectuals are inadvertantly adopting fascist principles. Veith also spends time discussing how Christianity responded to fascism, especially in Nazi Germany where the church was viewed with great suspicion by the Nazis. Why? Because Christianity is an outgrowth of Judaism. Christianity started out as a Jewish sect, and all of its early theologians were Jews. Go look at your Bible. The only non-Jew in the New Testament is Luke (I've seen arguments for John as well).<br />A rare book that makes the reader look at things in a different way. I gave it four stars due to a few errors in the book. The first one was in the first paragraph, when Veith says that David Duke was a member of the American Nazi Party. Duke was never a member of the ANP. He was a member of the KKK. Also, using Nietzsche as a theorist of fascism might be a bit misleading. Nietzsche's sister edited his works after his descent into madness, and it from these versions that fascism borrowed some of their ideas. This seems to be the prevailing view today, anyway. I may concede the point to Veith, though, because this may be an attempt by leftist intellectuals to cleanse Nietzsche of what they perceive to be fascist thought. Also, I wish that Veith would have spent more time looking at how fascist thought has permeated our society today. There is only one chapter devoted to this, and it is the last one in the book.<br />I'd highly recommend this book. It'll make you question some of the ridiculous behavior that is going on in our country today.nity started out as a Jewish sect, and all of its early theologians were Jews. Go look at your Bible. The only non-Jew in the New Testament is Luke (I've seen arguments for John as well).<br />A rare book that makes the reader look at things in a different way. I gave it four stars due to a few errors in the book. The first one was in the first paragraph, when Veith says that David Duke was a member of the American Nazi Party. Duke was never a member of the ANP. He was a member of the KKK. Also, using Nietzsche as a theorist of fascism might be a bit misleading. Nietzsche's sister edited his works after his descent into madness, and it from these versions that fascism borrowed some of their ideas. This seems to be the prevailing view today, anyway. I may concede the point to Veith, though, because this may be an attempt by leftist intellectuals to cleanse Nietzsche of what they perceive to be fascist thought. Also, I wish that Veith would have spent more time looking at how fascist thought has permeated our society today. There is only one chapter devoted to this, and it is the last one in the book.<br />I'd highly recommend this book. It'll make you question some of the ridiculous behavior that is going on in our country today.	2000-12-08
2184047:US	52012289	R3GFYOT6NJRL95	0809129396	601557940	Reading the New Testament: An Introduction	Books	2	20	74	N	N	A Horrid Book	I just finished using this book for a New Testament class, and I hated this book with a passion. It's not that the author isn't qualified to write a book on New Testament studies, as she graduated from Harvard with a Ph.D in divinity studies. What makes this book an ungodly nightmare is the writing style.<br />I recognize that a book dealing with the Bible is going to have numerous references to various chapters and verses in the Bible. Again, that is not the problem. Her style is just so unfriendly. She seems to repeat herself endlessly and the organization of the text seems to meander as well. The absolute worst part of the book is Pheme's ability to annoy the reader by abbreviating books of the Bible. For example, the Letter to the Hebrews is shortened to &quot;Heb&quot;, and then used that way throughout the book. You get the idea. This goes beyond annoying. I don't understand why she felt she had to do this. We're not talking about big words here. What's the difference between using &quot;Mark&quot; and &quot;Mk&quot;? Two letters?!? I was ready to run in front of a bus after slogging through these abbreviations.<br />Like all of my reviews, I usually have a good thing to say about a book, even one as bad as this. Perkins does included a nice outline of each biblical text she is writing about. This helped me in numerous ways. Of course, if she had written a good book in the first place, she wouldn't have needed to include these outlines.<br />Overall, a real stinker. Avoid at all costs, unless it's assigned reading. In that case, hold your nose and dive right in. A Harvard grad ought to know better then to churn out pap like this.	2000-12-07
2191361:US	52012289	RUEK9AO29NB2O	0195124987	796029256	Common Women: Prostitution and Sexuality in Medieval England (Studies in the History of Sexuality)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Well Researched	This is the last book I've had to read for my Medieval history class, which focused on women in the Middle Ages. We started out by examining mystics such as Hildegard of Bingen, Julian of Norwich, and Margery Kempe, and then looked at Eleanor of Aquitaine and Joan of Arc. I guess it is fitting to end on the lowest of the female population in this time period, the prostitute. This book, by Ruth Karras, provides an in-depth analysis of the role that the prostitute played in the male dominated world of the Middle Ages, but with a twist, as Karras uses her analysis to also examine sexuality in the same period. The focus is on English prostitutes, mostly due to accessibility of records. England had a fairly stable government, so records were better preserved. France, for example, lost many court rolls and other important records in the chaos of the Revolution in the 1790's.<br />Karras gives a broad sketch of the prostitute by showing how they were affected by laws. The laws served a dual purpose. They seemed to try and protect prostitutes from beatings and coercion, but also tried to keep them in a restricted place in society, by isolating them to the outskirts of town, and regulating both what they could wear and how they conducted themselves in their personal relationships. The power structure, according to Karras, seemed to subscribe to the theory that prostitution was a necessary evil, in that men needed an outlet for their sexual energy. If this need wasn't met, the general belief was that these men would resort to rape and other unpleasantness against the other ladies of the town/city. So while prostitutes were reviled, they were also accorded a role in society that was seen to fill an important need.<br />There's lots of stuff I'm leaving out, of course. Some books always give a revelation of sorts that the reader remembers long after the book has been read, and this one has a good one. England had very few legal brothels, but one was on the outskirts of London, in Southwark. These brothels were referred to as &quot;stews&quot;, and this stew was actually owned by the Bishop of Winchester! He made quite a profit off the ladies, too. He didn't run the house directly, but appointed brothelkeepers who did the dirty work. An interesting role for the Church, don't you think? Actually, it sort of makes since in light of the belief that prostitution filled a social role of sorts. The government sure wasn't providing any sort of programs or assistance. The Church was the closest thing to a social service system (I'm way out on a limb here, I smell a research paper!) so maybe bishops running houses of ill repute wasn't so spectacular after all.<br />Copious notes at the end of the book show the astonishing amount of primary and secondary sources that Karras scoured through to construct the book. I'm impressed. This book certainly has an interest to the historian, but the casual reader would get a kick out of it too, as it isn't overly scholarly, and it reads fast at 142 pages. Well done, Dr. Karras!in Southwark. These brothels were referred to as &quot;stews&quot;, and this stew was actually owned by the Bishop of Winchester! He made quite a profit off the ladies, too. He didn't run the house directly, but appointed brothelkeepers who did the dirty work. An interesting role for the Church, don't you think? Actually, it sort of makes since in light of the belief that prostitution filled a social role of sorts. The government sure wasn't providing any sort of programs or assistance. The Church was the closest thing to a social service system (I'm way out on a limb here, I smell a research paper!) so maybe bishops running houses of ill repute wasn't so spectacular after all.<br />Copious notes at the end of the book show the astonishing amount of primary and secondary sources that Karras scoured through to construct the book. I'm impressed. This book certainly has an interest to the historian, but the casual reader would get a kick out of it too, as it isn't overly scholarly, and it reads fast at 142 pages. Well done, Dr. Karras!	2000-12-01
2195194:US	52012289	R1VX7M5W5V7PY1	0395925002	68785412	The Affluent Society	Books	3	37	69	N	N	Not a Classic, But Not a Total Loss	I just finished this book less than an hour ago, and already much of it is slipping from my mind. Considered a classic by many in today's world, as a trumpeted 40th anniversary reprint suggested, I always wanted to give this one a twirl to see what all the fuss was about. I was for the most part underwhelmed. This may be due in some part to the fact that most of the text is unchanged from its first printing in 1958. Since many of these ideas and theories have become the norm since I was born in 1970, it's a little difficult to see them as novel. It isn't difficult to see that many of Galbraith's conclusions are failures or completely unworkable.<br />The book begins by laying out the idea of conventional wisdom, a term which Galbraith apparently coined, and which he crows about in his new introduction. Conventional wisdom, to Galbraith, is the big, burly force that blocks progress. Those in the know wrap themselves in the flag of conventional wisdom and refuse to acknowledge new ideas that might intrude upon their blissful solitude. Needless to say, Galbraith spends the rest of the book intruding. We get a history of economic thought from Adam Smith through David Ricardo, to Thorstein Veblen. Of course, Marx gets a chapter all to himself. Galbraith shows how their rather depressing view of the world always places the poor in the &quot;poor house&quot; so to speak, and is the basis for economic thought even in today's decidely less dismal world of affluence (hence the title). Galbraith proceeds to show how inflation, consumerism and poor public resources all stem from our dependence on production. In Galbraith's world, production is a roaring, runaway train that plows over everything it sees and leaves destruction in its wake. The last part of the book is a series of ideas about how to lessen production and eliminate poverty.<br />I did give this book three stars, because Galbraith does manage to make a few brilliant observations and statements, such as this gem, found on page 199, &quot;However, an understanding of our economic discourse requires an appreciation of one of its basic rules: men of high position are allowed, by a special act of grace, to accommodate their reasoning to the answer they need. Logic is only required in those of lesser rank.&quot; This doesn't just apply to economics, in my opinion. This is every liberal describing their programs in the last forty years! Galbraith also writes a pretty lucid chapter on how the cycle of consumerism is spinning out of control.<br />Too many times, however, the book falls flat. Galbraith seems to think of the poor as this kind of noble mass that has suffered titanic wrongs at the hand of society. What he doesn't say is that cultural pathologies contribute mightily to poverty. Many just refuse to play by the rules that most people follow. He also advocates shorter work weeks (which never worked) and redistribution of wealth, which found full fruition under Lyndon Johnson's &quot;Great Society&quot;, which did nothing more than breed great amounts of crime and dependency.<br />Would I recommend this book? Yep. If nothing more than to give people a concrete target to point the finger of blame at every time they realize just how much government has intruded in their lives. There is some good information in here, though, if a person looks hard enough.nd on page 199, &quot;However, an understanding of our economic discourse requires an appreciation of one of its basic rules: men of high position are allowed, by a special act of grace, to accommodate their reasoning to the answer they need. Logic is only required in those of lesser rank.&quot; This doesn't just apply to economics, in my opinion. This is every liberal describing their programs in the last forty years! Galbraith also writes a pretty lucid chapter on how the cycle of consumerism is spinning out of control.<br />Too many times, however, the book falls flat. Galbraith seems to think of the poor as this kind of noble mass that has suffered titanic wrongs at the hand of society. What he doesn't say is that cultural pathologies contribute mightily to poverty. Many just refuse to play by the rules that most people follow. He also advocates shorter work weeks (which never worked) and redistribution of wealth, which found full fruition under Lyndon Johnson's &quot;Great Society&quot;, which did nothing more than breed great amounts of crime and dependency.<br />Would I recommend this book? Yep. If nothing more than to give people a concrete target to point the finger of blame at every time they realize just how much government has intruded in their lives. There is some good information in here, though, if a person looks hard enough.	2000-11-28
2199784:US	52012289	R2RDFMM6A454SM	0393970108	23900301	The Selected Writings of Christine De Pizan (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	3	27	31	N	N	Christine's writing was good, criticisms are bad	This is an excellent collection of excerpts from the writings of the 15th century author Christine de Pizan. Pizan, a trasplanted Italian in France, churned out a massive body of work on every type of conceivable subject; politics, love, history, philosophy, panegyric as well as love ballads. Pizan was the first professional female writer, no mean feat in a male dominated world.<br />I have to say I'm pretty impressed with her writings. She has a sharp intellect that shines throughout her works. She also uses her own personal experiences in her writings (Christine was widowed at the age of 25 and had to turn to writing to support herself and her family). Christine also studied the classics profusely, which she puts to heavy use in her stories. The best excerpt was probably from her best known work, The City of Ladies, in which Christine symbolically builds a city to house all of the virtuous women from history. The reason is to showcase women who have contributed much to society and history, as well as to refute what Christine perceived as the tendency in male literature to demonize women. This excerpt has certainly made me want to read this work. It's done in such a clever way that the reader can't help but smile as Christine scores points against misogynistic egomaniacs who attack women for their own personal gain.<br />The second part of the book consists of several scholarly criticisms that for the most part aren't worth much, which is why I gave the book three stars. The best criticism was written by Sheila Delany, who wrote that while Christine defended women against the attacks of men, she in no way was what we would call a feminist. Christine upheld the power structure of 15th century France, which not only was ruled by men to the exclusion of women, but also was heavily stacked against the common man.<br />An excellent book that I would recommend to anyone interested in literature or history. Again, the three stars I gave this book in no way reflect on Christine de Pizan or her works.stine de Pizan or her works.	2000-11-24
2202337:US	52012289	R24TJT6HU2VUKD	0062508350	987110876	The Universe Story : From the Primordial Flaring Forth to the Ecozoic Era--A Celebration of the Unfolding of the Cosmos	Books	3	48	97	N	N	Sweeping Thoughts, Bad Conclusions	Brian Swimme sure knows how to put it all together. This book purports to be the story, or history, of the Universe. It is absolutely amazing in its scope. The book attempts to tie up everything that has ever happened in any form of existence into one tight narrative. This is possible, according to Swimme, because everything is interconnected, it is a coherent one. Nothing happens without everything else feeling its effect.<br />Needless to say, the book is heavy with physics and philosophy. The book starts out with the Big Bang and ends with today. Along the way Swimme shows how all things are built on what has come before. This is his big thesis behind the story, that the Universe is not a cyclical set of events, but a series of epic transformations. When viewed in this light, events begin to fit into place. Massive changes occur that everything after builds upon, and which could not have existed if that shift hadn't occurred in the first place. Human history also has undergone these fundamental shifts, in thought as well as geographical movements. These shifts are one way in which the Universe expands and expresses itself in reality.<br />There are some deep thoughts in this book. Swimme says that Walt Whitman's poetry, and the feelings behind it, are, &quot;an intricate creation of the Milky Way, and his feelings are an evocation of being, an evocation involving thunderstorms, sunlight, grass, history, and death. Walt Whitman is a space the Milky Way fashioned to feel it own grandeur.&quot; Deep stuff.<br />Though the book is well written and expresses a deep intelligence, there are alarming statements in the book that show the ideological underpinnings of the authors. I first heard about Swimme when I read Kenn Kassman's book &quot;Envisioning Ecotopia&quot;, which studied the Green movement in the United States. Swimme is an acolyte of the Deep Ecology movement, a belief system that posits a rejection of the industrial system we know today so that mankind can return to the days of Neolithic life. This book makes several telling statements that conform to this wacky belief system. While discussing the ultimacy of nature, Swimme discusses how all things on Earth must have communion with every other thing. Therefore, in the example Swimme gives, when a group of woodpeckers from a different region move into a new one, they must conform to the new area, or perish. When this is applied to the real world, we see that this isn't happening. In America today, there is no communion. Communion is frowned upon, while &quot;multiculturalism&quot; and &quot;diversity&quot; rule the roost.<br />Swimme also buys into the Mystical Deep Ecology belief of Ecofeminism, where women should be in charge of everything, just like the old days when humanity worshipped &quot;Mother Earth&quot;. This raises the ugly spectre of Charlene Spretnak, an author who is the main theologian of this ideology. Spretnak is even cited in the bibliography as a source for this material. Using this wingnut's material seriously undermines Swimme's arguments.<br />What's so bad about being ecologically minded? Nothing if it's done responsibly. But these people are anything but responsible. Take this statement found on page 243 of this book, &quot;The well-being of the Earth is primary. Human well-being is derivative.&quot; Enough said.<br />Swimme also believes that the world has lost its relationship with nature. Maybe so, but his argument that humans should return to the Neolithic Age  is ridiculous. Swimme says that by industrializing, we have lost touch with the good old ways. By the use of the term &quot;good old days&quot;, Swimme must be referring to starvation, disease and early death. While these things still exist today, it is nowhere near the levels it reached under Swimme's glorious &quot;neolithic&quot; days.<br />This book is well written and contains many mind expanding statements that will make you think. His conclusions are absolutely wacko, though.return to the days of Neolithic life. This book makes several telling statements that conform to this wacky belief system. While discussing the ultimacy of nature, Swimme discusses how all things on Earth must have communion with every other thing. Therefore, in the example Swimme gives, when a group of woodpeckers from a different region move into a new one, they must conform to the new area, or perish. When this is applied to the real world, we see that this isn't happening. In America today, there is no communion. Communion is frowned upon, while &quot;multiculturalism&quot; and &quot;diversity&quot; rule the roost.<br />Swimme also buys into the Mystical Deep Ecology belief of Ecofeminism, where women should be in charge of everything, just like the old days when humanity worshipped &quot;Mother Earth&quot;. This raises the ugly spectre of Charlene Spretnak, an author who is the main theologian of this ideology. Spretnak is even cited in the bibliography as a source for this material. Using this wingnut's material seriously undermines Swimme's arguments.<br />What's so bad about being ecologically minded? Nothing if it's done responsibly. But these people are anything but responsible. Take this statement found on page 243 of this book, &quot;The well-being of the Earth is primary. Human well-being is derivative.&quot; Enough said.<br />Swimme also believes that the world has lost its relationship with nature. Maybe so, but his argument that humans should return to the Neolithic Age  is ridiculous. Swimme says that by industrializing, we have lost touch with the good old ways. By the use of the term &quot;good old days&quot;, Swimme must be referring to starvation, disease and early death. While these things still exist today, it is nowhere near the levels it reached under Swimme's glorious &quot;neolithic&quot; days.<br />This book is well written and contains many mind expanding statements that will make you think. His conclusions are absolutely wacko, though.	2000-11-22
2203394:US	52012289	R35GYCNM8VD2F7	081799582X	189816345	Barbarians inside the Gates and Other Controversial Essays (Hoover Institution Press Publication)	Books	4	95	102	N	N	An Excellent Collection of Insightful Essays	On most days Thomas Sowell's articles are the only thing worth reading in my local newspaper. In a time where most news is unenlightening fluff, Sowell preaches common sense and personal responsibility. This collection of writings is Sowell at his best, covering topics ranging from the death penalty to Clarence Thomas.<br />Anyone who is even slightly aware of Sowell's work knows his particular disdain for the education establishment. The articles on this topic are the best ones in the book, in my humble opinion. Sowell reveals the American educational establishment as the sick fraud....Sowell is unique in his criticism because he has kept plugging away on this topic for years while others drift in and out of the debate.<br />Sowell also throws lightening bolts at the leftist demagogues that he refers to as &quot;the Anointed&quot;. These are the people in the media, educational establishment and the government that are constantly undermining the rights of everyone else in the country through such trendy ideas as safety, political correctness and a host of other ills...I did give this book four stars. This in no way reflects on the quality of the essays, which are excellent, but is due to the number of errors in the text...	2000-11-21
2208047:US	52012289	R19J6GQ3JHUO2A	0865274304	515853887	The Inequality of Human Races	Books	4	102	107	N	N	Controversial	Frenchman Arthur De Gobineau was better known for his fictional novels, but he wrote this historical-philosophical-sociological work in the 1800's as a result of his lengthy travels throughout the world. Gobineau took his observations and attempted to come up with a theory that would describe the disparity he observed amongst the different human races of the world. The result was a multi-volume set entitled, \\"The Inequality of Human Races\\". This translation is of the first volume only, but it reveals the main thrust of De Gobineau's theory and gives the reader much information to mull over. I chose to read this book for a European history class, since this book influenced not only German political and social thought, but also reinforced European views towards colonization and internal class struggles.<br /><br />Gobineau begins his book by looking at popular reasons concerning the collapse of civilizations. Such ideas as bad government, fanaticism and luxury are addressed and dismissed by Gobineau. He believes these are only symptoms of a degeneration of civilizations. His argument ultimately comes down to race mixing as the cause of the decline of civilization. Gobineau argues that civilizations that mix with peoples that are incapable of civilization will destroy that society. In Gobineau's opinion, all problems can be found in \\"the blood\\", and these problems can be passed on. Gobineau writes that there are two elements in blood, a male trait, which is concerned with materialistic aspirations, and a female trait, which is concerned with intellectual pursuits. He sees Hindus as having this female trait, which accounts for their intellectual works in religion. Germans have the male trait, a materialistic drive to acquire land and possessions; to go forth and conquer. When these elements mix, the varying degrees can form or destroy civilizations. Gobineau also looks at such things as language, which he says can exhibit traits of civilization. Lesser people can destroy a language by the fusion of their language with the better one.<br /><br />Gobineau is also an elitist. He looks at French peasants and argues that the vast majority of them are completely uninterested in what constitutes civilization, and are capable of only following the lead of the civilized.<br /><br />Sound confusing? It is. This book will take multiple readings to tease out everything Gobineau is trying to say. My biggest problem with the book is Gobineau's efforts to reduce the ills of the world to such a troubling argument. Does Gobineau make a case for his subject? Well, yes, if you lived in the nineteenth century.<br /><br />An interesting book, and one that has had far reaching effects, even up to today. Whatever the reader thinks, Gobineau can't be dismissed as some irrelevant nutcase. His arguments are still being discussed today, which proves the importance of this topic. Good reading for the historian or sociologist.uage by the fusion of their language with the better one.     Gobineau is also an elitist. He looks at French peasants and argues that the vast majority of them are completely uninterested in what constitutes civilization, and are capable of only following the lead of the civilized.     Sound confusing? It is. This book will take multiple readings to tease out everything Gobineau is trying to say. My biggest problem with the book is Gobineau's efforts to reduce the ills of the world to such a troubling argument. Does Gobineau make a case for his subject? Well, yes, if you lived in the nineteenth century.     An interesting book, and one that has had far reaching effects, even up to today. Whatever the reader thinks, Gobineau can't be dismissed as some irrelevant nutcase. His arguments are still being discussed today, which proves the importance of this topic. Good reading for the historian or sociologist.	2000-11-16
2208370:US	52012289	RCJ3A0TIS99YC	0807013439	77065369	Lost Goddesses of Early Greece: A Collection of Pre-Hellenic Myths	Books	2	8	60	N	N	Nature Good, Man Bad	I read this book after reading Kenn Kassman's \\"Envisioning Ecotopia,\\" which talked about Mystical Deep Ecology and used this author as primary source material. I wanted to get a closer look at the wacky ideas found in Kassman's book. I wasn't disappointed. I do have to say this book is kind of hard to describe. On the surface it is mostly made up of little biographies of Greek goddesses, but when one looks closer, sinister motives can be seen. The book turns out to be a mishmash of pseudo-history, pop psychology and touchy-feely leftism all rolled up into an unpleasant mixture. Spretnak has used material found in this book in some of her other works, such as \\"The Spiritual Dimension of Green Politics\\", another book I'll force myself to review here on Amazon.com.<br /><br />Spretnak is one of the main theologians/theorists of the leftist Deep Ecology movement, which advocates a return to a simplier time when people regularly prayed to rocks and starved to death when the weather turned bad. Answers to problems were solved by ritualistic prayers to some goddess who could make everything well with the wave of a hand. These rituals involved a lot of hand holding, singing and other warm and fuzzy things that leftists love so much.<br /><br />To be fair, Spretnak does give the reader a brief introduction that explains her cosmology. In short, Spretnak believes that the old Greek goddesses, which represented a better time when women rightfully controlled everything, were overthrown by the patriarch-dominated society that was created when Greece was invaded in antiquity. These male invaders subordinated the goddesses, who were earth based and replaced them with sky gods such as Zeus. Spretnak wants to help women regain their lost mantle by showing the reader how these goddesses were originally before male hegemony forced them into unnatural roles.<br /><br />This book is miserable drivel, and as a historical work, it stinks. I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone who isn't on heavy thorazine treatments. Actually, when I think about it, maybe the author was on thorazine when she wrote this. It would certainly account for the mindlessness of the whole thing. I gave the book two stars due to the artwork of the various goddesses, which was fairly well done. Still, this book has some value in giving the reader a close look into the mind of the Deep Ecology movement.on heavy thorazine treatments. Actually, when I think about it, maybe the author was on thorazine when she wrote this. It would certainly account for the mindlessness of the whole thing. I gave the book two stars due to the artwork of the various goddesses, which was fairly well done. Still, this book has some value in giving the reader a close look into the mind of the Deep Ecology movement.	2000-11-16
2208795:US	52012289	R1THDG2UYO097O	0939680297	123771588	The Spiritual Dimension of Green Politics	Books	3	4	25	N	N	Start Hugging Trees Right Now!!	This is another work by Charlene Spretnak, author of numerous books on Green ideology. Spretnak is one of the major ideologues of the Mystical Deep Ecology movement, which seeks to restore humanity to the old ways of goddess worship. Spretnak focuses on Ecofeminism, which posits a return to worship of female deities such as Gaia, or the &quot;Mother Earth&quot; goddess, and a society where women run the show. I know it sounds crazy, and it is, but this book is at least better then Spretnak's, &quot;Lost Goddesses of Early Greece&quot;, which I also reviewed for Amazon.com. At least in this book we get an articulation of the philosophy behind the madness.<br />Spretnak trots out her same old tired arguments; mankind and its patriarchal society have subdued both nature and women, and has created unnatural roles for everyone to try and fulfill. Violence against women come from these forced roles. If society would only embrace the old &quot;matrifocal&quot; (read: women in charge) ways, we'd all be better off. Spretnak also makes some arguments that the Judeo-Christian religious structure is acting against nature, and that it should acknowledge its pagan foundations and work towards preserving nature.<br />The most interesting aspect of this book was Spretnak's examination of spirituality, hence the title of the book. She believes that society would be better off if everyday, people would engage in spiritual exercises and then try and live up to them the rest of the day. Spretnak says that once a week people would attend little meetings where kindness and love would be discussed. I'm amazed she doesn't mention somebody bringing a guitar to the meeting so everyone could break into song while they're holding hands. Another aspect of this spirituality is what Spretnak calls, &quot;body parables&quot;. These parables occur when a person gets a sense of being one with the harmonic forces of the universe. She believes that childbirth and post-orgasmic sensations help women attain this oneness. She talks of the feeling of borders being crossed or broken down. This is the way it should be, Spretnak says, because boundaries are just arbitrary and relative anyway. Really. I guess she is right. Who needs boundaries on their behavior. If it feels good, just do it. No wonder our society is in such a mess.<br />I read this book after reading Kenn Kassman's, &quot;Envisioning Ecotopia&quot;, which looked at the Green movement in some depth. Spretnak was used as source material for this book, so I wanted to get a closer look at the belly of the beast, so to speak. I found this book to be a sick fraud and unhealthy for society. It is only interesting as a look at what makes the far, far left tick. Charlene, you're very, very lucky I gave you three stars!tain this oneness. She talks of the feeling of borders being crossed or broken down. This is the way it should be, Spretnak says, because boundaries are just arbitrary and relative anyway. Really. I guess she is right. Who needs boundaries on their behavior. If it feels good, just do it. No wonder our society is in such a mess.<br />I read this book after reading Kenn Kassman's, &quot;Envisioning Ecotopia&quot;, which looked at the Green movement in some depth. Spretnak was used as source material for this book, so I wanted to get a closer look at the belly of the beast, so to speak. I found this book to be a sick fraud and unhealthy for society. It is only interesting as a look at what makes the far, far left tick. Charlene, you're very, very lucky I gave you three stars!	2000-11-16
2210592:US	52012289	R17V9S9IFUD8RD	0275957845	501510176	Envisioning Ecotopia: The U.S. Green Movement and the Politics of Radical Social Change (175)	Books	3	3	17	N	N	A Close Look at the Far, Far Left	This examination of the three subcultures of the far left political movement known as the &quot;Green Party&quot; is quite the shocker. I always knew that leftism had elements of wacko philosophy, but nothing can prepare the reader for what is contained in these pages. Kenn Kassman, a highly sympathetic scholar to the Green philosophy, examines these subcultures in detail in this book.<br />The book is about the three elements, or &quot;subcultures&quot; within the Green Party. They are referred to as Neo-Primitivism, Mystical Deep Ecology, and Social Ecology. Neo-Primitivism, of which the &quot;Earth First!&quot; movement is the most prominent proponent, proposes to return society to Earth as it was about 50,000 years ago. They want people to be organized in a fractured, tribal society. Hunting will be the only way to get food, and technology will be non-existent. In these beliefs, they are probably closest to the Peruvian terrorist organization Shining Path, which wants to return Peru to the way it was under the Incas. Mystical Deep Ecology is even more wacky, if that's possible. It's beliefs are best expressed, according to Kassman, through its ecofeminist wing. They want a society based on agriculture that worships Gaia, or the old Greek &quot;Mother Earth&quot; goddess. Women are presented as natural leaders of society, with everything male presented as evil or unnatural. Rational knowledge is considered unnatural and unhealthy, and intuition and feelings will be the new way of making decisions. Social Ecology, which is the only element that would have even a snowball's chance in heck of becoming widely accepted, wants to return society to the way of the Greek polis, small city-states that are highly &quot;democratic&quot;. This &quot;democracy&quot; is highly suspect, though, as everything is run by committee. I'd call Social Ecology Neo-Marxism.<br />Kassman analyzes each element by looking at how they would function as a eutopic (he says that the word utopia refers to the genre of societies, and that eutopic is the good society, dystopic is the bad society) society and as a dystopic society. He uses interesting scenarios in which he tells a fictional story about what the society would be like according to the value systems that the three subcultures purport to subscribe to. Kassman then analyzes each one to show the good and bad. What quickly becomes apparent is that these three belief systems are sick frauds that violate every principle they supposedly stand for.<br />I gave this book three stars because the writing style was difficult, mainly due to jargon I wasn't acquainted with. Also, this is a very scholarly work. That in itself isn't a problem, but Kassman has an annoying habit of putting citations, including name of author and page numbers, within the body of the text itself. This made reading the book very taxing, and interrupted the flow of the text. I wish people would realize there is no shame in using footnotes, on the same page as where they appear in the text, and keeping the bibliography separate from the rest of the book.<br />I read this book due to the recent publicity of Ralph Nader running for office. I was amazed to see that there are such spaced out elements in the Green party. These people are LIGHT YEARS beyond Communism. They're so far to the left that left doesn't even mean anything anymore. I wonder why the media didn't tell potential voters about these elements in the Green party?refers to the genre of societies, and that eutopic is the good society, dystopic is the bad society) society and as a dystopic society. He uses interesting scenarios in which he tells a fictional story about what the society would be like according to the value systems that the three subcultures purport to subscribe to. Kassman then analyzes each one to show the good and bad. What quickly becomes apparent is that these three belief systems are sick frauds that violate every principle they supposedly stand for.<br />I gave this book three stars because the writing style was difficult, mainly due to jargon I wasn't acquainted with. Also, this is a very scholarly work. That in itself isn't a problem, but Kassman has an annoying habit of putting citations, including name of author and page numbers, within the body of the text itself. This made reading the book very taxing, and interrupted the flow of the text. I wish people would realize there is no shame in using footnotes, on the same page as where they appear in the text, and keeping the bibliography separate from the rest of the book.<br />I read this book due to the recent publicity of Ralph Nader running for office. I was amazed to see that there are such spaced out elements in the Green party. These people are LIGHT YEARS beyond Communism. They're so far to the left that left doesn't even mean anything anymore. I wonder why the media didn't tell potential voters about these elements in the Green party?	2000-11-14
2215030:US	52012289	R2FUKHP8F3B1OE	014043061X	469019091	Confessions of an English Opium Eater (Penguin English Library)	Books	5	29	32	N	N	The Horrors of Addiction	Thomas De Quincey wrote this account of his life and his struggle with drug addiction to both educate on the evils of opium and also to share the dream trances that he experienced while in the throes of addiction. This version by Penguin presents De Quincey's original version from 1821 and then his revision notes from 1856. There is also a short section of comments that De Quincey made concerning his Confessions from 1821-1855. The introduction by Alethea Hayter is one of the best I've seen in a Penguin book, and it really helps in understanding Thomas De Quincey and his writing style.<br />The Confessions, in a nutshell, begin by recounting De Quincey's early life and the events that led him to begin taking opium. The rest of the tale deals with his problems with opium and his dreams that came from taking the drug. The original version isn't that long of a read, but his revision notes add considerable length, and for the most part weren't as interesting as the 1821 original.<br />De Quincey's prose is absolutely amazing. He is one of the most gifted writers I've had the pleasure to read (up to this date). Many times I felt as though I was lifted up by his words and carried directly into his world. I've yet to have as profound an experience with any other author. De Quincey can also be difficult. His grasp of the English language will leave many modern readers scratching their heads. Footnotes and notes by the editor help, but a dictionary will find heavy use during the reading of this book. So those with short attention spans, be forewarned. You won't survive this book. Also, De Quincey received a classical education. He makes heavy use of Greek names, places and other classical references. He even uses Greek words in the text (although notes provide translations). I can read Greek and have studied classical history, so I got most of his references and in jokes. This is one of the things that impressed me about De Quincey. He mentioned early on that he could speak classical Greek fluently. Anyone who has studied Greek realizes how difficult this is to do. Even Romans had trouble speaking Greek fluently, so much so that it is mentioned in various historical works when an emperor could do so. The fact that De Quincey can do this is a sign of his deep intellectual abilities. I can only imagine how prolific he might have been if he had not been saddled with an opiate addiction.<br />An amazing book and one I highly recommend to those who are prepared to read and understand it. For those looking for a justification for drug use, look elsewhere!classical Greek fluently. Anyone who has studied Greek realizes how difficult this is to do. Even Romans had trouble speaking Greek fluently, so much so that it is mentioned in various historical works when an emperor could do so. The fact that De Quincey can do this is a sign of his deep intellectual abilities. I can only imagine how prolific he might have been if he had not been saddled with an opiate addiction.<br />An amazing book and one I highly recommend to those who are prepared to read and understand it. For those looking for a justification for drug use, look elsewhere!	2000-11-10
2217352:US	52012289	R344TTX8SUQN76	0937944092	444468796	Hunter, 2nd Edition	Books	5	64	77	N	N	An Interesting Book	Hunter is the second book written by Andrew MacDonald, aka William Pierce of the National Alliance. His first book, the Turner Diaries, details the results of a race war that culminates in a world ruled by the White race. Hunter is much more localized.<br />Hunter deals with the actions of one man, Oscar Yeager, who can no longer stand what he sees as the degeneration of his country. Yeager goes on a spree of violence and revolutionary acts. The book details his attacks and his growing consciousness within these revolutionary acts.<br />Most people will find this book to be well outside of any of their belief systems. It deals with issues that are anathema to current political realities in both the United States and Europe. It is truly a revolutionary book, as much as the writings of Marx were in their day. Any book that challenges the ruling powers is certain to cause a fair amount of alarm, and Pierce's book is no exception. This novel is the less notorious of the two, as Turner Diaries is generally believed to have been the &quot;blueprint&quot;  for the bombing of the Murrah building in Oklahoma City. Hunter contains no massive bombings. It is more a political tract, outlining the belief system of William Pierce, and his concerns with the direction this country is taking, and what he thinks the response to that shift should be.<br />This book is truly for those with open minds, but also carries interest for those who are interested in the so-called &quot;fringe&quot; political elements in the United States.	2000-11-08
2217556:US	52012289	RNVH0NMAIHFN0	094546617X	3708065	The Case Against the Fed	Books	5	242	248	N	N	The Federal Reserve Under Attack	This book, written by Murray Rothbard, an economist and historian of fairly well known repute, is a scathing attack on not only the Federal Reserve, but the interests that created this institution. Rothbard is an adept writer, as he takes a concept that can be fairly daunting and makes it accessible to the those readers without an economics background. I considered trying to earn a degree in Economics, but abandoned it when I found out that most of it is tied to higher mathematics. I'm more interested in the conceptual side. Rothbard cuts out math and focuses on the real meat of the issue, the concepts that govern money supply and inflation.<br />The book starts by discussing the biggest problem with the Federal Reserve system, which is fractional reserve banking. Rothbard explains how this system is only functioning because people believe that it works. If there was a run on banks tomorrow, the entire financial system would collapse, because there isn't enough &quot;real&quot; money in reserve to cover all of the bank notes in circulation. Rothbard believes that it is the Fed that causes inflation, and that the Fed is the sole source of inflation in society. It can be a confusing issue to explain, but Rothbard makes it easy.<br />The rest of the book is a detailed history of the creation of the central banking system. This part can be confusing due to the numerous names that Rothbard flies through as he traces the events leading up to the creation of the Fed at Jekyll Island in 1911. Several interesting points are made during this history. Rothbard says that the Progressive movement in American history was essentially engineered by the money interests to help destroy competition. The little guy couldn't afford to put up with all the regulatory laws passed by the government. This opened the way for the giants, such as Morgan and Rockefeller to monopolize industry. Another point that Rothbard makes is that the history of the United States from after the Civil War to World War Two has essentially been controlled by two financial camps, Morgan and Rockefeller. In this way, he supports views held by many that the big money trust controls the country and owns all of the politicians, an issue that is very much in vogue today, and can be seen in the minor success of Ralph Nader's run for the White House. The book winds up by saying that the only way to restore sanity is to go back to the gold standard, where all money is backed up by an equivalent amount of either gold or silver.<br />I'd recommend this book to anyone with an interest in finance and economics. This book is good for anyone who just wants to understand what fractional reserve banking is and how it works. Rothbard died in 1995, but he has left a good account of himself behind for all to enjoy.World War Two has essentially been controlled by two financial camps, Morgan and Rockefeller. In this way, he supports views held by many that the big money trust controls the country and owns all of the politicians, an issue that is very much in vogue today, and can be seen in the minor success of Ralph Nader's run for the White House. The book winds up by saying that the only way to restore sanity is to go back to the gold standard, where all money is backed up by an equivalent amount of either gold or silver.<br />I'd recommend this book to anyone with an interest in finance and economics. This book is good for anyone who just wants to understand what fractional reserve banking is and how it works. Rothbard died in 1995, but he has left a good account of himself behind for all to enjoy.	2000-11-08
2218248:US	52012289	R2WWCEWHAXPKNG	0486270629	373448324	A Doll's House (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	3	13	21	N	N	You Go Girl?	Henrik Ibsen has written a penetrating play about marriage and gender roles in 19th century Europe. In what was surely shocking to European society at the time, Ibsen attacked the system that reduced women to mere possessions. In a society where women didn't even have the vote, this must have been a shocking statement.<br />The play is very short at 72 pages. I'm not going to divulge the plot but I will say that I found the play to be average. I will also say I'm not a big fan of reading plays, since they are usually written in a form to be performed, not read as literature. I also fault Ibsen with writing a play that fails to show the consequences of his characters actions. When Nora changes and leaves at the end, we get no information on what happens to her children, who have now been officially abandoned by their mother. In this way, Ibsen's play can be seen as a precursor to today's problems, where both men and women duck out of the family life. While this may be &quot;liberating&quot; to the woman (or the man, for that matter), it doesn't bode well for the kids. Maybe Ibsen could have written a sequel showing the kids growing up without a mother and getting hooked on liquor, or getting pregnant at age thirteen.<br />This play is most likely a big hit in the feminist cliques and the &quot;find yourself&quot; crowd. For me, I'd have rather read something else. It still had some good points, though. The dialogue at times was pretty snappy, and I kept picturing actresses that might play Nora as I read through the play. Ibsen is also certainly adept at characterization and pacing. Overall, average.	2000-11-07
2218481:US	52012289	R3PN0NZY76IY45	1563382490	28188679	The Fifth Gospel: The Gospel of Thomas Comes of Age	Books	4	94	98	N	N	Early Christian History	This book is a printing of the Gospel of Thomas, a collection of the sayings of Jesus found with Gnostic writings in a collection known as the Nag Hammadi collection. The title of &quot;Gospel&quot; is rather shaky as there is no narrative and no retelling of the story of Jesus as can be found in the Synoptic Gospels.<br />Most of the book consists of two very scholarly articles written by Stephen Patterson and James Robinson. Both are heavily involved in biblical research and have worked extensively with the Nag Hammadi writings. The first article discusses the origins of Thomas by looking at where it may have been written and what influence it may have had. One interesting point is raised when the author goes so far as to suggest that it may have been Jesus' twin brother Judas who wrote this Gospel. He is totally speculating of course, but can you imagine the implications of this? It makes the article more interesting to read. The second article discusses how the Nag Hammadi writings were found and the enormous effort that scholars undertook to get the writings published.<br />The first part of the book is the actual Gospel of Thomas. Some of the sayings are pretty mysterious. One of them is, &quot;Jesus says: Be passers-by.&quot; Passers-by to what? Sin? Pharisees and Sadducees? It is fun to contemplate what the saying means. A large amount of the sayings are recognizable from the Synoptic Gospels, although most seem to be very simplified versions of these sayings. They lack the embellishments that the Gospel writers gave to them. It is also important to note that the Gospel of Thomas is written in Coptic, a form of Greek with letters added to mimic sounds of the Egyptian language. The Coptic version is a translation from an earlier Greek source, so errors abound. Also, when the writings were found, the Egyptian tore them up to give to some of his companions. As a history student, I still cringe when I think of the damage he caused.<br />This is a good book with obvious implications for Christians as well as New Testament scholars. Be aware that this is a VERY scholarly work. You will find huge footnotes with titles of books written in German. The second article could be very wearisome to the non-scholar, who probably doesn't care about the numerous academic bodies that were convened to gain access to the writings. The Gospel itself is still worth reading.obvious implications for Christians as well as New Testament scholars. Be aware that this is a VERY scholarly work. You will find huge footnotes with titles of books written in German. The second article could be very wearisome to the non-scholar, who probably doesn't care about the numerous academic bodies that were convened to gain access to the writings. The Gospel itself is still worth reading.	2000-11-07
2219245:US	52012289	R1XST1ISS1WKVE	0140132317	130932419	How to Watch TV News	Books	4	38	49	N	N	A Slap at the News Media Systems	This is a great effort on the part of Neil Postman and Steve Powers. Postman is a media scholar who has written numerous books, and Powers is a journalist who knows first hand how media works. These two authors have the guts to take on the news media, a system made up of the biggest pack of liars outside of the Democratic Party. This book is a no-holds barred look at how news is manufactored and presented to the public. The book begins by defining news and then presents detailed accounts of how news is created. The book also looks at how commercials work in the scheme of things. There are also sections on television in the court room and an examination of how language and pictures can be used to distort news.<br />I found three items of particular interest in this book. The first was how the authors looked at commercials. As most know, the main aim of television is to sell. As cigarettes are a delivery device for nicotine, so television is for commercials. Since most of us have seen thousands of commercials, we have stopped viewing them objectively. This book has examined commercials, and it delivers a stinging indictment of them. Most effective is the view, presented by the authors, that commercials are a form of religious parable. A parable teaches people how to live the good life. The commercial, like a parable, has a beginning, a definition of a problem in the middle, and then a solution to the problem at the end. Unlike real life, the commercial teaches us that the answers to all problems are fast and easy, and are readily available at the local store. Hard work and patience mean nothing in the advertising world.<br />Secondly, the book also looks at how corporations have taken over televison and turned news programs into a source of profit. This profit comes, of course, at the expense of truth and responsibility. What is of particular interest is how much some of the anchors and others involved in the news media make millions of dollars in salaries. The authors find this a problem. They quote former CBS News president Fred Friendly (great name, wouldn't you say?) who believed that no one in news should be making more money than members of Congress or the President of the United States. Friendly called it, &quot;unhealthy, unacceptable, and unethical&quot;. What's more, the corporate attitude of making profit at the expense of all else has led to the pooling of various media outlets. The authors see this as extremely dangerous, as it limits the sources of news made available to the public.<br />Finally, I was floored by the examination of the actual news programs given in the book. The authors point out that news teams are made of people who are meant to ape the structure of a family. The role of Mom and Dad are played by the anchors, who usually are a man and woman. The sportscaster and weatherman usually play the role of the silly kids. And even more sickening, this &quot;family&quot; is always presented as being happy. They all get along with each other and everyone knows their place. Most people probably wouldn't have a problem with this kind of arrangement. But remember, this is supposed to be news. It is how we form opinions of the events that shape our lives, and ultimately are descendent's lives. This shouldn't be some role playing game. It's serious business, and all of the little games that the media play seriously degrade our ability to make important decisions.<br />There are always a few downfalls with any book, and this one is no different. There are some annoying errors in the text which an editor should have caught. This might be nitpicky, but it is noticeable. Also, the book is too short for such an important topic. Still, I highly recommend this book to anyone who is concerned about getting the truth.rs find this a problem. They quote former CBS News president Fred Friendly (great name, wouldn't you say?) who believed that no one in news should be making more money than members of Congress or the President of the United States. Friendly called it, &quot;unhealthy, unacceptable, and unethical&quot;. What's more, the corporate attitude of making profit at the expense of all else has led to the pooling of various media outlets. The authors see this as extremely dangerous, as it limits the sources of news made available to the public.<br />Finally, I was floored by the examination of the actual news programs given in the book. The authors point out that news teams are made of people who are meant to ape the structure of a family. The role of Mom and Dad are played by the anchors, who usually are a man and woman. The sportscaster and weatherman usually play the role of the silly kids. And even more sickening, this &quot;family&quot; is always presented as being happy. They all get along with each other and everyone knows their place. Most people probably wouldn't have a problem with this kind of arrangement. But remember, this is supposed to be news. It is how we form opinions of the events that shape our lives, and ultimately are descendent's lives. This shouldn't be some role playing game. It's serious business, and all of the little games that the media play seriously degrade our ability to make important decisions.<br />There are always a few downfalls with any book, and this one is no different. There are some annoying errors in the text which an editor should have caught. This might be nitpicky, but it is noticeable. Also, the book is too short for such an important topic. Still, I highly recommend this book to anyone who is concerned about getting the truth.	2000-11-06
2223179:US	52012289	R2D74GTRHQMQU1	0140437568	943726175	Tales of Soldiers and Civilians: and Other Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	An Excellent Collection of Stories!	I always wanted to get around to reading Ambrose Bierce. Known as an iconoclast and an excellent satirist, Bierce is best known for his Devil's Dictionary. He's also known for the disappearing act he pulled in Mexico in 1913. I decided to give this short anthology a chance. If I liked his stories, I figured I'd buy some more of his writings. I will be reading more of his writings.<br />The recent movie _The Blair Witch Project_ has brought scary stories back into vogue. After reading this book, I realized you can make a direct connection from this film to Ambrose Bierce. The connection would pass through Stephen King and H.P.Lovecraft along the way. I've seen things in both of these writers that could have been lifted directly out of one of Bierce's stories. In Bierce's story, &quot;The Damned Thing&quot;, with its talk about colors that can and can't be seen, I could have sworn I was reading Lovecraft. Bierce is a master at quick twists and shocking violence, and delivers scares fast and furious. I got chills with several of these short stories, which certainly makes for good horror reading.<br />The book gives the reader a sample of Bierce's short stories. Most of the stories are tied around American Civil War themes, which is no surprise as Bierce served in the Union army during that conflict. His experiences gave him the necessary frame of reference to write these dark stories. And when I say dark, I mean DARK! Some of these tales will make your jaw drop. The violence in them is extremely unsettling. Chickamauga and Oil of Dog are sickening, describing blown open heads and dead babies in graphic detail.<br />Did I mention Bierce's prose? Some of the best you'll read. His prose is so amazing that I found myself rereading some of his passages just so I could make sure I was getting the full meaning. It is that rich and textured. It's also extremely funny in places. In the introduction it is written that Bierce lived in England for several years and was embraced by the English, who are masters not only of the language, but also insults. I'm not surprised when I look at how he writes. He can pen an insult that would bring tears of joy to an Englishman's eyes.<br />Finally, Bierce's stories show incredible depth for the short story format. He ridicules false courage, irony, lawyers, and even unions in the story, &quot;The Revolt of the Gods&quot;. I highly recommend that anyone not familiar with Ambrose Bierce give this book a read. It reads fast and you'll laugh and be shocked within the space of one page. Good stuff.the English, who are masters not only of the language, but also insults. I'm not surprised when I look at how he writes. He can pen an insult that would bring tears of joy to an Englishman's eyes.<br />Finally, Bierce's stories show incredible depth for the short story format. He ridicules false courage, irony, lawyers, and even unions in the story, &quot;The Revolt of the Gods&quot;. I highly recommend that anyone not familiar with Ambrose Bierce give this book a read. It reads fast and you'll laugh and be shocked within the space of one page. Good stuff.	2000-11-03
2229318:US	52012289	RL44O323KKH6I	0140432515	678485723	The Book of Margery Kempe (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	42	51	N	N	The First Autobiography in English	My Medieval class is keeping me very busy reading about women in the 14th century. First, I read about Julian of Norwich and her book, &quot;Revelations of Divine Love&quot;, which I found to be very wordy and dense. &quot;The Book of Margery Kempe&quot; was easier, in that the theological development is embryonic, and therefore easier to understand, and the reader gets more information about Margery and her personal life.<br />Margery Kempe lived in England in the 14th century. The daughter of a well-to-do who served as mayor of his town, Margery seems to have had high expectations for her life that weren't realized. She married a man who had money problems, had fourteen children, and ran a brewery business that failed. After the birth of one of her children, Margery had a vision of Christ, and her life was forever changed. The bulk of the book details her various pilgrimages and adventures, as well as detailed accounts of her discussions with Christ.<br />While this is quite a colorful book, in an emotional sense, Margery doesn't come across as a very sincere person, which is what one would expect from a bride of Christ. One small incident that comes to mind is when Margery is praying for one of her religious instructors to get well. She doesn't pray that he will get healthy for his own sake, but so that she will be able to talk to him again. This theme of self-centered behavior runs throughout the book. Problems are seen not as tests of her faith or spirit, but as personal attacks on Margery, and they are something to be confronted instead of endured, although Margery pays lip service to the concepts of patience and humility.<br />What got Margery into so much trouble in the first place was the expressions of her intimate dialogues with Christ. Margery would weep, cry, roar and scream whenever God willed her to do this. Of course, this often happened in church and at meals. This often infuriated people, who were convinced that Margery was faking her behavior. Some of the fits do seem to be descriptions of temper tantrums more befitting a child. Margery also had some fits in which she turned blue and twisted from side to side. The classic child tantrum! Another annoying habit was her constant talking about God, Christ and all the spiritual things that those two figures entail. It's not hard to imagine that this would have gotten old fast.<br />The book reads quick and the endnotes are very helpful in providing dates and places, as well as biographical information on some of the important people that Margery encounters in her travels. The timeline at the front of the book helps keep events in order, as Margery dictated her story to a priest, and her memory doesn't always place events in the right chronological order.<br />I read the Penguin edition and found it to be most enjoyable. Anyone interested in Medieval history or Christian mysticism should certainly give this one a spin.e of the fits do seem to be descriptions of temper tantrums more befitting a child. Margery also had some fits in which she turned blue and twisted from side to side. The classic child tantrum! Another annoying habit was her constant talking about God, Christ and all the spiritual things that those two figures entail. It's not hard to imagine that this would have gotten old fast.<br />The book reads quick and the endnotes are very helpful in providing dates and places, as well as biographical information on some of the important people that Margery encounters in her travels. The timeline at the front of the book helps keep events in order, as Margery dictated her story to a priest, and her memory doesn't always place events in the right chronological order.<br />I read the Penguin edition and found it to be most enjoyable. Anyone interested in Medieval history or Christian mysticism should certainly give this one a spin.	2000-10-28
2232643:US	52012289	R17KJMEW3Q265Q	0195284119	790009576	The New Oxford Annotated Bible with the Apocrypha, New Revised Standard Version	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Excellent for the Biblical Scholar	This massive tome has it all--the Hebrew bible (aka the Old Testament), the Apocryphal books, and the New Testament. I'm a history and religion major, so I've had to make use of this Bible many times, and I haven't even had to dig into the Old Testament yet.<br />The best functions of this book are the copius annotations and translator notes found on every page. They help guide the novice along when some of the text gets a little dense. The annotations help link quotations to their proper place in the other books of the bible. Most bibles have this feature, but this edition has the best annotations I've seen. The translator's notes are nice, showing the reader where the Greek or Hebrew words could have had alternate meanings to the English. It also points out where some ancient texts may have omitted or added text, and then tells you what it was. Very handy, I must say.<br />This bible also has tons of explanatory material about the text: historical information on biblical times, various literary forms used in the Bible, explanations of ancient modes of writing, etc. All of this information is very helpful to getting more out of reading the Bible.<br />As a budding religion major, I've yet to explore all of the information this edition provides, but for the biblical scholar, this is the book to go with. It will take you far in your studies.<br />For the casual reader, this Bible may not be as useful. Many people like to read on their own and make their own interpretations out of the scripture. In these cases, the annotations and explanatory notes will not be helpful, but could actually be a hinderance. Some want to read the Bible in a new, updated, modern English version. I'd recommend the Good News Bible for these readers.<br />Overall, a must for the biblical scholar. I took a class on Paul, and I was glad to have this bible along to help get through some of his deep theological discussions!	2000-10-26
2233436:US	52012289	R2TYH7D5SHDRS3	0140430172	365726027	Oliver Twist (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Fun, Fun and More Fun!	I'm enrolled in a class on 19th century European history, and one of our assignments was to read Turgenev's &quot;Fathers and Sons&quot;, which I did, and I was surprised at how much I enjoyed it. The class itself really hasn't been that great, but it has opened my eyes to the world of classic literature. Like millions of others, My hatred towards the classics can be traced back to high school where I was forced to read classic literature, and then not allowed to develop my own interpretations of the books. I think most of us have fallen into this rut, and it's a darn shame. It's kind of a two-edged sword; everyone should read some of these kinds of books, but forced readings are often taxing and boring. Then we are forced to learn one interpretation of the book. This isn't what literature should be about.<br />Fortunately, I woke up. I've bought a mess of books, but wanted to start out with something easy and light. Jumping into &quot;War and Peace&quot; just isn't an option, especially since I'm a full-time college student. So I decided to start with &quot;Oliver Twist&quot;, a book I should have read years ago but didn't. Also, I'm trying to work my way up to some of Dickens' more in-depth works, such as &quot;Bleak House&quot;.<br />I'm not going to spend much time on the actual story, as other reviews have done a pretty good job in this area. Also, many are aware of this story through the musical adaptation. Needless to say, it's a cracking good tale with enough meat in it to satisfy the hungriest of readers.<br />I read the Penguin edition, and have to start by saying that the introduction was, in my opinion, not very enlightening. Written by Angus Wilson, it does give some good info on what sort of inspirational material Dickens borrowed from to write this book. Wilson spends the rest of his time criticising. Maybe he was cranky because he didn't get picked to do an intro for a more &quot;formidable&quot; book.<br />The actual book is a real hoot. It strikes just the right balances between hilarity, sadness, and darkness. I laughed out loud numerous times while reading this book. The best character in this vein is Mr. Bumble, the beadle of the work-house where Oliver grows up. Dickens is SO scathing towards this guy. The scene where Bumble is making moves on Ms. Corney is an absolute scream. If you don't laugh, you're just not trying hard enough.<br />&quot;Oliver Twist&quot; has a dark side, too. Look at the ominous Bill Sikes. He just oozes bad feelings and you know he's going to hurt someone. The wily Jew, Fagin, is very scary, and you just cringe whenever he is on the scene. Like Satan, this guy is everywhere, causing all kinds of mischief.<br />Apparently, literary know-alls have decided that &quot;Oliver Twist&quot; is a lesser Dickens work. Maybe that is due in some part to the touchy-feely ending. Some also don't think it has much of a message beyond its criticism of the mistreatment of Victorian England's poor. I saw strong themes of hope and redemption in the book. Who can read about poor Nancy and not see her desparate attempt at redeeming her life? Even Sikes, as irredeemable as he seems, has a guilty conscience over his crime.<br />I can understand how some younger people might not like this book. The pacing of the book is slower than most would be used to you, and some of the language is tough for a modern reader. However, the book is timeless. We see the same things in society today that Dickens observed. When the system breaks down, people, especially children, will turn to other institutions, such as gangs, to find fulfillment. I highly recommend this book. Don't overlook it. It is very much worth your time!just the right balances between hilarity, sadness, and darkness. I laughed out loud numerous times while reading this book. The best character in this vein is Mr. Bumble, the beadle of the work-house where Oliver grows up. Dickens is SO scathing towards this guy. The scene where Bumble is making moves on Ms. Corney is an absolute scream. If you don't laugh, you're just not trying hard enough.<br />&quot;Oliver Twist&quot; has a dark side, too. Look at the ominous Bill Sikes. He just oozes bad feelings and you know he's going to hurt someone. The wily Jew, Fagin, is very scary, and you just cringe whenever he is on the scene. Like Satan, this guy is everywhere, causing all kinds of mischief.<br />Apparently, literary know-alls have decided that &quot;Oliver Twist&quot; is a lesser Dickens work. Maybe that is due in some part to the touchy-feely ending. Some also don't think it has much of a message beyond its criticism of the mistreatment of Victorian England's poor. I saw strong themes of hope and redemption in the book. Who can read about poor Nancy and not see her desparate attempt at redeeming her life? Even Sikes, as irredeemable as he seems, has a guilty conscience over his crime.<br />I can understand how some younger people might not like this book. The pacing of the book is slower than most would be used to you, and some of the language is tough for a modern reader. However, the book is timeless. We see the same things in society today that Dickens observed. When the system breaks down, people, especially children, will turn to other institutions, such as gangs, to find fulfillment. I highly recommend this book. Don't overlook it. It is very much worth your time!	2000-10-25
2247057:US	52012289	R7UUFDSLXFNUS	0140446737	187931287	Revelations of Divine Love (Short Text and Long Text)	Books	3	31	65	N	N	Wordy and Obtuse	Julian of Norwich, an anchoress from 14th century England who is best known for this theological tract, sets out an interesting belief system in which she concentrates on the womanly nature of Christ and God. Julian had sixteen visions which she referred to as &quot;showings&quot; while she was suffering an illness. These showings revealed divine messages from God that Julian then set to paper through scribes.<br />In my opinion, most of her revelations are tiresome to slog through, and she is a master of reptition. Also, her descriptions of the crucifixition are pretty gory and unsettling, which might bother some readers. This book is probably best read in very short bursts so that it's easier to absorb the material and ponder what Julian is trying to say.<br />There are certainly good things to say about this book. Her parable about man falling in sin is excellent and fun to read. I'll probably read this section again and again. I'm also glad I read this as part of a class on the Middle Ages. The background I learned in this class makes some of the text a bit clearer. It's important to understand that Europe was being rocked by the Black Death and that the Church was wrapped up in a schism while Julian was pondering her visions. The upsetting descriptions of Christ's suffering and his motherly attention to man makes more sense when the reader understands that half of Europe was dying and faith was being seriously challenged. Be sure and look at the appendices, because there is a reprint of a brief selection of the Revelations written in Middle English. It's neat to read it as it was written and try and make sense of the words.<br />I won't read the whole book again, but I would say that it should be read once, especially for those studying European history or theological systems.	2000-10-14
2257879:US	52012289	RXNCSHHC5V0ES	0451523822	178013325	Fathers and Sons	Books	4	56	61	N	N	A Masterpiece of Russian Literature	This is the first fiction book I've read in a long time, and I have to say I'm not too disappointed. Fathers and Sons relates not only the generation gap in 19th century Russia, but also shows how fragile and fake the entire Russian system was in that time period. Every character symbolizes an important facet of Russian society. Paul Petrovich is the old slavophile nobility, convinced that Russians and their ways are the best in the world while they wear English clothing and speak and read in French. His brother Nicholas is the bridge between the old world and the new world, trying to fit in with the new ways while he only understands the old customs. Arcady, who represents those in society who outwardly follow the latest trendy beliefs but can't shake their emotions or their humanity. And Barazov, who represents youth, with its eternal promise of new ideas and ways, but who are blind to their own naive hypocrisy. Certainly there are other characters, but these major figures shape the plot of the book.<br />Turgenev manages to leave no stone unturned, casting withering attacks on peasants, psuedo-intellectualism, government officials, corruption, and conventions. The book mentions that Turgenev alienated and angered many in Russia with this book, and the reader will quickly see why.<br />Turgenev recognized the backwardness of Russia, and that it must change if it were to survive in a new world. The big question was how, and Turgenev shows that while idealists like Bazarov may have new ideas (Bazarov's idea was nihilism, a belief in nothing), those ideas mean nothing if not backed up with solutions to the problems.<br />An excellent book, and very readable. The price is low enough that most people really don't have an excuse to give this one a shot.	2000-10-05
2260084:US	52012289	R2MRN1SQY3TJSV	0072903317	870847876	A Medieval Life: Cecilia Penifader of Brigstock, c. 1295-1344	Books	4	35	38	N	N	An Excellent Primer for Medieval History	I recently read this book for a history class and have to say that the book is very enjoyable. It's brevity and clarity make it a great introduction to medieval history. Cecilia Penifader was a well-to-do peasant woman living in Brigstock, England in the early 14th century. Bennett uses Cecilia to introduce the reader to all aspects of peasant life in this time period. There are in-depth studies of economics, religion, living conditions, and gender roles, as well as other interesting facets of peasant life. Bennett also makes sure to include some interesting little tidbits, such as the role of contraception during this period.<br />One of the best things to be said about this book is how Bennett highlights terms that the reader is most likely to not be familiar with. These words are listed in a handy glossary in the back of the book. Most people aren't familiar with terms such as heliot, so this addition to the book is very helpful. As mentioned above, the brevity and clarity of the book go a long way to making the text more enjoyable. The book foregoes footnotes and endnotes, which would certainly help the non-scholars who can't stand wading through tons of citations. There are also some nice diagrams that help the reader visualize various aspects of peasant life.<br />The lack of footnotes and endnotes is a problem for the historian and student, such as myself. I wouldn't go so far as the other reviewer here and pan the entire book, but that reviewer certainly has a point. Bennett also relies on inference more than she probably should. Although her deductions seem sound, her conclusions, backed up with more evidence and properly cited, would have been much appreciated.<br />I think this is an excellent survey text that would make a nice addition to any library. After reading the book, the reader can readily picture Cecilia and feel as if they almost know her, and any book that can accomplish that is always worth a read.	2000-10-04
2404392:US	52012289	R2GL1Y1LQKMRJ7	087131777X	624351861	Bloodletters and Badmen: A Narrative Encyclopedia of American Criminals from the Pilgrims to the Present	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Tons of good crime stuff!	Lately I've been reading about how inaccurate this book is, and that Nash is pretty much a &quot;write what ya want&quot; kind of author. The reason I give this book five stars is because of the influence it had on my  interest in true crime books. This massive tome sat in the library of my  high school, where it was frequently read by myself and my friends. We  actually stole the book right before we graduated! Thank God the statute of  limitations on that crime ran out years ago.<br />The copy I have now is the  revised 90's edition, and I can read through it with more of a critical eye  then I once did. The best thing about the book is the photos. This book is  a virtual cornucopia of great pics of criminals, crime scenes and the like.  Some of the best pictures are of the Mafia, a particular strain of criminal  that Nash has a lot of interest in, judging by the huge amount of entries  devoted to that group.<br />A reader will also notice how temporal the book  is. Who has heard of Gretchen Baniszewski? Anyone who hasn't read this book  would be in the dark about this sicko. Baniszewski might have been a big  name when she committed her crimes, but readers now will scratch their  heads trying to figure out why she is in this book. (Baniszewski, by the  way, helped murder a young girl left in her charge). Other entries are  pretty tabloidy, and don't really belong in an encyclopedia of crime, in my  opinion.<br />Some entries are absolutely fascinating, however. Alfred Packer  is always worth a chuckle, and be sure and read about the Old Brewery in  New York. You'll be dumbfounded that such a place ever existed in America,  although it was New York, after all.<br />I recommend the book for the photos  and obscure cases. Be wary of the factual information, however.	2000-06-25
2445454:US	52012289	RT7CA4FPJP99Q	0140440275	903822584	The Imitation of Christ (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	103	110	N	N	A very important book to Christianity	I'm not a Christian but I have almost completed a minor in Christianity at the college I attend. I study Christianity because of my interest in European history. This book, written by a 15th century cloistered monk, is  amazing for its strong use of language to convey how one should interact  with God through Jesus. But even outside the sphere of religious thought,  there are some good statements that could apply to everyday life, although  Thomas would scoff at the idea that someone could do this independent of  God. Consider the following short excerpts:<br />&quot;It is only by patience  and true humility that we can grow stronger than all our foes.&quot; --pg.  40<br />&quot;For every bodily pleasure brings joy at first, but at length it  bites and destroys.&quot; --pg. 52<br />&quot;Alas, a long life often adds to  our sins rather than to our virtue!&quot; --pg. 58<br />These are just a few  quotes from a book that has many memorable lines. Most of the book deals  with how man should submit himself to Christ. The format Thomas uses is  dialogue, between Christ and a disciple. Like Plato's use of dialogue, it  is an effective means of getting his ideas across. Thomas even examines the  sacraments, especially the Eucharist, and concludes that only through pure  thought and hard work at patience and humility can one be able to  effectively use these sacraments to become one with Christ, and through  him, God.<br />The only downfall I can see with this book is that it is aimed  at the cloistered, or as Thomas calls them, the &quot;Religious.&quot;  Thomas sees the process of submitting to God as more then a full-time job.  Because of this, most people would be shut out of union with Christ. But  the book was written to help those in the monastery.<br />I certainly  recommend this to anyone interested in Christian history or Christianity in  general. I believe that for myself, I will probably read this again, as one  reading isn't enough to get all the gold out of the text. The book used to  be second only to the Bible in popularity. I read the Penguin version  translated by Leo Sherley-Price.he text. The book used to  be second only to the Bible in popularity. I read the Penguin version  translated by Leo Sherley-Price.	2000-06-03
2452826:US	52012289	R2ULJORJRZ4J9T	1892647001	46134127	Philip Dru: Administrator- A Story of Tomorrow, 1920-1935	Books	3	63	65	N	N	Important but poorly written	_Philip Dru_ is an extremely obscure political tract written in 1911 by &quot;Colonel&quot; Edward Mandell House, a key advisor to Woodrow Wilson and FDR. This is what makes the book so shocking. The book advocates the  violent overthrow of the constitutional government and proposes a  communist/socialist system as its replacement. Considering that the man who  wrote this book had such a close position to the president, it's no  surprise that some of the ideas in this book eventually became public  policy.<br />Philip Dru, the main character, is a West Point graduate who  eventually resigns his post and becomes involved in social problems. Dru is  chosen to lead an army against the U.S. government led by a puppet  president. When Dru gains control he throws the Constitution out the window  and nationalizes industries such as the telegraph (remember, it's 1911) and  makes corporations subservient to government. He promises a job to every  American, and rewrites the state constitutions. Watch for the part where  Senator Selwyn talks about how he used direct marketing, etc., to get his  man elected as president. Most of what he used is standard operating  procedure today. In this book, the people revolt over what he does!<br />I  give the book a low rating because the style is absolutely atrocious.  Forget about any kind of character development. It is a poor attempt to  wrap up a political treatise to make it palatable to the average joe. If  you can get around the cruddy style, there is some gold to be found. This  edition is a reprint by the John Birch Society. Give it a shot!	2000-05-30
2453872:US	52012289	R1DK3O47SV4JIY	0312130570	361506270	Ed Gein -- Psycho!	Books	2	26	31	N	N	This is a sick book	Any book about Ed Gein, the infamous Wisconsin cannibal, is bound to contain some distasteful material. What is particularly galling about this book is the camp way that it is written. We get a retelling of Ed's  exploits and then how Gein has influenced pop culture, with a cult of  &quot;Geinophiles&quot; arising in books, comic books, music and  movies.<br />The author takes great liberties in telling us Gein's story,  inserting thoughts that no one could be sure were ever part of what  happened. The list of what cops found when they went into Gein's farmhouse  is truly nauseating, and there are some pretty sick pictures in the book as  well, including one showing Gein's last victim, gutted and hanging from a  hook.<br />This is not to say that there aren't some good factoids in the  book. Who knew that Anton LeVay, the founder of the Church of Satan,  actually helped interview Gein and supposedly could do a perfect impression  of Gein? It's also neat to see Gein's death certificate, which is included  in the book.<br />I think this book should have been marketed as more of a pop  culture reference guide. As a true account of what really happened, look  somewhere else.	2000-05-29
2472363:US	52012289	RUPZMV5BYQWY	1886039429	899103771	Evil Harvest: The True Story of Cult Murder in the American Heartland	Books	4	22	22	N	N	A Scary Book	I clearly remember when the Rulo murders were uncovered, as I live less then 100 miles from the scene of the crime. I read this book several times and I have to say Colvin seems to have done a pretty good job of getting  out and beating the bush to get his sources and research. He talked to a  slew of people involved in the case.<br />The big problem with Colvin is that  he seems to downplay the Christian Identity theme to some extent. He talks  in great depth about James Wickstrom and the Posse Comitatus, but we don't  get as much information on the underlying theme to these activities, which  is Christian Identity, a theology that advocates that Jews are the spawn of  Satan and that Blacks and other Non-White races are subhuman. The reason  Ryan was able to exert his influence was due to Identity.<br />I can let the  reader know that Michael Ryan is still on Death Row here in Nebraska. In  fact, he recently lost yet another appeal, but he has several avenues left  to him. Dennis Ryan was released from prison when he had his sentence  reduced to 2nd degree murder. Several years ago, our state Supreme Court  made a ruling that resulted in the release of dozens of convicts that had  been convicted of 2nd degree murder. Go figure. Andreas and Haverkamp were  also released from prison recently. Michael Ryan, the last I heard, is  attempting to rewrite the Bible along the lines of Christian Identity.<br />A  scary book in that it shows how evil some people can be.	2000-05-18
2477236:US	52012289	RZZXH7O7ZD6HN	1569800863	26812800	The Turner Diaries: A Novel	Books	5	44	73	N	N	An Amazing Book!	... Most<br />critics attack the book not just for its politically incorrect look at<br />minorities and Jews, but for its poor style. I disagree with this<br />criticism. The book is in journal form, supposedly written by a member<br />of &quot;The Organization,&quot; Earl Turner. The Organization is<br />fighting &quot;The System,&quot; which is made up of the government<br />and those who push race-mixing and other programs on the public. In<br />this instance, Turner's journal style works well as a combat account<br />of sorts, detailing how the war starts and how it escalates. An<br />epilogue at the end tells the reader how the war ends, with a total<br />victory by Whites, who then cleanse the world of all non-white<br />elements.<br />Are there glaring errors? Of course. One mistake is found<br />early in the book when all the guns are being confiscated, and Turner<br />writes that only Black areas aren't searched. At the end of the book<br />Turner writes that they would have had more trouble rounding up Blacks<br />if their guns hadn't been confiscated. Oops!<br />Most people will be<br />deeply offended by this book and its violence. But if you are<br />interested in getting a different viewpoint and can keep an open mind,<br />give it a shot. MacDonald also wrote another book entitled _Hunter_.	2000-05-16
2479143:US	52012289	RTJSNLGUUNC4A	0684825244	715397462	The End of Racism: Principles for a Multiracial Society	Books	5	16	29	N	N	Read things you won't see elsewhere	As I recently finished this book, I said to myself that the only reason D'Souza could possibly have written this book and not damaged his career is because he is of Indian descent. A white who wrote this book would have  been pilloried.<br />_The End of Racism_ is so comprehensive it is hard to  write a review that will do it justice. So many themes are examined and so  many sources were used that the bibliography alone is almost two hundred  pages in length. I guess the overriding themes are the examination of  &quot;racism&quot; a concept that D'Souza defines as being a rejection of a  culture based on scientific findings, and &quot;liberal antiracism,&quot;  which was a 20th century response to scientific racism. D'Souza names the  most prominent racists of the 19th century, such as Josiah Nott and Samuel  Morton. They used science to determine the inferiority of various races,  with special emphasis on the Black. Liberal antiracism was developed in the  early 20th century by a cadre of Jews led by Franz Boas. Margaret Mead,  Otto Klineberg and Ashley Montagu (Israel Ehrenberg) were all adherents of  this new school of thought. Liberal antiracism sought to reject scientific  racism by postulating that all races are equal, and that any differences  between races are not hereditary, but due to oppression or enviroment. One  can immediately see the implications of this idea, and D'Souza bases his  subsequent discussions on the fallacy of this idea. It is liberal  antiracism that is responsible for the pathologies of black culture, the  rejection of all standardized tests to measure ability, and the rejection  of supposed &quot;Eurocentric&quot; ideas. All government  &quot;giveaway&quot; scams are a direct result of Boasian ideology. If all  races are equal, but blacks are still lagging behind whites, then it must  be oppression that is causing this. So whites must pay for it with tax  dollars and lower standards. Whites must also kowtow to affirmative action,  one of biggest frauds ever perpetrated on the American public. Ultimately,  D'Souza comes to believe that black culture must change to fit the majority  culture. D'Souza points out that while racism once was prevalent, blacks  have made so many gains in the last couple of generations that their  lagging is inexcusable. Black civil rights activists are revealed as scam  artists out to protect their jobs and their paychecks by exploiting this  lagging black underclass.<br />The biggest problem I have with this treatise  is that D'Souza never really gives an adequate explanation of how liberal  antiracism was able to spread so quickly and infect so many minds. He does  mention that Boas' acolytes quickly assumed positions in the Universities.  I guess we are supposed to assume that this was how the antiracist ideas  were spread. If this was the way it was spread, they sure worked  fast.<br />D'Souza really says it like it is, and the reader can almost hear  the crybaby, warm and fuzzy liberal ideals smashing into shards as D'Souza  demolishes their entire platform of thought. The best part is when D'Souza  gives us an in-depth look at &quot;Afrocentrism,&quot; a process in which  blacks try and take total credit for everything whites have done in human  history. Blacks never even had a written language or used the wheel, for  Pete's sake! Every leftist in the country should be forced to read this  book--again and again.of biggest frauds ever perpetrated on the American public. Ultimately,  D'Souza comes to believe that black culture must change to fit the majority  culture. D'Souza points out that while racism once was prevalent, blacks  have made so many gains in the last couple of generations that their  lagging is inexcusable. Black civil rights activists are revealed as scam  artists out to protect their jobs and their paychecks by exploiting this  lagging black underclass.<br />The biggest problem I have with this treatise  is that D'Souza never really gives an adequate explanation of how liberal  antiracism was able to spread so quickly and infect so many minds. He does  mention that Boas' acolytes quickly assumed positions in the Universities.  I guess we are supposed to assume that this was how the antiracist ideas  were spread. If this was the way it was spread, they sure worked  fast.<br />D'Souza really says it like it is, and the reader can almost hear  the crybaby, warm and fuzzy liberal ideals smashing into shards as D'Souza  demolishes their entire platform of thought. The best part is when D'Souza  gives us an in-depth look at &quot;Afrocentrism,&quot; a process in which  blacks try and take total credit for everything whites have done in human  history. Blacks never even had a written language or used the wheel, for  Pete's sake! Every leftist in the country should be forced to read this  book--again and again.	2000-05-15
2482300:US	52012289	RWTG4QIJG15BM	0687016770	604827442	A Grammar for New Testament Greek	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A good text on Koine Greek	I have to say that I'm still working my way through this book, but I have several problems with the text. Too much information is stuffed into chapters, instead of being spread out to facilitate a slower, easier method  to learn Greek. Also, there are almost no examples in the text to convey  what is being taught. Since grammer rules are often tricky, examples could  have provided a much needed explanation of what the chapter is trying to  convey.<br />The exercises are excellent and copius, allowing for plenty of  opportunity to practice translation. The book also has a great index of  verbs, adjectives and all kinds of goodies that are easy to refer to. The  author even includes a list of common terms that one will find in the Greek  New Testament, as well as a list of common names.<br />As I work my way  through this text, I have to say that overall it is a good, not great or  excellent, book. But with steady study and hard work, the book does yield  success. Maybe Machen would be better.	2000-05-12
2482315:US	52012289	R25VYRDKRMS5CL	0451524128	315718149	Looking Backward: 2000-1887	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A Surprisingly Good Book	I really wasn't expecting much out of this book. I'm not a socialist or a communist, so I figured I'd be sneering at much of what Bellamy had to say. Imagine my surprise when I found myself genuinely attracted to the book.  Bellamy wrote a socialist tract in the form of a novel. He gets his points  across and weaves in a romance tale along the way. I should say that the  ending was no surprise to me, as I kind of figured out what was going to  happen along the way.<br />The book begins with our hero, Julian West, who is  a quite successful gent in 1888 Boston. West is quite the dandy, and is  engaged to be married to a lovely young lady. West has trouble sleeping, so  he regularly employs the services of a &quot;mesmerizer&quot; to help him  sleep. The problem with this is that someone must be around to wake him up  or the mesmerizing process might cause a long slumber. You can guess what  happens. West is discovered in 2000 in a world that is a far cry from the  world of the late 19th century. The world has changed in a radical way, and  the family that finds West, the Leetes, want to know all about his old  world.<br />The new world is a socialist/communist utopia in which the old  problems of unemployment, war, inequality and the like have been solved  forever. The rest of the book is a discussion between West and Dr. Leete  about the new world and how it contrasts to the old world. In this one has  to be fairly impressed with Bellamy's predictions. Bellamy predicted credit  cards and even interactive music that can be piped into a person's  room.<br />A romance between West and Dr. Leete's daughter Edith eventually  blooms, but I won't spoil the surprise this entails. The romance theme was  put in to make the socialist text more palatable for the 19th century  reader. It could conceivably do the same for the modern reader, although if  you're reading this book you are probably reading it for its political  value.<br />I certainly recommend this book to anyone interested in utopian  works, or 19th century political views. What is really neat is while you  read this book you can easily find yourself believing that this could work,  until you remember something that Bellamy never knew about. The utter  failure of the Soviet Union, and Communism in general. Give it a shot.terested in utopian  works, or 19th century political views. What is really neat is while you  read this book you can easily find yourself believing that this could work,  until you remember something that Bellamy never knew about. The utter  failure of the Soviet Union, and Communism in general. Give it a shot.	2000-05-12
2482872:US	52012289	R31YH0I2U6Q7WF	156025100X	260150670	Blood in the Face: The Ku Klux Klan, Aryan Nations, Nazi Skinheads, and the Rise of a New White Culture	Books	3	12	18	N	N	Not nearly detailed enough!	Blood in the Face is a mere inkling of what the &quot;far right&quot; is about and what it does. While the author does a great job at organization and use of pictures to convey his information, the reader isn't really  going to get enough information. This book is just an introduction to the  movement. A reader will have to do much more reading if they truly want to  find out about what makes these people tick.	2000-05-12
2591009:US	52012289	R3FWASL49VKRHO	0415918278	481370475	Diocletian and the Roman Recovery (Roman Imperial Biographies)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	An excellent read!	I read this for my History of the Roman Empire class and found to be an excellent book. Williams has an exceptionally clear writing style that is very easy to follow. He uses both modern and classical sources to bring to  life the reign of Diocletian, an Illyrian general who through sheer  personality and military discipline was able to restore the old boundries  of the Roman Empire. Williams' explanations of the economic reforms of  Diocletian, as well as the restructuring of the old Roman provinces into  military diocese that were able to contain the unromanized barbarians is  the best explanation of these events I've read. I checked this book out  from the library and I'm still considering buying a copy, I enjoyed it so  much. If only all history books were this well written!	2000-03-17
2598585:US	52012289	RWH5NEG6KD1RZ	0140440607	188361232	The Annals of Imperial Rome (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	61	66	N	N	The book on Imperial Rome	The Annals is without a doubt the most important book ever written on Imperial Rome, and the most important one dealing with the Julio-Claudian emperors. Focusing on the reign of Tiberius (14-37 CE) and ending suddenly  during the reign of Nero (54-68 CE), Tacitus pulls no punches in this  history. Extremely critical of the emperors, Tacitus is at his best  describing the terror of the trials that began under Tiberius and which  eventually paralyzed the Roman state. Tacitus also relates in detail the  various military campaigns undertaken during the period. A word of  advice---know your Roman history when you start this book. All the names  and places can be extremely confusing to the novice. Unfortunately the  section on Caligula is lost, although it is not hard to guess what Tacitus  would have said about him. Read this book!	2000-03-12
2792749:US	52012289	R1AYVECLLLX42R	0140440399	872483286	History of the Peloponnesian War	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A must read in classical history.	An excellent account of the destructive war between Athens and Sparta from 431 to 404 B.C. The book details three theaters of war--mainland Greece, Sicily and Asia Minor. Thucydides is probably at his best when he details  speeches given by various statesmen or generals (even if they are most  probably fictitious or highly suspect). This book is, in my opinion, much  more engaging than Herodotus' &quot;Histories&quot;. I would try to  convince anyone to buy this book. Read it!	1999-09-11
2795716:US	52012289	R1WZ5GUDYKMVR5	0807846384	705241026	Religion and the Racist Right: The Origins of the Christian Identity Movement	Books	4	7	13	N	N	A very good book on Christian Identity.	Professor Barkun has certainly done his research in this exhaustive project on the linkage between Anglo-Israelism and Christian Identity. I found the sections on the demonization of the Jews the most relevent  explanation of Identity doctrine I've ever seen. By looking at early  Identity founders such as William Potter Gale and Wesley Swift, Professor  Barkun does a great job of showing how Identity has morphed into its  present form. He did his research, which is heavily footnoted. The only  problem I have with this book is his tendency to overstate the  obvious-again and again. Overall, a must read for anyone interested in the  religious ultraright.	1999-09-06
